Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
w 3 1 47 -ALX
Repot Ne. P-5114-AL
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED ECONOMIC REFORM SUPPORT LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$300 MILLION
TO
THE DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
AUGUST 1, 1989
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their offici  duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Official Exchange Rates
SDR 1.0   Dinars (DA) 6.133   (end May 1989)
Period Average    End of Period
Dinars/gS Dollar
1980              3.838               3.972
1981              4.316               4.378
1982              4.592               4.636
1983              4.789               4.917
1984              4.983               5.123
1985              5.028               4.773
1986              4.702               4.824
1987              4.850               4.936
1988              5.915               6.731
1989              7.452 (Jan-June)   7.627 (June)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
The metric system is used throughout this report.
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
AGI       Autorisations Globales d'Importation
BAD       Banque Algerienne de Developpement
BCA       Banque Centrale d'Algerie
CLF       Commodity-Index Link Facilities
CNEP      Caisse Nationale d'Epargne et de Prevoyance
CPI       Consumer Price Index
ELF       Exchangeable Loan Facilities
EMS       European Monetary System
GDP       Gross Domestic Product
GNP       Gross National Product
ICB       International Competitive Bidding
IMF       International Monetary Fund
MLT       Medium and Long Term
NCP       National Credit Plan
PE        Public Enterprises
SOE       Statement of Expenditures
TOR       Terms of Reference
VAT       Value Added Tax



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
DEMOCRATIC AND POEULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
ECONOMIC REFORM SUPPORT LOAN
Loan and Project Summarv
Borrower:         The Democratic and Popular Republic of Algeria.
Amount:           US$300 million equivalent.
Terms:            15 years, including 5 years of grace, at the standard variable
interest rate.
DescriDtion:      The economic reform program aims to restore sustainable economic
growth while maintaining internal and external equilibria and
while ensuring increased employment opportunities and protection
for the most vulnerable sections of society.  This is to be
achieved by transforming the economy from a centrally-planned
system to a more decentralized, market-oriented economy. The
proposed loan is designed to address constraints in a number of
areas, most notably macroeconomic management (including monetary,
fiscal, trade and foreign exchange, and debt management
policies), the incentive structure, the financial and productive
sectors--public and private enterprises and agriculture--and
environmental, population and social sector issues. Specific
policy measures would help raise the overall efficiency of the
economy in line with program goals.
Benefits
and risks:        The principal benefits of the reform program are expected to
be: a rise in employment opportunities and living standards for
the growing population;  reduced dependency on hydrocarbons
through diversification of the economy; the development of an
independent financial system; the development of autonomous and
productive public enterprises; the promotion of an active private
sector; and continued improvement in external creditworthiness.
Program risks relate to the difficulties inherent in the
implementation of the vast and complex program of reform on which
Algeria has embarked. Behavioral change is slow. Political and
social constraints may also delay implementation in areas such
as price liberalization. These problems are mitigated by the
fact that the cut in living standards required by a major adverse
external shock has already taken place. Moreover, the Government
has shown strong commitment to the program as demonstrated by
the magnitude of the reforms already undertaken, and the strong
policy dialogue with the Bank and the Fund. The key to continued
successful implementation of the program will b3 a pragmatic and
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipi nts onls in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed witI,out Wor::' Bank authorization.



ii
flexible approach that is continually revised to take account
of the feedback received during the implementation process
itself. The program of adjustment will be carefully monitored
by the Government, with support from the Bank and the Fund. The
second kind of risk stems from the possibility of an external
shock, notably relating to the future evolution of the world oil
market. However, as shown in the report, even this risk should
be manageable within a relatively wide range of possible
outcomes.
Estimated
Disbursements:    The proceeds of the proposed loan would be disbursed in two
tranches:   US$150 million upon loan effectiveness, which is
expected to take place by October 1989, and the remaining US$150
million after the completion of a number of key actions upon
which success of the program depends. Release of the second
tranche is planned for mid-1990.
Appraisal Regort: None.



DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGRRT
ECONOMIC REFQSC SUPPORT LOAN
Table of Contents
INTRODUCTION:                                                                1
PART I:      THE ECONOMY                                                     1
Background                                                 1
The Economic Setting                                       2
The Early Reforms: 1982-86                                 3
Macroeconomic Management Since the Crisis of 1986          4
The Acceleration of Economic Reform                        5
Bank's Role and Rationale tor the Loan                     7
PART II:     THE ECONOMIC REFORM PROGRAM                                     7
Program Objectives and Components                          7
Macroeconomic Management                                  10
Monetary Policy                                       11
Fiscal Policy                                         12
Liberalizing the Trade and Foreign Exchange
Regimes                                              16
Debt Management                                       18
The Price and Incentive Structure                         20
Financial Sector Reform                                  22
Public Enterprise Reform                                 25
The Role of the Private Sector                           27
Agriculltural Sector Reform                               28
Environment, Population and the Social
Dimensions of Adjustment                                31
Environment                                           31
Population and Social Dimensions of
Adjustment                                           31
Issues of Reform Implementation                          32
Medium-Term Macroeconomic Outlook, External
Financing and Sensitivity Analysis                      36
Medium-Term Outlook                                   36
External Financing Requirements                       41
Sensitivity Analysis of the Medium-Term
Outlook                                              43



Table of Contents (Cont'd)
PART III:    LOAN ADMINISTRATION                                            45
Release of Funds and Tranching                            45
Coordination with Other Agencies                         46
Implementation Risks and Justification                   46
Procurement and Disbursements                            47
Accounts and Audits                                       48
PART IV:     COUNTRY STRATEGY AND BANK OPERATIONS                           48
The Context of Bank Assistance: Policy Agenda
and Issues                                              46
External Financing                                       49
Bank Strategy                                             50
Sectoral Composition of Lending                           51
PART V:      RECONMENDATION                                                 53
ANNEXES:  I. Key Economic Indicators
II. Letter of Development Policy
Matrix
III. Supplementary Program Data Sheet
IV. Status of Bank Operations in Algeria
V. Revised Structure of Interest Rates



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED ECONOMIC REFORM SUPPORT LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$300 MILLION
TO THE DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
INTRODUCTION
1.       T submit the following report and recommendation or. a proposed loan
for the equivalent of US$300 million to the Democratic and Popular Republic of
Algeria. The loan would support Algeria's ongoing program of economic and
social reform which is designed to transform the economy from a
centrally-planned system to a more decentralized, market-oriented economy. The
program aims at a resumption of growth in the context of a macroeconomic
framework which maintains internal and external equilibria and which provides
safeguards for the economically vulnerable sections of the population. The
loan would have a term of 15 years, including 5 years of grace, at the standard
variable interest rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
Background
2.       Algeria is currently engaged in a program of reform that covers
practically all areas of economic activity, including the social and political
arenas. The roots of the transition from a centrally-planned economy to one
that relies increasingly on market signals and decentralized decision-making
date back to the early eighties, but the process really began in earnest
immediately after the 1986 oil crisis. By that time, weaknesses in past
economic performance were well understood. More fundamentally, however, hard
economic facts dictated urgent action. The 36% decline in export revenues that
Algeria endured when the oil price collapsed in 1986 was then aggravated by the
fall of the dollar. Overall, the country's terms of trade worsened by some 452
between 1985 and 1988. The economic upheaval that followed the oil price
decline aggravated existing macroeconomic imbalances and highlighted the
excessive reliance on export revenues from hydrocarbons (over.97% of
merchandise exports). It also exacerbated problems of loss-making public
enterprises, low capacity utilization and limited labor absorption.
3.       From mid-1986, there has been a shift in philosophy amongst policy
makers which has translated into a major program of structural adjustment of
the economy. This shift was well illustrated by the recent abolition of the
Ministry of Planning, which epitomized the centralism that had been a major
feature of the economy since Independence. Instead, the adjustment underway
since 1986 has placed emphasis on the establishment of an economic, financial
and institutional framework designed to improve efficiency, restore economic
growth, and tackle Algeria's serious unemployment problem. The objective is to
shift emphasis to market signals, autonomy for public enterprises, an enhanced
role for the private sector, establishment of a sova.d financial system, and the
pursuit of macroeconomic policies that allow strong but stable growth while
maintaining domestic and external balance. The pace of adjustment has
accelerated following the social unrest in October 1988.
( 9SZ2E)



- 2 -
4.       Implementation of the reform program has reached a critical stage.
Although Algeria's medium-term macroeconomic and creditwortihiness outlook
remain favorable (see para3. 120-141 of this report), the country has suffered
a major fall in living standards over the past three years and faces an
extremely tight external payments situation for the next 18 months. The
challenge ahead is to maintain the momentum of reform in the face of a severe
short-term shortage of external resources and rising expectations from
consumers. The Bank and the IMF have been working closely with the Government
to help Algeria design and implement its program of reform. A first Standby
Arrangement and support under the Compensatory Financing Facility, totalling
about SDR 471 million, have been approved by the IMF Board on May 31, 1989.
The Standby supports Algeria's program of short-term macroeconomic adjustment,
covering monetary, fiscal and exchange rate policies over the period to end
1989. The proposed Bank loan complements the IMF's Standby. It focuses on
the incentive structure, and institutional and sectoral reforms in the
financial and productive sectors of the economy within a medium-term
perspective. At the same time, the loan aims to lay the groundwork to ensure
that, in the future, social programs can be better targeted to protect the
vulnerable groups from adverse effects of adjustment. A parallel Technical
Assistance project, which would support the principal government agencies
involved in ensuring the effective implementation of these reforms, is at an
advanced stage of preparation and will be presented to the Board in the coming
weeks. The two operations will together provide a framework, at both the
macroeconomic/policy and microeconomic/institutional levels, for the Bank's
non-financial contribution to the Algerian reform program.
The Economic Setting
5.       The distinguishing trait of the two decades immediately after
Independence in 1962 was heavy industrialization in the context of a
centrally-planned economy with a dominant public sector. The drive toward
industrialization was spearheaded by the hydrocarbon sector and was
characterized by: a capital-intensive investment program with emphasis on
large-scale import substitution; controls on wages, prices and interest rates;
and tight controls on trade. In parallel with the reliance on public
enterprises in industry and services, the Government undertook an agrarian
revolution immediately after Independence which resulted in the creation of
large state farms operating through centrally-planned directives. In
aggregate, the economy grew at a fairly rapid rate of about 6% p.a. in the
1970s. In the process, the country developed a substantial oil and gas
industry that now accounts for 30% of GDP, 97% of merchandise exports, and 40%
of Government revenues. The non-hydrocarbon industrial base was built up
substantially so that manufacturing and construction now account for 28% of
GDP and absorb 25% of the labor force.
6.       However, the pace of development of the economy in the seventies,
while rapid, was not commensurate with the very high levels of investment.
The investment to GDP ratio increased sharply after Independence and was
maintained at about 40% of GDP until the early 1980s, one of the highest
levels in the world. These high investment rates were accompanied by levels
of capital efficiency that fell far short of expectations; in the 1980s,
Algerian industry had ICORs of around 12, about twice the level of most
middle-income developing countries. The net result was that consumer
expectations were not met and that, despite buoyant oil revenues, there was
( S 5 2 2E )



severe rationing on the consumer goods market. Production of finished goods
failed to grow at a rate commensurate with demand while agricultural output
stagnated under the system of agricultural state farms.
7.       These shortcomings have been mitigated to some extent by the
commendable progress made in the development of the social sectors. Fueled by
social justicp convictions, particular emphasis was placed on education and
training, and most social indicators have improved significantly since the
early 1960s. The ratio of population per physician fell from 8,600 in 1965 to
1,200 at present, and that of population per nursing and midwifery personnel
from 11,700 in 1965 to 300. Over the same period, per capita consumption of
calories rose from 1,700 to 2,800, life expectancy at birth increased from 50
to 62 years, and infant mortality fell from 154 per thousand to 67 per
thousand. The percentage of the eligible population enrolled in primary
education rose from 68% to 92%. Women made major strides as female enrollment
in primary education rose from 53% to 83%, and in secondary education from 5%
to 43%. These indicators place Algeria squarely among the most advanced
developing countries on the social front.
8.       These impressive achievements were, however, accompanied by some
serious underlying problems and disequilibria in the economy. While the
Government was able to provide a social safety net for the population at
large, it was less successful in improving income-earning prospects as
unemployment remained high throughout the period. In the aftermath of the oil
price collapse, unemployment has reached about 22% and today poses a major
social problem. Aggravated by the recent sluggish economic performance, the
underlying issue is one of rapid population growth (3.1%), and an even more
rapid growth of the labor force (3.7%) and the urban population (3.8%). The
demographic issue has become a primary concern for the long-term economic
well-being of Algeria. Population pressures threaten to unravel the social
safety net by placing increasing demands on social services and on the
education system as public financial resources become more scarce.
The Early Reforms: 1982-86
9.       The change in the Government at the end of the seventies provided an
occasion to rethink Algeria's economic strategy. The ideological focus of the
years after Independence was slowly replaced with a cautious and pragmatic
approach that opened up Algeria politically and economically and stressed
economic efficiency. However, the reforms undertaken in the period 1982-86
were limited in scope and lacked a framework for macroeconomic policy, for
balanced incentives, and for institutional reform. Not surprisingly, the
results were disappointing. Non-traditional exports remained negligible.
Growth in GDP dropped to about 4% p.a., only slightly above the population
growth rate. The development strategy did not succeed in one of its major
objectives, that of creating jobs for the rapidly-expanding labor force.
Several factors explain this weak performance.
10.      On the macroeconomic front, there was no consensus that the exchange
rate should be used as a tool of economic management. The real effective
exchange rate continued to appreciate although the Government tolerated the
development of an extensive parallel market. Monetary policy was almost
entirely passive with the Central Bank largely accommodating the financing
needs of the public sector. Fiscal management was difficult because of the
direct link between the Treasury and public enterprises. The public sector
( 9S22E)



-4-
borrowing requirements remained large to finance the Government's direct
investments and its loans to public enterprises. These financing requirements
were met largely through recourse to Central Bank credits resulting in a rapid
expansion in monetary aggregates.
11.      With the exception of fruit and vegetable prices which were
liberalized in 1982, the incentive structure remained rigidly controlled,
resulting in losses for most productive enterprises. A thriving parallel
market developed with prices frequently many times that of the official
market. The Government also kept interest rates low, encouraging managers to
favor capital-intensive investmients. The distortion that this implied was
intensified by the near-automaticity with which the Treasury (directly or
through financial institutions) financed enterprise deficits. Finally, the
wage structure and labor legislation was excessively rigid and did not
encourage improvements in productivity.
12.      At the institutional level, the Government broke up many of the
largest public enterprises into smaller, more manageable units. However,
managers generally lacked incentives and autonomy so that the reform failed to
boost production. Moreover, the weakness of policy-making and regulatory
institutions was compounded by the highly centralized structure of economic
management. The Central Bank had no tradition of autonomy from the Treasury,
lacked the tools of monetary control, and had practically no supervisory role
vis-&-vis the financial sector. The Treasury relied on a distorted tax
structure that frequently stunted the growth of potentially high-performing
enterprises by using their surpluses to subsidize inefficient enterprises. It
also relied on its automatic access to the captive resources of insurance
companies and pension funds to supplement its oil and gas revenues. Financial
institutions performed no meaningful intermediary function, in effect acting
as cashiers for the Treasury.
Macroeconomic Management Since The Crisis of 1986
13.      The collapse of oil prices in early 1986, combined with the decline
of the dollar vis-a-vis the currencies of Algeria's major trading partners
caused most economic indicators to turn sharply unfavorable. The average
Algerian oil price fell by half from an equivalent of US$28 a barrel to US$14
between 1985 and 1986. Since export revenues and budgetary receipts were
dominated by receipts from hydrocarbons, the impact on the external and fiscal
accounts was felt immediately. The current account went from a surplus of
US$1.0 billion in 1985 to a deficit of $2.2 billion in 1986, as export
revenues declined by 36b in dollar terms. Government revenues fell by 21%,
and, despite an increase in MLT external debt, which jumped from US$13.4
billion at the end of 1985 to US$16.0 billion at the end of 1986, the level of
reserves fell by US$1.2 billion to 1.7 months of imports.
14.      In response to the adverse developments, the Government took action
on a number of fronts, the most important of which was to cut imports by 35b
in US dollar terms between 1985 and 1988. In parallel, measures were taken to
increase non-hydrocarbon tax revenues and to cut current and capital
expenditures to more manageable levels. Thus, despite a decline in
hydrocarbon tax receipts of almost 9b of GDP in 1986, the overall Treasury
deficit (defined to include Treasury lending to public enterprises) only
increased from 9.8% to 12.31 of GDP. In 1987, Government expenditures were
further cut back from 37% of GDP to 34%. As a result, the deficit on Treasury
(SS22E)



- 5 -
operazions declined to about 7.52 of GDP in 1987 and the current account
registered a small surplus in that year. However, as a result of belt
tightening, living standards declined steeply and real consumption per capita
fell by about 8% in each of the years 1986 and 1987.
15.      In 1988, the macroeconomic situation worsened once again for a
variety of reasons. On the domestic front, current and capital Government
expenditures were increased to alleviate some of the pressures which had built
up in the past two years. As a result, the budget deficit increased to 52 of
GDP from 3.5b in 1987. At the same time, Treasury support to public
enterprises was stepped up in connection with their proposed restructuring,
resulting in a widening of the overall Treasury deficit to 10.4% of GDP. '
Meanwhile, the current account moved back into deficit because of a furcher
142 decline in the price of crude oil exports, an increase in cereal imports
associated with a drought and higher world cereal prices, and a bunching of
debt service payments. Gross external reserves declined further, reaching 1.4
months of imports. Consumption per capita fell by a further 7% from the
already depressed 1987 level.
16.      Since the beginning of 1989, the macroeconomic situation has begun to
stabilize. The most important exogenous reason for this is the recent firming
up of oil prices, which will add an estimated US$800 million to 1989 export
revenues. Cereal imports should also be lower this year because of better
rainfall, as well as the beginning of the supply response in the agricultural
sector to the reforms of last year (para. 18). Finally, gas exports should
increase by US$280 million in 1989 as a result of the resolution of
outstanding disputes with major buyers and the adoption of a more effective
gas pricing and marketing strategy by the new Government. On the
macroeconomic policy side, the Government has taken steps to limit public
expenditures and borrowing. Restrictive targets have also been set for
monetary expansion and bank credit to the rest of the economy. The real
effective exchange rate is being gradually but continuously depreciated (30%
between December 1986 and December 1988). These policies are being monitored
under the Standby Arrangement with the IMF, and their continuation, as well as
the establishment of appropriate macroeconomic targets for 1990, will also be
a subject for consultation under the proposed loan.
The Acceleration of Economic Reform
17.      The period since 1986 has been characterized by a growing realization
on the part of Algerian policy makers that the system of economic decision-
making and resource allocation itself had to undergo fundamental changes--that
the economy was ill served by the rigidities of centralized planning,
distortions in the incentive structure, and the lack of tight policy
management at the macroeconomic level and hard budget constraints at the
enterprise level. The result, after extensive internal discussion, has been a
national decision to bring about a basic and comprehensive change in the
legislative, institutional and incentive structure of the Algerian economy.
These changes will obviously need to be implemented over a number of years but
there has already been action on a variety of fronts.
( 9522E)



Chart 1: FIGURES 1 AND 2
INVESTMENT AND SAVINGS
(Share of GNP)
54                                tlatMn/NP
52 -
48
48 
42-
40                                     I
383
38 1                                    NP>r
34-
32-
30
28
1370               1975              130o               1935
GOVERNMENT'S BORROWING REQUIREMENTS
20
Oovwmnwit lOrwing Rq4ul wwnta
10 
0 *
-10
-20-
-30 
1370              1975               110                11



- 7 -
18.      The first sector to undergo major reform was agriculture where, in
1988, the Government effectively privatized the state farms, a structure that
had resulted in low and stagnant productivity for the past 25 years. This has
been followed by a wide ranging set of legislative, institutional and policy
initiatives which aim at: the transformation of enterprise management; the
establishment of autonomous public enterprises and banks; and the reform of
the incentive system, including adjustment of the exchange rate, interest
rate, and commodity prices; as well as, increased flexibility in the
allocation and price setting mechanisms. These reforms are described in Part
II of this report. Complementing these economic reforms has been a series of
measures on the political front, embodied in a new constitution, which was
approved overwhelmingly in a national referendum in February 1989. Principal
changes are: the separation of Government from Parliament, an independent
judiciary, freedom to form associations of a political nature (opening the way
for a multiparty system), and a new emphasis on the rights of private
ownership. The word "socialism" has disappeared from the new Constitution.
It is expected that these political changes will go some way to reducing
tensions that may arise during the adjustment process.
Bank's Role and Rationale for the Loan
19.      The proposed loan is designed to support the Government's reform
program during this difficult time of transition. The reforms undertaken to
date are of historic proportions for a country that has had a
centrally-planned, socialist-type economy for more than twenty-five years.
The Government has been working closely with the Bank in the design of its
reform program. The proposed loan would support the implementation of ongoing
reforms and would, through actions agreed with the Government and spelt out in
the attached Development Policy Letter and Matrix (Annex II), help deepen
reforms in the financial and productive sectors of the economy, in the
incentive framework, and in the overall management of the economy. In tandem
with a parallel Technical Assistance project now under preparation, it would
provide a sound economic framework on which Bank-financed and other projects
can build. It would also help in planning for the better protection of
vulnerable groups. Moreover, the Bank's financial contribution would come at
a time when additional foreign exchange is urgently needed to make possible
the level of imports necessary for the reform program to succeed. This will
help ensure the supply of capital and intermediate goods for the productive
sectors and increase the availability of consumer goods at a time of
considerable social tension.
PART II - THE ECONOMIC REFORM PROGRAM
Program Objectives and Components
20.      The economic reform program seeks to contain internal and external
disequilibria within a framework for sustainable growth and improved labor
absorption. It supports the three major thrusts of Algeria's development
strategy, namely: the promotion and diversification of energy and
non-traditional exports to reach a sustainable external equilibrium and
improve creditworthiness; more efficient use of the existing productive base
to meet domestic and export demand at lower cost while absorbing Algeria's
(9S22E)



- S -
rapidly expanding labor force; and the diversification and improvement of
terms of external financing to improve external liability management and
reduce the debt burden in the medium-term.
21.      The proposed Economic Reform Support Loan is viewed as the first in a
series of Bank operations designed to help Algeria meet these goals, through
the decentralization of the economy, and greater reliance on the price
mechanism in the allocation of scarce resources in all markets. To this end,
the proposed loan is designed to address constraints in a number of areas:
macroeconomic management (monetary, fiscal, trade and foreign exchange, d
debt management policies) the incentive structure; the financial and
productive sectors--public and private enterprises and agriculture--as well
as, strengthening of the policy and institutional framework for better
management of the environmental, population and social dimensions of the
economy. The medium-term objectives of the Government in each of these areas
of intervention are discussed in paras. 24-30.
22.      The proposed loan supports specific actions that the Government has
already taken, or will take over about the next 12 months. As noted, the
Government has worked closely with the Bank in the design and sequencing of
these actions which are spelled out in the Government's Letter of Development
Policy and the attached matrix (Annex II). Release of the first tranche would
follow immediately after Board Presentation. The second tranche, expected
around June 1990, would be released on the basis of overall satisfactory
macroeconomic performance and on fulfilling a selected number of key
conditions which are listed in Annex III.
23.      Most of the balance of Part II of the report (paras. 33-108)
describes in detail the specific actions summarized in the matrix.
Implementation of these actions will lay the foundation for future reforms,
thereby enabling the Government to meet its medium-term objectives as noted
below.
24.      Macroeconomic adjustment measures are intended to progressively
restore equilibrium to the goods, money, foreign exchange and labor markets.
This will entail the progressive adjustment of macroeconomic variables to
close the gap between official and parallel prices. To this end, the
Government will adopt:
-    a monetary policy geared toward a reduction of the liquidity
overhang through control of the money supply and progressive
movement toward positive real interest rates from their past
negative levels;
-    a fiscal policy that aims at broadening the tax base,
eliminating distortions and increasing transparency of the tax
system while tightly controlling expenditures;
-    a trade and foreign exchange policy that aims at the promotion
of non-hydrocarbon exports and the diversification of markets
and products within the hydrocarbon sector. This would be
achieved through: corrections in the exchange rate; trade
liberalization, in particular through the removal of product-
specific quantitative restrictions, and the reform of the
( 9522E)



- 9 -
foreign exchange allocation system; and a more aggressive gas
marketing and pricing strategy. At the same time, the program
aims at rationalization of the tariff structure and a phaseout
of rigidities in the largely monopolistic import regime; and
-    a debt management policy that will be oriented toward
improvement of the term structure and currency composition of
external debt.
25.      Incentive structure reform will focus on the progressive
liberalization of prices so that they better reflect economic costs,
contribute to improving resource allocation, and enable enterprises to become
increasingly self-financing. Price adjustment will also help absorb the
liquidity overhang caused by excessive money creation in the past.
26.      Financial sector reform aims to progressively transform the present
financial system--essentially a conduit for the channelling of Treasury
funds--to one that: plays an active and effective role in the context of
macroeconomic regulation of the Algerian economy; has autonomy to make lending
decisions, thereby contributing to a more efficient allocation of resources;
progressively eliminates market segmentation and limits the use of selective
credit instruments; allows competition between financial institutions within a
clear regulatory framework set by the Central Bank; can play a dynamic role in
resource mobilization; and strengthens the role of financial markets.
27.      Public Enterprise (PE) reform aims to grant PEs full autonomy in
contrast to the past where all plans and decisions were taken centrally.
Along with the increased autonomy in price setting, public enterprise
management will now be accountable for the financial viability of enterprises,
and will be in a better position to respond to market signals. In many
instances, this will require substantial financial and physical restructuring
at enterprise or subsector levels. The abolition of monopoly rights on
domestic production and distribution should also lead to increased competition
amongst enterprises and increased efficiency.
28.      Private sector reform aims at enhancing the role of this growing
sector to promote efficiency and competition in the economy. The Government
aims to treat the private sector on an equal footing with that of the public
sector. To this end, the program envisages the elimination of controls and
restrictions on investm-ents, improved access to credit and scarce foreign
exchange, and removal of the preferential status previously enjoyed by the
public sector.
29.      Agricultural sector reform aims to transform the structure of
Algerian agriculture from one that relied largely on state farms to one that
relies on small-scale, essentially private farms. The reform also aims at
liberalizing and improving access to agricultural inputs and putting in place
a more rational system of prices for strategic crops.
30.      Environmental, Population and Social sector reforms are less well
advanced than in other sectors. Nevertheless, the program aims to launch the
planning process necessary to articulate action programs in each of these
areas to ensure that macro-objectives are not undermined by, for example,
water resource and environmental limitations.
(952ZE)



- 10 -
31.      The inter-relationship of the above issues will need to be a focus of
special attention during the implementation of the reform program. Growth
targets are predicated largely on increases in efficiency--bringing down the
currently high ICORs. A more efficient use of investment funds will reduce
the excess demand for goods. To achieve the planned growth objectives, it is
imperative that there is an autonomous and effectively functioning financial
system to support public enterprises that are fully accountable. It is also
important that the private sector has the confidence that it can operate
according to normal commercial criteria without being subjected to
discriminatory restrictions. The transfer of decisions on new investments to
independent banks and enterprises will significantly improve the selection of
alternative investment projects, thus contributing to a better allocation of
resources in the future. The autonomous operation of putlic enterprises and
banks should progressively reduce the burden on the Treasury and hence
diminish the large borrowing requirements of the public sector. Improved
control of the money supply is needed to ease inflationary pressures mainly
generated by the monetization of the public sector deficit. Tighter monetary
policy would also allow adjustment toward positive real interest rates at
relatively low nominal levels. Trade policy liberalization is essential to
provide enterprises with unambiguous signals as to the relative profitability
of exports and to remove distortions in the use of scarce foreign exchange.
32.      In sum, the process of reform on which the Algerians have embarked is
an intrinsically complex and difficult one. Recent experience in other
centrally-planned economies indicates that the implementation of reform
invariably takes longer than initially envisaged. Behavioral change is slow.
Political and social constraints create difficult obstacles to overcome. In
Algeria, the problem is somewhat mitigated by the fact that the cut in living
standards required by a major adverse external shock has already taken place.
In that sense, Algeria did not delay adjustment. The ongoing structural
reforms can be accompanied by modest recovery in domestic absorption. The
objectives of the reform program appear to enjoy widespread support at the top
political level and amongst the majority of the population at large.
Nevertheless, Algerian policy-makers will have to carefully monitor the
dynamics of macroeconomic adjustment during the transition period to avoid the
danger of a surge in inflation and to maintain a strong balance of payments.
They must also strengthen the institutional capacity to ensure the early
identification of emerging disequilibria so as to be able to take corrective
action. Moreover, while aggregate domestic absorption need not decline, there
will be major distributional shifts that could trigger strong opposition by
particular interest groups. Specific measures to support the effective
implementation of the reform program are included in the various components of
the proposed loan.
Macroeconomic Management
33.      Good macroeconomic management will be critical for Algeria as it
embarks on this ambitious program of reform. In breaking the direct link
between the Treasury and productive units in the economy for all new
investments, the Government is relinquishing direct control of the economy.
The conduct of macroeconomic policy will, therefore, require the development
and utilization of a variety of instruments to manage the economy--instruments
that have, until now, been relatively undeveloped. The following four
sections of the report deal, inter alia, with the mechanisms and regulatory
controls that the Government is putting into place for the conduct of its
( 9522>)



- 11 -
monetary, fiscal, trade and foreign exchange, and debt management policies.
These sections also highlight the central role that the National Credit Plan
(NCP) will play as an instrument for macroeconomic management during the
transition.
Monetary Policy
34.      As noted, monetary policy has traditionally been used to accommodate
the borrowing needs of the public sector. As a result, the money supply has
grown rapidly--M2 grew at some 16% p.a. between 1980 and 1988. Officially
recorded inflation was held in check by rigid price controls. Official
imports and consumption have had to be curtailed; this has fueled demand for
foreign exchange and goods and has considerably increased the involuntary
holding of liquidity by the population at large. Negative real interest rates
have aggravated the problem.  The high ratios of Ml and M2 to GDP (80X and
95%, respectively in 1988) are indicative of an undeveloped financial system
and demonstrate a severe money overhang, mirroring the excess demand for
consumer goods.
35.      The new Government is acutely aware of the destabilizing implications
of the liquidity overhang and plans to address it using a variety of
instruments: price liberalization, increasing the supply of real assets, sale
of Government bonds, and a tight monetary policy. Targets for such a policy
have been set out in the context of the 1989 NCP, a vital instrument of policy
management. Technical support has been provided by both the Bank and the Fund
to develop a methodology for the NCP to ensure its consistency with
macroeconomic target variables, including aggregate investment and growth
rates, the balance of payments deficit, the budget deficit, and the inflation
rate.
36.      The Government plans to limit growth of broad money to 7.4% in 1989,
a rate below the expected growth of nominal GDP, to allow for absorption of
part of the liquidity overhang. Associated credit and Central Bank rediscount
targets which have been set for 1989, include a ceiling of DA 20.6 billion for
the expansion of bank credit, a ceiling of DA 5.5 billion on Treasury
borrowing from the banking system, (implying a drastic reduction in Central
Bank advances to the Treasury to 1.2% of GDP from 6.1% in 1988) and a target
growth rate for bank credit to the economy of 13.5%. Quarterly indicative
credit targets have also been set to permit monitoring of monetary and credit
aggregates in the context of the IMF Standby. In parallel, actions are under
consideration to deal with the stock of non-performing Treasury loans in the
context of the financial restructuring of public enterprises (details are in
paras. 85-90). Development and monitoring of the 1990 NCP will play a crucial
role in the discussions leading to the release of the second tranche of the
proposed loan.
37.      The second major element of effective monetary policy will need to be
a higher, simpler and more flexible interest rate structure. Higher interest
rates are needed for two reasons. First, they will encourage the integration
of resources into the financial system that are currently held as cash or
diverted to the parallel market. Second, they will encourage a more efficient
allocation of resources by increasing the cost of funds to enterprises,
thereby ensuring that future investment decisions are based on sounder
criteria than in the past. To this end, the Central Bank rediscount rate has
been raised by two percentage points to 7%, while the permissible ranges for
(9 S22E)



- 12 -
most interest rates have been widened. Interest rates ceilings on
non-subsidized short-term bank loans have been increased to 10X, and will move
up automatically with further changes in the Central Bank rediscount rate.
The interest rates on medium- and long-term credits are now based on a margin
over the average cost of funds, and can reach a ceiling of 14X. Rates on all
time-deposits can now be freely set within a grid of 5-14Z. The interest rate
structure for selective credits has also been simplified and some of these
rates moved up. As a result, for the first time, several deposit and lending
rates are expected to turn positive in real terms. The revised interest rate
structure now in effect is shown in Annex V. The Government is committed to
ensuring that average interest rates are positive in real terms within a
period of three years. Progress in meeting this objective will be monitored
under the proposed loan.
38.      The Government plans to introduce an expanded money market to which
banks and specialized financial institutions will have access. The
authorities have specified rediscount ceilings by bank, which include both
ordinary rediscounts at the Central Bank and borrowings from the money
market. Thus, in the face of anticipated excess demand in the money market,
the limits on Central Bank intervention are expected to serve as a rationing
mechanism for the availability of funds to commercial banks. In a second
phase, to be implemented in 1990, access to the market will be broadened. The
interest rate is expected to be set mainly by supply and demand, becoming a
reference rate for the setting of other deposit and lending interest rates.
39.      To help reduce the liquidity overhang, the Government plans to sell
70,000 existing housing units to the public over the next two years. This
will provide an opportunity for the public .o use excess liquidity to purchase
a real asset. As buyers will be required to pay a minimum of 20Z in cash,
this will enable the Treasury to absorb considerable liquidity held by
households. At the same time, the Government has launched a major national
borrowing program ("Emprunt national"), which will help absorb excess
liquidity in the economy. The Government is floating bonds to the tune of at
least DA 3 billion, a major portion of which (DA 2.5 billion) is in local
currency but there is also a portion denominated in foreign exchange, geared
towards mobilizing the savings of Algerian workers overseas.
Fiscal Policy
40.      Between 1980 and 1985, budgetary revenues rose by an average of 11.8%
p.a., mirroring the increase in revenues from hydrocarbons. The increase in
expenditures at 16.9% was even more rapid, accounting for the deterioration in
the fiscal balance. The budget surplus, which stood at 9.72 of GDP in 1980,
shrank to 3.3% of GDP in 1985. Over the period, current expenditures
increased at an average 14.3% p.a. while capital expenditures increased at an
average 20.4% p.a., reflecting the Government's emphasis on maintaining a high
rate of investment. At the same time, the lack of transparency in budgetary
accounts disguised the full extent of the growth of public sector borrowing
requirements. Net lending to enterprises by the Treasury eclipsed the budget
surplus consistently over the 1980-85 period resulting in a net overall
deficit in Treasury operations. With the collapse of the oil price in 1986,
the central budget recorded sizeable deficits in 1986, 1987 and 1988. By
1988, the budget deficit represented 5% of GDP and the overall Treasury
deficit was 10.47 of GDP--the difference being largely due to net lending by
the Treasury to public enterprises.
( 9S22E)



- 13 -
41.      The Government's future fiscal policy emphasizes the need to:  (i)
cut back and rationalize Government expenditures; (ii) increase budgetary
transparency; (iii) phase out the Treasury's role as a financial intermediary;
and (iv) reform the tax system to increase its efficiency, reduce
vulnerability to large swings in tax receipts due to oil price fluctuations,
and minimize distortions.
42.      Improvement of the fiscal balance in 1989 is a central feature to be
monitored under the Standby Arrangement with the Fund. Specifically, the
Government intends to reduce the budget deficit from 5.0% of GDP in 1988 to
near zero in 1989; in parallel, the overall Treasury deficit is expected to
decline to 3.1% of GDP. The proposed adjustment of the exchange rate will, of
itself, boost revenues in dinar terms from hydrocarbon taxation. This,
coupled with the expected increase in hydrocarbon prices in 1989 and the
expansion in the volume of gas exports, will increase revenues generated from
hydrocarbon taxation from DA 24 billion in 1988 to DA 38.7 billion in 1989.
An increase of non-hydrocarbon revenues from DA 72.0 billion in 1988 to DA
84.5 billion in 1989 is anticipated. The result of tax reforms is discussed
below. This trend in revenue growth is expected to continue as a result of
further foreign exchange adjustments, further growth in gas exports and
further reforms of the tax system.
43.      Expenditures will be subjected to rigorous control so that current
expenditures will fall as a percentage of GDP (from 21.6% to 20.61), as will
capital expenditures (from 13.4% to 12.6%). Details of the evolution of the
Government's fiscal account are in Table 1. The large allocation to capital
expenditures is explained by the still heavy Government involvement in public
investments in productive sectors, as well as in infrastructure and services,
although the Government's investment program has contracted very substantially
over the past few years. The Government's direct spending on investments,
excluding lending to enterprises for investment purposes, is broken down as
follows: agriculture and irrigation (16%), industry (72), services (1%),
construction including housing (1%), infrastructure (19%), education (17%),
social services (6%), local government (16%) and other (17%).
44.      The thrust of the Government's program to control expenditures is
realizeable, particularly as the cuts in current expenditures will be coupled
with measures to ensure that low-income groups are protected. The Government
is also committed to further rationalization of current and capital
expenditures in the medium-term. The Government's capital expenditure program
is being reviewed as part of the preparation of the next five-year plan,
starting in 1990. It would be a condition of second tranche release that the
Government, jointly with the Bank, undertake a review of its 1990 public
investment program and of the criteria for the preparation of the public
investment program for the period 1991-94. The review will be undertaken on
the basis of guidelines jointly agreed with the Bank.
45.      Net Treasury lending to public enterprises, while still significant
at DA 18.5 billion in 1988, has been declining in recent years. For example,
in 1985, it stood at DA 22.9 billion, substantially higher in real terms than
the 1988 level. Moreover, the Government is also committed to reduce its
lending to public enterprises further. During 1989, net lending to public
enterprises will decline from 5.8% of GDP to 3.0%. The NCP, which has placed
a ceiling on Central Bank lending to the Treasury, stipulates that there will
be no further Treasury loans for new investments by enterprises. It also
(9S2IE)



- 14 _
places a ceiling on Treasury loans for other types of investments, that is,
for ongoing projects, housing and postal services. These objectives are fully
consistent with the new policy for autonomy of banks and public enterprises;
they have been agreed with the Fund. Lending targets for 1990 will be
established in the context of the 1990 NCP. These targets will be closely
monitored by the Bank. In the medium-term, the Government is committed to
further reduction in Treasury loans to enterprises so that the Treasury can
progressively disengage itself from financial intermediation, a role that is
to be taken up by the newly autonomous banks.
46.      The Government intends to improve the system of public finance
following an evaluation of the current budgetary mechanism. The improved
system will provide greater clarity and transparency to off-budget subsidy
schemes and funds, for example, the Compensation Fund and the Fund for
Implementation of Autonomy of Public Enterprises. The Government plans to set
up a system for the regular monitoring of all Treasury operations, over the
next 12 months, which would, inter alia, quantify the various subsidy programs
and the sources of their financing, as well as financial flows from the
Treasury to public enterprises. Off budget schemes include the Fonds de
Compensation, which mainly pays subsidies to consumers and agricultural
producers. While significant, the magnitude of subsidies provided by the
Fonds de Compensation has declined sharply. For example, net outflows from
the Fonds de Compensation have declined from DA 3.7 billion in 1985 to nearly
half that amount in 1988 (equivalent to a decline from 3.7? of total budgetary
expenditures to 1.5%).
47.      It is also important for the Government's own fiscal planning that it
make provision, where necessary, for major losses that might be incurred by
enterprises and banks as part of the transition process. Accordingly, the
Government intends to prepare a plan quantifying potential transition losses
that banks and enterprises may incur; part of these losses may have to be
assumed by the Government. The plan will focus on financial imbalances at the
enterprise level, foreign exchange losses, and capital losses by banks due to
maturity/interest mismatch.
48.      The reform of the tax system itself is designed to: simplify the
system, extend the tax base (thereby achieving revenue diversification), and
reduce the distortions in the current system of taxes. The 1989 Finance Law
reduced the corporate tax rate from 55% to 50X. It has also provided for the
consolidation of revenues of enterprises before taxes are computed (to allow
netting out of losses between units and to eliminate double application of the
turnover tax) and for the introduction of more flexible depreciation schemes.
The Government plans to reduce the number of tax rates applied to help
simplify the system of direct taxes. Thus the schedular structure now in
place will evolve to a simpler structure with fewer anomalies and special
provisions. The Government plans to strengthen tax administration so as to
minimize tax evasion. At the same time, the Government intends to overhaul
the system of indirect taxes. In particular, based on a study that is
currently being carried out, the Government plans to prepare, over the next 12
months, a draft law for the introduction of VAT.
( S52zE)



- 15 -
Table 1 ALGERIA: TREASURY OPERATIONS. 1i85-83
1985      1986              198t               100*             I9!
Budget   Actual   Budget      Prel       Pre9.
est.
(1n billions of dinars)
Budget revenue             108.6      92.4          96.0    93.0       103.0     96.0       123.3
Tax revenue                49.5      54.5          58.0    S8.0        62.3     59.0        72.0
Hydrocarbon revenue        46.8      21.4          22.0    20.S        24.2     24.0        38.7
hontax revenue             12.3      16.S          16.0    14.S        16.S     13.0        12.5
Budgetary expenditure    -9".0      -#0S.2        -108.0  -103.7      -113.0   -112.0      -123.4
Current expenditure      -53.8      -63.7         -63.0   -65.S       -6S.S    -69.0       -76.4
Capital expenditure      -4S.2      -41.6         -45.0   -38.3        47.5    -43.0       -47.0
Budgetary balance           9.6      -12.9         -12.0   -10.8       -10.0    -16.0        -0.1
Special accounts (net)  -15.0        -4.7           -       3.8         -        1.3         1.2
net lending to
u4lic enterprises        -22.9      -17.6         -20.0   -16.1       -20.0    -18.5       -12.4
investment financing   (-2S.1)    (-2S.S)        t-30.0) (-23.8)    (-22.S)  (-22.1)    (-21.4)
6eneral assistance 1/   (-2.0)      (-0.1)        1 -  )  (-O.S)      (-1.5)   t-4.4)      (  - )
Reimbursement 2/          (4.2)      (8.0)        (10.0)   (8.2)       (4.0)    (8.0)       (9.0)
Overall treasury deficit -28.3       -35.2         -32.0   -23.1       -30.0    -33.2       -11.4
Financing                  28.3       35.2          32.0    23.1        30.0     33.2        11.4
Foreign borrowing (net)   0.1         0.1           -       0.1         -       -0.5          -
Banking systan (net) 1/   8.9        24.4          20.0    22.2        IS.0     21.0         S.S
Central bank             (2.9)     (24.0)        (.)  (16.3)         (...    (19.2)        (4.4)
Banks                    (2.7)      (1.9)   ( ...)   (2.1)           (. -.)    (0-9)
Postal and private
deposits                (3 3)     (-1.S)        (.)   (3.8)         (. . )    (0.8)       (1.1)
Equipe_t bonds 9J          7 7        9.3          10.0     9.4        11.0      7.5         2.5
Changes in deposits A/
(increase -)             10 8        3.0           2.0    -S.1         4 6      3.0         3.4
timing and other
discrepancy kJ            0.9        *1.6         ....    -2.8           .      2 2          -
(Al perent of apr,
Nwmrandum itgms:
Budgetary revenue         37.8       32.2          29.8    30.2        29.1     30.0        33.2
Tax revenue              17.2       19.0          18.0    18.8        17.6     18.4        19.4
:ydrocarbon revenue      16.3        7.5           6.8     6.7         6.8      7.S        10.4
Nontax revenue            4.3        5.7           S.0     4.?         4.7      4.1         3.4
Budgetary expenditure    -34.5       -36.7         -33.6   -33.7       -31.9    -35.0       -33.2
Current budget
expenditure            -18.7      -22.2         -19.6   -21.3       -18.5    -21.6       -20.6
Capital budget
expenditure            -15.7      -14.5         -14.0   -12.4        13.4    -13.4       -12.
Budgetary surplus(+)/
deficit(-)               3.3       -4.5          -3.7    -3.5        -2.8     -S.0          -
Not lending to public
enterprises             -8.0       -6.2          -6.2    -S.2        -5.6     -5.8        -3.3
Total capital
expenditure 8 net
lending                 23.7      -20.7         -20.2   -17.7       -19.0    -19.2       -16.0
Overall treasury deficit  -9 9        -12.3         -9.9    -7.S        -8.5    -10.4        -3.1
of whtch:banktng systen
financing (net) 3J       (3.1)      (8.5)         (6.2)   (7.2)       (4.2)    (6.5)       (1.S)
1/    Channeled mainly into public enterprises.  Starting in 1983 these comprise loans to public
enterprises for financial restructuring at 1-2 percent interest rates and 12-year maturity.
2/    Reimbursements by public enterprises of long-term treasury notes.
2/    As recorded by the Central Sank.
5/    Including mainly the holding of government paper by the public enterprises and local
government entities.
V     tncluding deposits by public Institutions, local governments, and changes in cash balances of
the Treasury.
5/    Efforts are underway to clarify and reduce the discrepancy. which arises from different
accounting practices in the Treasury and the Central Bank.



- 16 -
Liberalizing the Trade and Foreign Exchanae Regimes
49.      The country's foreign exchange earnings are virtually determined by
world market trends in the hydrocarbon sector (hydrocarbons now account for
97.5% of Algeria's exports).  Throughout the 1970s and 1980s, Algeria made
exceptional and successful efforts to diversify export earnings within the
hydrocarbon sector. Having exported principally crude oil at the time of
Independence, Algeria has diversified into condensates, liquid petroleum gas,
and liquified natural gas. At the same time, Algeria has restricted
production of crude oil to prolong the benefits of a non-renewable resource
and to comply with its OPEC quotas (33 million tons p.a.). As a result of the
diversification program and a favorable price increase in gas, Algeria managed
to maintain the level of its total export earnings in the early 1980s when the
world demand for crude oil was weakening. For the future, hydrocarbon export
prospects look good particularly in light of the recent strengthening of the
oil price and the further potential for diversification and sales to the EEC
(para. 125). Nevertheless, the Government intends to pursue its policy of
further diversification within the hydrocarbon sector and to exploit more
fully its large reserves of natural gas.
50.      Algeria also plans to continue its drive to increase non-hydrocarbon
exports to help reduce its vulnerability to fluctuations in the price of oil.
This can only be achieved by: addressing the incentive framework including a
more flexible exchange rate policy and relative prices, increasing competition
to improve the quality of products, and improving efficiency within the
economy (public enterprise reform and reform of the financial sector). To
help diversify exports and to rationalize the use of imports, the Government
depreciated the real effective exchange rate by over 30% between December 1986
and December 1988. The Government intends to continue its active exchange
rate policy to eliminate the differential between the official and parallel
market exchange rates over a three-year period. In its Standby Agreement, the
IMF notes that such a policy is appropriate to deal with the severe distortion
that currently exists in the foreign exchange market. The Government expects
to narrow the gap in 1989 by continuing flexible adjustment of the official
exchange rate in consultation with the IMF while slowing the expansion of
liquidity in the economy. Adjustment of the exchange rate would also help in
attracting remittances from its nationals working abroad and boost the
Government's revenues by increasing the dinar receipts from oil and gas
exports.
51.      In parallel, steps need to be taken to liberalize Algeria's foreign
trade regime -- one of the more distortionary elements in the system of
economic management. Two factors account for these distortions: a centralized
and administrative allocation of foreign exchange and an inefficient
institutional system for imports. Imports have mainly been by enterprises
with monopoly rights for importation (para. 56); as a result, competition and
service have been limited.
52.      The system of allocating foreign exchange has worked as follows.  At
the start of each year, the Government allocated a specific quantity of
foreign exchange to each Ministry, called its Autorisation Globale
d'Importation (AGI). The Ministries then divided the AGIs between enterprises
by tariff line-item. The actual items to be purchased were specified. Three
(952tE)



- 17 -
types of AGIs were possible: monopoly AGIs, which gave monopoly rights for
domestic resale to selected enterprises; AGIs for capital goods; and AGIs for
operating inputs, such as raw materials and spares.
53.      The system resulted in considerable inefficiency; it was cumbersome,
arbitrary and rigid. Foreign exchange was allocated according to a central
plar which did not necessarily reflect profitability of investments. Once an
allocation was made in the central plan, it could only be changed following a
lengthy process requiring central approval. Moreover, enterprises tended to
spend their allocations quickly to ensure they were not diverted elsewhere.
Similarly, if toward the end of a fiscal year, enterprises had allocations
that they had not used up, they spent them regardless of actual needs. This
led to significant overstocking of imports in some firms while other
enterprises and the private sector were starved of foreign exchange. To help
overcome the rigidities in the system for the allocation of foreign exchange
at official rates, the Government has, since 1977, allowed a system of "import
without payment". Under this system, items could be imported, subject to
Government approval and ceilings, with foreign exchange purchased on the
parallel market or provided by Algerians living overseas. This form of import
financing, extensively used by the private sector, has grown rapidly. It now
accounts for about 9.2% of total imports.
54.      The recently enacted law governing the autonomy of enterprises
(paras. 85-90) has made the need to reform the foreign exchange allocation
system even more acute than in the past. In the medium-term, once the
official and parallel rates are unified, foreign exchange will be "allocated"
by price. In the meantime, however, improvements can be made in the existing
system to manage the excess demand for foreign exchange. To this end, in
early 1989, the Government started implementation of a more flexible system of
"budget-devises" based on a decree of September 1988. Instead of receiving a
foreign exchange allocation by tariff line-item, enterprises will have access
to foreign exchange from three sources: their earnings from exports,
borrowings, and, if necessary, from the Government. The allocation from the
Government will be in the form of a foreign exchange budget to be used by the
enterprises as they see fit. The budget made available to each enterprise
will be based on a medium-term projection covering a multi-year period. By
eliminating the product specific quantitative controls that were inherent in
the previous system, tl.e budget-devises represents a major improvement in the
allocation regime for imports. Partial implementation of this system was
started in 1989. At the start of this year, enterprises were issued foreign
exchange budgets in accordance with the new decree covering 1989 only. The
multi-year aspect of the decree will be implemented in 1990, when enterprises
will also be authorized to carry-over unutilized allocations of foreign
exchange from one year to another provided that, in the case that a public
enterprise is engaged in an export activity, the enterprise should have met
its export target. These carry-overs will, of course, be in addition to the
allocation of foreign exchange made to an enterprise for the applicable year.
It would be a condition of second tranche release that (a) the Government had
notified all public enterprises of their multi-year foreign exchange
allocation beginning in fiscal 1990;and (b) public enterprises had been
authorized to carry-over untutilized allocations of foreign exchange from one
year to the next.
55.       To ensure greater flexibility in the use of foreign exchange, the
Government also plans to authorize public enterprises to trade imported goods
(9S22E)



- 18 -
at a price to be freely negotiated between them. Responsibility for the
management of this foreign exchange allocation will be left entirely to
enterprises with only a Dosteriori monitoring by the Government.
Implementation of the system of "budget-devises" will be monitored by the Bank
under the loan and will be evaluated by the Government at the end of its first
year of application to improve its efficiency further.
56.      In addition to the above measures, the Government has taken steps to
move away from the monopoly control of imports whereby the bulk of goods -
about 70% of total imports -- were imported by a selected number of import
monopolies and were then sold to enterprises involved in production. The
Government is now committed to the introduction of a system that encourages
more competition. Following new legislation in 1988, any public enterprise
can now request authorization to import directly, for its own use, those
products which were previously imported by a designated state monopoly; other
products can be imported freely by public and private enterprises for use in
their own production process. Partly to facilitate this, the new law also
permits public enterprises to set up overseas offices (or buy shares) in
overseas firms. To ensure that the use of licensing controls does not
circumvent the intent of the law, it would be a condition of second tranche
release that the total value of all goods imported for resale by importers
designated by the Government as the sole importer of a particular type of good
would not exceed 45Z of the total value of goods imported during 1990.
57.      Private sector access to imports has also been increased (para. 92).
Responsibility for the allocation of foreign exchange at the official rate to
the private sector (the equivalent of "budget-devises" for public enterprises)
has been moved from the Ministry of Finance to the Chamber of Commerce--a
positive development.
58.      In the medium-term, the Government is committed to complete
liberalization in the allocation of foreign exchange -- a goal that goes in
tandem with the unification of the foreign exchange markets. To this end, and
to further rationalize the import regime and help promote exports, the
Government plans to undertake two studies in the context of a proposed
Technical Assistance project. The first will cover the structure and
application of tariffs. The second will explore incentives and required
institutional support to encourage the expansion of non-traditional exports.
Debt Management
59.      The rise in Algeria's external indebtedness had its roots in the
1970s and stemmed from the need to finance imports for its ambitious program
of investment. Algeria's expectation was that oil prices would remain high
and, as a result, the Government had few reservations about increasing its
foreign borrowings. During the 1970s, the current account deficit widened and
MLT external debt rose from less than US$1 billion in 1970 to over US$16.4
billion in 1980. The ratio of external MLT debt to GDP rose from 16.4% to
38.62 in the same period. Public enterprises were directly responsible for
about 60% of the external borrowings; development banks for about 40%.
60.      One of the Government's major objectives in its first five-year plan
(1980-84) was to decrease its level of indebtedness. A combination of
increased oil revenues in the early 1980s and a relative squeeze on imports,
meant that Algeria ran a surplus on its current account from the early 1980s
< 9522E)



- 19 -
to 1985. During the first plan period, net capital inflows were negative as
repayments of principal exceeded disbursements. This, combined with a strong
dollar, resulted in the stock of MLT external debt declining from US$16.4
billion in 1980 to US$12.0 billion in 1984. The second five-year plan
(1985-89) reiterated the objectives of reducing external debt. This objective
was, however, undermined by the 1986 oil price collapse and the decline in the
value of the dollar (beginning in 1985). This decline boosted the dollar
value of Algerian debt largely denominated in Yen and EMS currencies, without
improving dollar denominated receipts from oil. Thus, while the Government
responded to the deterioration of the current account in 1986 by severely
compressing imports, the stock of MLT debt outstanding reached US$18.6 billion
in 1988. Altogether, nearly 80% of the increase in MLT debt between 1985 and
1988 can be attributed to the devaluation of the dollar against the major
currencies in which Algerian debt is denominated.
61.      At 34% of GNP in 1988, the ratio of external debt to GNP is below the
average for middle income oil importing countries (53.4%), oil exporting
countries (75%), and Middle East and North African countries (63%). In this
regard, it should be noted that the high debt service ratio, currently close
to 66%, is attributable to the relatively short maturity of Algeria's debt.
The problem is less one of the size of Algeria's debt than it is of the
currency and term structures as discussed below.
62.      Only 37% of Algeria's external debt in 1988 is repayable in dollars,
while 97% of Algeria's earnings are denominated in dollars. Fully 43% of the
debt outstanding in 1988 is repayable in currencies which have recently
appreciated against the dollar. The mismatch between the currency composition
of earnings and debt service requirements is exacerbated by the fact that
imports are mainly from countries with currencies which have also appreciated
relative to the dollar: 54% of imports in 1987 came from France, Germany,
Italy and Japan. Thus the prevailing pattern suggests that, in the absence of
proper hedging against exchange risks, the economy is highly vulnerable to the
movements of the dollar vis-a-vis other major currencies.  To address this,
the Government is considering strategies to improve the currency management of
its debt. The core element of this strategy is likely to be the use of
currency swaps as used by other countries and the use of commodity-linked
financial instruments.
63.      Over the past few years, there has been a marked shift in tho source
of Algeria's external borrowings and hence the maturity of debt. Between 1986
and 1988, the share of financial institution lending in total MLT debt
outstanding dropped from 66% to 58%, and that of bilateral lending from 14% to
9%. At the same time, the share of suppliers' credit, typically with shorter
maturities, rose from 15% to 26%. As a result, the average maturity on
outstanding debt declined from nine to five years, while the average grace
period shrank from four to less than two years. To tackle the problem of
severe bunching of shorter-term maturities, the Government is exploring the
use of financial instruments which would facilitate the refinancing of
short-term debt into medium- and long-term debt. Options being explored
include Exchangeable Loan Facilities and Commodity-Index Linked Facilities.
64.      Algeria has maintained an impeccable repayment record; it has never
had to reschedule its external debt and fully met its obligations even during
and after the oil crisis. In the short- and medium-term, Algeria can and
should maintain debt at "reasonable" levels, that is, it should neither borrow
( 9522E)



- 20 -
excessively nor should it feel pressured to reduce its debt-to-export ratio to
levels that would unnecessarily compress imports. A debt-to-export ratio in
the 120X-150% range should be considered a reasonable medium-term objective.
65.      Algeria also needs to improve its image in the market by playing a
much more active role than it has. A major element in Algeria's external
borrowing strategy is to: improve the dissemination of data on Algeria's
economic prospects and financial position in international financial markets;
strengthen the country's creditworthiness by improving economic and financial
data collection and processing systems; increase visibility on international
markets through regular contacts with major creditor banks; strengthen efforts
to identify potenAial new lenders, and improve the country's dialogue with
lenders in the market. At the Government's request, the Bank is currently
helping in the design of a detailed strategy to improve Algeria's debt
structure, reduce vulnerability to oil price fluctuations, improve external
liability monitoring, mobilize additional external financing, tap new
financial markets, and improve the dialogue with commercial banks.
The Price and Incentive Structure
66.      The Government's comprehensive program of institutional and financial
reform will go a long way to revitalize the economy. However, it cannot
achieve its desired effects without parallel efforts at reforming the
distorted structure of prices. In Algeria, the present system of controls
dates back to the sixties and seventies, in particular, to a 1975 Ordinance
which was the principal official basis for price regulation. This
distinguishes between three categories of controlled prices or margins: fixed
(mostly essential consumer goods which were also eligible for compensation
under explicit subsidy schemes, such as the Fonds de Compensation); stabilized
(related to Plan objectives, e.g. construction materials); and controlled (all
other goods). Separate legislation controls import prices, which are fixed by
the Ministry of Commerce for "strategic" goods, or determined by adding a
regulatory margin to the import price. The net effect of this categorization,
which has often been arbitrary, has been that the vast majority of prices and
margins (about 90%) remain controlled using a wide array of instruments with a
high degree of variation in the treatment of different products.
67.      Distortions in the system can be grouped into two categories:
-    distortions in the general price level, which operate at the
macroeconomic level. Correction will be through an adjustment
of the exchange rate, interest rates, wages and the general
price level; and
-    distortions in relative prices under which prices fail to
reflect economic costs resulting in a misallocation of
resources. Correction will come through a progressive
liberalization of prices which is also needed to restore
profitability to loss-making enterprises.
68.      While it is clear that the price level must be adjusted significantly
to re-establish equilibrium at the macroeconomic level, it is equally
important that the potential inflationary impact of such an adjustment be
contained. This is crucial because: (a) Algerians have come to expect low
( 95 22E)



- 21 -
inflation; any major price adjustment would, therefore, generate inflationary
expectations which would destroy the low-inflation frame of mind which has
prevailed in the past and could trigger an inflationary spiral; and (b) the
highly adverse socio-political consequences that could ensue from a sharp and
rapid erosion of living standards. The Government has accordingly assigned a
high priority to maintaining price stability, even at the cost of proceeding
somewhat more slowly with price liberalization than it would ideally have
wanted. At the same time, the Government proposes to reinforce its approach
to price adjustment with a strong emphasis on the monitoring and management of
the process. This monitoring will be supported by the Bank through technical
assistance in the area. While there are costs associated with a gradualist
approach to price adjustment, it is felt that a more radical solution could
have such a destabilizing impact that it could derail the reform process.
Moreover, substantial benefits can be achieved by tackl.ug the problems of
operational efficiency that are widespread in many productive sectors and
whose resolution will be a key feature in bringing about an overall supply
response in the economy.
69.      Reform of the relative prices of goods and services is likely to be a
drawn out and technically complex facet of incentive reform. The experience
of other centrally-planned countries suggests that there is no simple path to
price liberalization in economies that are characterized by monopolistic
production, excess domestic demand and limited competition from imports. As
in other areas of the economy, the Government started to institute reforms of
the price system in 1982. It liberalized prices of fruits and vegetables and
raised producer prices of many products. Nevertheless, prices continued to lag
behind costs as evidenced by the growing scarcity of goods and the expansion
of parallel markets.
70.      The Government has recently approved a new law to introduce a more
flexible pricing system that will progressively reflect market conditions.
Once this law is effective, the proportion of products with prices freely
determined in the market-place is expected to increase from 10% to 40% of the
CPI. It would be a condition of second tranche release that the necessary
actions and enabling decrees be taken to put this pricing system into effect.
For products with freely determined prices, there would be no a priori control
on prices but producers would be required to notify authorities about price
changes. For a second category of products (expected to include most
industrial products), ceilings on margins will be fixed to avoid market abuses
by monopolies. These margins may be set at high levels for certain products
to encourage competition. The Government plans to study products subject to
ceilings on margins with a view to moving them gradually to the first category
of products. For a third category of products, comprising consumer staples
and goods having a major impact on the living costs of the most vulnerable
economic groups, price ceilings will continue to be fixed administratively.
As a result of the liberalization of prices and the anticipated movement in
the exchange rate, the general level of prices can be expected to increase.
This adjustment in the general price level will help reduce enterprise losses
and the money overhang, while reducing real wages and making industry more
competitive. As noted, tight monetary policy will be employed to avoid
triggering an inflationary spiral.
71.      In the medium term, the Government is committed to the complete
liberalization of all product prices (except for a few strategic consumer
items). At the same time, it is understood that the full benefits of this
( 9S22E)



- 22 -
liberalization cannot be realized as long as production and distribution take
place in strongly monopolistic structures. To increase competition at the
production and distribution levels, the Government has taken steps to increase
competition amongst enterprises by abolishing monopoly rights on domestic
production and distribution. Public and private enterprises now have greater
freedom to compete in areas previously considered the exclusive domain of
designated enterprises.
Financial Sector Reform
72.      The financial sector has a crucial role to play in the adjustment and
development of Algeria's economy. Until now, banks and deposit-taking
financial institutions have been subordinated to the Treasury - the financial
sector was hardly more than a conduit for the channelling of Treasury funds.
There was little incentive, therefore, to build up an effective financial
system. The reform process has, however, highlighted the need to mobilize
resources currently fueling speculation in the parallel market and to develop
the means to channel funds to the most profitable investments. Regulatory
institutions (the Central Bank), commercial banks and specialized financial
intermediaries were weak and lacked the sophistication typical of effective
financial institutions. For example, the Central Bank has, until recently,
not been independent of the Treasury. It has lacked the capacity to monitor
monetary trends, much less to initiate and implement monetary policy. There
has been no competition amongst banks and, since the Central Bank covered any
shortfalls, the banks accumulated large portfolios of bad loans. There was
almost no money market and no easy way for the authorities to control
liquidity in the economy. The weakness of the financial system was aggravated
by the absence of an accounting framework for banks and financial institutions
which would have made it possible to monitor their performance.
73.      To improve the effectiveness of the financial system, the Government
plans a number of institutional reforms on which progress has already been
made. A revised Banking Law of 1988 assigns the Central Bank responsibility
for the implementation of monetary and credit policies and for the regulation
of banks. This has effectively established, for the first time, the
independence of the Central Bank from the Treasury and provided for the
setting and monitoring of monetary and credit expansion targets by the Central
Bank. To this end, the Central Bank is taking steps to improve reporting of
monetary data by commercial banks in order to reduce the lag in the
transmission of data. At the same time, IMF assistance is being sought to
improve the regulatory and supervisory capabilities of the Central Bank. A
recruitment drive for bank inspectors is underway and the training of these
inspectors is envisaged in the context of a proposed Bank-financed training
program.
74.      Continued strengthening of the Central Bank to enable it to carry out
its monetary control and regulatory function is envisaged in the course of the
next twelve months. This will entail further reinforcement of the Inspection
Department and strengthening of other functions (research, credit, audit,
credit risk, external debt monitoring, etc.). This will be done through a
program developed by the IMF and will entail technical assistance which may be
funded through the proposed Bank-financed Technical Assistance project.
Inspection Department staff will receive training in, inter alia, the analysis
of financial and credit operations, bank balance sheets, and bank income
statements. Inspection procedures will be set up with a view to monitoring
indicators of bank performance.
(9 5 2ZE)



- 23 -
75.      In addition, a regulatory framework for commercial banks will be
drawn up in the coming months. This will include capital adequacy and
solvency ratios, liquidity ratios, profitability ratios and debt provisioning
rules. Regulations will be drawn up to define reporting requirements by banks
and procedures for on- and off-site inspection by staff of the Central Bank's
Inspection Department.
76.      In the past, clients were assigned to financial intermediaries
according to a rigid system of domiciliation with institutional
specialization. The market was effectively segmented by legal barriers to
competition which made certain loans (mortgages, construction loans, loans to
industry, etc.) the exclusive domain of particular financial institutions. In
1988, the domiciliation requirement for bank clients was abolished, opening
the door to competition between banks over deposits and clients. The public
enterprise reform provides the basis for autonomy for all commercial banks.
Bank management is now accountable to holding companies that act as their
shareholders. Legal barriers to competition have been eliminated and
specialized institutions are now free to penetrate sectors of activity that
had been formerly closed to them. It should be noted, however, that making
banks autonomous in law does not of itself ensure a more efficient allocation
of resources. The Government will need to ensure that banks are not subject
to pressure to lend to non-viable enterprises or for non-viable projects.
Supervision of the proposed loan will also provide a mechanism to monitor
closely the extent to which Algerian banks begin to exercise autonomy in
practice.
77.      In addition, banks will be encouraged to play a more active role in
deposit mobilization. Measures to bring this about include the greater
latitude allowed banks in setting deposit rates, restrictions on
rediscounting, the development of money markets, and greater availability of
bonds at market rates. The financial well-being of commercial and development
banks is also receiving attention. The Government is committed to formulating
a comprehensive plan for rehabilitating the balance sheets of banks in tandem
with the balance sheets of their clients. As an initial step, a preliminary
evaluation will be made of the impact on banks of the passage to autonomy of
enterprises. This will address the issues of write-offs of bank loans and
their treatment for tax and auditing purposes, and the recapitalization
requirements that will ensue from the write-off of a major portion of
commercial banks' assets. It is expected that this study will be financed
under the proposed Bank-financed Technical Assistance project.
78.      Commercial banks will be strengthened by focusing on the training of
personnel, the adoption of standards of external auditing, and the assessment
of the implications of enterprise balance sheet rehabilitation for bank
restructuring. Commercial bank personnel will receive training in project
appraisal, accounting and internal auditing, in part through the anticipated
Technical Assistance project. The Government also plans to establish an
accounting system, with well-defined procedures that will be made mandatory
for reporting of financial results of banks (plan comptable).
79.      Turning to the specialized financial intermediaries, the Government
took steps in 1988 to increase competition by abolishing the monopoly rights
that these institutions had in certain sectors of the economy. In some cases,
this has resulted in the need to review the objectives and raison d'etre of
( SS22E )



- 24 -
these formerly protected institutions. In the case of the two largest
specialized institutions--the Banque Alg6rienne de D6veloppement (BAD) and the
Caisse Nationale d'Epargne et de Pr6voyance (CNEP)--this review is expected to
be carried out within the next 12 months. In BAD's case, the issue is whether
it should remain a specialized development bank lending primarily to industry
or whether it should be: (a) split into a number of development banks with
different specializations; or (b) replaced by a new institution to be set up
jointly with commercial banks. As for CNEP, the issue is whether it will
retain its current status as a savings institution or whether it should evolve
into a housing bank able to accept demand deposits.
80.      In the past, the Government pursued a credit allocation policy of
providing loans on preferential terms for the overwhelming majority of
activities. Until 1988, this policy was carried out in three ways. First,
the Central Bank rediscounted short- and medium-term loans at preferential
rates so that end-user rates were usually some 2-3 percentage points below the
already low non-preferential lending rates. This policy applied to all short-
and medium-term loans to agriculture, which was the primary beneficiary of
this form of subsidization (mainly the state-farms). Other eligible
activities, which accounted for a small share of credit eligible for
preferential rediscounting, included real estate development and non-
traditional exports. Second, long-term investments by public enterprises were
dictated by a centrally-formulated plan and wholly financed by the Treasury's
"concours temporaire" at 2.5X.  A portion of long-term loans for housing was
also financed in this way. These Treasury funds were channelled mainly
through the specialized financial intermediaries discussed above. And third,
the interest on some lending carried out by CNEP from its own resources,
namely housing loans to savers, was subsidized directly by the Treasury.
81.      As part of the reform program, the Government has moved to both
decentralize credit decisions and rationalize selective credit policy. In the
area of preferential rediscounting, the new "conditions de banques" limit
eligibility to a narrow range of agricultural activities (cereal and pulse
production and storage, and medium-term loans for land reclamation); these
represented less than half of the total loans to the agricultural sector
eligible for this facility in 1988. Preferential rediscounting for real
estate development has also been narrowed. Commercial bank medium-term
lending already undertaken to certain centrally-planned projects (some DA 3
billion in 1988) will continue to be discounted at the old ordinary rediscount
rate of 5.02; the eligible amount should shrink faiiLy rapidly to zero over
the next few years as this facility will not be available for new lending.
Non-traditional exports remain eligible. In parallel, preferential rediscount
rates have also been raised, bar for land reclamation which has traditionally
accounted for insignificant amounts of credit (details are in Annex V).
82.      As noted earlier, the highly concessional "concours temporaire"
(Treasury lending to public enterprises) has been eliminated as a source of
financing for new projects, which will now be financed by banks. To
facilitate the change from the old system to the new, the Government has
introduced a system of transparent subsidies on interest for selected priority
areas. This represents an improvement in the selection of projects and the
mobilization of resources to finance them, as well as a reduction in the
burden on the Treasury.  Banks must now mobilize the resources necessary for
the long-term financing of new projects. The commercial risk will be fully
assumed by them and they will have no recourse to Central Bank refinancing for
their long-term lending for new investments.
( S522E )



- 25 -
83.      Prior to the reform program, the Government had no reason to monitor
the flow of funds at preferential rates. As a result, there is no
quantitative base against which progress on limiting the applicability of
selective credit can be measured. Accordingly, over the next 12 months, the
Government intends: (a) to establish a data base for 1987 and 1988 for the
amount and proportion of selective credit (within total bank credit); (b) to
establish a system to monitor the extension of all selective credit as of
1989; (c) not to increase the absolute gap between non-subsidized interest
rates provided by banks on the one hand, and interest rates subsidized through
preferential rediscounting or directly by the Treasury on the other; and (d)
to establish a schedule for the progressive reduction of interest rate
distortions through selective credit..
84.      The Government also plans to launch a study on the use of financial
resources of insurance companies. A similar study, taking account of the
public status of the social security system, will focus on the utilization of
surpluses generated by pension funds. These studies, which will lay the
foundation for more active participation of insurance companies and pension
funds in the financial system, will be financed under the proposed Technical
Assistance project.
Public Enterprise Reform
85.      Consistent with the Government's earlier philosophy for the
management and ownership of the means of production, public enterprises,
including state-farms in agriculture, have dominated all productive sectors of
the economy. In the past, public enterprises implemented directives from a
centrally formulated plan. Investment decisions were based on this plan
rather than on any criteria of financial efficiency. Investments were
financed through heavily subsidized long-term loans from the Treasury
(concours temporaire) and, in some cases, through Treasury grants (concours
definitif). Surpluses accumulated by these enterprises were expropriated by
the Treasury and losses were more or less automatically financed by banks or
through ex-post current account grant contributions from the Treasury. In
effect, the enterprise sector operated without a hard budget constraint and
the net result was that there was little incentive for managers to improve
performance. Managers followed rules and prices handed them from outside the
enterprises. Not surprisingly, efficiency was low, wage bills were excessive,
production bottlenecks were only slowly resolved, and most enterprises made
losses which were financed largely by the banking system and refinanced by the
Central Bank.
86.      As noted, in 1982, the Government broke up some 60 of the largest
public enterprises to make them more manageable. However, these enterprises
had no more autonomy than the giant enterprises from which they were derived.
Prices and wages remained controlled and there was still no real ineentive for
managers to make profits since losses remained covered by the banking system.
With the advent of the 1986 oil crisis, it became clear that the Government
could no longer pay the bill for loss-making public enterprises. Moreover,
many enterprise accounts have not been properly audited, so that it is often
unclear whether certain enterprises have temporary liquidity problems or
whether they are so far bankrupt that they could only be made viable through
both financial and physical restructuring.
< 9 522E)



- 26 -
87.      Accordingly, the Government has given high priority to public
enterprise reform. At this stage of the reform, the Government's efforts are
focused mainly on national public enterprises. Reform of the many smaller
local public enterprises will be addressed in a subsequent phase. In 1988,
the Government passed the necessary laws and decrees to allow all national
public enterprises to become fully autonomous in all aspects of their
activities, for example, in raising domestic and external funds and utilizing
retained earnings (surpluses would no longer be expropriated by the Treasury),
in their management, in the way they deploy their resources, and in their
ability to set prices (subject to the Law on prices), and in their ability to
modify their legal statutes. In addition, autonomous enterprises would be
allowed to conclude joint ventures with foreign partners.
88.      A crucial element of this reform has been the establishment of eight
equity holding companies (Fonds de participation), which in turn belong to the
Government but are to be free of administrative interference. All the shares
of autonomous enterprises will be owned by the holding companies. However, no
single holding company can have more than 40% of the stock of an individual
enterprise. Within this limit, holding companies will be free to buy and sell
shares among themselves. Their objective will be to maximize their financial
return, and their own management is to be held accountable for achieving
this. The holding companies will be permitted to exercise their authority
over enterprises in the pursuit of this objective, including changing
management, restructuring, merging, dividing or liquidating enterprises as
necessary. With the establishment of these holding companies, the Government
will no longer provide any financing to public enterprises for new investment
projects, although it may, for priority activities, provide some interest
subsidization (para. 82). Financing for new investments will come from the
banking sector which will be free to make lending decisions.
89.      Some one hundred and seventy-five (out of a total of approximately
350) of the most viable enterprises have now made the transition to the status
of "economic public enterprises" with full autonomy. The Government is
committed to making at least 300 national public enterprises autonomous by
second tranche release. Enterprises are being asked to prepare medium-term
plans spelling out their future objectives, strategies, and financial needs.
Many of these enterprises will need substantial financial restructuring of
their balance sheets to ensure that they are not burdened with debts they
cannot pay. The process is managed by a high level Committee for the
Restructuring of Public Enterprises which reports to the Prime Minister and is
responsible for the review of the financial position and initial restructuring
needs of these enterprises. To help provide funds for the financial
rehabilitation of weak enterprises, the Government has set aside funds from
the surpluses of some financially-strong enterprises. The Government has
agreed to limit such transfers to a once-and-for-all operation rather than an
ongoing tax, which would have been a major disincentive to good performance.
These funds have been placed in a Fund for the Implementation of Enterprise
Autonomy.
90.      Where public enterprises are especially weak, they will require
physical, in addition to financial, restructuring, that is, breaking up or
merging with other more profitable enterprises, or reorienting production.
However, the accounts of many of the loss-making public enterprises will need
to be put in order before it will be possible to provide a detailed plan for
their restructuring. To this end, the Government is currently drawing up
(SSZE)



- 27 -
standards for external auditing and the means to enforce them so that the
balance sheets of these enterprises can be evaluated prior to their
rehabilitation. Auditing of these enterprises will be a time-consuming task
and will need to be phased. Over the next 12 months, the Government plans to
prepare and adopt regulations defining external auditing r.-quirements for
national public enterprises and to adopt an action plan for the implementation
of this regulation. The proposed Bank-financed Technical Assistance project
has a major component designed to strengthen auditing and accounting
capabilities in Algeria, which should facilitate the task of auditing
enterprises over time. In addition, the Government intends to define a
restructuring and rationalization strategy for key industrial subsectors.
These actions will be supported by the Bank through a number of industrial
restructuring projects that are currently under preparation.
The Role of the Private Sector
91.      Despite the dominance of the public sector in Algeria, private
enterprise occupies a significant position in the economy. There are around
six to seven thousand private enterprises, which account for about a fifth of
industrial value added. The private industrial sector has consistently had
better financial results than the public, yet its contribution to industrial
value added (excluding hydrocarbons) has fallen over time from 44b in 1974 to
27% in 1983 and 19% in 1988. This decline is attributable to two factors.
First, the rapid growth in the public sector. And second, the legal,
financial and resource constraints faced by the private sector. For example,
entrepreneurs required licenses; these were only given for approved
investments, often in backward regions of the country. The private sector was
frequently starved of raw materials and access to foreign exchange, and there
were limits on the size of investments that could be undertaken: DA 12 million
for individuals and DA 35 million for incorporated enterprises. Multiple
investments of the same kind, or the horizontal or vertical concentration of
activities by an investor were forbidden. Bank credit available to investors
was limited to 30% of the cost of the investment.
92.      Under the reform program, a much more active role is envisaged for
the private sector in the future. To achieve this, the legal and regulatory
framework governing the private sector has been substantially revised. In
1988, a new law eliminated the ceilings on the total value of investments and
on the proportion of bank credit available to investments--two of the major
constraints to private sector activity. Henceforth, the private and public
sectors will be accorded identical treatment when engaged in the same
activity. A restriction that required that only Algerian nationals residing
in Algeria could undertake private investments in the country has also been
lifted. The requirement of prior authorization for new investments has been
eliminated. Finally, responsibility for the allocation of foreign exchange to
the private sector has been moved from a government agency to the Chamber of
Commerce. The increased importance that the Government attaches to the
private sector is illustrated by the much increased allocation of foreign
exchange it has accorded that sector over the past two years: DA 1.5 billion
in 1988 versus DA 6 billion in 1989. Not surprisingly, the Chamber notes
that, following these reforms, there has already been a surge in private
sector investment proposals.
93.      In short, the private sector is now being given the tools to allow it
to play a much expanded role in Algeria's economy, especially in the
( 9S22E)



- 28 -
agricultural, construction, industrial and transport sectors. For example, in
the past, some 75-80% of construction was by the public sector with all major
Government contracts awarded to public enterprises. With the expected shift
in the structure of demand, there will be less emphasis on large contracts
awarded by the Government and more emphasis on construction projects including
private individuals (and the private sector), especially for housing financed
by private savings. Already, 50% of housing construction is by small private
enterprises. As demand shifts therefore, it is likely that the private
construction industry, which is considerably more flexible and efficient than
the public, will respond rapidly thereby increasing its share in total
construction. In the future, the private sector will also be able to bid on
construction projects involving more than 200 housing units, previously the
exclusive domain of the public sector. The private sector is also being
awarded civil works contracts by local authorities and the Government as part
of the new policy to promote competition between the public and private
sectors and improve efficiency. A Bank-financed project is under preparation
to assist the private construction industry. Similarly, there is substantial
scope for the private sector to become actively involved in the transport and
distribution of goods, and in public transport - both areas currently
operated by monopolies. Finally, the agricultural sector is now essentially
privatized as discussed below.
Agricultural Sector Reform
94.      Privatization of State Farms.  At Independence, Algeria was
predominantly an agrarian society with a limited industrial base. Agriculture
remains one of the dominant sectors of the economy. About half of Algeria's
population lives in rural areas and about 25% of the labor force is employed
in agriculture. However, its relative importance has declined over the past
25 years; the share of agriculture in aggregate value-added is now about 7%
compared to 13% in the early sixties. Overall, agricultural performance has
been disappointing. Production has not kept pace with population growth, the
self-sufficiency rate for cereals has dropped from 90% in 1962 to 25% in
recent years, and food imports account for as much as 15-20% of total
merchandise imports. The rapidly growing food gap is a major issue for
Algeria. Agricultural yields are low in comparison with neighboring
countries, for example, with Morocco and Tunisia, countries that have similar
climatic conditions but which use less agricultural equipment and inputs than
Algeria. Moreover, yields have generally either been stagnant or have
decreased over the past twenty five years. Growth that has taken place in
agriculture (about 2.8% p.a. over the period since 1964 and about 5% p.a.
since 1977) has largely been the result of a shift into higher value, higher
yielding crops and livestock.
95.      The low level of yields is primarily due to the past dominance of
state-farms. These farms, which accounted for about 60% of Algeria's
agricultural potential, were formed immediately after Independence on the best
land in the country -- the narrow coastal strip in the north -- that had been
operated by Europeans. During the 1960s and 1970s, most investments and
support in agriculture were directed at this sector. The private sector
comprising some 800,000 farmers was, until the 1980s, largely neglected.
Throughout these two decades, the Government attempted numerous reforms in the
sector which aimed to make the state-farms work: an agrarian revolution which
expropriated additional land from the private sector, the creation of
Government-run cooperatives to handle input and output marketing, and the
( 9 S2 2)E 



- 29 -
decentralization of decision making. In practice, little changed: plans and
production targets remained centralized, and the state-farms continued to be
characterized by overstaffing, low productivity, unpaid debts and continued
operating deficits. These farms were kept operational by injections of
Government funds from credit institutions that were banks in name only.
Despite better resource endowment and access to inputs, yields of the state-
farms were lower than those of private farmers in pulses and most vegetables;
they performed only marginally better than private farms in cereals.
96.      In the early eighties, the Government began to put more emphasis on
the agricultural sector with its potential to create employment, stem rural to
urban migration, and reduce Algeria's dependence on imports to feed itself.
Also, probably more than any other sector in the economy, agriculture has the
potential to provide a rapid supply response. Recognizing this, the
Government instituted a number of reforms starting around 1982: prices and
marketing arrangements for fruits and vegetables were liberalized; the
cooperative agencies responsible for the provision of inputs and marketing
were decentralized and restructured; and an agricultural bank, la Banque de
l'Agriculture et du Developpement Rural, was created to channel resources to
agriculture. Many of these reforms benefited the private sector more than the
state farm sector, which had little reason to respond to incentives given the
system of guaranteed iages and centrally-determined directives. It soon
became clear that even these reforms failed to address the basic issue: the
state-run farming system with its inability to respond to incentives.
97.      In 1988, the Government undertook an historic reform.  It started the
process of the breakup and dissolution of the state-farms. Under the reform,
3,400 state-farms, averaging about 700 ha each, were broken up into farms of
about 80 ha (units large enough to be farmed by tractors). Each farm has some
6-7 members. In certain cases, single individuals have been given the right
to smaller farms of about 6 ha each. Farmers have been given permanent
usufruct rights to the land. The Government has completed an inventory and
valuation of the equipment belonging to the state farms (tractors, buildings,
etc.), and sold the equipment to farmers on credit. To ensure the future
viability of the farms, farms cannot be divided, but individual farmers have
the right, after a period of five years, to pass their land to their children
and to transfer their shares to other members.
98.      In short, these newly-formed units will operate entirely like private
farms, with the right to retain all profits. For the first time, therefore,
the Government has successfully introduced an incentive structure to which all
farmers can respond. While there are risks associated with this change, the
evidence to date is that there has been an explosion of demand for on-farm
investment as farmers now work for themselves to improve their land and
increase productivity. The change from state farms to effectively private
management has been done rapidly and smoothly and it is likely that the impact
of this reform will be highly positive. At the same time, the budgetary drain
on the Government has been eliminated.
99.      The Government's future strategy in the sector is to take full
advantage of this reform. Of the possible sources of agricultural growth that
have been identified, the most promising is an increase in yields of existing
crops from improved farming techniques resulting from the reform. It is
estimated that yields could increase almost immediately by some 20-70% which
would bring them in line with those of Morocco and Tunisia. To realize this
( 9 5 2 2E )



- 30 -
objective quickly, it is imperative that the Government ensures that farmers
have the necessary means to increase production and the appropriate incentives
to do so. The role of the Government will, therefore, change from that of a
central planner of investment decisions to one in which it focuses on getting
the signals right and providing services to farmers. Less emphasis will be
placed on public investments, apart from large scale irrigation projects, and
more on private investments financed through the banking system and influenced
by the pricing system.
100.     As far as output prices are concerned, prices of all crops, bar
cereals and pulses, are determined freely on the local market. Prices of what
are considered strategic crops (cereals and pulses) will continue to be set by
the Government. While these prices are presently high in relation to world
market prices to encourage production, cereal and pulse production accounts
for only 10-152 of the total value of agricultural production. Nevertheless,
these producer prices, which currently are substantially subsidized with a
concomitant burden on the budget, should be set in relation to world market
prices. The Government plans to undertake a study of producer prices and
incentives which aims to: establish a methodology for setting agricultural
prices, examine the comparative economic advantage of producing various
agricultural commodities in Algeria, and assess the consequences and impact of
different policy options, especially their impact on the budget. This study
could be financed under the proposed Technical Assistance project.
101.     In parallel, the Government has adopted a policy that input prices
should fully cover their financial costs. Input prices have systematically
been raised so that now virtually all financial subsidies on purchased inputs,
except for seed, have been eliminated. The remaining financial distortion,
which the Government is committed to reduce further, is of the order of 10-202
of the financial cost. The above policy will continue to move prices in the
right direction. In the longer run, input prices should reflect economic
costs to the country and should also be linked to world market prices. The
study on prices and incentives (para. 100) would provide the basis for
establishing a consistent framework for input prices, as well as output prices
for the future. In the same vein, and in line with the Government's objective
that financing of the development process will increasingly be shifted from
the State to beneficiaries, the Government raised water charges in 1988 by
about 100% so that they now cover some 70% of O&M costs, depending upon the
scheme and type of irrigation system. The Government is currently undertaking
a study of water charges in the Cheliff area. This study will be extended, so
that, within about 12 months, the Government will be in a position to propose
a timetable to recover full O&M costs in areas served by large- scale
irrigation schemes.
102.     Finally, the Government is committed to improving availability of
inputs, including extension advice to farmers. In the past, agricultural
inputs were distributed and sold through a network of Government sponsored
agencies and cooperatives. From time to time, there have been problems with
the quality of inputs available to farmers (timeliness and availability of the
correct input) and with quantities of inputs and spares. To facilitate access
to inputs, the Government has recently licensed a number of private shops to:
sell pesticides, seeds, spares, and small agricultural implements; provide
after-sales service (at prices and margins set by the Government); and do
repairs. In late 1988, the Government passed a law to revitalize the official
cooperatives by transferring ownership and management responsibility to the
( 9S22E)



- 31 -
farmers. To further strengthen input supplies, the Government plans to ease
regulations and procedures to increase competition in the distribution of
agricultural inputs. Finally, the Government has asked the Bank for
assistance to strengthen its research and extension service to ensure
availability of sound advice to farmers. This project was appraised in July
1989.
Environment. Population and the Social Dimensions of Adjustment
Environment
103.     As with other countries in the Mediterranean basin, Algeria is faced
with a number of environmental issues ranging from urban biological wastes to
toxic wastes and to issues of water scarcity and quality. In contrast to the
past relative neglect, the Government is now acutely aware of the need to
tackle environmental problems. An Environmental Law was passed in 1983 and
recently the Government has strengthened and clarified responsibility for
overall environmental policy which is now to be vested in the Ministry of
Interior and Environment. This Ministry has been charged with overall
coordination with all agencies concerned with environmental matters. The
change will also facilitate implementation of the Government's programs
through the direct involvement of regional authorities (wilayas).
104.     The Bank is currently preparing a comprehensive report on
environmental issues in Algeria. The report underlines the complexity and
magnitude of the problem and highlights the need to reconcile economic
objectives of fostering export diversification through rapid expansion of the
industrial and agricultural sectors with the vital objective of preserving the
environment from further degradation and making careful use of available water
resources. Once the report is finalized, it will be formally discussed with
the Government with a view to preparing an action plan for tackling the most
serious issues.
Population and Social Dimensions of Adjustment
105.     As discussed in Part I, Algeria has a population growth rate of 3.1%,
significantly higher than the rate for other upper-middle income countries.
Given that nearly 50% of the population is less than 15 years old, this places
great pressure on infrastructure in the education sector. More disturbingly,
this translates into expected growth in the labor force of around 3.7% p.a.
for the period to the year 2000 (compared to 2.3% p.a. for upper-middle income
countries as a whole). It is important that measures be taken to bring down
the rate of population growth. At the same time, the Government is acutely
aware that (a) it can ill-afford to maintain its system of social services in
its present form, and (b) it needs to protect vulnerable groups in society
from the temporary adverse effects of the adjustment process. It should be
noted, however, that the medium- and long-term impact of the adjustment
process will be highly positive, with growth throughout the economy but
particularly in agriculture, industry, construction and the private sector.
Much of this growth will be in small-scale enterprises, including agriculture,
which are labor intensive. The level of unemployment should, therefore, fall
over the medium-term.
106.     In the short-term, there will be social costs associated with the
adjustment process. The Government has proposed a two-fold approach to
( 9522E)



- 32 -
address these costs. First, to mitigate the impact of macro-adjustment in the
short-term, the Government plans to keep in place its existing system of
consumer subsidies on a few basic commodities (mainly on wheat flour, bread,
vegetable oil, and milk). As noted earlier, while consumer subsidies are
significant, they are equivalent to only about 1.5% of total budgetary
expenditures. The Government has also introduced a measure to support the
wages of the lowest-paid workers in the public sector. In the longer run,
these subsidies should gradually be reduced and tailored much more
specifically to the needs of vulnerable groups rather than to the population
at large. The very tight fiscal targets that the Government has to meet do
not allow any increase in the financial burden of consumer subsidies.
107.     Second, the Government proposes to formulate comprehensive strategies
for (a) the social sectors to improve their efficiency and effectiveness,
notably with a view to benefitting the most vulnerable groups; and (b) for
addressing the issue of population grnwth. This strategy will address the
following main issues: (i) the inter- and intrasectoral allocation of social
funds; (ii) the extent to which existing broad-based subsidy programs could be
better targeted to the vulnerable groups of society; (iii) efficiency in the
production and distribution of social services; (iv) labor market conditions
and, in particular, their linkages to the income-earning capacity of
disadvantaged segments of the population; and (v) the development of a
strategy for limiting population growth. A special effort needs to be made to
identify economic distortions created by the large across-the-board subsidies
(e.g. in health, education, food, shelter, public transportation, etc.) in
order to replace them with alternative economic policies and well-targeted
compensation programs, and to seek the introduction of user charges in
accordance with ability to pay as one way to reduce skewed subsidies.
108.     The Government will therefore develop a socioeconomic data base and
undertake surveys that will enable it to identify vulnerable groups in the
population and to assess the impact of the economic reform program on them.
It will review the efficiency of social budget expenditures. It would be a
condition of second tranche release that Government develop a plan to protect
vulnerable groups, spelling out its overall policy on consumer subsidies and
clarifying how these subsidies can be better targeted to vt'lnerable groups.
It will also develop proposals aimed at increasing labor market mobility.
Finally, it will elaborate appropriate objectives and strategies for a
comprehensive population policy.
Issues of Reform Implementation
109.     One of the main lessons to be drawn from the recent experience of
reform in many centrally-planned economies is that the implementation of these
reform programs poses a difficult and complex management challenge for
policymakers. Although the specifics vary from country to country, the
central issues that recur are frequently the same. These issues can be
grouped into four categories as discussed below.
110.     The first issue is the usual need to cut domestic absorption at the
same time that the structure of the economy is being changed. Fortunately,
the situation in Algeria is somewhat better than in many other countries,
largely because living standards have already fallen by over 20% since 1986.
Still, managing the distributional impact of reform will be a difficult task.
In particular, the real wage of those currently employed in many unprofitable
( 9522E)



- 33 -
public enterprises is likely to fall as the price level rises and as their
access to subsidized housing and other benefits is restricted. Fortunately,
for most of the employed population, the fall in the real consumer wage will
be less than the apparent fall as measured by the real product wage. This is
because prices of many agricultural products are already liberalized and are
unlikely to increase significantly. in addition, the effective real consumer
wage is already lower than it appears to be if account is taken of the higher
prices prevailing for most commodities on the parallel market.
111.     Nevertheless, the social acceptability of higher official prices will
depend crucially on the increased availability of consumer goods. Bringing
about an early and visible supply response thus becomes a priority for the
Government. Any upward adjustment in prices will also generate a capital loss
on the real stock of Dinar assets--currency and bank deposits--held by
households (95% GNP). This effect is desirable to the extent that it
contributes to the reduction in the existing liquidity overhang in the economy
and the excess demand for consumer goods. However, here too, care must be
taken to avoid triggering inflationary expectations which become
self-fulfilling, for example, through a sharp and unmanaged increase in the
velocity of money. Finally, managing the social dimension of prices and
income adjustment will be facilitated to the extent that the Government can
better target subsidies.
112.     The second issue concerns the sequencing of reform measures for which
no unique formula can be applied. In the Algerian case, the basic strategy
is, first, to bring about a comprehensive change in the legal, institutional
and regulatory framework and, second, to proceed to incentive and price
reform. The first phase has been largely completed and the second is now
underway. This approach will require mid-course corrections as a result of
lessons learned through the implementation process. This is partly because of
the intrinsic complexity of some of the problems, and partly because the
complete removal of all significant economic distortions will take many
years. One example of the complexity of the adjustment process is price
reform, where a difficult choice must be made between generalized price
liberalization or the setting of relative prices around some international
norms. The former would equilibrate supply and demand, but may result in
Algeria's still monopolistic production system setting prices out of line with
international norms, at least during the initial phase when import competition
will not yet be able to impose effective restraints. The latter -- using
international prices as a guideline -- would ensure that production and
consumption choices reflect international economic costs. However, it would
still resti in the rationing of some products and would maintain an official
price contr   mechanism that could be abused.  In practice, a combination of
the two approaches will need to be used depending upon the type of product and
the degree of internal or import competition to which its production is
subject. However, it is clear that implementation experience in this area
will need to be monitored carefully and adjustments made as required.
113.     Another type of problem posed by the gradualist approach to
sequencing which Algeria has chosen, relates to the management of the
transition until official and parallel markets are unified. For example, this
gradualist approach puts a special burden on the Government to ensure that the
allocation of scarce foreign exchange during the transition period, is made
according to reasonably transparent and efficient criteria. Also, the
Government needs to ensure that its own investments in infrastructure
( 9S22E)



- 34 -
d4velopment, which are often highly import-intensive, are made according to
sound criteria reflecting the underlying true economic costs and benefits.
114.     The third issue of transition management relates to the allocation
and underwriting of the financial gains and losses that will accompany the
program for enterprise and bank reform. This covers both accrued losses
carried over from the past, as well as losses which will come about during the
transition period through the correction of relative prices in the economy.
As regards the past, the principal issue is the high debt to equity ratio of
most public enterprises. Some of these enterprises have also received
ubsidies to cover their operating deficits and have only been able to meet
their debt service obligations through continued (and largely involuntary)
lending by the commercial banks. A side effect of this regime has been the
growing deterioration in the quality of the commercial banks' portfolio, whose
real worth is considerably below nominal value.
115.     The Government is attempting to address this third issue in the
context of the passage to autonomy of public enterprises, which will entail a
preliminary evaluation of their financial position and prospects. As a result
of this evaluation, some of the accumulated loans from banks and/or the
Treasury will be converted into equity to put enterprises on a reasonably
sound footing. This will be financed from a Fund for Enterprise Restructuring
for which DA 20 billion has been set aside from a one-shot contribution from
enterprises with large accumulated surpluses, supplemented by a contribution
from the budget. This is an essential first step in the long process of
restoring financial solvency and discipline amongst public enterprises, but it
is by no means the final resolution of this problem. Many enterprises will
need additional financial and physical restructuring as part of their
medium-term strategy. For some, this will entail additional debt write-offs
or equity injections. Moreover, the impact of this first round of enterprise
restructuring on the financial structure and capitalization needs of the
commercial and development banks will also be a major issue.
116.     Apart from the carry over of past losses, there is the issue of
losses yet to come through price correction. In particular, continued
depreciation of the exchange rate will translate into sizeable capital losses
on enterprises' external liabilities (17 of GNP) and banks' external debts
(132 of GNP). Over time, these losses will be realized through larger
interest payments and net amortizations. It is important that these losses do
not result in insolvency of otherwise sound enterprises and banks, or in the
monetizing of net losses. Corrections in the interest rate will translate
into higher borrowing costs for enterprises, a desirable impact as it will
correct their past capital-intensive bias. In the short-term, however, it
will lead to an erosion of profitability. Less benign is the expected impact
of higher real interest rates on banks. As the average maturity of their
assets (approximately one year) is longer than that of their liabilities
(approximately three months), they will sustain capital losses. This will be
mitigated to the extent that real lending rates will initially tend to rise
faster than deposit rates. Moreover, the adoption of variable interest loans
and the sale of bonds at market rates could help boost banks' profitability.
Another factor offsetting enterprise losses will be the adjustment of the
price level and greater flexibility in price setting.
117.     It is not possible at this time to quantify all potential gains and
losses, some of which are real while others are essentially paper
( 9 5 2 2 E )



- 35 -
transactions.  What is clear, however, is that the resolution of this problem
cannot be left entirely to the enterprises themselves, but must also involve
the Government and the Central Bank.  Failure to do so is likely to lead to
the insolvency of potentially viable enterprises and a sharper than necessary
fall in living standards.  Thus, the Government must be ready to step in to
provide financial support and guarantees where these are warranted, for
exaiaple, where the losses are caused by actions outside the enterprises'
control. The Government must also ensure that the aggregate costs of such
operations are budgeted explicitly, and are manageable within its overall
fiscal targets. In this regard, one positive factor is the reasonably
favorable medium-term fiscal situation and the fact that, because of the
dominant share of hydrocarbon revenues in Government income, the Government's
own budget surplus improves through the very devaluation that is the source of
many of the projected losses at the enterprise level. At the same time, the
Government will need to carefully balance the legitimate demands for budgetary
support against the need to progressively disengage itself from the financing
of the enterprise sector. This will be an unavoidable source of internal
tension in the management of the transition process for which there is no easy
resolution.
118.     The fourth issue of implementation is perhaps the most difficult to
resolve, namely, how to bring about behavioral changes in both the public
administration and amongst enterprise managers so that they can assume tLteir
new functions. Algerian enterprise managers worked in the past according to a
clearly-defined set of rules whereby their main role was to implement the
quantitative production objectives set in the annual plan. Bank managers
extended credit to ensure that the enterprises had the necessa&y funds to meet
these production targets. Both these sets of individuals are now required to
act very differently and, indeed, the ultimate success of the reform program
will depend on their new actions and behavior. At the same time, continued
pressure will be required to bring about the behavioral change expected of the
various ministries and agencies which were in effect responsible for the
"management" of "their" public enterprises in the past but whose objectives
and functions must now change radically. In the final analysis, it is not
possible to predict the pace of behavioral change in an economy in such
fundamental transition. Here, as for the other issues raised above, the key
to successful implementation will be a pragmatic and flexible approach that is
continually revised to take account of the feedback received during the
implementation process itself.
119.     Fortunately, senior policy makers in the Government are well aware of
these potential implementation difficulties and are taking a number of steps
to overcome them. These include frequent high level public pronouncements on
the importance -- 'ndeed "inevitability" -- of going forward with the reform,
supported by a series of conferences and seminars to present the various
aspects of the reform program. The pace of reform implementation is regularly
reviewed at cabinet meetings where decisions are taken on any corrective
actions required. Moreover, the need for strengthening the Government's
technical and analytical capabilities in certain key areas--for example,
management of the financial sector and monetary policy, phasing in of price
and trade liberalization, and providing an impetus to industrial restructuring
-- is well recognized. In this context, the Government has also approached a
number of external sources, including the Bank, for technical support so as to
benefit from the experience of reform implementation in other countries.
( 9 5 2 2E )



- 36 -
Medium-Term Macroeconomic Outlook, External Financing and Sensitivity Analysis
Medium-term Outlook
120.     The timely implementation of the ambitious program of reforms
outlined above, will both depend upon, and influence, Algeria's medium-term
macroeconomic outlook. Managing this two-way interdependence is, therefore,
an overriding priority for the country's policymakers. First and foremost in
this regard, is the need to ensure an adequate supply of imported spare parts
and other inputs to restore a higher level of capacity utilization and
efficiency to the country's productive sectors. Additional foreign exchange
is also needed to augment the supply of consumer goods to prevent rising
consumer dissatisfaction from becoming an obstacle to the implementation of
reforms. Both of these needs can only be met if the recent improvement in the
balance of payments can be maintained, and if the medium-term balance of
payments prospects are such that Algeria's creditors are willing to meet its
substantial debt refinancing needs. The successful implementation of the
reform program also requires tight management of domestic macroeconomic
variables. In particular, a sharp acceleration in inflation must be avoided
not only for the inherent difficulties that this would pose, but also because
of the social tensions that it would generate during an already stressful
period of structural change. This can only be achieved if national
policymakers continue to pursue with diligence the targets that have been set
for the reduction of Government expenditures, for the financing of public
enterprise deficits, and for the tight control of monetary expansion.
121.     It is important to note that the implementation of the reform program
will itself influence the evolution of macroeconomic variables in the medium
term. Most directly, the growth and diversification of exports can only be
sustained through the progressive realignment of incentives supported by the
increasingly autonomous operation of the public enterprise sector. Similarly,
the increase in the efficiency of investment, reflected in the progressive
reduction of ICORs to about 7.4 from their mid-80s level of around 12 (both
being 7-year average measures) is expected as a result of the proposed reforms
of public enterprises as well as through encouragement and support for the
still nascent private sector. The projected ICORs remain high by
international standards, but this would be a major improvement for Algeria
given the large but often inappropriate stock in place and the continued need
for replacement investments.
< 9 522)



- 37 -
Table 2: ALGERIA - KEY MACROECONOMIC INDICATORS
(Percentages of GDP)
1986   1987  1988  1989  1990-91 1992-95
Current Account Deficit BoP a/         -4.6    0.1  -1.7  -1.0      0.3      2.6
(X-M)
- Net Resource Gap                   -3.4    1.8   0.9   2.0      3.7      5.0
- Net Factor Serv. Income            -2.3   -2.4  -3.4  -4.2    -5.3      -4.6
- Net Current Transfers               1.2    0.7   0.8   1.2      1.9      2.2
National Financial Balance             -4.6    0.1  -1.7  -1.0      0.3      2.6
(GNS-I)
Total Gross Nat. Saving              27.8   30.4  29.0  29.3    30.3      32.2
- GNS Central Government             10.0    8.9   8.4  12.5    15.4      15.8
- GNS Non-Government                 17.8   21.5  20.6  16.8    14.9      16.4
Total Gross Investments                32.4   30.3  30.7  30.3    30.0      29.6
- Investments Central Gov.           14.4   12.4  13.4  12.7    12.5      12.2
- Investments Non-Gov.               18.0   17.9  17.3  17.6    17.5      17.4
Memo:
- Per Capita Consumption
Growth Rate                        -6.0   -9.5  -7.2   1.9      1.7      2.7
- Central Gov. Borr. Req.           -12.2   -7.5 -10.4  -3.1      0.6      1.9
- Central Gov. Deficit               -4.5   -3.5  -5.0  -0.2      2.9      3.6
- Exports of GNFS                    14.3   14.8  15.3  19.5    29.3      36.6
- Imports of GNFS                    17.8   13.0  14.4  17.5    25.6      31.5
GDP Growth                              1.0   -1.1  -1.8   4.5      4.9      5.1
ICORs (including hydrocarbons)k/       11.3   11.5  16.6  12.2    11.3       7.4
A/  The current account to GDP ratio shown in this Table is taken from the
Government's National Accounts.  This differs slightly from the current account
to GDP ratio shown in Annex IA which reflects balance of payments data provided
by the Central Bank.
h/ Based on 7-year average.



- 38 -
122.     Finally, on the external front, the willingness of Algeria's
creditors to provide additional funding will be determined not only by the
prospects for hydrocarbon prices, but equally by their perception of the
determination and success with which these important internal reforms are
being pursued. For these reasons, although the primary focus of the proposed
loan is to support the realization of the Government's reform program over the
next two years, an assessment of the country's overall medium-term
macroeconomic prospects becomes a key-related feature. These prospects are
reviewed in the following paragraphs and summarized in Tables 2 and 3.
123.     The primary macroeconomic objective of Algerian policymakers is to
achieve a sustained growth rate of about 5.02 p.a., accompanied by a modest
but steady increase in per capita consumption, as well as a progressive
improvement in external creditworthiness indicators, most notably the ratio of
external debt to exports. These developments are to be brought about through
a substantial increase in hydrocarbon and other exports, an improvement in the
structure and terms of external debt, an improvement in the efficiency of
domestic capital use, and the increased availability of imported consumer
goods and inputs for production. In the period to 1995, the stock of external
debt is to be reduced somewhat from its current level, and its composition
altered substantially to better reflect Algeria's needs. On the domestic
front, supporting these overall macroeconomic objectives, is a projected
reallocation of expenditures from the Government to the rest of the economy: a
greater effort to mobilize both public and private savings, and a progressive
improvement in the financial position of public enterprises, and in the
efficiency of new investment. These points are discussed below.
124.     External Sector Outlook.  Algeria's medium-term balance of payments
prospects are relatively favorable. The base case projects a steady
improvement in the current account balance which moves from a deficit of about
US$475 million in 1989 to a surplus of nearly US$400 million by 1991.
Thereafter, surpluses are projected to grow reaching about US$1.5 billion in
1995. These surpluses will facilitate Government's policy of building up the
country's gross external reserves which have fallen to extremely low levels
recently (1.2 months of imports). By 1995, these reserves (excluding gold)
are projected to grow to US$3.5 billion, or about 2.6 months of imports.
Finally, these surpluses would enable the Algerian authorities to consolidate
and reduce their stock of external debt and would lead to a debt to export
ratio of about 1102 in that year.
125.     Given the current structure of Algerian exports, these developments
are of course heavily dependent on the projected evolution of the hydrocarbon
market. It should be noted that, at current production levels (33 million
tons p.a.) and barring any significant new discoveries, oil production should
last for about another 30 years. The country's gas reserves are the fifth
largest in the world, and to date, only 17% of proven reserves have been
extracted. The key factor for Algeria is, therefore, that of price and
success in its efforts at further diversification. In this regard, the recent
Government decision to adopt a much more market-oriented pricing policy for
gas exports and to pursue an aggressive campaign to improve the share of
Algerian gas in international markets was an important one. This policy can
be expected to yield substantial additional revenues even in the short-term
because the existing level of gas exports only accounts for about half of the
country's already installed capacity for processing and shipping this
product. Discussions are well advanced with European and North American gas
( 9 S 22E)



- 39 -
importers, and the volume of exports in 1989 is expected to register a 142
increase over 1987. Thereafter, gas exports are expected to grow in volume
terms by a further 38.6% to 1994, which should be feasible if the current
approach to pricing and market share is maintained. When combined with the
assumption of relative stability in oil prices over the medium-term (the
assumptions are for an average Algerian oil price of about US$17 per barrel in
1989 dollars through this period), the result is that hydrocarbon exports grow
in current dollar terms from US$8.1 billion in 1989 to US$12.8 billion in
1994. The impact of alternative scenarios for future hydrocarbon prices as
well as of a less successful gas export marketing strategy are traced out in
the sensitivity analysis in paras. 136-141.
126.     Non-hydrocarbon exports are also projected to grow rapidly over this
period as a result of the liberalization of the economy and a more favorable
exchange rate. However, because of their very small base in 1989, their share
in total merchandise exports is still expected to be relatively modest by 1995
(about 132). Nevertheless, the pace at which these exports expand will still
be an important variable for the Government to monitor because of the signal
that this provides, in terms of the success of the efforts to reform the
incentive structure of the economy, and to remove the anti-export bias that
has characterized the system in the past. Finally, as domestic interest rates
and the exchange rate are brought more into line with the underlying economic
fundamentals, Algeria should also be able to achieve a much greater level of
success in attracting the remittances of its approximately one million
nationals residing abroad. To this end, the base case reflects growth in
remittances from the current low level of about US$350 million to about US$1
billion by 1994, well within the range of savings mobilization typical of
neighbouring countries which have experienced similar waves of emigration.
127.     As noted, the overall increase in exports is expected to be
accompanied by a steady increase in the level of imports which are projected
to grow at about 10% p.a. to about US$14.5 billion by 1995. While such an
increase in imports may appear high, it is important to note that it comes
after a dramatic and unsustainable 40% real cut in imports since 1985, and
essentially restores the same total volume of imports a decade later when the
population of the country would be about 40% larger. Moreover, as mentioned
earlier, these imports are essential to permit the debottlenecking and
start-up of the industrial infrastructure which is operating at low capacity,
partly because of the current shortage of imported spare parts and raw
materials. As a result of the adjustment in relative prices to eliminate the
bias against tradeables versus non-tradeables, the share of tradeables in GDP
is projected to more than double by 1995. This demonstrates the extent to
which the economy is being opened up to competition.
128.     Domestic Sector Outlook.  Accompanying these developments on the
external account are a series of important shifts in the evolution of domestic
economic variables, both in terms of the conduct of the Government's own
budget, as well as in terms of the overall pattern of expenditure and resource
mobilization in the economy. In budgetary terms, the main change on the
revenue side is a projected increase from 30% of GDP in 1988 to about 361 by
1995. This increase, which would restore the revenue to GDP ratio to about
the levels of the mid-1980s, comes about through the higher value of taxes
from increased hydrocarbon exports combined with the Government's efforts to
broaden the tax base, tighten fiscal controls and improve tax administration.
The foreseen price and exchange rate corrections also result in an increase in
revenues on trade and other indirect taxes.
( 9522E)



- 40 -
129.     On the expenditure side, the main changes will come about in the area
of the Treasury's financial operations, and particularly, the financing of
loss-making public enterprises. The need for such budget transfers will
decline to the extent that public enterprises become increasingly
self-financing and have the flexibility to make the associated pricing and
other changes. Transfers to public enterprises are thus projected to decline
from about 6% of GDP in 1988, to about 1% of GDP by 1995. Public investments
are projected to remain at about 132 of GDP, which should permit continued
Government investment in infrastructure and the social sectors, although the
scope and focus of this investment may well be altered to better reflect the
revised overall priorities encompassed in the reform program. Current
expenditure is also expected to decline slightly in relative terms, reflecting
the rationalization of budgetary expenditures and improved control. This
reduction does not impact upon export and food subsidies, which are funded
primarily through special taxes on the import of luxury goods and fall outside
the budget. Overall, as a result of these changes, the budget deficit, which
deteriorated sharply over the 1986-88 period, is projected to revert to a
surplus of about 2% of GDP in 1990, and to improve progressively in the
subsequent years to about 3.51 of GDP by 1995. In parallel, central
government savings are projected to grow from their current level of 91 of
GDP, to about 151 of GDP by 1995, a figure still below the average of about
201 experienced in the early 1980s. The reduced claims of the central
Government on bank financing that the above figures imply, should facilitate
the efforts of the Central Bank to maintain a tight control on the growth of
money and credit in the economy. This should prevent a flaring-up of
inflation which the Government intends to keep at an annual level of about 101.
130.     These domestic macroeconomic policy objectives are realizable but
they will require close and prudent management. As regards fiscal policy,
tight control will be required over expenditures to avoid slippages. Careful
attention will also have to be paid to the cost of consumer subsidies on
staples such as cereals, to ensure that these will be financed as expected
without a net drain on the Treasury. In addition, as the enterprise
restructuring program is implemented, the financial support provided to weak
enterprises will need to be managed without jeopardizing the overall fiscal
position of the Treasury, or indeed, the financial position of other
financially stronger enterprises.
131.     On the monetary side, the Central Bank will have to play a key role
in monitoring the implementation of the credit targets that have been
established in the National Credit Plan. In particular, bank credit to
enterprises will have to be followed closely, given the novelty of credit
controls for both the banks and enterprises, and given the relatively recent
commercial nature of the relationship between them. The authorities'
intention to place greater reliance on interest rate policy should have
positive effects on the efficiency of credit allocation and the mobilization
of savings. To be more effective, the present structure of interest rates
will need to be further simplified and the number and disparities of
preferential interest rates gradually eliminated. Finally, efforts must be
stepped up to strengthen the technical and managerial capacities of the newly
autonomous banks, which are to play a crucial role as financial intermediaries
in the new structure of the financial system.
(9522E)



- 41 -
132.     The Algerian authorities are well aware of the difficulties that lie
ahead in the implementation of the new tools of macroeconomic and monetary
management. To a large extent, these difficulties simply reflect the
fundamental nature of the reforms that have been started in the country.
However, on the basis of the courageous and difficult decisions that the
Government has taken to date, as well as the determination that it has
expressed in terms of facing the challenges that lie ahead, there is every
reason to believe that these ambitious objectives will indeed be realized.
External Financing Requirements
133.     Algeria faces an extremely tight external resource situation over the
next two years which is expected to ease over the period 1991-95. Three main
factors account for the particularly difficult situation during the early
period. First, as noted, an important element of the reform program will be
the loosening of the currently binding import constraint. Imports of goods
and non-factor services are projected to grow at a nominal rate of some 10%
p.a. in contrast to the decline of some 7.6% p.a. since 1981. Second,
interest payments in 1989 and 1990 are unusually high compared to Algeria's
non-interest current account. The latter cannot fully cover interest payments
due in 1989 and 1990; it covers 682 and 892 of interest payments in those two
years respectively. The situation improves as of 1991 and thereafter, when
the non-interest current account will generate a surplus large enough to fully
cover interest payments. As a result of these two factors, the current
account will be in deficit over the next two years before swinging back into
surplus. And third, Algeria needs to replenish its reserves which are
presently critically low.
134.     It should be reiterated, however, that the liquidity crunch in the
short-term does not mean that Algeria faces an unsustainable situation as far
as external financing is concerned. From 1991 onward, the external resource
situation improves. The current account moves into surplus as a result of
improved export earnings. This is mainly due to increased gas exports but
also because of increased exports of manufactured goods and increased workers'
remittances. At the same time, the maturity composition of Algeria's debt is
expected to improve with longer maturities and grace periods for new debt
contracted after 1989. Over the period 1989-95 as a whole, Algeria's external
financing requirements will average US$5.0 billion per year. Prospects for
such capital flows appear encouraging particularly after the approval, in May
1989, of the IMF Standby and CFF for approximately US$600 million. The
Government's financing strategy emphasizes, in particular: increased exposure
of multilateral institutions, which only hold 6% of the debt; increased bond
issues (only 14% of total MLT debt in 1988 is in the form of bonds); and
rolling-over existing short-term debt into longer maturities using financial
market instruments. The projections in this report are conservative in that
they assume no change in the maturity composition of MLT debt despite active
attempts to promote this policy. Typically, however, bonds and bilateral
loans, to which Algerian debt strategy is increasingly being geared, have
longer maturities than suppliers' credits. It is, therefore, likely that
Algeria will be able to reduce the percentage of its stock of MLT debt that is
repayable from its current level of 502.
(9S22 )



- 42 -
135.      Over the period to 1995, Algeria's creditworthiness indicators will
improve. The stock of total external debt is expected to decline from US$23.2
billion in 1991 to US$20.8 billion in 1995, through a decline in the
short-term component. The total debt to export ratio would drop from its
present 1989 level of 2322 to 111% in 1995. Finally, as noted, the maturity
of total debt is likely to be extended. These figures should send a signal to
financial markets that the present need for external finance is a liquidity
crisis rather than a long-term solvency problem. Nevertheless, it is
important to emphasize that the availability of substantial external capital
inflows in the early two years will be critical in supporting economic
recovery and progress in reforms. Given that reserves are low and that the
Government is determined to avoid formal rescheduling, any shortfall from
target disbursements would have to be compensated for by import compression.
This would pose a real risk to the success of the economic recovery underway.
Table 3: EXTERNAL FINANCIAL REQUIREMENT 1988-1997
(US$ M)
Current Account Salsice
(* a deficit)                      -142    76      45      196   .385   -619   -931   -1212   -1482
Principal Repe)iemt                   3513   4271   4429   3867   461S   5533   6421    5883    5624
Change in Reserve
(- ra zetin)                        .280   -760    200    213    200    300    400        600     800
TOTAL FINUING RE@UIRENENT             3091   427    5104   4277   4430   5214   5890    5271    4942
Capital Inflows (Noew & Old as of Dec 1988)  2791   4291   5126   4881   4625   5426   6122    58W  6037
............................................................_
Loan Dlsursemnts                    4173   46S9   5126   4811   4555   5356   6052    5813    5967
- Bilateral Loens                  161    186    223    33S    488    571    594        614      642
- fultilateral LOa                149    294   1243    605    629    723    665         619      656
o/w i) Vortd Sank               129    170    499    562   54    589    491         414      424
olW (fl) tNF                     0       0    S84       0      0       0      0        0       0
- Other Lowns                     3863   4179    360    3871   3438   4061   4792    4580    4670
0/1 (1) Sppliers' Credits     1967   2924   3020   3224   2738   3211   3792    3480    3470
o/w (Ii) Fin. Markets & Bonds  1896   1256    640    647    700    850   1000    1100    1200
D1rect Foreign ln stmt                0       0      0      70     70      70      70      70      70
other CAPIEI                       -1382   -368      0       0      0       0      0        0       0
Net Short Tem Ftlows                   300    -20    -23   -604   f195   -212   .232    -612   -1096
....................
Total External Finaming               3091   4271   5104   4277   4430   5214   5890    5271    4942
mam* items:
Total External Debt ( Millions USS)  22784  22195  23131  23471  23221  222   2230   21568   20816
o/u1  LT-000                       19142  18573  19533  20476  20421   20243   19873   19824   20167
Uorld Bank Exposure (Z)                4.8    4.8    6.5    8.3   10.2   12.4   13.9    14.6    14.9
(BWDD/DaMLT)
0619/89
( SS2E)



- 43 -
Sensitivity Analysis of the Medium-Term Outlook
136.     The preceding discussion demonstrates that Algeria's medium-term
creditworthiness prospects are sound on the basis of the most plausible set of
assumptions that can be made about both internal and external variables.
However, it is important to recognize that the future evolution of these
variables is subject to considerable uncertainty and that the actual path that
the Algerian economy will follow over the medium-term will be affected by that
uncertainty. Consequently, the following paragraphs attempt to identify the
major sources of this uncertainty and to trace their likely impact on the
country's medium-term prospects. Three principal sources of external
uncertainty can be identified. The first relates to the future evolution of
hydrocarbon prices; the second to the movement of international interest
rates; and the third to the degree of success in bringing on stream the
additional infrastructure required to increase gas exports beyond the
currently unutilized capacity. The impact of these alternative scenarios on
the country's future current account situation is also shown in the figures
included in Chart 2.
137.     The analysis shows that of the three variables, it is the future
evolution of hydrocarbon prices that has the greatest impact on the balance of
payments. A US$1 per barrel lower reference oil price in every year of the
period would result in a decline of about US$400 million per annum in the
current account surplus (Figure 1 of Chart 2). Alternatively stated, if the
Government were to maintain its current account objectives in the face of this
lower oil price, it would have to reduce its cumulative 1989-95 imports by
about 3.5% from the base scenario for every sustained fall of US$1 per barrel
in the international price of oil.
138.     A second source of uncertainty relates to the pace at which
additional gas export capacity can be brought on stream. In particular, it is
possible that the 15% increase in gas exports projected to come about through
pipeline expansion in 1993 may require more time to materialize. The
sensitivity analysis shown in Figure 2 of the attached chart demonstrates that
a one year delay in completing this project would cause a worsening of the
current account by about US$600 million in that year, but that the current
account would still remain in substantial surplus. Again, if the Government
chose to compress imports so as to maintain the current account objectives of
this base case, the implied reduction in cumulative 1989-95 imports would be
small (2% of the volume projected under the base case).
139.     Interest rate variability is a third factor of risk, somewhat less
important than the others. On the basis of the share of variable interest
rate loans both in the pipeline of 1988 and in the projected external
financing plan - about 50% - sensitivity tests indicate that a 1% increase
in interest rates would result in a decline of about US$150-200 million per
annum in the current account surplus (Figure 3 of Chart 2). The cumulative
effect of all three events (a one dollar fall in oil prices, no growth in gas
exports in 1993, and a 1% higher interest rate) was also tested. The
adjustment in the level of imports woule' still be manageable. Rather than
growing at 102 p.a. in current dollars over the period 1989-95, import growth
would have to be reduced to 8.71 p.a.
(9522K)



- 44
Chart 2:  MEDIUM-TERM SCENRIOS, 1989-1995
(Current Account of the Balance of Payments)
SCMAXIO Al Oil Ptricc Oecliwe U1$1/bbi.
100_
-8~:   100 ......   _  
goo -
-600
-1000
69          90          91          92          93          94           to
- C/A be"e es    + CIA ela_ oll osk.
N~LOS1600
DOLLARS         su~x  :Itrs   e.a  pi
SCtIO 9:I*  Crowt in 11 Gas b:pots in 19S
13000_....._....___= f..._
cnouR 2      0 j                                                 .
-1000                           I                       ,            I
s0          90           01         92          93          94           95
-   C/A base, ea"         -                         CA hCgAedId see  aox
'DOLUARS         WSCRO C: Interetst Rates Go Up ISt
00     _    .. ........... ...... _ . .__. _   
rtcus 3     0    _ _ -/
^         ~~-1000                          ||.. .| .                            "    _ 
89          90          91          92          9|3          94          96
- CIA b"  eo 040                                  CIA higher Int rte



- 45 -
140.     The above analysis shows that Algeria's medium-term macroeconomic and
creditworthiness outlook remains favorable given marginal adjustments to the
main exogenous variables around their base case. However, these variables,
and particularly the future evolution of oil prices, are notoriously difficult
to predict. Although the base case assumes a relatively conservative path for
future oil prices--roughly constant in real terms through the mid-1990s--a
more unfavorable scenario cannot be ruled out. Given Algeria's heavy
dependence on hydrocarbon exports, a sharp and sustained fall in oil prices
to, say, US$10 per barrel would have a major negative impact. In such an
event, it is highly likely that Algeria would be forced to enter into formal
debt rescheduling. This would complicate the whole reform process and, no
doubt, would pose difficult political challenges for a leadership that remains
vulnerable to criticisms from the extreme right and left regarding foreign
influence on national policies. Moreover, while formal rescheduling involving
the Paris Club could provide important short-term financial relief, it would
lengthen the period of adjustment and reduce the chances of normal access to
International financial markets in the mid-1990s. Such a low oil price
scenario would not, however, mean that the urgency of the reforms would be
lessened; simply that their realization would pose an even greater challenge
to Algeria's policymakers. The importance of Bank support for these reforms
and for helping Algeria in managing its external debt problem would become
even more acute under these circumstances, although the pace of adjustment
would have to be accelerated and further reductions in domestic absorption
would have to be accepted.
141.     An alternative scenario of significantly higher oil prices also
cannot be ruled out. It would of course strengthen Algeria's balance of
payments and would probably allow immediate access to commercial lending. The
question thus would be whether the political will to implement the reforms
would falter. If it did, the Bank would discontinue adjustment lending and
confine its role to projects with clear economic benefits that improve
efficiency at the micro-level. If, on the other hand, a higher oil price
remains combined with the implementation of the reforms, the Bank would
continue its effort to support the reform program which would then lead to
even greater immediate benefits.
PART m - LOAN ADMINISTRATION
Release of Funds and Tranching
142.     The proceeds of the loan would be made available in two tranches,
each of US$150 million. The first tranche would be released upon loan
effectiveness. The Government has demonstrated its strong commitment to the
objectives of the reform program by taking key actions in recent months as
described in this report and summarized in column III of the matrix attached
to the Government's Development Policy Letter (Annex II). Release of the
second tranche, expected to be in mid-1990, would be preceded by a
comprehensive review of the progress made in the implementation of the reform
program by that date, and of the macroeconomic targets established for 1990 on
the basis of the evolution of the economy during 1989. The review will be
conducted in close cooperation and consultation with the IMF and will focus
particularly on Government policy targets and objectives in the following
areas: the exchange rate, budgetary expenditures and financing, credit
expansion, and interest rates. In this context, the two key items to be
reviewed will be the 1990 Loi de Finances and the associated Annual Credit
Plan which will set targets for the main macroeconomic parameters during that
( SS22E)



- 46 -
year. This will be supplemented by a revised assessment of the country's
medium-term macroeconomic and creditworthiness outlook to the extent that this
is required by unforeseen developments on the domestic or external fronts.
143.     Assuming that the outcome of this overall review is satisfactory, the
second tranche would be made available once the specific conditions spelled in
Annex III have been met.
Coordination with Other Agencies
144.     Algeria reached its first Standby Arrangement with the IMF on May 31,
1989, authorizing purchases of SDR 155.7 million. On the same date, the IMF
Board also approved a second request for SDR 315.2 million of financing under
the Compensatory Financing Facility. The proposed loan has been formulated in
close collaboration with the IMF. The base data and analysis used in the
preparation of the IMF Standby benefitted from work of Bank missions which
visited Algeria in 1988 and 1989. In turn, the medium- and long-term economic
framework discussed earlier in this report benefited from analyses undertaken
by the IMF as part of their analytical work underpinning the Standby.
Implementation Risks and Justification
145.     Program risks are of two kinds, internal and external.  As a result
of internal factors, the process of adjustment may take longer and prove more
difficult than envisaged. This could accentuate the social and political
risks associated with the reform process ultimately reversing or halting the
reform momentum. These risks could arise if reforms have to be implemented in
an overly austere environment should the Government have to cut back imports
and consumption further. It could also happen should the reforms trigger
uncontrolled inflation or too sharp a drop in the real wage, particularly if
it does not appear that the reform process is bringing associated
benefits--growth, increased capacity utilization, a revitalized agricultural
sector, increased employment and the prospects of a brighter future. Given
the tension that caused the October 1988 riots, the Government will need to
steer a careful and narrow path between social and economic expectations on
the one hand and the management of the decentralization inherent in the reform
process on the other.
146.     A second internal risk relates to the ability of the Government to
bring about the adjustment of relative prices necessary to ensure a more
efficient allocation of resources. Failure to put through the needed
adjustment in prices or adjustment at too slow a rate would undermine the
reform process. Expectations of price adjustments would become built into
wage negotiations. Under such a scenario, price distortions would persist and
it would be difficult to eliminate disequilibria in goods, labor, foreign
exchange and financial markets. Third, is the risk that institutional change
may be harder to achieve than expected and that managers in newly-autonomous
enterprises seek ways to avoid assuming responsibility. In the same vein, the
Government, and the Treasury in particular, may be reluctant to let go the
reins and to break the links between themselves and the newly-autonomous banks
and enterprises. There is also the risk that the bureaucracy, which in the
past allocated foreign exchange for each and every enterprise, may try to
undermine the newly-instituted "budget-devises" system and thereby to retain
its powerful allocative role.
(SS2ZE)



- 47 -
147.     Fortunately, a number of factors limit the extent of risks.  First,
the Government has demonstrated strong ownership of, and commitment to the
reforms as shown by the magnitude of the reforms already undertaken. It is
difficult to envisage a situation in which the present Government can back off
from the course on which it has embarked. Second, close cooperation of the
Fund and Bank should help in resolving difficulties with implementation of the
reforms and the macroeconomic management of the economy. Through this loan,
as well as under the proposed parallel Technical Assistance project, the Bank
will be in a position to continue its close dialogue with the Government
while, at the same time, monitoring performance and the continued political
commitment of the Government to see througb the different phases of reform
implementation. Third, the public are well aware that official prices have
become increasingly distorted and they have had to turn to the parallel market
to purchase goods. Official price increases are unlikely, therefore, to
derail the reform program provided that goods are available at the higher
prices. It is for this reason that it is critical that the Government allows
imports to grow substantially over the coming years. At the same time, the
Government is preparing to better target its subsidy programs to the more
vulnerable groups of society. Fourth, the strengthening of the Central Bank,
the tightness of monetary policy implied in the 1989 NCP, and the strong
emphasis on financial discipline should limit the risk of excessive monetary
accommodation.
148.     The second kind of risk stems from the possibility of an exogenous
shock, for example, a major fall in the price of oil and other hydrocarbons,
or a significant increase in the interest rate chargeable on external debt.
The impact of these adverse developments on the country's external balance and
creditworthiness has been analyzed in paras. 136-141. As that sensitivity
analysis demonstrates, Algeria's medium-term outlook remains favorable, even
allowing for some worse than expected conditions of these exogenous factors.
Thus, on this count too, the risks associated with the proposed loan are well
within manageable limits. Moreover, success in reestablishing long-term ties
with gas importers should reduce the vulnerability of Government revenues to
an unexpected softness in oil markets. In the medium term, it is the reform
program itself that should reduce the volatility of Government revenues and
the current account, as non-traditional exports start to increase.
Procurement and Disbursements
149.     The Government will act as Borrower and will assume the foreign
exchange risk obligation. The Ministry of Finance will be responsible for all
policy-related aspects of the proposed loan while the Algerian Development
Bank (BAD) will be responsible for loan administration, that is, for
procurement, disbursements and the loan account. Proceeds of the loan would
be used to finance the full foreign exchange costs (c.i.f.) of eligible
imports, procured after ICB or other procedures in accordance with Bank
guidelines. Ineligible items would be tho-.e financed from other bilateral or
multilateral sources, goods intended for military or paramilitary use, and
luxury items. Procurement of commodities such as petroleum products and
foodstuffs would be limited to an aggregate of US$60 million; commodities
would be procured under procedures acceptable to the Bank. Both public and
private sector imports would be eligible for financing.   Public and private
sector contracts below US$5 million will be awarded in accordance with
procurement procedures acceptable to the Bank. Contracts for all other goods,
public and private, will be procured through international competitive bidding
in accordance with Bank guidelines.
( S2 2E)



- 48 -
150.     The BAD will be responsible for the preparation and submission of all
withdrawal requests. Disbursements would be made against fully-documented
withdrawal applications, except for those contracts valued below US$2.0
million, which would be made on the basis of Statements of Expenditures
(SOEs). All contracts awarded according to ICB procedures would be sent to
the Bank for ex-post review. Withdrawal applications for contracts below US$5
million and above US$2 million, as well as all commodity purchase
applications, would be forwarded to the Bank for ex-post review with the
following supporting documentation: evidence of bid invitation, record of bid
opening, bid evaluation report, and the signed contract/purchase order.
Supporting documentation for SOEs would be retained by the BAD for review by
supervision missions until at least one year after the loan closing date.
Withdrawal applications would be consolidated and submitted in amounts of not
less than US$1 million. Contracts valued at less than US$60,000 would not be
eligible for financing. In light of the fact that the Government has taken
upfront action on many elements of the adjustment program, and given the
urgent need for imports to revitalize the economy, it is recommended that the
Bank retroactively finance, up to a maximum of US$60 million, eligible items
procured in accordance with Bank Guidelines in respect of which payment is
made after May 15, 1989.
Accounts and Audits
151.     The BAD would be responsible for the maintenance of all loan accounts
and records of all transactions under the loan in accordance with sound
accounting practices. All accounts would be audited within nine months after
the end of the Borrower's fiscal year by independent auditors acceptable to
the Bank. Certified copies of the audit would be submitted to the Bank and
would include a separate opinion with regard to claims submitted to the Bank
on the basis of Statements of Expenditure (SOEs).
PART IV - COUNTRY STRATEGY AND BANK OPERATIONS
The Context of Bank Assistance: Policy Agenda and Issues
152.     The Government's macroeconomic objectives are to achieve a sustained
growth rate of about 5.0% p.a. accompanied by a modest but steady increase in
per capita consumption, as well as progressive improvements in employment and
external creditworthiness indicators, most notably the ratio of external debt
to exports. To this end, the major thrust of Algeria's development strategy
is to: promote and diversify energy and non-traditional exports; increase
productivity of the existing industrial base to meet domestic and export
demand at lower cost and thereby to bring down the currently high ICORs; and
to diversify and improve the terms of external financing to strengthen
external liability management and reduce the debt burden in the medium term.
153.     To achieve this, the Government's policy agenda is to decentralize
the economy and place greater reliance on the price mechanism in the
allocation of scarce resources in all markets. The Government plans to move
the economy from one that is centrally planned, with Government setting
production targets, making virtually all investment decisions, and
administering most prices, to one that responds to market signals. As noted
earlier, in breaking the direct link between the Treasury and productive units
(95 22E)



- 49 -
in the economy, the Government is relinquishing direct control of the
economy. A central feature of the reform process is, therefore, the
development of the instruments of macroeconomic management--tools that have,
urv'il now, been relatively undeveloped. These instruments include tax and
monetary policies, as well as measures to liberalize the allocation of foreign
exchange and external trade regimes. At the same time, the reform calls for
the strengthening of newly-autonomous institutions so that they can carry out
the roles now assigned to them--institutions such as the Central Bank that
will need to set and monitor credit ceilings for the financial sector. The
financial sector will be expected to play a role, independent of the Treasury,
in the allocation and mobilization of resources. Public enterprises are being
made autonomous of Government to reduce the heavy burden they impose on the
economy and to introduce incentives for management to improve their
performance, increase capital utilization, and reduce ICORs. The private
sector, including private agriculture, is to be encouraged. The incentive
structure, including prices and interest rates, is to be liberalized and
rationalized. In short, the reform program aims to reorient the economy to
one in which the Government's role is to provide the framework and broad
signals under which autonomous enterprises and the private sector should
operate.
154.     The central development issue is the management of the transition of
the economy. The transition involves many complex and difficult issues, not
least, how to achieve the behavioral changes that will be required, for
example, of enterprise managers. There are few concrete examples from other
countries to follow. Moreover, the transition process is made more difficult
in that it must balance rising consumer expectations at a time when the
external situation remains tight. These issues are discussed in detail in
paras. 109-119. For the short term, the Government plans to focus on the
details of the implementation of its pricing and trade liberalization policy,
strengthening the financial sector, restructuring the public enterprises and
the industrial subsector, developing the newly privatized agricultural sector,
introducing better criteria for the selection of investments, particularly for
infrastructure which is heavily import-intensive, and improving the management
of its external debt. In the longer run, it needs to resolve issues relating
to export diversification, a rapidly growing population with the concomitant
issue of employment that this implies, the need to make programs in the social
sector more effective, and finally the environment and natural resources
management. As noted in this report, the Government's reform program
addresses, or starts work on all these crucial issues. Provided the
Government stays the course on reform--and there is every reason to believe it
will--the fundamentals to sustain rapid growth look good; Algeria's
macroeconomic prospects are discussed in paras. 120-132.
External Financing
155.     As shown in paras. 133-135, Algeria faces a particularly tight
resource situation in the very short term as it attempts to cope with a
historical peak in debt service payments while ensuring the supply of inputs
needed to revitalize the economy. This situation is expected to ease in the
early 1990s, mainly as a result of an improved current account brought about
through higher natural gas and other exports. Nevertheless, Algeria's
external financing requirements remain high over the medium term, averaging
about US$5.0 billion per year in the 1990-95 period.
( 9522E)



- 50 -
156.     The Government strategy is to mobilize the required financing without
resorting to formal debt rescheduling. This should be feasible unless there
is a substantial and unforeseen downward movement in international oil
prices. The Government also intends to improve the structure of Algeria's
external debt by substituting longer maturity obligations for the currently
very high level of short-term debt. Thus the decline iU short-term debt is
expected to account for almost all of the projected decline of US$2.6 billion
in total debt between 1990 and 1995. To achieve these objecti-es, the
Government will need to rely increasingly on: multilateral institutions;
increased bond issues; and the use of more innovative financial market
instruments to lengthen maturities in markets where traditional medium-term
lending is not promising and to reduce exposure to oil price fluctuations.
Under this scenario, the Bank would provide US$3 billion or about 102 of the
anticipated requirements over the 1990-95 period. This, of course, assumes
that the economic reform program outlined in this report continues to be
satisfactorily implemented, that the macroeconomic and creditworthiness
indicators remain favorable, and that individual project conditionalities and
disbursement mechanisms are in place. This level of lending represents a
substantial increase over previous levels of Bank support to Algeria.
However, it should be noted that the Bank's net disbursements decline sharply
after 1992 and that the Bank's exposure remains below 152 of outstanding MLT
debt throughout this period.
Bank Strategy
157.     The Bank's proposed strategy for Algeria stresses first and foremost
strong support for the objectives of reform as summarized in paras. 152 and
153, that is, decentralization and progressive movement toward a market
economy. In practical terms, Bank support will focus on helping Government:
rationalize the incentive structure including the allocation of foreign
exchange and access to imports, establish autonomy for financial and
non-financial institutions, increase the efficiency of the financial sector to
play a greater role in the mobilization and allocation of resources, raise
productivity through industrial restructuring and rationalization, improve the
efficiency of resource allocation in public investment, enhance the role of
the private sector including in agriculture, promote non-traditional exports
and the mobilization of workers' remittances, better manage the environment,
formulate and implement an improved debt management strategy, and improve the
demographic and social planning apparatus. To this end, Bank support will
give high priority to the strengthening of institutions responsible for the
formulation and implementation of policy.
158.     Specifically, the Bank's strategy anticipates the intensification of
our policy dialogue on economic adjustment and on the development of a program
of reform for the major sectors of the economy. This will be supported by an
expansion of the ESW program to help design and monitor policies and
performance. Bank support will help the Government in the planning and
detailed implementation of its reform program by, amongst other things,
bringing in experiences from other countries. This will take the form of
technical assistance from Bank staff and consultants financed in the context
of a proposed Technical Assistance Project that was appraised in July 1989
(para. 165). Second, the Bank's strategy anticipates a buildup in adjustment
lending complemented by a number of sector adjustment operations, for example,
in the financial sector, reform of public enterprises, and the agricultural
( 9S22E )



- 51 -
and transport sectors.   Annual commitment levels are expected to rise to
about US$600-800 million in the early 1990s to reflect these developments. It
is also expected that the direct involvement of the Bank will facilitate the
mobilization of additional long-term financing through the expansion of
cofinancing by bilateral and multilateral agencies. And third, it calls for
an increase in project lending as detailed below.
Sectoral Composition of Lending
159.     In the early 1980s, high oil export earnings, combined with easy
access to commercial credit, meant that Algeria had little need to borrow from
the Bank. The Bank's lending program to Algeria started to pick up around
1984 with the focus on infrastructure projects mainly in water supply and
sewerage, and in telecommunications. Since 1987, the Bank's portfolio has
increased in size and diversity. Eleven new projects were approved between
FY87 and FY89 totalling about US$1.2 billion, plus US$200 million for a
commercial cofinancing operation approved in FY88. In addition, three
projects were cofinanced during this period with the Japanese ExIm Bank for
US$250 million and one with the European Investment Bank for about US$60
million. As of June 30, 1989, cumulative commitments to Algeria were US$2,598
million (less cancellations) of which US$487 million have been repaid;
US$1,225 million have been disbursed or are outstanding.
160.     Overall, project implementation experience in recent years has been
mixed. During the early eighties, the most common causes of low disbursement
and implementation rates were related to procurement and to delays in critical
policy decisions. Later, additional efforts toward improving project design,
supervision, and monitoring have considerably improved project performance.
Recent progress on ongoing projects has been satisfactory and disbursements
rates have again reached regional averages.
161.     In agriculture, past lending has been to irrigation (including a
project to improve irrigation planning and one to complete an existing
irrigation scheme) as well as a credit program which aims to strengthen the
agriculture bank so that it is in a position to lend to the newly created
groups of private farmers. An emergency project was also appraised and
approved in FY89 for the control of locusts. In the future, increasing
attention will be given to agricultural support services at the national level
to support the newly-privatized farms, especially research and extension, and
a project aimed at strengthening the private network of distribution of
agricultural inputs. Additional projects are under preparation in forestry,
irrigation, and a follow-up agricultural credit project.
162.     Early Bank lending for infrastructure and utilities helped build up
the highway, railway and port systems and improve water production and
distribution facilities. At the same time, it helped to lay the institutional
and financial base for improved organization and management of the sectors
concerned. Emphasis has shifted to rehabilitation and maintenance together
with selected new, high priority projects; improved cost recovery is receiving
special attention. Future lending will continue to emphasize water supply and
sewerage projects--the largest sector receiving Bank support and one that is
crucial given Algeria's rapidly growing urban population. Moreover,
responding to recent decentralization policies, a project is also being
prepared to improve local government's managerial and developmental
capabilities.
( 9S22E)



- 52 -
163.     As in most other areas, past projects in the energy and industry
sectors have focussed on infrastructure (power and telecommunications) with
the emphasis now shifting to institutional development and financial
rehabilitation to ensure that concerned entities are established on a sound
commercial basis. A technical assistance project to help SONATRACH in
secondary recovery measures and in the latest field development techniques is
under consideration; this project is designed to encourage private sector
participation. Also under preparation is a pilot industrial efficiency
project to help find solutions to the systemic issues that will arise as the
industrial sector is reformed. Given its economic importance and the
emergence in it of a dynamic private sector, a project is currently under
preparation to provide financial and institutional support to the construction
industry, part of which is privately owned. Subsequent projects, probably in
the cement, fertilizer anid engineering subsectors, will aim at putting into
place subsectoral industrial restructuring programs. Future lending, either
project or adjustment, will also aim at improving the efficiency of financial
intermediation and will help to expand the availability of credit for
export-oriented and small-scale industries.
164.     In human resource development, the emphasis of Bank strategy is on
providing assistance to the Government in: (a) developing and implementing a
pragmatic population strategy; (b) improving the cost-effective provision of
social services; and (c) defining means to better target subsidies and social
programs to reach vulnerable population groups. So far, Bank lending has
concentrated on the reform and development of technical education and
sector-specific vocational and professional training. A vocational training
project that will consolidate the network of existing training facilities,
improve the quality of programs and strengthen the management of the system,
was recently signed. Future lending will continue to promote efficiency of
human capital investment, most immediately through a project in tho higher
education sector that is currently under preparation. A health project, also
under preparation, will strengthen planning and management of the health
system. Preparation of a family planning and population policy support
action, either as an element of the proposed health project or as a
free-standing operation, has also begun. It is probable that environmental
issues will be dealt with through traditional investment projects, as was the
case in the recent Mitidja Irrigation Project. Where desirable, however,
consideration will be given to free-standing projects to tackle such issues as
toxic waste; a decision on this will be made following discussions with the
Government on the Bank report on the environment (para 104).
165.     Given the magnitude of the institutional building task facing the
Government in the context of its economic reform program, technical assistance
for institutional development is being given special emphasis in the Bank's
ongoing and proposed operational work. Apart from the technical assistance
components included in the various investment projects, the Bank has received
a request from the Government to finance a Technical Assistance project that
would support the proposed Economic Reform Support Loan. The project would
assist the Central Bank and the financial sector in developing the technical
and managerial skills commensurate with their newly-enhanced role. It would
assist with the development of accounting and auditing standards and
capabilities in the country. It may also provide assistance to: strengthen
the Ministry of Finance's administrative and implementation capacity through
training, computerization and the improvement of existing systems and
procedures, particularly in the area of tax collection; implement the proposed
( 9S22E)



- 53 -
price reform; undertake sectoral and subsectoral studies to help the
Government implement its industrial restructuring policy; develop specific
measures to be taken in the social aspects of reform; and carry out or extend
studies in the agricultural sector, namely in prices and incentives. This
Technical Assistance project is scheduled for presentation to the Board this
fiscal year.
PART V: RECOMMENDATION
166.     I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank and recommend that the Executive Directors approve
the proposed loan.
Barber B. Conable
President
Attachments
August 1, 1989
Washington, D.C.
(s 2 2E)



- 54 -
1988 SOCIAL INDICATOR DATA SHEET
ALGERIA
Reference Groups (WRI)
most
Recent     Upper mid    Industrial
1965       1975    Estimat*      neorme       nt Gcon.
ARn
Total land *rea (thou sq km)  2.301.t    2.381.7    2.361.7
agrecultural (% of total)        1.5        18.4        16.6
GIP Pil CAPITA (current US$)         260        Sa0       2.760      2.510      14.560
POPULATION AND VITAL STaTtSTICS
Total population (thou)         11.923     tS.018     23.060
urbon pop. ( of total)              35         40          43         64          77
Population growth rat*(%):
Total                                       3.0         3.1        2.0        0.6
Urban                                       4.5         3.6        3.2         0.6
Life expect. at birth (yrs)         50         s5          62         67          76
Population projections:
Pop. in 2000 (thou)                                 33.368
Stationary pop. (thou)                              80.636
Population density per sq km
of agricultural land                27         37          54        775         526
Pop. age structure (%):
014 yrs                          47         46          47         36          21
5-64 yr5                        50          48         49          99         67
6l and above                       3          4           3          f          12
Crude birth rato (par thou)         so         46          40         27          13
Crude deth rato (per thOU)          16         14           9          6           8
Total fertility rate               7.4        7.3         6.1        3.5         1.6
Infant Mort. rate (per thOU)       154        120         67          43          I'
Child death rato (Per thOu)         34         25           6          5           0
family planning:
AcCoptors, annual (thou)
users (% of married women)                    7
P Ow  HELTH AND NUTRITION
Index of foOd production per
Capita (1979-81 * 100)             122        124         102        101         106
Por caita supply of:
Calories (per day)             1.682      2.198       2.799      2.964       3.316
Proteins (grams per day)          46         57          72         76          91
Pop. per physician (thou)          6.6          ..        1.2        1.3         0.6
Pop. per nurse (thou)             11.                     0.3        0.9         0.2
Pop. per hospita; bed (thou)                              0.4          .0.1
Access to ste water
(% of population):  Total                    77          77
Urban                   100        100
Rural                   61          70
Population Growth         .  Infont Mortality        Primary School Enrollment
2.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i
4Fi  200                                                 I$    -
 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 0 tNttt-                              te               |
ALOCRIA 8bogrtt                               *  !
qZnaNST per                                   8   E"19 A9 -    Q 4



- 55 -
1988 SOCIAL INDICATOR DATA SHEET
ALGERIA
Reference Groups (MRE)
Most
Recent     Upper mid    Industrial
1961       1175    Estimate     income       mkt ec-n.
Total Labor Force (thou)        2.906      3.456       5.032
Female (%)                        5          7           9         30         38
Agriculture ()                   57         39          31         30          7
Industry (%)                     lt         24          27         30         35
Participation rate (X)
Total                            24         22          22         37         47
Male                             46         41          41         51         59
Female                            2           3          4         23         35
Age dependency (%)              101.0       110.0      102.3       71.8       49.4
HOUSING
Average sitze of household:
Total                             6
Urban                             6
Rural                             6
Percentage of dwellings with
electricity:
Total                            34
Urban                             ..
Rural                            12
EDUCATION
Enrollment rates:
Primary: Total                   68         93          92        105         101
Male                    Si         109        104        108         101
Female                  53         75          83        102        101
Secondary: Total                  7         20          51         57         93
Male                  10         26          59         57         91
Female                 5          14         43         56         93
Pupil-Teacher ratio:
Primary                          43         41          28         25          19
Secondary                        Is          26         22          18         15
Pupils reaching grade   (X)                    74         92         65          99
INCOE. CONSUMPTION. AND POVERTY
Energy consumption per cap.
(kg of oil equivalent)            226        356       1.143      1.313
Percentage of private Ine
received by:
Highest 10% of households
Highest 20%
Lowest 20%
Lowest 40%
Est. absolute poverty income
level (USS per capita):
Urban
Rural
Est. pop. below absolute
poverty income level (%)
Urban                                        20
Rural
Passenger cars/thou pop.          6.3        1t, 9.                           364.9
Newspaper circulation
(per thousand population)        14.3        17.8       21.3      106.2      315.6
IECSE August 1988
AMt available. 1 tw_ ost mist stmts bofiie_to" aind O  w ecaota at tot 1967 unleSs otheisewe noted
Otoup avetaS am pepuitie weiba. cot" sovoa de d o data ellebiliY en Is ntA un feam Unless othewrwie noted.
15 refers; to a VWt bete I    ad Vliil; 19o bet lween _d I1P1 ad1l most reent esvmat, between 1980 and 1985.



ALGERIA
KEY MACROECONOMIC INDICATORS
-- Actual  --                                            -- Projection --
1990     191I    1992    1993    1994       1        19         7     1999        1999    1990    ISI    1M         199      199      IM99
- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- - -- -- - - -- - -- - - - - - - - - -- - -- - - - - _- - ---------------_--_---*----_---_---_---_
SOP grwth rates                     0.9S     3.6?    4.01    5.42      4.11    5.21      1.02    -t.lt   -1.92        4.52     4.n    s5.        5.2      5.n?    5.12     5.1
9DY growth rates                   14.22    9.3%    2.5?    4.0?    3.7?    5.82  -13.22          1.0?    -5.91       4.6?     4.6?     5.12    5.01    5.2t    5.22         .n3
WIPt Cap.growth rates              -1.7?     0.62     0.91     2.3?    0.61    2.22    -1.92    -3.9?   -5.32         0.91    0.61    2.62       2.61    2.n       2.5?    2.5?
Coasueption/per Cap.grmwth rate     9.6?   10.4?   -0.12       1.S?    0.42     3.62   -6.Ot   -9.82    -7.2           1.9?    1.31    2.0?    2.12       2.22     2.9?    1.0!
OLT DOD Intl. INF                 16Ut    15307    13932    124S    12059    13371    16057   29143   IC954          19533   20476   204       20243   19973    19924   20167
SOwrt Tore Debt                    2325    2307    2751       19Y7     1759    102    3152    3641    3621           359      29       200    259        23       1744     6"
Total Dkbtllcl.ST tlFt)           186    17614   1663    14902   13917   15233   19209   22734    22195             23132   23471   23221   22331    22229   2158    20315
ILT  O fiectl.INF) n6s 11         110.32   93.22    93.?   92.3?   96.61   ".9   174.91,  197.3   211.?              i959    Io9.n   u.n   i45.1    10.02   119t.91   II.I
Shirt term  01199                  15.72n   14.9    19.52   14.02   12.6t   13.2%   34.31   35.62    41.31           36.nI    2.42    22.21   19.5?    15.4    10.5         3.62
Total Dmi[s                       125.91   113.02   112.02   106.3?   9.32   IOL.    209.32  223.0   25.1?         231.91  207.22   13.9   163.62   1LU         129.31  114.61
OLT Odt SUrvice(Imcl IF)    3Q 38   30                        442    422    47           44   492    5763            54t2     5W02    6176    7127 ?51    759             742
ebt service liedc  MF)ItS          26.02    24.62   28.62    31.9?    33.22   32.5?   50.6    47.2   6t5.72          59.6     4.42              51.1t    52.2n      st    o.
rm  levmstmt W                     39.1    37.02    3.3    37.6    364         339      32.4    3o.       30.7n      3031   30.0    29.1   30.02    30.02    29.3    29.02
6rs  ometic 9vgIW                  43.1     4.n    39.2?   39.n    39.1         7.32    29.0t   n3.       31.6       32.32    33       3.0t    34.32      4.n 7   3.849   34.3
atltioal  aigl                      0.U    39.5    36.92   37.6I   36.51    35.52    27.         30.4    29.02        29.31   29.52    30.92   31.6    32.31    2.42   32.
NIrgimel Nat. avimp Rte             7.4      0.4      0.1      0.6      0.3      0.4   -I.3    -4.2       2.0        0.42     05 0I.U           0.52     0.St    0.L4      0.3
Centrd 69*t lovestment/W             .Ot   12.02    1.n    19.4t    17.21t is.7    14.42          2.42     3          12.n    22.52n   12.3t   12.42    12.       12.2t   22.41
Cemtrd 9mW  ValmsiUP               20.71   25.92      1.U     u.9      1.02    19.12    I0.02      .92    94?        12.5?    14.1     1U.      I.2    15 .72    15.9n     16 t0
tbher lstamt/6W                    28.12    25.02    21.02    19.12    19.21   18.22    17.81   27.9t    17.32        17.6    17.52t        17t   762    17.n    17.3      I.
Othwer Wia e"                      20.12    12.5t    I9.32    20.n    16.5t      6.4    17.9    22.5?    20.6         1. t2    4.n    14.92    1.t       16.2      6.5   t16.5
MtEl  17 wrs  erage)                6.3      7.1      7.4      .0      8.3      9.2    11.3    12.5    166           12.2    11.5    11.l    10.4         7.5      5.6     5.7
lovemt Reves/lP                    37.72    42.n    37.4?   36.22    39.       37.11t   32.e0        30.2  0         33.0t    34.92    35.9?    35.62   35.52    3.n    3L.
8mrmt  zpeditur P                  29.0t   29.92    36.0t   37.72    37.3   S3.s    36m.5?   33.7n    35.02          33.22   32.6 2 32.         32.22    32.1?    32.02   31.82
Deficit-I6P(dinars                  9.n      3.9      1.42   -1.52     0.9?     3.3    -4.5    -3.51   -5Ot          -0.22     2.3t    3.5?    3.4        3.4      3.n     4.02
16gp  growth Rat"s                -12.9?   -6.21    -0.22     6.22     5.62     3.12    1.02    5.4?    2.12          7.n2    L.42      6.31    4.02    5.2    5.31    5.0t
IWSS1W                             34.3?   34.6U    30.9?    28.02   26.02    24.12   14.32   14.92   15.32          19.51   26.31   32.32    34.12   35.91   37.4    3.12
WS browtth ates                     3.4    11.4I2     0.9?    6.22     2.6U   -0.5t  -16.42  -16.22    -5.91          5.7n     5.9      6.02    5.7?      5.42    5.32    5.3
11IS/tUP                           30.42   30.9n   29.0?   25.82   23.71   20.71   17.92   13.02   14.42              27.5?    23.0t   20.21   29.9    31.01   32.12   33.31
Current ceunt (DUP)Dollars        241.0    39.7  -193.1   -95.2    74.2  1024.2  -2229.9   141.2  -760.0             -475     -ISt      304      619      931    1212    102
Current kctoat/W                    0.62     0.22    -0.42    -0.22    0.12     1.8t   -3.62    0.22    -.42         -I.OZ   -0.5?      2.1?    I1n       2.42     3.0t    3.5?
Crude oil price (dollars)          35.1    39.6    34.0    30.9    29.0    27.5    13.9    18.6    16.0               17.2    17.9    18.5    19.2    19.9    20.7    21.5
Teres of Tradell91W001            100.0    97.4   101.9   111.7    ".8          0.3    46.5    62.8    4.9           50.5    50.5    50.5    50.3    50.7    51.3    52.0
1SS: tt9 t hicd indldes lark 's bittances-



ALGERIA - BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
(Millions of US Dollars)
199 Wr capita  1 in VS W2182.61
aid 199 Populatimaeil):23.9
e90    1991   1ns       13       a 1991     5    lt96     lw      19       1919      199" I"11         1992     1993      194      1995
Jpwrtg of hna  Ifs                  14132.4  14675.1  1444.4 13510.1 1347.2 1355.9  067.   9474.4  60.0   94.3  1441.2  11769.4  129.9  14244.0  2539.1  170)4I             7
IJhrchandise Ifob)                 13651.6 14117.0 13509.6 12742.4  12792.1  13040.3   0644  9031.3  7330.0    76.4A   9649.3  10934.0  12043.7  t12.2  14.4  1M11.2
2.Nm-Factr srvices                   461.0   59.2   634.8   767.4   U1.2   615.6   631.4   443.3  531.0    46.7    7.9    855.5    91L.2               7.6   10.2   1106.
L.lqwts of lWds A nh                1295.5 139.5  1276.6  1254U.0 12109.1 21424.2  10222.2   472.7  7720.0   6 .2  9W0.0   03L.   11342.0  1234.2  1362.1  145.7
I.rchandis  (fob)                   "%.I 10666.3  9996.7  9527.4  9240.7  122.2  739.4  66.!  42.0   744.9   8213.3   "39   970.7  106.1  11714.1  2246.9
2.lon-Factor Swlicus                3339.4  3503.2  37.9  3030.4  2946.4  230L3.   2332.6  1369.2  140.0   1644.5   1904.6   2016.2   2250.1   2496.3   2744.9   330.4
C.Le trc  balance                    1197.1  1263.7    W7.6   962.0  1231.2  2031.7 -252.5  1202.9   40.0    965.1   1321.2   1413.6   161t.9   1341.0   2146.4   2419.0
L.lt Factor Iatoe                   -1196.2  -I2.9 -1314.0 -1226.9 -1337.0 -1346.1 -1429.2 -1533.7 -160.0  -14990.3  -2154.3  -1390.7  -1171.2  -1031.0  -3II6.O  -167.5
I.Factor htuipts                     372.1   461.7   326.4  16.5   179.8   290.1   171.6   109.7    70.0        61.0      9.1      ".2    120.2    146.2    190.2    2442
2.Factor Paymts                     1570.3  IM.   1642.4  1411.4  1514.1  159.2  1400.0  1643.4  1910.0   2071.3   2256.9   1979.6   1991.4   1979.1   20.9   2113.7
Ilatuet Paymt  MRS)                  1394.1  1313.8  1371.1  I.2  1291.6  1295.   1432.1  1369.2  1492.1   1513.1   1734.7   1541.0   19.0  I260.0   1711.0   279.0
E.llt trermt 7raasfor                 242.9   299.3   243.1   177.7   153.1   330.4   723.7   473.0   440.0    550.5        39.3    73l.5    670.J    900.3      90.3     WJ0.
I.Curreat  eceipts                   440.4   490.5   446.4   346.9   31t.2   4783.   96.4   575.3   510.0    624.6    729.3    111.5    9J.7   215.3   010.3    nt.3
a._ps I Salarifs Credit              333.8   42.3   424.6   327.4   291.2   262.   310.1   436.0   340.0    624.6    729.3           tJ1.5    992.7    015.3   II0.3    990.3
b.Corrat Payts                       197.5   190.7   165.3   171.2   15.1   14.4   144.6   102.3    70.0         74.1      90.0    100.0    112.0    115.0    I.O    130.0
F.Corrmt kcmnt balace                 241.8    69.7  -103.1   -65.2    74.2  1014.2 -222.9   141.2  -740.0   -474.4   -194.4    36.5          1t9.4    931.2   1212.0   121.9
.Lq Toren Capital laflos              696.7     5.9  -955.4  -t67.9  -441.7   -34.1   364.0    20.4    70.0    697.3  I13.4          10.1   -107.4   -29.3       0.5    413.5
1.Dirct luvmstuut                     315.1    -1.4   -67.5   -t2.3   -13.6    -2.9    10.4   -11.3   -30.0        0.0     70.0      70.0     70.0     70.0     70.0      70.0
2.0ffiial Capital  rants               0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0       0.O
3.1vt IILT Lons                       m.7   114.4  -694.9  -164.9   -61.7   -6.4  1040.9   660.1   37.9            3.3    943.4    19.9    -31.4    -77.1       74.5      4.
a.ILT Disbuseemat 0M9)              3235.7  2639.9  2202.4  3055.1  3212.1  319.7  4257.4  413.0  45.5   4562.4   4610.4   4554.0   5335.4   6052.1   3113.4   5947.5
b.NLT  hmtizatioa I(S)              2460.0  2523.5  2397.3  3240.0  32.6  3256.1  3196.5  3512.3  4270.5   4429.1  3J67.2   4614.7   53S7.0   4129.2   5734    536.0
4.Utber LT inflos1*)intct.lR    disp.  -192.9  -109I.   -193.2  -470.7  -346.2    29.1  -707.5  -426.4  -.9        0.O       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0
5.1et Creit Fre IMF                    0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.     S4.0        0.       0.0   -244.0   -292.    -344.0       0.0
N.Total Other Iten Inet)            -2429.4  -243.6  2546.9  1327.5   701.4 -2160.4  3020.5   206.4  1450.0    -22.7   -603.5   -195.1   -212.0   -2.2   -612.0  -1095.6
l.ft howrt Tarse capital             57.0   -17.9   443.0  -794.0  -199.0   103.0  1290.0   300.0   -20.0    -22.7   -403.5   -95.1   -212.0   -232.2   -642.0  -1095.3 
2.Capite) Floe lIE                 -2420.6  -144.3  2207.3  1937.8  1107.7 -2407.2  1554.4   558.4  1510.0        0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0       0.       0.0
L.oer  nding sett. (aet)             135.0    19.3   -91.4  123.3  -209.3   143.    175.9  -750.0   -40.0         0.0      0.0       0.o      0.o      0.0      0.0       0.0 O
4.ErrorNhissloalet?                  -92.0   16.2   -90.1    75.6    36.1   162.5   325,4    10.0        0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0
I.Chap tn Ibt bserv                  1360.    -60.0 -1350.0  -450.0  -7o.0  1020.0 -1460.0  -260.0  -760.0   -206.0   -23.5   -200.0   -300.0  -400.0   -60.    -930.0



ALCERiA - BALANCE OP PAYMENTS
(Millions of US Dollars)
-- Actual --                                               Projections
190    1991    I9f2    193         1 199  2          1    997    16         19       190      1"1       912     19        114      I99
Foreig Eachaqe Rebsrvet
1.6dSd fline troy oswcesled Prl       5.6      5.6     5.6     5.6     5.       5.6     5.6     5.6      5.6      5.6       5.6      5.6      5.6       .         .6      5.6
2.6old price VK/Lonin.               589.5   397.5   456.9   391.5   308.3   327.0   390.9   464.1   437.5       30.0    330.0    N.0    NO.0    NO.0    NO.0    3JO.0
3.1nt l Reres, Sold                 3289.4  2218.1  2549.5  2129.9  1720.3  12.7  2191.2  270l.3  2449.9    160.0   1%9.0   160.0   m9o.o   190.0   1960.0   1t9.0
4.Total Resrves exl Sold            3773.0  3695.0  2422.0  1010.0  1464.0  2611.0  16O.0  1640.0   900.0    1200.0   1313.5   1513.5   1013.5   2213.5   291.S   3613.5
5.Total Reservn incl.Ssld           7062.4  5923.1  4971.5  400.9  3J14.3  4643.7  3141.2  4341.3  3349.9   3060.0   3273.5   34N73.5   3M.5   4073.5   4775   53.5
6.orts Rnervs in Ronths of laport      3.1     2.9     1.9      1.6     1.3     2.6     1.7      1.9     1.1       1.3      1.4      1.5      1.6       1.9      2.2      2.6
foreign enchaqe rate:
I.Real Eff. Es rates 1990            100.0   124.4   133.1   143.7   132.7   117.2    97.1   117.2    97.l
2.Noe Off I ratesCifs)               3.939   4.316   4.52   4.7M    4.983   5.028   4.702   4.903   5.915
00
Share of 60P(carr. dollarsl
Rorce 3alantee60P                       2.0     2.4     1.9     2.0      2.4     3.6    -2.5      1.9     1.2       2.0      3.3      4.1       4.3      4.7      5.3      5.6
Total Interest Payets/6JP              3.3      3.0     3.0     2.5     2.5      2.3     2.3     2.2      2.B       3.2      4.3      4.3      4.3       4.1      4.2      4.2
Cwrent kcount Balance/WlP              0.6      0.2    -0.4    -0.2     0.1      1.6    -3.6     0.2    -2.4       -2.0     -0.5      1.1       1.7      2.4      2.9      3.5
LT Capital lnfluo/SP                   2.1      0.0    -2.1    -1.1    -0.9    -0.1      0.6     0.0      0.1       1.5      2.5      0.0      -0.3    -0.8       0.0      1.0
let Credit From INF/6P                 0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0        1.2      0.0      0.0      -0.4     -0.7     -0.4      0.0
e.e:6I at Current Us9               42347.2 44364.5 45196.6 412.2 52243.1 57159.2 61355.9 6M3.6 5W4.7   47672.6  39t.0  3519.3  37503.3  32.4  4132.1  491.5
II



(Millions of Current US Dollars)
IM  per capita SWP in MS1:2182.0
iid-19B8 populationloill:23.9
1990    1993    1994    19S    ISB6    I"?    1999         1999     1990     l99       I2       1993     14       1t9
4.Dlsburseeont
I.Publict Publicly Suar.LT        3235.9  3054.9  3179.6  3179.9  4251.0  4173.t  463S.5    4542.4   4110.6   4554.6   5355.5   6052.1   5813.4   5967.5
Official Creditors                528.1   526.0   440.7   476.8   407.5   310.0   479.2    992.2    939.9   1116.4   1294.5   1259.0   1233.5   1297.5
kltilateral                        49.7    71.4   212.6   15B.2    49.5   1U.B   293.3    65.9    604.9    629.9    723.4    665.3    619.3    655.e
of which 19R9                     38.9    65.2    70.4   148.1   13B.5   128.7   169.7    499.4    561.9    543.6    5B.?    49.3    413.7    423.5
of which IDA                       0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
lilateral                         478.4   454.6   228.1   312.6   259.0   161.2   185.8    223.4    335.0    497.6    571l.    594.5    614.2    641.7
Private Creditors                2707.7  2529.9  2738.9  2703.1  3843.5  3863.1  4179.3   3660.2   3970.7   3439.2   4061.0   4792.3   457.9   4670.0
Suppliers                        912.1   740.5   829.9   468.3   78B.0  1966.7  2923.7   3020.5   3223.9   2739.2   3211.0   3792.3   3479.9   3470.0
Financial Markets               1995.6  178B.3  1909.1  2234.9  3055.5  I996.4  1255.6    639.7    646.9    700.0    950.0   1000.0   1100.0   1200.0
2.Private lon 6arat.                 0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
3.Total LT disbursmunets          3235.8  3054.9  3179.6  3179.9  4251.0  4173.1  4659.5   4542.4   4810.6   4554.6   5355.5   6052.1   5813.4   5967.5                                  1
4.1IF purchases                      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0    594.0       0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0                              V
S.let short tera capital            18.0  -794.0  -198.0   103.0  120.0   300.0   -20.0    -22.7   -603.5   -195.1   -212.0   -232.2   -612.0  -1095.9                                 0
6.Total incl.INF                  3253.9  2260.9  2SBI.6  3282.9  5541.0  4473.1  4638.5   5103.7   4207.1   4359.5   5143.5   5119.9   5201.4   4871.7
B.Net Flows
I.Public6 Publicly 6uar.LT         775.9  -1I5.1  -146.6  -114.7  1031.2   660.3   387.9    113.2    943.3    -59.6    -31.5    -77.1       76.4    343.5
Official Creditors                339.3   153.9   -57.6  -122.0  -200.0  -34.0  -258.5    94.9    291.2    503.5          7.5    455.1    435.1    490.0
Nlltilateral                        9.9    49.6   139.9    19.1    79.5    70.0   191.5   484.3    419.0    391.4    422.0    309.9    307.5    2.2
of which IBR1                     25.5    43.4    30.2   106.0    81.4    4$.9    59.1   392.5    423.5    379.5    426.3    261.3    130.9    109.6
of which IDA                       0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
Bilateral                         330.5   104.3  -197.5  -141.1  -279.5  -416.0  -440.0  -389.5   -129.6    112.1    155.5    145.2    128.2    186.9
Private Creditors                 436.6  -339.0   -89.0     7.3  1231.1  1006.3   646.4    19.4    652.1   -563.1   -609.0   -532.2   -359.4   -136.5
Suppliers                        -91.9  -319.7   -73.5  -495.3  -168.2   950.9  1408.9  126.7   1695.5    269.4   -35.7   -176.8   -141.6    -37.6
rinantial Markets                52B.5   -19.3   -15.5   502.5  t13.3   155.6  -762.4  -1249.3  -1043.4   -932.    -573.3   -355.4   -2t7.0    -9.9
2.Private Man 6uarat.                0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
3.Total LT disburseanets           775.9  -195.1  -146.6  -114.7  1031.2   660.3   387.9   113.2    943.3    -59.6    -31.5    -77.1        76.4    343.5
4.INF purcbases                      0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0   584.0       0.0      0.0   -146.0   -m.0   -146.0         0.0                   . 
O n



ALGERIA - EXTERNAL CAPITAL FLOWS AND DEBT
(Millions of Current US Dollars )
IS0    293    1934    2995    1996    I97    tlS            299      19f0     I9I       192      1        19W       1ws
C.Rupayents
1.Publici Pilicly BUar.2          2460.0  3239.9  32.2  329.7  3219.9  3512.6  4270.5   4429.1   37.3   4614.2   537.0   612.2   537.0   54.0
Official Creditors                16l.9   372.    499.3   599.8  6W.5   465.0   737.6         77.       64.7      1L9    717.0    604.7    m.7    617.5
bltilateral                        40.9    21.6    72.7   139.1    70.0    7.        11.9     174.5    195.1    277.4    301.4    355.4    311.8    362.6
of khich 033                      13.4    21.S    40.2    4.l    51.1    7S.6   212.6         116.9    136.4    164.0    162.3    230.0    292.6    314.9
of ihich IDA                       0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0
Bilateral                         148.0   330.3   425.6   459.7   537.5   577.2   62.6        612.9    463.6    375.5    41.6    449.3    48*.0    45.6
Private Creditors                2271.1  2167.9  2127.9  265.9  2612.4  2656.6  3532.9   3641.7   321.6   4001.3   4670.0   5324.    43.3   406L5
Suppliers                        904.0  1060.2      3.3   963.5   956. I 1115.9  1514.9   2752.7   2529.4   2468.6   3246.7   3969.2   3621.5   357.6
Finucial brketes                1367.1  190.6  1924.6  1732.3  1646.3  1740.9  201l.0   1899.0   1690.2   23S2.5   1423.3   1355.4   3137.6   1229.9
2.Private Non Suamteed               0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0                                0
3.Publict Ptiblicly Suar.1T       2460.0  3239.9  3326.2  3294.7  32lt.t  3512.6  4270.5   4429.1   3867.3   461.2   587.0   6129.2   573.0   524.0
4.IF Repurchame                      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0    16.0   m2.         16.0       0.0
6.Total Incl IlN                  2460.0  3239.9  3326.2  3294.7  3219.9  3512.6  4270.5   4429.2   3867.3   464.2          S3.0   6421.2   5133.0   5624.0
O.Intertt
I.Publick Pulicly Boar.LT         I3tJ.1       1222.0  5.5  1292.   1425.6  1369.3  1492.1    1513.1   U65.2   1511.9   1564.6   1593.0   1699.3   1791.5
Official Creditors               217.5   296.0   226.7   222.6   243.9   241.0   235.3        226.9    236.9    26.2    M.6    341.5    379.3    416.5
Ihaltilateral                     27.5    24.2    36.7    44.9    54.5    63.6    73.9         92.9    246.0    160.9    2M3.0    247.1    276.6    303.6
of bitch IBMR                    25.4    24.2    24.2      0.0    46.3    62.4    71.9        61.2    1I0.9    14.1    176.2    210.2    23.1    245.2
of ihich 1D                                                                                   0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0
Billatral                         9.C   173.3    13C.0   177.7   109.4   177.4   161.3        124.0      0.8     60.3      05.6      4.4    102.7    122.7
Private Creditors                 2275.6  1024.0  1066.0  1070.1  1is2.9  1128.3  1256.6    1296.2   1446.3   1250.7   1246.2   1251.5   1319.0   1382.0
Su"liers                          333.t   270.5   240.9   257.9   265.5   256.9   333.0        412.9    527.3    545.5      43.1    531.2    522.6    519.0
FInaacial Nlartets                941.7   753.5   629.0   812.2   696.4   8714   M.6           83.3    92.0    705.2    703.1    720.4    797.4    063.0
2.Private Im Suaranteed              0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0                    Ii
3.Publict Publicly 6wa.LT         1393.1  IM2.0  I25.5  I297   1425.8  1369.3  1492.1    1523.1   1065.1   1511.9   254.0   193.0   1696.3   179.5
4.1I  Service Charpe                 0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0       0.0    "4.        49.6       9.6     37.2     12.4      0.0
5.1nterst Paid on ST Debt          232.0   189.2   225.0   243.0   160.0   m.5   416.0          470.0    434.5    320.6    270.7    225.6    224.9    279.3
t.Total incl IF & net ST          1625.1  1410.2  1520.5  1535.7  1593.8  1641.3  Itl0.I    1983.9   2169.2   1982.3   1865.1   1055.9   I925.6   IM.8



ALGERIA - EXTERNAL CAPITAL FLOWS AND DEBT
(Millions of Current US Dollars)
190     1983    1984    1985    1986    197        1938      199      t190      1tn 92             193          4     1995
E.External Debt
I.Publici Publicly Suar.LT        16361.0  12944.9  12058.1  13370.6  16056.9  19142.8  15573.5   18948.5  1919t.9  t9336.7  19105.7   1927.5  19M3.9  2017.3
Official Creditors                2803.3  2909.7  2554.7  2771.8  2m.9  3253.9  2819.5    213.3   3204.3   3707.6   4285.5   4740.4   5176.1    556.0
Ihltllateral                       253.8   329.5   400.3   510.0   718.5   976.3   1*.1    1550.3   1970.1   2361.5    73.9   309.6   341.1   A".1
of which i8RD                     252.5   323.3   284.4   479.5   693.2   924.1   09S.2    1277.7   1701.3   2010.3   2507.1 2t1V.4   239.3   3009.0
of which tDA                                                                                      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0
Bilateral                         2549.5  2480.2  2154.4  2261.9  2271.4  2277.6  1752.4    1363.0   1234.4   1346.1   1501.6    106.0   1775.0   1961.9
Private Creditors                13357.7  10135.2  9503.4  10598.8  13067.0  1598.0  15755.0   16035.2  16687.4  16129.1  1552.2  14907.1t  1467.7  14511.3
Suppliers                        40.6  2739.3  2509.9  2234.4  2423.9  3679.0  4951.9    6119.5   7815.0   903.4   9049.7   71.8   7m.2   7692.6
Financial larkets                9459.1  7396.9  694.4  8314.4 1t643.1 12210.0  10903.3    915.7   992.4   9044.7   7471.5   715.3   697.5   6318.7
2.Private IN  Buaranted               0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0
3.Publict Publicly Sur.LT         16361.0  12944.9  12058.1  13370.6  16056.9  19142.8  18573.5    9U.5  11991.9  11936.7  19805.7  1972.5  19323.8  20167.3
4.I11F Credit                         0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0     584.0    584.0    584.0    437.6    145.9         0.0      0.0
S.Short Tern Debt                  2325.0  1957.0  1759.0  1962.0  3152.1  3U41.2  3621.2    3599.0   295.0   230w.0   2509.0   2356.0   1744.0    4l4.O
b.Total Incl.IlFISY               19696.0  1401.9  1381l.1  15232.6  19209.0  22784.0  22194.7   23131.5  23470.9  23220.7  22931.3  22229.4  21567.9  20815.3
0~
Ig-i 
0.C



- 62 -
ANNEX I.C
Page 7 of 7
ALGERIA - EXTERNAL CAPITAL FLOWS AND DEBT
(Ratios)
bey atis 1/                           1989      1990     19I       !992     193       I99       !995
------ - - --------- --
Interest Payents(inlc.st,iafIlSS      19.9      19.1     14.9      13.4     12.1      11.3      10.9
Debt Service(in4ldst,iefUISS          64.3      53.3     51.4      53.0     54.1      46.9      41.9
ILT OOD/16S                          189.9    175.6    157.1    141.9    129.0    11.9    111.1
Short tore debt/lBS                   36.1      26.4     22.2      18.5     13.4      10.5      3.6
NLT & ST 000/159                     226.0    202.0    179.2    160.5    144.4    129.3    114.6
1SF 000/19.                            5.9      5.2       4.6       3.1      1.0       0.0      0.0
ILT & ST & IlF/IS                    231.9    207.2    183.9    163.6    145.4    129.3    114.6
IDRO D/ILT D                           6.7      8.6      10.5      12.7     14.0      14.6     14.9
IBRD Debt Service/lLT TDS              3.3      4.5       5.0       4.9      5.7       6.9      7.5
lILT let Flov/SP                       0.2       2.4     -0.2      -0.1     -0.2       0.2      0.9
lILT let Transfer/SOP                 -2.9      -1.9     -4.4      -4.2     -4.2      -3.9     -3.4
It 185 incldes arkers reittances



- 63 -
Page 1 of 25
July 27, 1989
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBIC OF AIOERI
ECONOMIC REFORM SUPPORT LMoN
LETTER OF DEVELOPUENT POLICY
(Unofficial Translation of French Version)
Dear Mr. President,
In recent years, the Algerian economy has been adversely affected by a
series of external shocks that have reduced the country's rate of economic
growth and led to a deterioration in its balance of payments. The Government
has accordingly embarked on an ambitious program of reform touching virtually
all sectors of the economy. These reforms have the following objectives:
(a) Creation of conditions for the resumption of sustained economic growth
to allow for progressive improvements in livring standards;
(b) Greater efficiency of investment so as to produce lasting solutions to
the problem of unemployment while reducing the internal and external
imbalances of the economy;
(c) Improved management of external debt to reduce significantly the
burden of debt service and enhance Algeria's creditworthiness;
(d) Increasing the efficiency of the management of the principal sectors
of the economy by setting up an institutional framework and an
incentive structure aized at decentralizing decision-making and
expanding the use of market mechanisms;
(e) Enhancement of the productivity of the economy by restructuring the
productive sectors as needed, and by creating a framework and an
environment conducive to competition;
(f) Active promotion of the role of the private productive sector in tne
development process by improving its environment and providing wider
opportunities for the mobilization of savings;
(g) Protection of the most disadvantaged segments of society against the
negative effects of the process of economic adjustment.
These reforms are described in the attachment to this letter and the
attached matrix. This matrix makes a distinction between the actions already
undertaken and those envisaged for the coming year.



- 64 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 25
The Algerian authorities consider that the policies and measures
presented in this letter will make it possible to meet the country's economic
and social goals. To facilitate the implementation of the program, they hereby
request a loan for the Economic Reform Support Program. Recognizing the
magnitude and duration of the effort already undertaken and yet to be undertaken
to implement the reforms, and the financial resources needed to implement them,
the authorities ask the World Bank to renew its support and to participate
actively in bringing about these reforms. We wish also that the Bank provide
consistent and substantial support for the implementation and success of these
reforms, together with appropriate assistance in the raising of necessary
financial resources. They would like the Bank to continue to be closely
associated with the monitoring of existing reforms and development of reforms to
be carried out in the future through technical assistance, project and sectoral
support, and also the carrying out of studies agreed with the Bank. To this
end, the authorities desire that the World Bank also finance a technical
assistance project that would serve to underpin the Economic Reform Support
Loan.
Respectfully yours,
(Signed July 27, 1989)
Minister of Finance



- 65 -
Page 3 of 25
DIMSCTIC AND POPULAR  EPLIC OF ALCE
ECOgOMIC RZORM  SUPPORT 
ATTACET TO LTOIER OF DEVLPM T POLICY
1.        In recent years, the Algerian economy has been adversely affected by a
series of external shocks that have reduced the country's rate of economic
growth and led to a deterioration in its balance of payments. The Government
has accordingly embarked on an ambitious program of reform touching virtually
all sectors of the economy. These reforms have the following objectives:
(a) Creation of conditions for the resumption of sustained economic growth
to allow for progressive improvements in living standards;
(b) Greater efficiency of investment so as to produce lasting solutions to
the problem of unemployment while reducing the internal and external
imbalances of the economy;
(c) Improved management of external debt to reduce significantly the
burden of debt service and enhance Algeria's creditworthiness;
(d) Increasing the efficiency of the management of the principal sectors
of the economy by setting up an institutional framework and an
incentive structure aimed at decentralizing decision-making and
expanding the use of market mechanisms;
(e) Enhancement of the productivity of the economy by restructuring the
productive sectors as needed, and by creating a framework and an
environment conducive to competition;
(f) Active promotion of the role of the private productive sector in the
development process by improving its environment and providing wider
opportunities for the mobilization of savings;
(g) Protection of the most disadvantaged segments of society against the
negative effects of the process of economic adjustment.
2.        These reforms are descr,bed in the attached matrix.  This matrix makes
a distinction between the actions already undertaken and those envisaged for the
coming year.
Macroeconomic Framework
3.        The medium-term objectives that the authorities propose to achieve are
the following. Between now and 1995, real GDP is expected to grow at a
sustained rate of 4.5X per annum, which would make possible a continuous



- 66 -
Page 4 of 25
increase in per capita consumption of about 1.5X p.a. The balance of payments
prospects are relatively favorable and derive primarily from a significant
growth of exports of the order of 51 p.a. This results in particular from
development of gas exports following the application of a policy of more
intensive use of existing facilities and available reserves, the seeking out of
new markets, and an appropriate trade strategy.
4.        At the same time, a program aimed at a significant increase in non-
hydrocarbon exports will be developed. The current account should therefore
move progressively from its deficit position of about 1.4X of GDP in 1988 to a
substantial surplus of at least 21 of GDP by 1995. This development will make
possible a progressive improvement of the external debt indicators: the ratio
of debt to exports should drop by half between now and 1995 compared with its
present level of about 2302. Over the same period, foreign exchange reserves
are expected to rise steadily to reach the equivalent of 2.5 months' of imports.
5.        In the context of the budget, the improvement in tax yields and the
implementation of tax and price reforms should result in state revenues
increasing from about 301 of GDP to around 361 by 1995. Concurrently, the
autonomy of public enterprises and the establishment of the new system for
financing the economy will make it possible to reduce Treasury transfers to
these enterprises from about 61 of GDP in 1988 to 11 by 1995. This action will
be reinforced by reductions in Government's capital and current expenditures.
As a result, the public sector deficit, which represented 10.41 of GDP in 1988,
is expected to move into surplus by the middle of the next decade. To achieve
these medium-term objectives, the authorities have set the following specific
objectives for 1989: (i) to raise the real GDP growth rate to about 51; (ii) to
limit the rate of inflation, as measured by the official consumer price index,
to about 101, and (iii) to limit the external current account deficit to US$500
million to achieve, in line with projected external resource mobilization and
amortization payments, an increase of some US$200 million in the gross reserves
of the Central Bank of Algeria.
6.        Monetary Policy:  To ensure better monetary regulation, healthy
financing of the economy and greater mobilization of savings, the authorities
have prepared a National Credit Plan to serve as an instrument for monetary
management. The monetary objectives of this plan are based on macroeconomic
indicators rather than on financing needs determined on the basis of physical
objectives. In view of the existing liquidity overhang in the economy and the
desire to contain inflation, monetary expansion has been limited to 7.41 in
1989, a growth rate lower than that adopted for nominal GDP. The global
expansion of credit has been limited to DA 20.6 billion or 8.8X. An information
system has been set up by the authorities to monitor the accomplishment of these
objectives. To this end, efforts are being made to improve the reliability of
the data gathered and to lessen the delays in data transmission by the banking
system.
7.        To achieve the monetary and credit objectives, a lower limit for
refinancing of the economy has been established, with rediscount ceilings for
each bank that are subject to quarterly review in light of the banks' efforts to
attract stable resources and their level of commitment in the financing of
priority new investments. In addition, to encourage the banks to mobilize
financial resources, interest rates were raised and their structure streamlined
in May 1989. The new terms of financing involve an increase in the rediscount



- 67 -
Page 5 of 25
rate from 5 to 7X, together with a 31 rise in the ranges of deposit and lending
rates. These changes will allov the banks greater flexibility and latitude
vis-&-vis their clients in determining interest rates (deposit and lending).
Over the next 12 months, the authorities plan to broaden grid margins for
interest rates and to study the possibility of introducing variable rates for
medium- and long-term loans. They envisage taking the necessary monetary policy
steps to progressively achieve positive real rates within three years.
8.        FisLca  PolL] : An appreciable improvement in public finances is a
keystone of the 1989 financial program. The program envisages a sharp reduction
in the budget deficit compared with its 1988 level of 5.01 of GDP. It also
projects a sharp decline in Treasury interventions which include special
accounts and net loans and advances to public enterprises. As a result, the
overall Treasury deficit is targeted to decline from 10.41 of GDP in 1988 to
3.1X in 1989. Achievement of these targets will permit a substantial reduction
(to about 1.2X of GDP compared to 6.02 of GDP in 1988) of recourse by the
Treasury to bank financing. The remaining financing requirement will be covered
by non-monetary resources, in particular the issuance of development bonds (bons
d'eAuioement) and an improvement in the net position of the public
establishments and local authorities. In addition, the authorities have already
launched a substantial national borrowing program for the public (Emprunt
National).
9.        The budgetary targets for 1989 are based on a significant revenue
increase, principally reflecting the economic upturn coupled with more effective
tax collection. The program envisages an increase in budgetary revenues from
302 of GDP in 1988 to 331 in 1989. The structure of taxation will be
progressively overhauled so as to minimize distortions and maximize revenue
diversification. In this regard, the Government has already started work on
preparation of a draft law for introduction of a value-added tax which it hopes
to bring into effect as soon as the preparatory technical work has been
completed. Budgetary expenditure is expected to be reduced from 351 to 331 of
GDP in 1989. Current expenditure is projected to decline by about 1 percentage
point of GDP and capital expenditure by about 0.8 percentage points from the
levels of the previous year.
10.       Treasury operations, as set out in the 1989 Finance Law, include
operations of the special accounts, including the Fonds de Compensation (FC).
Net Treasury lending to finance the investments of public enterprises will be
strictly limited to those necessary to carry out projects approved prior to
December 31, 1988 (with the exception of Posts and Telecommunications and
low-income housing). This is expected to reduce the total of such operations
from DA 18.5 billion in 1988 to DA 12.4 billion in 1989 (including projected
repayments of past loans to enterprises), i.e. from 5.82 of GDP in 1988 to 3.3X
in 1989. The Government envisages a further reduction in lending for productive
investments as it progressively disengages itself from financial intermediation.
Its objective is to ensure that public investments undertaken directly by the
State or by decentralized public enterprises are consistent with the
medium-term development goals for the economy. In the context of the
preparatory work for the next Five-Year Plan (1990-94), the authorities have
already begun a detailed review of the public investment program. The re :orm



- 68 -
Page 6 of 25
program also aims to put in place the economic signals that would encourage
public enterprises to follow criteria of efficiency. In view of the World
Bank's experience in the investment field, the authorities could greatly benefit
from the Bank's assistance and technical support in carrying out thls public
investment review. The aim would be to examine the investmont program for 1990
and the criteria for establishing the investment program for the years 1991 to
1994.
11.       Achievement of the 1989 macroeconomic objectives detailed above should
provide a sounder basis for the ongoing structural reform efforts through the
1990s. It is nevertheless evident that the country's macroeconomic management
will need to receive special attention in the years ahead, especially during the
transition period when the new macroeconomic management instruments and
techniques will be progressively introduced. In this respect, the authorities
would like to maintain close collaboration with the Bank in order to be able to
benefit from the analytical approach and comparative experience that this
institution can contribute. The authorities hope, in particular, that around
the end of this year, they will have the opportunity to discuss with Bank
representatives the growth of the economy in 1989 and the monetary and fiscal
policy objectives for 1990 in the context of the 1990 Finance Law and the
National Credit Plan.
12.       Trade and Foreign xhoMe  Regimes: The authorities intend to
continue to pursue a flexible exchange rate policy with a view to unifying,
within three years, the official and parallel market exchange rates. Between
December 1986 and December 1988 the dinar depreciated by over 302 in real
effective terms. At the same time, measures being taken to absorb a part of the
excess liquidity in the economy are expected to reduce the downward pressure on
the parallel market exchange rate.
13.       As a first step toward improvement of the efficiency of the foreign
exchange and trade systems, a budget-devie  (foreign exchange budgeting) system
was introduced at the beginning of 1989. Under this new system, the authorities
no longer determine centrally the allocation of foreign exchange to specific
end-users. The new system means that, instead of a quantitative allocation set
at the level of each tariff heading, each enterprise will now receive a global
and multiyear allocation that it may use as it sees fit. In addition,
enterprises will no longer be required to go through designated intermediaries
for their import transactions and will no longer require prior government
authorization to effect these transactions. Finally, a number of different
enterprises will be able to obtain a state concession authorizing them to import
the same product for resale. This will have the immediate result of
significantly reducing the number and value of products imported by enterprises
holding monopolies. In the coming 12 months, it is expected that the proportion
of imports effected by a single enterprise will be reduced to 452 compared to
about 70X in the past. The authorities intend to apply the budget-devises
system to all public enterprises and to allow them to carry over from one year
to the next the full amount of any surpluses in their budget-devises. Over the
next 12 months, the authorities envisage authorizing enterprises to trade
imported goods at prices negotiated among themselves. Finally, in order to
encourage the private sector to play a larger role in the economy, the amount of



- 69 -
A.NNE III
Page 7 of 25
foreign exchange allocated to this sector has been increased progressively from
DA/500/million in 1987 to DA/1.5/billion in 1988 and to DA/6/billion in 1989.
It is the authorities' intention to continue pursuing this policy with a view to
promoting competition in the foreign trade system.
14.       Debt Mana .2=t:  Regarding debt management, it is clear that the
period 1989/90 will be the most difficult given: the structure of Algeria's
debt, the high interest rates, and the need to increase the country's reserves.
These factors imply liquidity difficulties for that period. It should be noted,
however, that this will be a short-term liquidity problem and not one of
solvency (or the absolute level of external indebtedness). The Government's
policy has always been to maintain Algeria's creditworthiness. In view of the
recent recovery of oil and gas prices and the already demonstrated success of
the Government's new policy aimed at appreciably increasing natural gas exports,
the authorities consider that it will be possible to continue servicing the debt
without having to resort to rescheduling. They note that, despite conditions in
1988 that were distinctly more difficult than those presently existing, Algeria
succeeded in mobilizing the resources needed to service its external debt at
that time.
15.       The underlying debt situation is expected to improve progressively
over the next few years with declines in both the debt service ratio and the
ratio of external debt to exports. This will be achieved through the adoption
of more activist debt management measures aimed at hedging against foreign
exchange risks, lengthening the average maturity and grace period of outstanding
debt, and improving Algeria's image in international financial markets. Given
the importance of this question for Algeria's macroeconomic management, coupled
with the World Bank's experience in this field, the authorities hope to benefit
from the Bank's technical know-how and capabilities in the area.
The Incentive Structure
16.       The projected reform of the price system is a major component of the
reform program. In the past, virtually all prices were controlled (90 of the
products included in the consumer price index). The structure of regulation was
complex with several categories of controlled prices. The reform program aims
at correcting distortions in relative prices so that prices will, as a rule,
reflect economic costs.
17.       The reform of prices of goods and services will probably be a lengthy
process. Nevertheless, the authorities are well aware that enterprises cannot
become profitable if present prices are maintained unchanged. A law has
accordingly been passed and the necessary decrees are being drafted to institute
a more flexible price system that will reflect market conditions. The pricing
regulation that will be applied will take one of two forms: either ceilings on
prices or ceilings on margins. At the same time, the system that will shortly
be put into effect will increase from 10 to 401 the proportion of the products
included in the CPI whose prices will be freely determined. The authorities
intend to study those products for which margins are subject to ceilings with a
view to progressively bringing them into the system under which their price
would be determined in the market. In the medium term, it is the authorities'



- 70 -
Page 8 of 25
intention to use the price mechanism, in conjunction with improvements in the
production and distribution channel.? for goods, to unify, over a period of not
longer than three years, the official and parallel markets for goods and
services. The authorities propose to accompany the price reform with a tighter
monetary control apparatus in order to prevent an inflationary spiral. Finally,
the Government intends to carry out a study to identify constraints to domestic
competition.
Financial Sector Reform
18.       Prior to the promulgation of the 1986 law on the banking and credit
system, the banks had a passive role in financial intermediation which meant
that they had little say in investment and financing decision-making. The
latter functions were, in fact, performed by the central planning authorities,
while the banks were only responsible for the execution and follow-up of the
financial aspects of operations. In addition, with the principle of obligatory
and exclusive domiciliation of public enterprises, the banks were unable to
exercise any competition among themselves. They financed the public sector's
operating expenditures and were refinanced by the Central Bank through the
rediscounting of securities representing medium-term investment loans or
operating credit and, if need be, by means of overdrafts. Since it was
guaranteed that the refinancing needs of the bank would be met, credit
institutions had no incentive to mobilize resources, at the very time that the
enterprises concerned were experiencing major cash flow problems because of
mounting operating deficits.
19.       To resolve this situation, a financial reform has been initiated that
aims at revising the system for financing the economy while redynamizing and
rehabilitating the banking system in its financial intermediation function.
Thus, the Banking Law passed in August 1986, and amended in January 1988,
assigns the Central Bank more extensive powers and responsibilities in the
formulation, preparation and execution of monetary policy -- up till then a
preserve of the Ministry of Finance. To perform this task, the Central Bank
will have to develop and strengthen its research, credit, audit, and bank
supervision functions.
20.       Similarly, with the introduction of the new monetary management
instruments (National Credit Plan, new banking terms, money market), credit
institutions are being encouraged to compete for deposits and mobilize long-term
savings. The abolition of obligatory and exclusive domiciliation and the
removal of legal barriers to competition will enable the banks to expand their
activities to all sectors, thus putting an end to their monopoly position and
further encouraging interbank competition. The statutes of CNEP and BAD, two
specialized financial intermediaries, are presently under study and a decision
will be taken in the next 12 months defining their roles.



- 71 -
Pago 9 of 25
21.       In the context of selectlve credit, the Government has had a policy of
giving preferential treatment to certain activities, elther by Central Bank
rediscounting at preferential rates or by subsidizing lnterest rates through the
Treasury. The activities that used to benefit from this treatment were all
agriculture, housing and non-traditional exports. Long-term investments of
public enterprises were financed by the Treasury at a relatively low rate. The
new selective credit policy has llmited the range of activities eligible for
credit at preferentlal rates, particularly in the agricultural sector. As
regards agricultural loans, only those relating to the production and storage of
cereals and pulses, and land reclamation (these two activities only accounted
for about 40X of short-term credit to agriculture in 1988) would be eligible for
rediscounting at special rates.
Housing benefiting from preferential rediscounting is now limited
solely to low-income housing. The other activity qualifying for preferential
rediscount rates is non-hydrocarbon exports. The authorities aim to reduce the
gap, in proportional terms, between the preferential and ordinary rates.
Long-term investment financlng will be the responsibility of the banking sector,
which will be required to play a pivotal role in resource mobilization and
allocation. Treasury intervention will be lidmted to subsidization of interest
rates solely where this is necessary to make projects viable from the financial
viewpoint. Treasury subsidization of these projects will in future be
explicitly provided for in the State budget.
Over the coming 12 months, the authorities propose: to set up a data
base for 1987 and 1988 for the amount and relative weight of selective credit;
to establish a monLtorLig system for the granting of selective credit; not to
increase the absolute differentlal between the interest rates included in the
banks' regular lending conditions, on the one hand, and the rates on loans
eligible for preferential rediscounting and on Treasury-subsidized loans, on the
other; and to establish a timotable for the progressive reduction of distortions
in interest rates resulting from selective loans.
22.       Banks are being encouraged to play a more active role in deposit
mobilization. With the introduction of the new terms and conditions for banks,
they will have more latitude to flx interest rates. Reduced ceilings for
rediscounting have also been adopted and a more active interbank money market
has been put in place. The progressive adjustment of interest rates will also
encourage resource mobilizatLon. Over the next 12 months, the authorities
envisage expanding the scope of the money market by facllitating access to it by
certain enterprises.
23.       The authorities are commltted to formulating a comprehensive plan to
rehabilitate the balance sheets of banks in tandem with those of their clients.
In an initial stage, a preliminary assessment will be made of the impact on
banks of the movement of enterprises to their status as autonomous enterprises.
This will make it possible to address the question of how to handle
uncollectible bank loans, i.e. either by transferring them to the profit and
loss account or else by convertlng them into equity. Settlement of this



- 72 -
Page 10 of 25
question is all the more necessary since this category of loan could well form a
significant part of banks' assets.
24.       It is intended to strengthen the smnagement of commercial banks by
focusing on staff training. The adoption of standards for external auditing is
also an important ingredient in the financial restructuring of banks as it will
begin the process of determining the extent to which they may need
recapitalization to make tbeom viable financial institutions. In this regard, it
is intended to adopt a bank accounting plan (that the banks will be required to
follow in reporting their financial results). This will make it possible to
draw meaningful conclusions about their performance on the basis of their
audits.
Public Enterorise Reform
25.       In the past, Algeria's development strategy was based on a relatively
centralized planning and management system: investmout decisions, allocation of
scarce resources (credit, foreign exchange) and price setting (for goods,
services, and interest rates), were all done at the central level. This
centralization of resources and decision-making was designed to ensure
observance of priorities, but relegated, to second place, the overall efficiency
of the economy.
26.       The authorities have accordingly assigned hLgh priority to public
enterprise reform. In 1988, the Goverrment passed the necessary laws to allow
public enterprises to become fully autonomous in all aspects of their
activities, particularly in raising domestic and external funds (including
utilization of retained earnings), their management, the way they deploy their
resources, and their ability to set prices and to amend their legal statutes.
In addition, autonomous enterprises will be allowed to enter into joint ventures
with foreign partners. Thus far, half the national enterprises (out of a total
of 350) have made the transition to the status of fully autonomous public
enterprises. Virtually all remaining enterprises are to become legally
autonomous over the next 12 months.
27.      A crucial element of enterprise reform has been the establishment of
eight equity holding companies (fonds de rt icinat ), which belong to the
State but which will be free of adminLstrative literference. The development
strategies and management of the public enterprises will be controlled by their
boards of directors, on which these holding companies will be represented. The
enterprises are free to make their own investment, operating, marketing and
trading decisions. With this freedom, however, goes responsibllity for sound
management. At the same time, funds have been set aside for the financial
rehabilitation of enterprises posting losses through a one-time levy on the
surpluses of those enterprises operating at a profit. The object of this
measure is to provide an incentive for enterprise managers to show improved
financial results. Enterprises will be expected to prepare medium-term plans
outlining their objectives and the means for achieving these objectives,
including how plans will ba financed. Meanwhile, the authorities concerned will
define a restructuring and rationalization policy for certain key industrial
subsectors, a task in which World BSank assistance would be appreciated.



- 73 -
ANNEX1
Page 11 of 25
In addition, the authorities propose to adopt a law that would offer
incentives for foreign investment in the context of joint ventures in
association with public enterprises.
28.       To determine the extent to which enterprises will need restructuring,
the authorities are currently drawing up standards for external auditing and the
means to enforce them. The intention is to set up a timetable for the auditing
of public enterprises and for defining how the agreed standards should be
applied.
The Role of the Private Sector
29.       The reform plan envisages an enhanced role for the private sector.
Private enterprises occupy a significant position in the economy. These
enterprises (of which there are 6-7,000) account for at least 20X of industrial
value added. In the past, limits were imposed on private investment (DA12
million for individuals and DA35 million for corporations), together with: a
ban on multiple investments of the same kind, a ban on horizontal or vertical
concentration, and a ceiling of 301 on the proportion of any investment that
could be financed by bank credit.
30.       The reform program aims to strengthen the private sector through revision
of regulations governing private sector activities. In 1988, a new law eliminated
many discriminatory constraints that limited the scope of private sector activity,
notably the ceiling on private sector investments and the proportion of any
investment that could be financed through credit. Private investment will no longer
be limited to Algerians residing in Algeria, and the prior authorization requirement
for new investments has been lifted. Finally, it will now be the Chamber of
Comerce, in which the private cperators are represented, that will handle
allocations of foreign exchange to the private sector. As already noted, the amount
of foreign exchange allocated to the private sector has been significantly
increased.
31.       As a result of these and other measures, for example on price reform,
there should be a much more active participation of the private sector in the near
future, especially in the agricultural, construction, industry and transport
sectors. In construction, demand is expected to shift rapidly in favor of housing
financed by private savings.
Reform of the Agriculture Sector
32.       At the time Algeria became Independent, agriculture had a preponderant
position in the economy; the country's industrial base was largely undeveloped. The
agriculture sector is still important: half the population live in the rural areas
and about 20-25X of the labor force is employed in agriculture. Unfortunately, with
the exception of the years 1985-87, production of most basic foodstuffs, cereals and
pulses, has remained more or less static. As a result of the increase in population
and the increase in per capita incomes, production is now only sufficient to cover
25X of cereals requirements, compared about 90X at the beginning of the 1960s. The
value of food exports has also declined significantly. The Government intends



- 74 -
ANZY11
Page 12 of 25
to lesson the degree of dependence on other countries for food supplies. Reforms in
agriculture bogan in 1982 and are now more advanced than in other sectors (for
example, the prices and marketing arrangements of fruit and vegetables were
liberalized at that time).
33.       Immediately following Independence, all land farmed by "settlers" -- 40X
of the cultivated area covering the best land receiving the most ralnfall -- was
nationalized and grouped into large state or collective farms (Domaines Arlcoles
Sgclallates -- DAS). Despite the measures taken by the State to improve the
performance of these farms, in particular through the provision of credit and input
supplies, the results of the DAS remained very poor in terms of productlon, yields
and budgetary efficiency. To overcome the constraints facing public agrlculture, it
was declded to undertake a fundamental reform aimed at strengthening the actual
rights of producers. This reform has been carried out. The large DAS have been
converted into fully autonomous entitles: small group farms (EACs) and Individual
farms (EAIs). 20,300 EAC and 2,300 EAJ have been created, with an average farming
area of 70 ha per SAC, worked by six to seven farmers, and an area of 7 ha on
average for each EAI. Each SAC/EAl has been given documents granting usufruct
rights to the land, and ownership deeds for the assets forming the farm's property.
Put briefly, the State farm sector has been replaced by fully autonomous individual
small units that have full responsibility for the plannlng, operation, investment,
proflt and losses of their farms. From now on, the farmers will have a direct
incentlve to boost productLon. Their reaction has, thus far, been most encouraging
notwithstanding unfavorable weather conditions.
34.       The Government intends to pursue its present policy aimed at creating
a favorable environment for agriculture. Over the last eight years the prices
of most products have risen distinctly faster than the inflation rate. From now
on, the law of supply and demand will determine the prices of these products.
As regards food staples, particularly cereals and pulses, prices will remain
controlled and an incentive policy will continue to be applied. It is the
authorLtLes' intention to ensure total transparency of the incentive measures.
The authorities propose to carry out a comprehensive study of prices and
incentives in agriculture so: gain a better understanding of the workings of
the agricultural price and incentives system; assess the impact of the present
measures on resource allocation in agriculture; and, examine the costs and
benefits of different possible courses of action.
35.       With regard to inputs, the authorities intend to continue working
toward a system in which the prices of all agricultural inputs and equipment
reflect their financial cost. Prices of most inputs have been appreciably
increased since 1983 and the majority of financial subsidies have already been
eliminated. In line with this, the authorities intend to recover all operating
costs connected with the provision of irrigation water. To this end, water
charges were raised by about 100l in 1989. The authorities are presently
studying the question of water charges and their recommendations are expected to
be finalized over the coming 12 months. A timetable will then be prepared with
a view to ensuring the total recovery of operating costs.
36.       The authorities are committed to improving input availability and also
extension servLces to farmers. They are accordingly pleased to note that the



- 75 -
Page 13 of 25
Bank is appraising a project that would support the agricultural research and
extension services. Now that enterprises have been made autonomous, farmers
will be froe to buy inputs wherever they want. Farmers and EACs will be
encouraged to form "reals cooperatives in order to benefit from economies of
scale. To this end, a decree was adopted at the end of 1988 to revitalize the
official cooperatives by transferring ownership and management responsibility to
the farmers. The Government has already agreed with the Bank on terms of
reference for a study on fertilizers to be starte4 shortly.
Protection of the ndvironment
37.       As in other countries in the Mediterranean basin, the authorities are
by no means unaware that Algeria is faced with a number of ecological problems.
A law on the environment was adopted in 1983 and measures were taken recently to
strengthen and clarify responsibility for the overall policy on the environment,
which will, from now on, be vested in the Ministry of the Interior and
Environment. This ministry is charged with overall coordination with all
agencies concerned with environmental matters.
38.       For the future, the authorities look forward with interest to
examining in detail the draft report prepared by the Bank on environmental
issues in Algeria. They would like to use this report to draw up, with the
Bank, a timetable for: (a) preparing a plan of action for addressing immediate
priority issues (hazardous wastes, etc.); (b) setting up a medium-term program
for controlling water pollution, and (c) preparing a water resource management
plan.
Xovulation and Social Dimensions of Reform
39.       Algeria has a population growth rate of about 31, which translates
into a growth of the labor force of around 3.71 for the period to the year 2000.
Moreover, since nearly 501 of the population is under 15 years old, there is
great pressure on infrastructure in the education sector. To help formulate a
clear population policy, the authorities have established a unit charged with
setting targets for controlling demographic growth and for coordination of
future actions. They envisage drawing up, over the next 12 months, a strategy
that will make it possible to develop appropriate population policy goals
focused on achievement of those targets. Based on this strategy, the
authorities will then be in a position to implement a comprehensive population
policy.
40.       An extensive system of social services and subsidies is in place to
ensure basic levels of education, health, housing and nutrition for all members
of society. These social expenditures are costly and need to be made more
efficient and to be better targeted to protect vulnerable groups. While
assessing how best to accomplish these objectives, the authorities propose to
maintain the existing system of consumer subsidies for staple foodstuffs (mainly
wheat flour, bread, vegetable oil and milk) and for low-income housing. This
will safeguard the most disadvantaged members of society. At the same time, the
Government has introduced measures designed to improve the wages of the
lowest-paid workers. Work has, accordingly, begun on the following: (a)



- 76 -
ANNEKX I I
Page 14 of 25
compilation of a socioeconomic data base to help identify the most vulnerable
segments of society who should receive assistance from the state; (b) a review
of the efficiency of social expenditures, and (c) a review of the legal
provisions relating to human resource management. These reviews will be
continued and will lead to, among other things, preparation of a program to
protect the poorest and most vulnerable groups. This program will spell out
government policy on consumer subsidies and will clearly specify how these
subsidies could be better targeted. In this regard, the authorities look
forward to receiving the assistance of World Bank missions to help in the
development of appropriate strategies for the sectors in question.
Implementation of the Reforms
41.       The authorities are fully aware of the complexity of the reform
process envisaged. They recognize that the implementation of these reforms will
involve problems concerning the following: (a) the need for behavioral changes
as the economy moves from a centralized structure to a system based on market
mechanisms; (b) the covering of the financial losses that arise as enterprises
and banks become autonomous without, however, compromising strict control of
growth of the money supply, and (c) the need to adapt the essential price
reforms to the potential social consequences of further erosion of the living
standards of vulnerable groups. The authorities recognize that the reform
process will take a number of years and will require meticulous monitoring to
ensure that, as soon as any unforeseen development occurs, appropriate
corrective measures can be taken. Nevertheless, the authorities are convinced
that this effort will succeed because it reflects a total commitment by all
social groups in the population.



ALGERIA: ECOkOMIC RKFOR SUPPORT LOA
MEDIUM & LONG-TERM                     AREAS OF                                  ACTIONS ALREADY                       PRIORITY ACTIOS OVER
OBJECTIVES                       INTERVENTION                                     TAKEN                            THE NEXT 12 MONTHS
KEY MACRO-ECONOMIC TARGETS
Development and implementation      - Adjustment of exchange rate to          - Between December 1986-December 1988 - Continuation of flexible exchange
ot marco-economic program to           unify the de facto dual foreign           the Government undertook a de-          rate policy with a view to re-
reduce both internal .:nd external    exchange markets before 1992.              valuation of the exchange rate in       ducing the gap between parallel and
mbalances and to create                                                         real effective terms of more than       official exchange rates concurrently
.onditions for sustained growth.                                                 3OX.                                    with measures taken to absorb
liquidity overhang (see below).
- The Govermnent s macro-econofic
program for 1990 will have the
following specific targets:
- Reduction of Public Sector             - Reduction of the deficit on            . reduction of the deficit on
Borrowing Requirements.                   Treasury operations to 3.1X of          Treasury operations;
GOP in 1989 as opposed to 10.4X
in 1986.
- Curbing of inflation through a          - Growth of M2 of 7.4S in 1989.         . rate of monetary expansion
tighter control of money supply.                                                 consistent with GDP movements;
- Establishment of target current         -  Reduction in current account         . reduction of current account
account deficit consistent with           deficit to $500 million in 19b9         deficit  slight increase in inter-
macro-economic and debt management        and simultaneous stabilization of       national reserves and lower debt      ^
objectives.                               international reserves.                 service ratio.
- Management of external debt.            - Adoption of action plan to improve  - Development of an external financing
the system to monitor external          and debt management Strategy consis-
debt.                                   tent with overall macro-economic
objectives and creditworthiness
Indicators for the mediu-term.
- Mobilization of savings.                - Launching of a National Borrowing
(Emprunt National) program aimed
at mobilizing domestic savings
(in Dinars) and savings of non-
residents (in foreign currency).
.1 MONETARY AND FISCAL POLICIES
A. MONETARY POLICY
Strengthening of institutional      - Direct responsibility of Central        -  Enactment of law transferring        - Strengthening of control over banks
framework for macro-economic           Sank in the implementation and            responsibility for monetary and         through the establishment of the
management                             coordination of monetary and credit       credit Policies from the Ministry       Comnssion on Bank Control.
policies.                                 of Finance to the Central Bank.
4UV3E)



ALGERIA: ECONOMIC REFORM SUPPORT LOAN
MEDIUM & LONG-TERM                      AREAS OF                                   ACTIONS ALREADY                        PRIORITY ACTIONS OVER
OBJECTIVES                        INTERVENTION                                      TAKEN                              ._5 NEXT 12 MSNTHS
II. MONETARY AND FISCAL POLICIES (continued)
A. MONETARY POLICY (continued)
- Enactoent of Central Bank's new
statutes.
Control of growth of money supply. -  Establishment of monetary control         -  Preparation and adoption by           - Adoption of a NCP for 1990 in line
mechanisms and instruments.                Goverment of a National Credit           with the agreed macro-economic
Plan (NCP) for 1989 consistent with    objectives in light of 1989
established monetary targets en-         experience.
tailing the following:
ceiling on Central eank advances    -  In light of 1989 experience, esta-
to Treasury;                             blishment of other instruments
(e.g.. reserve requirements.
ceiling on rediscounting by Central    individual ceilings on bank credit.
Bank; and                                bank ratios) to ensure the achieve-
ment of objectives for bank credit.
ceiling on banks' credit to the
economy.
Ab,orptlOn of liquidity overhang.  -  Flexibility in determination of           -  Adoption of a system of interest    - Greater flexibility in the determi-
interest rates in order to achieve         rate determination based upon            nation of interest rates.
positive real interest rates by 1992.    a ^Taux Directeur" (Central Bank                                                 _4
ordinary rediscount rate) and a       - Jointly with banks and specialized co
"grid" of margins within which           financial institutions, study the   I
banks would freely set their own         possibility of introducing variable
rates.                                   interest rates relative to a
reference rate for long-term loans.
-  Increase in ^Taux Directeur* of       -  Adjustment of the ^Taux Directeur"
two percentage points.                   to reflect macro-economic develop-
ments and to come closer to achiev-
ing real positive interest rates.
- Sale to the public of new housing        -  Introduction of a program to sell   -  Evaluation and continuation of the
units in order to absorb liquidity         70.000 housing units formerly            program referred to in col.um  III.
overhang held by households.               financed by Treasury loans.
-  Establishment of financial markets.        (See Section VI.0)                       (See Section VI.D)
- Adjustment of prices to eliminate           (See Section IV)                         (See Section IV)
monopoly rent opportunities, to re-
duce excess demand in good market and
eliminate losses of productive sector.
t4O93E)
fi



ALGERIA: ECONOMIC REFORM SUPPORT LOAN
MEDIUM & LONG-TEAM                       AREAS OF                                     ACTIONS ALREADY                         PRIORITY ACTIONS OVER
OBJECTIVES                         INTERVENTION                                        TAKEN                               THE NEXT 12 MONTHS
II. MONETARY ANO FISCAL POLICIES (continued)
8. FISCAL POLICY
Improvement of budgetary trans-    -  Gradual phasing out of Treasurys            -  Preparation and adoption of             -  Improvement of tax revenues by
parency and procedures to identify    role as financial intermediary for             National Credit Plan (NCP)                 strengthening of tax management
the costs of various production/         for enterprise activities.                  entailing:                                 capabilities.
consumption subsidies, and of the
restructuring of public enterprises.                                              . discountinuance of Treasury loans
for new investments;
ceiling on loans by Treasury for
other investment (ongoing projects
and to housing and postal service).
Control of off-budget expenditures.   -  Evaluation of the budgetary system  -  Adoption of a regular monitoring
(procedures for budget preparation,    system of all Treasury operations
allocation of budgetary resources,        which would, inter alia. quantify:
budoet nomenclature, and control)         (a) the various subsidy program  and
at the central and local levels to        the financial flows to public
improve system of public finance.         enterprises.
-  Planning for and quantification of                                                  -  Formulation of a plan to quantify   I
potential losses that will result                                                      the three key imbalances with major .
from changes in sectoral and macro-                                                    budgetary implications: (a)
economic policies.                                                                     financial imbalances at the enter-
prise level; (b) foreign exchange
losses at the enterprise level due
to adjustment of the exchange rate;
and (e) capital losses by banks due
to maturity/interest mismatch. This
plan will assess the resources re-
quired to absorb and compensate for
the negative effects of these
imbalances.
Overhaul of the tax system in         - Widening of the tax base and              -  Reduction of direct tax rate on         -  Simplification of the tax system
order to simplify it, expand the         reduction of enterprise taxation.            net revenues of enterprises from          through a reduction in the number of
tax base, and increase the effici-                                                    SS% to 50t.                               applicable tax rates.  Strengthening
ency of the tax system thereby                                                                                                  of tax administration to minimize
reducing the vulnerability of                                                                                                   tax evasion.
Govermentt revenues.
De.ign Ct d Lax system that is       -  Reduction of distortions in the           - Consolidation and netting out of
more consistent with objective of        allocation of resources due to the           revenues of enterprise units before
decentrali2ation and of establish        tax system.                                  computation of direct tax.
ment of appropriate incentives at
individual and enterprise levels.
(4093E)



eW~~~~~~~-- a .X
MEDIUM & LONG-TERM                     AREAS OF                                  ACTIONS ALREADY                        PRIORITY ACTIONS OVER
OBJECTIVES                       INTERVENTION                                     TAKEN                             THE NEXT 12 MONTHS
II. MONETARY AND FISCAL POLICIES (continued)
S. FISCAL POLICY (continued)
- Introduction of regressive and
progressive depreciation for enter-
prises thereby ensuring greater
flexibility.
- Carrying out of studies for the       - Preparation of draft law for the
introduction of VAT.                    introduction of VAT.
III FOREIGN TRADE POLICY
A. FOREIGN EXCHANGE ALLOCATION
Establishment of a rational         - Relaxation of foreign exchange          -  Replacement of PGS I. AGI by a more  -  Extension of the new foreign ex-
foreign exchange allocation            allocation mechanisms resulting in        flexible global  foreign exchange       change allocation system to all
system.                                a more efficient system.                  allocation" system abolishing (a)        public enterprises and allowing
a priori control by tariff line-       them to carry over all foreign
item. (b) a priori control of con-      exchange surpluses from one year
tracts, and (c) the need to pass        to another.
through a monopoly to import goods
(for operational or investment       - To ensure greater flexibility in the I
needs).                                 use of foreign exchange. authoriza-  c
tion that public enterprises may      0
trade imported goods at a price
negotiated between them.
- Evaluation of the experience of the
first year of the application of the
new foreign exchange allocation
system and the identification of
possibilities of improving its
efficiency.
b   EXTERNAL TRADE REGIME
Reduction of distortions in ex-    -  Rationalization of tariff structure   -  Enactment of new import system to:  - Reduction in the proportion of iv-
ternal trade regime.                   and of the trade regime.                  (a) abolish import monopolies for       ports for resale carried out by a
inputs directly used by PEs; and        single enterprise so designated by
(b) give permission to more than        Goverment from 70S to a eaxiwAsa of
one PE to import for resale.            45S of total imports (in value
terms).
- Agreement to carry out a study on   - ComPletion of study and discussion
the structure and application of        of its results with the Bank.
tariffs in order to reduce
variations in applied tariff rates.
4uSt )



ALGERTA: rcflUm4iC REFORN SUPPORT LOAN
MEDIUM & LONG-TERM                      AREAS OF                                    ACTIONS ALREADY                        PRIORITY ACTIONS OVER
OBJECTIVES                        INTERVENTION                                       TAKEN                              THE NEXT 12 MONTHS
III. FOREIGN TRADE POLICY (continued)
B. EXTERNAL TRADE REGIME (continued)
Promotion of non-hydrocarbon ex-                                                                                          -  Start-up of a study. based on agreed
ports where Algeria has comparative                                                                                          TOQs, on incentives and institution-
advantage.                                                                                                                   al support for non-traditional
exports.
1V. REFORM OF PRICES AND MARKET STRUCTURE
Correction of prices to: (a)         -  Reduction and rationalization of         -  Preparation of a draft law            - Enactment of tne new system to in-
reduce losses of the productive         price controls.                             replacing the current system. where    crease, from about 10  to 40t. the
sector and help reduce liquidity                                                    90% of product prices are                proportion in the CPI of goods the
overhang: and (b) allow prices                                                      administered, with a more flexible       prices of which are freely
to reflect relative economic costs.                                                 system that will gradually reflect       determined.
market conditions. Exempt from
thiS will be products that impact   - Study of products sub3ect to ceil-
on the purchasing power of the most    ings on margins to move them
disadvantaged social groups.  The        gradually to a system of market
regulation that will be implemented    prices.
will be carried out in two ways:
uither through ceilings on prices
or ceilings on margins.
I.,eased competition to reinforce  -  Deregulation of systems of monopoIsue. -  enaactment of decree abolishing           - Start-up of a study, based on agreed
the market determination of prices.                                                domestic monopolies over production    TORs, to identify constraints on
and distribution.                        domestic competition (barriers to
entry/exit, distribution. etc.).
PLoing private sector play a more  - Revision of regulations governing           -  Enactment of law and promulgation   - Equal treatment of public and
po',itive role in the development       the private sector.                        of appropriate decrees on private         private sectors when engaged in
of the economy.                                                                    sector activities abolishing: (a)         the same activity.
ceilings on Investments or on
access to credit; and (b) require-  -  Preparation of a law facilitating
ment of prior authorization by the       the participation of foreign enter-
administration to undertake              prices in investment projects within
investments.                             the framework of joint ventures.
-  Gradual increase in the amount of   - Allocation in 1990 of an amount at
foreign exchange allocated to the        least equal to the allocation made
private sector from DA 1.5 billion       in 1989, except  ai the event that
in 1988 to DA 6.0 billion in 1989.       the total allocation of foreign ex-
change Is reduced. In such a case.
the private sector will receive at
least the same proportion as in
1989.



ALGERIA: ECDNKOtrC REFORM SUPPORT LOAN
MEDIUM & LONG-TERM                      AREAS OF                                   ACTIONS ALREADY                        PRIORITY ACTIONS OVER
OBJECTIVES                        INTERVENTION                                      TAKEN                              THE NEXT 12 MONTHS
V. PUBLIC INVESTMENT PROGRAM
Improvement of efficiency of in-   -  Systematic enforcement of criteria    -  Establishment of a target ceiling   - Evaluation of the new public in-
vestment through better allocation    for a more efficient allocation of           to reduce the level of net lending       vestment program by a joint team
of resources.                           resources in public investment.            from the Treasury from DA 18.5           with the Bank on the basis of agreed
billion in 1986 to DA 12.4 billion       criteria.
in 1989.
VI. FINANCIAL SECTOR REFORM
A. CENTRAL BANK (OCA)
Development of 8CA's capabilities  -  Definition of the role of S3CA.           -  Enactment of the new Banking Law
for: (A) the conduct of monetary                                                   giving BCA the responsibility for
and cre6it policies; and (ii) the                                                  the implementation of monetary and
drawing up and implementation of                                                   credit policies and the regulation
banking regulations.                                                               of credit institutions.
-  Strengthening of OCA's technical        -  Adoption of an interim program for  -  Strengthening of other SCA functions
capabilities.                              %trengthening of BCA":. Inspection       (research, credit, audit, credit
li.partment and its ability to           risk. external debt monitoring,
*..pervise the banking system.           etc.).
- Adoption of a long-term plan for the co
development needs of SCA.
- Drawing up of banking regulations.    -  Enactment of new *Conditions de          - AdoPtion of regulations establishing
banques".                                accounting and auditing requirements
for banks, including a *plan
comptable'.
- Adoption of banking regulations
(prudential ratios, rules for risk
provisioning. etc.).
S. COMMERCIAL BANKS
More active role for banks in        -  Legal autonomy for banks.               -  Abolition of exclusive
resource mobilization and a more                                                   0domiciliationN and adoption of
efficient allocation of resources.                                                 new Banking Law to provide the
basis for bank autonomy and opera-
tion of banks on basis of
comercial profitability.
-  Strengthening of capabilities of        -  Development of a training program   -  Implementation of training program
c ercial banks.                           for bankers.                             for bankers.
(4093E)                                                                                                                                                           I
'a



ALGERIA: ECONOMIC REFORM SUPPORT LOAN
MEDIUM & LONG-TERM                      AREAS OF                                   ACTIONS ALREADY                        PRIORIm  ACTIONS OVER
OBJECTIVES                        INTERVENTION                                      TAKEN                              THE NEXT 12 MONTHS
VI. FINANCIAL SECTOR REFORM (continued)
B. COMMERCIAL BANKS (continued)
-  Rehabilitation of the banks' balance  -  Adoption of a plan for the study    -  Using the results of the study in
sheets.                                    of impact of the rehabiliation of        column tII. preparation of a plan
enterprises' balance sheets on the       for the rehabilitation of the
banking sector.                          banks' balance sheets.
C. SPECIALIZED FINANCIAL INTERQEDIARIES
Promotion of competition among       -  Removal of legal barriers to competi- -  Abolition of all monopolies of          - Definition of objectives and roles
credit institutions in order to         tion among credit institutions.            specialized institutions dealing         of BAD and CaEP.
improve effectiveness and                                                          with certain sectors of activity.
efficiency of financial
intermediation.
-  Rationalization of selective credit   -  Limitation of activities eligible   -  Establishment of data base for 1987
policy through a reduction In              for preferential rediscounting to        and 1988 for the amount and propor-
interest rate distortions.                 certain agricultural activities.         tion of selective credit (within
real estate development in desig-        total bank credit).
nated development 2ones, and non-
traditional exports.                  -  Establishment of a system to monitor'
the extension of selective credit   OD
as of 199. 
- Increase in the bulk of preferen- - Aoreement not to Increase the
tial rediscount rates.                   absolute gap between non-subsidized
interast rates provided by banks on
the one hand. and interest rates
subsidized through preferential re-
discounting or directly by the
Treasury on the other.
- Establishtent of a schedule for the
gradual reduction of interest rate
distortions through selective
credit.
-  Introduction of greater competition                                              - Launching of a study, on the basis
in use of insurante companies,                                                      of agreed TORs. of the use of
captive resources.                                                                  financial resources of insurance
companies.
-  Improvement of effectiveness in the                                              - Examination of the use of Social
use of Social Security funds.                                                       Security and pension fund liquidity
supluses.
u93C )
Iu'13E.)~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~



ALGERIA: ECMONMIC REFORM SUPPORT LOAN
MEDIUM & LONG-TERM                     AREAS OF                                  ACTIONS ALREADY                       PRIORITY ACTIONS OVER
OBJECTIVES                       INTERVENTION                                     TAKEN                             THE NEXT 12 MIDTNS
VI. FINANCIAL SECTOR REFORM (continued)
0. FINANCIAL MARKETS
-  Increasing efficiency of financial - Strengthening of the role of             - Adoption of measures to develop       - Allowing certain enterprises access
markets to stimulate resource          financial markets.                        an interbank money market authori-      to the money market.
mobilization, improve resource                                                   zing direct exchanges among banks.
allocation and help reduce the                                                                                        - Greater use by Goverrwnt and enter-
liquidity overhang.                                                                                                      prises of financial instruments to
finance their borrowing needs.
VII. PU8LIC ENTERPRISE REFORM
- Greater technical and financial    - Modification of the status of public  -  Enactment of law establishing
efficiency in public enterprises.      enterprises to allow them greater         autonomy for national public
autonomy.                                 enterprises.
-  Passage to autonony of at least     -  Passage to autonomy of the bulk of
175 national public enterprises.       remaining national public
enterprises.
- Creation of 8 holding companies      - Preparation of medium-term plan by
holding the shares of autonomous        each enterprise.
publiC enterprises.
- Definition of restructuring and    I
rationalization strategy for
selected key industrial sub-
sectors.
-  Improving quality of Public                                                    -  Preparation and adoption of
enterprise accounts.                                                             regulation defining external audit-
ing reqviroments for national public
enterprises. Adoption of an action
plan for the implementation of this
regulation.
(4093E)
* I



ALGERIA!  ECOuIC I If  RM SOUPPORT LOAN
MEDIUM & LONG-TERM                      AREAS OF                                   ACTIONS ALREADY                        PRIORITY ACTIONS OVER
OBJECTIVES                        INTERVENTION                                      TAKEN                              THE NEXT 12 IQNTHS
VIII. AGRICULTURAL REFORM
- Transformation of agrarian            -  Transformation of the land-tenure       -  Enactment of legislation to break
structure with objective of in-         system through the establishment of        up about 3.400 state farms into
creasing productivity, improving        private agricultural units to              21,000 farms with private rights.
investment efficiency as well as        replace state farms.                       Farmers have long-term usufruct
modernizing and increasing                                                         rishts to lands.
production.
- Identificat1on of individuals to
farm the lands thus constituted.
Demarcation of each newly created
farm. Distribution of land to
farmers.
- Valuation and sale to producers of
all fixed assets of state farms
(buildings, farm machinery and
equipment. etc.).
-  Elfmtnation of Treasury subsidies       -  Elimination of minimiut guaranteed
to cover deficits of state farms.          wage to farm workers.
-  Elimination of Treasury  concours
temporaireso to state farms.
Improvement of the availability of - Liberalization and improvement of the -  Transfer of Government sponsored    -  Relaxation of regulations and
and access to all agricultural          marketing system for agricultural          cooperatives into real cooperatives    procedures to increase competition
inputs.                                 inputs including progressive with-         belonging to and managed by farmers.   in the distribution of agricultural
drawal of Government participation                                                  inputs and efficiency of the
in the marketing system.                                                            marketing system.  This would
include possible private sector
participation.
- Carrying out of a study on the
distribution and pricing policy
of fertilizers.
(4093E)
II



ALGERIA: ECOMMIC REFORM SUPPORT LOAN
MEDIUM & LONG-TERM                    AREAS OF                                  ACTIONS ALREADY                      PRIORITY ACTIS OVER
OBJECTIVES                      INTERVENTION                                    TAKEN                             THE NEXT 12 MONTHS
VIII. AGRICULTURAL REFORM (continued)
Introduction of a pricing policy   - Introduction of a more rational                                                - Launching of a study of prices and
(including prices for agricultural    pricing system for agricultural                                                  incentives of agricultural products
inputs) to better reflect economic    inputs and outputs.                                                              with controlled prices. The study
costs.                                                                                                                 would also oxamine the macro-
economic Impact of the various
pricing options and Issues of
cawarative advantase.
-  Increase in the prices of agri-     - Continuation of the policy
cultural inputs to progressively       described in col=m I2t.
reflect production and distribu-
tion costs.
- Doublino of water charoes in         - Carrying out of a study of water
large-scale irrigation projects.       charges, including a schedule for
further increases in order to
cover 100i of Olh costs.
IX. ENVIRDMENT. POPULATION ANO SOCIAL DIMSIONS OF REFORM
A  ENVIRONMENT
Lwouring the preservation of the   - Improvement of the formulation and    - Consolidation of responsibility for - Establishment of a schedule for:    
environment for future                the implementation of environmental      general environmental policy and        (a) defining a plan of action
generations.                          policy.                                   its implementation.                    addressing immediate priorities
(disposal of dangerous wastes,
etc.). (b) impleenting a medium-
term program for controlling water
contamination, and Ec) preparing
a mnageemnt plan for water
resources.
S. POPULATIOh
Ensuring a higher standard of      - Demooraphic planning and policy.       - Establish a unit responsible for    - Development of appropriate targets
living for future generations.                                                  (a) identifyins and defining goals    for demographic policy and proposed
for control of demographic gr-h.       strategy to achieve these targets.
and lb) coordinating efforts in
that area.
t4093E)



AL9{IRIA ECLMdOMXC fRFDOR SUPPORT LOAU
MEDIUM & LONG-TERM                    AREAS OF                                ACTIONS ALREADY                      PRIORITY ACTIONS OVER
OBJECTIVES                      INTERVENTION                                   TAKEN                            THE NEXT 12 HUMaS
IX. ENVIMOlMFNT, POPULATION AND SOCIAL DIENS IONS OF REFOn (continued)
C. SOCIAL DIMENSIONS OF REFORM
Minimsiation of nepative effects   - Inorovezent of social planning         - Development of a soclo-sconoaic     - Completion of existing socio-
and social costs o  adjustment on    apparatus.                               data base on vulnerable groups to      econonic data collection by
ost vulnerable groups.                                                         identify those needing particular     designimngaunching surveys (LSIS
attention.                            or similar) to assess ad)ustmnt
ineat.
- Initiation of a review of the       - Development of a plan to protect
efficiency of social budset           vulnerable groups.  This plan will
expenditures and development of       spell out the Governent's overall
proposals for Improved targeting.     policy on consuker subsidies and
clarify how these Substdies can be
better targeted to the vulnerable
groups.
- Review of legal provisions per-     - Coletion of development of
taining to humn resource manage-      proposals and drawing up of a
sent, salaries and wages as far as    calendar for their  plemomntation.
their Implications for the
orgwiztations and menagement of
production are coneorned.
_ _ _ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4~~~
4U9Ji >                                                                                                              e~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'



- 88 -
ALN  mII
Page 1 of 3
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
ECONOMIC REFORM SUPPORT LOAN
Sunolementary Project Data Sheet
Section I:    Timetable of Key Events
(a)        Time taken to prepare the operation:        About eighteen months
(b)        Responsibility for preparation:             Government/Bank
(c)        Operation first identified by Bank:         March 1988
(d)        Bank appraisal mission:                     May 1989
(e)        Negotiations:                               July 1989
(f)        Board presentation:                         August 1989
(g)        Planned date of effectiveness:              September 1989
Section II:   Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Snecial Conditions
(a)        Conditions of Board Presentation: Release of First Tranche (USS15Q
million)
A number of major policy measures have been implemented in the
context of Government's overall program of reform over the past
15-18 months during preparation and appraisal of the proposed loan.
These actions are spelt out in column III of the matrix attached
to the Government's Development Policy Letter (Annex II). On the
macroeconomic front, these include: adjustment of the real
effective exchange rate, reduction of the deficit on Treasury
operations, agreement to implement a tight monetary control policy,
reduction in the current account deficit and simultaneous
stabilization of reserves, and improved debt monitoring and
management.   On the sectoral/institutional front, key actions
include: adoption of a National Credit Plan, increase in interest
rates and the introduction of greater flexibility in their
determination, increase in most preferential rediscount rates and
limiting their applicability, disengagement of the Treasury from
financing of new investments, tax reform, reduction of controls
on foreign exchange allocations, increased competition for imports,
initiation of the reform and liberalization of the pricing
structure, the abolition of a large share of domestic monopolies,



- 89 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 3
relaxation of controls on the private sector and giving it greater
access to foreign exchange, strengthening of the supervisory and
regulatory role of the Central Bank, granting of autonomy to
commercial banks so that they can operate on the basis of
commercial profitability, development of an interbank money market
with a flexible rate of interest, establishment of the principle
of autonomy of enterprises, transformation of the land tenure
system with the break up and privatization of 3,400 state farms,
and the start-up of work to develop targets for demographic
planning and to ensure the protection of vulnerable groups.
(b)        Conditions of Release of Second Tranche (USS150 million)
overall Performance
Satisfaction with the general progress of the program, as outlined
in the Government's Development Policy Letter, with special
reference to the achievement of 1989 macroeconomic targets and the
formulation of 1990 targets.
Soecific Actions
(i) Foreign Exchange Allocation and Foreign Exchange Regime
-    Carrying out of actions to implement the new foreign exchange
allocation system in accordance with the provisions of the
new decree as follows:
-    notification to all public enterprises of their multi-
year foreign exchange allocation beginning in fiscal
year 1990; and
-    authorisation to each public enterprise to carry over
all unutilised allocations of foreign exchange from one
year to another provided that, in the case that such
an enterprise is engaged in export activities, it
should have met its export target.
-    Reduction  in the proportion of imports  for resale by
importers designated as the sole authorized importer of a
particular type of good to 45X or less of the total value of
all goods imported.
(ii) Pricing System
-    Enactment of a pricing system to ensure that the proportion
of goods and services whose prices will be freely determined
on a market basis, will represent at least 40X of the weight
attached to such goods and servic s in the CPI.



- 90 -
Page 3 of 3
(iii) Public Investment Program
-    Undertaking a review by a joint Government/Bank team, on the
basis of guidelines agreed upon by both the Bank and the
Borrower, of the public investment program in 1990 and of the
criteria to be used for the selection of public investments
in the subsequent four years.
(iv) Public Enterprise Reform
a    Completion of the passage of at least 300 national public
enterprises to the status of Autonomous Public Enterprises
as defined by the new legislation.
(v) Social Dimensions of Reform
=    Development of a plan to protect vulnerable groups including
the development of a suitable program of subsidies.



- 91-                                       ANNX IV
THE STATUS OF BANK GkOUP OPERATIONS IN ALGERIA
A.  STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of June 30, 1989)
Loan or                                                                               US$ Million Amount
Credit                                                                               (Less Cancellations)
Number  XYar      BCrrowe                         Puraose                         Aidk      IDA    Undisbursed
Twenty-five Loans Fully Disbursed                                                656.34
1892     1981   The Democratic and Popular
Republic of Algeria            Highways IV                    110.00                31.33
2370     1984   The Democratic and Popular
Republic of Algeria            Telecommunications             104.30                36.13
2461     1984   The Democratic and Popular
Republic of Algeria            Water Supply II                290.00                35.45
2591     1985   The Democratic and Popular
Republic of Algeria            Water Supply & Sewerage        262.00               149.96
2808     1987   The Democratic and Popular
Republic of Algeria            Highways V                     120.00                93.25
2809     1987   The Democratic and Popular
Republic of Algeria            Irrigation Cheliff              94.00                84.59
2821     1987   The Democratic and Popular
Republic of Algeria            Water Supply & Sewerage II    250.00                230.00
2976     1988   Soci6td Nationale des Trans-
ports Ferroviaires (SNTF)      Railways II lb                 143.00               143.00
2977     1988   The Democratic and Popular
Republic of Algeria            Vocational Training /a          54.00                54.00
2978     1988   The Democratic and Popular
Republic of Algeria            Irrigation Engineering          14.00                14.00
2981     1988   Soci6te Nationale de lElectri-
cit6 et du Gaz (Sonelgaz)      Power III 1k                   160.00               160.00
3009     1989   Banque de l Agriculture et du
D6veloppement Rural (BADR)    Agriculture Credit /k           110.00               110.00
3017     1989   The Democratic and Popular
Republic of Algeria            Locust Control                  58.00                58.00
3076     1989   The Democratic and Popular
Republic of Algeria            Nitidja Irrigation /b          110.00               110.00
3105     1989   The Democratic and Popular
Republic of Algeria            Third Ports /k                  63.00                63.00
TOTAL                                                                2.598.64             1,372.71
Of which has been repaid                                        487.92
Total Now Outstanding                                         2 110.72
Amount Sold                      36.37
of which has been repaid       15.18                            1.19
Total now held by Bank                                        2,109.53
Total Undisbursed                                                                  1.372.71
/a   Not yet effective as of June 30, 1989.
/t   Not yet signed as of June 30, 1989.
Algeria is not a member of IFC.
0468a/p.l
07.05.89



- 92 -
ANEX V
Page 1 of 2
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
ECONOMIC REFORM SUPPORT LOAN
Revised Structure of Interest Rates
I.    Ordinary Lending Rates
August 1986-May 1989        May 1989
------------------  p.a.------------------
Short-Term
Non-agricultural public sector              7.0     )
Non-agricultural private sector         8.5-10.0    )
,Up to 10. 0 a/
Overdrafts                                             )
Non-agricultural public sector          6.0-7.0     )
Non-agricultural private sector         9.5-10.5    )
Medium-Term                                            )    Up to average
Non-agricultural public sector          6.0-7.0     )     cost of funds
Non-agricultural private sector         7.5-9.5     )    + 3% (Current
)     ceiling 12.5%) k/
Long-Term                                              )
Non-agricultural public sector              6.0     )
Non-agricultural private sector         8.5-10.0    )
a/ Ceiling set at ordinary rediscount rate plus three percentage points.  It
would be automatically adjusted upward if the ordinary rediscount rate were
increased. It is expected that a major proportion of rates will be near
the ceiling.
/ Average cost of funds means weighted average of previous quarter. The
ceiling is currently set at 12.5X for all banks. In the next quarter, it
may increase if the cost of funds increases up to a ceiling of twice the
ordinary rediscount rate (i.e. 14.0% at present). It is expected that a
major proportion of rates will be near the ceiling.



- 93 -
mm
Page 2 of 2
1I. Lending Rates on Activities Benefitting from Prefgrential Rediscountinz
Rediscount Rate            Lending Rate
August 1986                August 1986
-say 1989     May 1989     -may 1989   May 1989
.-X.p.  -    p.a.--------------------
(Ordinary Rediscount Rate)      5.0          7.0
Agriculture
Production and storage
of cereals and pulses      3.0          4.0           6.0     up to 8.0 A/
Land reclamation (MT)        3.0          2.5           h/         3.5
All Other                    3.0      not eligible  4.5-9.5    standard
lending
rates
Real Estate Development
In development areas         3.0          5.0           6.5     6.5
For improvement and other    3.0      not eligible  7.5-9.5    standard
lending
rates
Non-Traditional Exports         3.0           4.0            I     5.0
Ongoing Planned
Investment (MT) S/             5.0          5.0           6.0     6.0
Source: The Central Bank.
A/ New ceiling to apply as of next agricultural season (i.e. October 1989).
Ceiling will be same as that on ordinary short-term credit minus two
percentage points.
W Eligible lending to this activity has traditionally been negligible.
S/ Refers to some DA 3.0 billion of activities financed by certain financial
intermediaries from their own resources. Not applicable to any new
lending.
MT: Medium-Term



