Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3117 AL
(Economic Reform Support Loan)
between
DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated October 17, 1989
 LOAN NUMBER 3117 AL
LOAN AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated October 17, 1989, between DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF 
ALGERIA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the 
Bank).
     WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received a letter dated July 27, 1989 from the Borrower 
describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to  achieve 
structural reform of the Borrower's economy (hereinafter called the Program), 
declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution of the Program, and requesting 
assistance from the Bank in the financing of urgently needed imports required during 
such execution; and 
     (B)  on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Bank has decided in support 
of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower by making the Loan in two 
tranches as hereinafter provided;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Page  2
General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications thereof set 
forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
     (a)  Section 2.01, paragraph 11, shall be modified to read:
               "'Project' means the imports that may be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Loan 
Agreement.";
     (b)  Section 9.07 (c) shall be modified to read:
               "(c)  Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later 
date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on 
the execution of the program referred to in the Preamble to the  Loan 
Agreement, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their 
respective obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment 
of the purposes of the Loan."; and
     (c)  The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
     Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
     (a)  "SITC" means the Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 
(SITC, Rev. 3), published by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 
34/Rev.3 (1986);
     (b)  "Dinar" and "DA" mean the unit of currency of the Borrower;
     (c)  "BAD" means the Borrower's Algerian Development Bank, (Banque Algerienne de 
Developpement) established and operating pursuant to the Borrower's Ordinance No. 
71/47 dated June 30, 1971, as amended from time to time;
     (d) "Consumer Price Index" means the consumer price index published monthly by 
the Borrower's National Office of Statistics (Office National des Statistiques);
     (e) "Economic Public Enterprise" means a national public enterprise (entreprise 
publique economique) established and operating pursuant to Title I of the Borrower's 
Law No. 88-01 dated January 12, 1988; and
     (f)  "Foreign Exchange Allocation Law" means the Borrower's Decree No. 88-167 
dated September 6, 1988, providing for the allocation of foreign exchange to national 
public enterprises (Decret No. 88-167 du 6 septembre 1988 relatif aux conditions de 
programmation des echanges exterieurs et a la mise en place des budgets-devises au 
profit des entreprises publiques), as amended from time to time.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
     Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various currencies that 
shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount  of three hundred million 
dollars ($300,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with 
each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
     Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1991 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Page  3
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
     Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding 
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the 
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the 
rate applicable during such Interest Period.
     (b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall notify 
the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such 
Semester.
     (c)  For the purposes of this Section:
          (i) "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the date 
immediately preceding each date specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period in which this 
Agreement is signed.
         (ii) "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as reasonably 
determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum, of 
the outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30, 
1982, excluding such borrowings or portions thereof as the Bank 
has allocated to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) loans 
which may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing interest 
rates determined otherwise than as provided in paragraph (a) of 
this Section.
        (iii) "Semester" means the first six months or the second six months of 
a calendar year.
     (d)  On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months' notice to 
the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to 
read as follows: 
               "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each 
Quarter equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect 
of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On 
each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the 
Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding 
during 
the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates applicable 
during such 
Interest Period."
               "(b) As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the Bank 
shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings 
determined in respect of such Quarter."
               "(c)  (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period commencing on 
January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a calendar year."
     (e)  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, the 
interest rate for the Interest Period commencing in the first Semester of 1989 shall 
be seven and sixty-five hundredths percent (7.65%).
     Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on May 1 
and November 1 in each year.
     Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.08. (a) The BAD is designated as representative of the Borrower for the 
purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
     (b)  Without limitation or restriction upon the foregoing, the Borrower hereby 
entrusts the BAD with responsibility for the preparation of withdrawal applications 
under the Loan and for the collection of the documents and other evidence to be 
furnished to the Bank in support of such applications; such withdrawal applications 
shall to the extent practicable be consolidated so as
Page  4
to apply for withdrawal of aggregate amounts of not less than $1,000,000 equivalent.
ARTICLE III
Particular Covenants
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the 
request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program and the actions specified in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
     (b)  Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank 
for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
     Section 3.02.  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
     Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained separate 
records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained 
sound accounting practices the expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i) have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
         (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than nine months after the end of each such year, a 
certified copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and
        (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to 
time reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan Account 
were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
          (i) maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
         (ii) retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
        (iii) enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
 
         (iv) ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audits referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE IV
Additional Event of Suspension
     Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which 
shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be 
carried out.
ARTICLE V
Page  5
Termination
     Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 6.01. Except as provided in Section 2.08 (a) of this Agreement, the 
Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower 
for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
     For the Borrower:
          Ministere des Finances
          Immeuble Mauretania
          Place du Perou
          Algiers
          Democratic and Popular Republic of Algeria
          Cable address:                  Telex:
          FINPLAN                         67073
          Alger
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                  Telex:
               INTBAFRAD                  440098 (ITT),
               Washington, D.C.           248423 (RCA) or
                                           64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Algiers, Democratic and Popular Republic of Algeria, as of the day and year first 
above written.
                        DEMOCRATIC AND POPULAR REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA
                        By /s/ Ghazi Hidouci
Authorized Representative
                        INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                          RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                        By /s/ Kemal Dervis
Acting Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
Page  6
1.   Subject to the provisions set forth or referred to in this Schedule, the proceeds 
of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account for expenditures made (or, if the 
Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods required 
during the execution of the Program and to be financed out of such proceeds.
2.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be made 
in respect of:
     (a)  expenditures for goods included in the following SITC groups or sub-groups, 
or any successor groups or sub-groups under future revisions to the SITC, as 
designated by the Bank by notice to the Borrower:
     Group                Sub-group         Description of Items
     112                     -              Alcoholic beverages
     121                     -              Tobacco, unmanu-
                                            factured,tobacco
                                            refuse
     122                     -              Tobacco, manufactured
                                            (whether or not
                                            containing tobacco
                                            substitutes)
     525                     -              Radioactive and asso-
                                            ciated materials
     667                     -              Pearls, precious and
                                            semi-precious stones,
     718                     718.7          Nuclear reactors, and
                                            parts thereof, fuel
                                            elements (cartridges),
                                            non-irradiated for
                                            nuclear reactors
     897                     897.3          Jewelry of gold,
                                            silver or platinum
                                            group metals (except
                                            watches and watch
                                            cases) and goldsmiths'
                                            or silversmiths' wares
                                            (including set gems)
     971                        -           Gold, non-monetary
                                            (excluding gold ores
                                            and concentrates)
     (b)  expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods supplied from the 
territory of the Borrower;
     (c)  payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except 
that withdrawals in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of $60,000,000 
may be made on account of payments made for such expenditures before that date but 
after May 15, 1989;
     (d)  expenditures for goods procured under contracts costing less than $60,000 
equivalent;
     (e)  expenditures for goods supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Bank shall have financed 
or agreed to finance; 
     (f)  expenditures for goods intended for a military or para-military purpose or 
for luxury consumption;
     (g)  expenditures in excess of an aggregate amount equivalent to $60,000,000 for 
petroleum products and foodstuffs; and
     (h)  expenditures for goods imported under contracts for the supply of 
Page  7
commodities, if such contracts were awarded by direct contracting without competition.
3.  Withdrawals for expenditures under contracts for the procurement of goods 
estimated to cost less than $2,000,000 may be permitted by the Bank upon the basis of 
statements of expenditure under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify.
4.  No withdrawal shall be made and no commitment shall be entered into to pay amounts 
to or on the order of the Borrower in respect of expenditures to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan after the aggregate of the proceeds of the Loan withdrawn 
from the Loan Account and the total amount of such  commitments shall have reached the 
equivalent of $150,000,000, unless the Bank
shall be satisfied, after an exchange of views as described in Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement based on evidence satisfactory to the Bank: (a) with the progress achieved 
by the Borrower in the carrying out of the Program, and (b) that the actions described 
in Schedule 4 to this Agreement have been taken.
5.  If, after the exchange of views described in paragraph 4 above, the Bank shall 
have given notice to the Borrower that the progress achieved and actions taken are not 
satisfactory and, within 90 days after such notice, the Borrower shall not have 
achieved progress and taken actions satisfactory to the Bank, then the Bank may, by 
notice to the Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn amount of the Loan or any part thereof.
SCHEDULE 2
Amortization Schedule
                                            Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)*
On each May 1 and November 1
     beginning  May 1, 1995
     through    November 1, 2004                    15,000,000
____________________________
*
The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as of the 
respective dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 
4.03.
Premiums on Prepayment
     Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium payable on 
the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage 
Page  8
specified for the applicable time of prepayment below:
   Time of Prepayment                            Premium
                                         The interest rate (ex-
                                         pressed as a percentage
                                         per annum) applicable to
                                         the Loan on the day of
                                         prepayment multiplied by:
Not more than three years                          0.20
     before maturity
More than three years but                          0.40
     not more than six years
     before maturity
More than six years but                            0.73
     not more than eleven years
     before maturity
More than eleven years but not                     0.87
     more than thirteen years
     before maturity
More than thirteen years before                    1.00
     maturity
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
1.   Contracts for the procurement of goods estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$5,000,000 or more each shall be awarded through international competitive bidding in 
accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the 
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in 
May 1985 (the Guidelines), subject to the
following modifications:
     (a)  Paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines is deleted and the following is substituted 
therefor:
     "2.8 Notification and Advertising
          The international community should be notified in a timely manner of the 
opportunity to bid. This will be done by advertising invitations to apply for 
inclusion in a bidder's invitation list, to apply for requalification, or to 
bid; such advertisements should be placed in at least one newspaper of general 
circulation in the Borrower's country and, in addition, in at least one of the 
following forms: 
          (i) a notice in the United Nations publication, Development Business; 
or
         (ii) an advertisement in a newspaper, periodical or technical journal 
of wide international circulation; or
        (iii) a notice to local representatives of countries and territories 
referred to in the Guidelines, that are potential suppliers of the 
goods required."
     (b)  The following is added at the end of paragraph 2.21 of the Guidelines:
              "As a further alternative, bidding documents may require the bidder to 
state the bid price in a single currency widely used in international 
trade and specified in the bidding documents."
     (c)  Paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines are deleted.
2.   Contracts for the procurement of goods estimated to cost the equivalent of less 
than $5,000,000 shall be awarded:
Page  9
     (a)  by public sector purchasers, subject to the Borrower's public procurement 
procedures for the importation of goods, on the basis of competitive bidding 
advertised locally, and by other public sector purchasers, all in accordance with 
procedures acceptable to the Bank; or
     (b)  by other purchasers, in accordance with established commercial practices, 
provided that such contracts shall be awarded on the basis of evaluation and 
comparison of quotations obtained from suppliers from at least two countries, except 
where direct contracting is permitted under paragraph 3.5 of the Guidelines.
3.  Contracts for the procurement of commodities and other products contracted through 
international commodity markets shall be awarded on the basis of procedures acceptable 
to the Bank. 
4.  With respect to each contract referred to in paragraph 1 of this Schedule, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, prior to the submission to the Bank of the first 
application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract, 
two conformed copies of such contract, together with the analysis of the respective 
bids and recommendations for award, a description
of the advertising and tendering procedures followed and such other information as the 
Bank shall reasonably request.
5.  With respect to each contract referred to in paragraphs 2 and 3 of this Schedule, 
the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, prior to the submission to the Bank of the 
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect thereof, 
such documentation and information as the Bank may reasonably request to support 
withdrawal applications in respect of such contract.
6.  The provisions of the preceding paragraphs 4 and 5 shall not apply to contracts on 
account of which the Bank has authorized withdrawals from the Loan Account on the 
basis of statements of expenditure.
SCHEDULE 4
Actions Referred to in Paragraph 4 (b)
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement
The following actions shall be taken for the purpose of applying Paragraph 4(b) of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement:
1.  Foreign Exchange System
     (a)  The following actions to implement the Borrower's foreign exchange 
allocation system in accordance with the provisions of the Foreign Exchange Allocation 
Law:
          (i) the Borrower shall have issued a notification to all Economic 
Public Enterprises specifying their respective multiyear foreign 
exchange allocations beginning fiscal year 1990; and
         (ii) the Borrower shall have authorized: (A) each Economic Public 
Enterprise to carry over, for utilization by any such enterprise 
in the following fiscal years, all allocations of foreign exchange 
which shall have been made to such enterprise during a preceding 
fiscal year and which shall have remained unutilized at the end of 
such year, provided that in the case of an Economic Public 
Enterprise which is engaged in export activity said enterprise 
shall have satisfied its applicable export targets; and (B) that 
all such carryovers shall be in addition to the allocation of 
foreign exchange made to a given Economic Public Enterprise for 
the following fiscal year.
     (b)  Taking of all action necessary to ensure that the total value of all goods 
imported for resale by importers designated by the Borrower as the sole authorized 
importers of a particular type of goods during fiscal year 1990 shall not exceed 45% 
of the total value of all goods imported during such year.
2.  Price
     Taking of all actions necessary to ensure the free determination on a market 
basis of the prices of goods and services whose weight in the Consumer Price Index 
equals at least 40% of the total weight assigned to all goods and services in said 
Page  10
index.
3. Public Investment Program
     Carrying out, on the basis of guidelines agreed upon by both the Borrower and the 
Bank, of a review by the Borrower and the Bank of the Borrower's public investment 
program for its fiscal year 1990, and of the criteria for the preparation of the 
Borrower's public investment program for its fiscal years 1991 through 1994.
4.  Public Enterprises
     That at least 300 of the Borrower's national public enterprises shall have been 
transformed into autonomous Economic Public Enterprises in accordance with the 
provisions of Title I of the Borrower's Law No. 88-01 dated January 12, 1988.
5. Social Program
     Preparation, on the basis of terms of reference set forth in the Program, of a 
plan of action to alleviate the adverse effects on the most vulnerable groups of the 
Borrower's population which may result from the implementation of the Program, 
including the development of a suitable program of subsidies.
