Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 4635 - TA 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Seventh Poverty Reduction Support Development Policy Financing) 
 
between 
 
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated July 22, 2009  
 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 4635 - TA 
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT July 22, 2009, entered into between UNITED REPUBLIC OF 
TANZANIA (
“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(“Association”) for the purpose of providing financing in support of the Program (as 
defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).  The Association has decided to provide this 
financing on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of
(a) the actions which the Recipient has already taken 
under the Program and which are described in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
and (b) the Recipient’s maintenance of an appropriate macro-economic policy 
framework. The Recipient and the Association therefore hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II 
—
FINANCING 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a credit in an amount equivalent to one 
hundred twenty seven million seven hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights 
(SDR 127,700,000
)
(referred to variously as “Credit” and “Financing”). 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in support of the 
Program in accordance with Section II of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
 
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the 
Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per 
annum. 
2.04. 
The Service Charge payable by the Recipient on the Withdrawn Credit Balance 
shall be equal to three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum. 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are March 15 and September 15 in each year. 
Page  3
2
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Credit shall be repaid in accordance with repayment 
schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.07. 
The Payment Currency is Dollars. 
ARTICLE III 
—
PROGRAM 
 
3.01 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.  
To this end: 
 
(a) 
the Recipient and the Association shall from time to time, at the request 
of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out 
the Program; 
 
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Recipient shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress 
achieved in carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Association 
shall reasonably request; and 
 
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this 
Section, the Recipient shall exchange views with the Association on any 
proposed action to be taken after the disbursement of the Financing 
which would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the 
Program, or any action taken under the Program including any action 
specified in Section I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV
—REMEDIES OF THE ASSOCIATION 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension shall be that a situation has arisen which 
shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part of it, will be 
carried out. 
 
ARTICLE V
—TERMINATION
 
5.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
Page  4
3
ARTICLE VI 
—
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. 
The Recipient’s Representative is its Minister responsible for finance. 
6.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
Ministry of Finance and Economic Affairs 
P.O. Box 9111 
Dar es Salaam 
United Republic of Tanzania 
 
Facsimile: 
 
(255) 222 11 0326  
 
6.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
 
International Development Association 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 248423(MCI) 
 1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
  
 
Page  5
4
AGREED at Dar es Salaam, United Republic of Tanzania, as of the day and year 
first above written. 
 
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA 
 
By /s/ Ramadhani Khijjah 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION  
 
By /s/ John McIntire 
Authorized Representative 
Page  6
5
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Program Actions; Availability of Financing Proceeds 
 
Section I. 
Actions Taken Under the Program
The actions taken by the Recipient under the Program include the following:
 
1. 
TANESCO Financial Recovery Plan
:
The Recipient has, in accordance with 
paragraphs 9 and 10 of the Letter of Development Policy, made progress in the 
implementation of the TANESCO financial recovery plan, taking all necessary 
actions regarding any additional measures that may be required to strengthen 
TANESCO
’s revenue base. 
2. Infrastructure 
Sector
:
In accordance with paragraph 11 of the Letter of 
Development Policy, the Recipient has finalized a national public-private 
partnership policy to facilitate public-private partnerships in the infrastructure 
sector, among others. 
3. 
Forestry, Fisheries, Wildlife, Minerals and Oil & Gas Sectors
:
In accordance 
with paragraph 13 of the Letter of Development Policy, Recipient has collected 
information and reported on transparent and accountable systems of 
licenses/concession allocations in the forestry, fisheries, wildlife, minerals and oil 
&
gas sectors.  
4. Approved 
FY09 
Budget
:
In accordance with paragraphs 18 to 20 of the Letter of 
Development Policy, the Recipient has approved its budget for FY 2008/09 in 
line with MKUKUTA policy objectives. 
5. 
Governance and Public Sector Management
:
In accordance with paragraph 25 of 
the Letter of Development Policy, the Recipient has adopted concrete steps to 
prepare a revised medium-term pay policy as the basis for reform of pay and 
allowances, satisfactory to the Association.  
6. 
Governance and Public Sector Management
:
In accordance with paragraphs 26 
and 27 of the Letter of Development Policy, the Recipient has approved the 
creation of a new Department of Internal Audit in the Ministry of Finance and 
Economic Affairs, and prepared draft regulations under the Procurement and 
Supplies Professional Board Act 2007. 
7. Health 
Sector
:
In accordance with paragraph 29 of the Letter of Development 
Policy, the Recipient has updated the 2006/07 Health Sector Performance Report, 
and produced and disseminated the Health Sector Performance Report for 
2007/08, satisfactory to the Association.  
Page  7
6
8. Education 
Sector
:
In accordance with paragraphs 30 to 34 of the Letter of 
Development Policy, the Recipient has prepared an Education Sector 
Performance Report for 2007/08 using an agreed sector monitoring tool, 
satisfactory to the Association.  
9. Water 
Sector
:
In accordance with paragraph 35 of the Letter of Development 
Policy, the Recipient has carried out a Water Sector Review, satisfactory to the 
Association. 
Section II. 
Availability of Financing Proceeds
A. General. 
 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in 
accordance with the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as 
the Association may specify by notice to the Recipient. 
 
B. 
Allocation of Financing Amounts
 
The Financing shall be withdrawn in a single tranche.  The allocation of the 
amounts of the Financing to this end is set out in the table below: 
Allocations 
Amount of the Financing Allocated 
(expressed in SDR) 
Single Tranche 
127,700,000 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
127,700,000 
C. 
Deposits of Financing Amounts
 
Except as the Association may otherwise agree:   
1. 
all withdrawals from the Financing Account shall be deposited by the 
Association into an account designated by the Recipient and acceptable to the 
Association; and 
2. 
the Recipient shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the Financing 
into this ac
count, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the Recipient’s budget 
management system, in a manner acceptable to the Association. 
D. Excluded 
Expenditures
 
The Recipient undertakes that the proceeds of the Financing shall not be used to 
finance Excluded Expenditures. If the Association determines at any time that an 
amount of the Financing was used to make a payment for an Excluded 
Expenditure, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
Page  8
7
refund an amount equal to the amount of such payment to the Association. 
Amounts refunded to the Association upon such request shall be cancelled.
 
E. 
Closing Date.  
The Closing Date is November 30, 2010. 
Page  9
8
SCHEDULE 2
 
Repayment Schedule 
Date Payment Due 
Principal Amount of the Credit 
repayable 
(expressed as a percentage)* 
On each March 15 and September 15: 
 
commencing September 15, 2019 to and including 
March 15, 2029  
1% 
commencing September  15, 2029 to and including 
March 15, 2049 
2% 
*
The percentages represent the percentage of the principal amount of the Credit to be 
repaid, except as the Association may otherwise specify pursuant to Section 3.03 (b) of 
the General Conditions. 
Page  10
9
APPENDIX 
 
Section I. Definitions 
 
1. 
“Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure: 
 
(a)  
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Association or 
the Bank has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Association or 
the Bank has financed or agreed to finance under another credit, grant or 
loan; 
 
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published 
by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 
(1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or subgroups under future 
revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Association by notice to the 
Recipient: 
 
Group
Sub-group Description 
of 
Item 
112  
Alcoholic 
beverages 
121  
Tobacco, 
un-manufactured, 
tobacco refuse 
122 
 
Tobacco, manufactured (whether 
or not containing tobacco 
substitutes) 
525 
 
Radioactive and associated 
materials 
667 
 
Pearls, precious and semiprecious 
stones, unworked or worked 
718  
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and parts 
thereof; fuel elements 
(cartridges), non-irradiated, for 
nuclear reactors 
728 
728.43  
Tobacco processing machinery 
897 
 
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver or 
platinum group metals (except 
watches and watch cases) and 
goldsmiths’ or silversmiths’ 
wares (including set gems) 
971  
 
Gold,  non-monetary  (excluding 
gold ores and concentrates) 
Page  11
10 
 
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption; 
 
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of 
which is prohibited under the laws of the Recipient or international 
agreements to which the Recipient is a party; 
 
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United 
Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the 
United Nations; and 
 
(f) 
with respect to which the Association determines that corrupt, fraudulent, 
collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the 
Recipient or other recipient of the Financing proceeds, without the 
Recipient (or other such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate 
action satisfactory to the Association to address such practices when they 
occur. 
 
2. 
“Fiscal Year” or “FY” means the Recipient’s fiscal year commencing on July 1 
and ending on June 30 of the following year. 
 
3. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association 
General Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through October 15, 2006) with the modifications set forth in Section II of this 
Appendix. 
 
4. 
“Letter of Development Policy” means the letter dated March 29, 2009, from the 
Recipient to the Association, describing the Program (as hereinafter defined), and 
declaring the Recipient’s commitment to the execution of the Program, and 
requesting assistance from the Association in support of the Program during its 
execution. 
 
5. 
“MKUKUTA” means the Recipient’s National Strategy for Growth and 
Reduction of Poverty dated June 2005. 
 
6. 
“Program” means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to 
promote growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty and set forth or 
referred to in the Letter of Development Policy. 
 
7. 
“Single Tranche” means the amount of the Financing allocated to the category 
entitled “Single Tranche” in the table set forth in Part B of Section II of  
Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 
Page  12
11 
 
8. 
“TANESCO” means Tanzania Electric Supply Company Limited, a parastatal  
company established and operating pursuant to the Companies Act 
(CAP 212 (R.E 2002) of the laws of the Recipient, and includes any successors 
thereto. 
 
Section II.  Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
The modifications to the “International Development Association General Conditions for 
Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended through October 15, 2006) are as 
follows:   
1. 
The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for 
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety. 
2. 
Sections 2.04 (
Designated Accounts)
 and 2.05 (
Eligible Expenditures
)
are deleted 
in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered 
accordingly. 
3. 
Sections 4.01 (
Project Execution Generally
), and 4.09 (
Financial Management; 
Financial Statements; Audits
)
are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining 
Sections in Article IV are renumbered accordingly. 
4. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 4.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above 
and relating to 
Use of Goods, Works and Services
)
is deleted in its entirety. 
 
5. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 4.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 
above) is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 4.06. 
Plans; Documents; Records 
 
…
(c) 
The Recipient shall retain all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures 
under the Financing until two years after the Closing Date. The Recipient 
shall enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records.” 
 
6. 
Section 4.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is modified to 
read as follows: 
 
Section 4.07. 
Program Monitoring and Evaluation 
 
…
(c)  
The Recipient shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six months after the Closing 
Date, a report of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall 
reasonably request, on the execution of the Program, the performance by 
the Recipient and the Association of their respective obligations under 
Page  13
12 
 
the Legal Agreements and the accomplishment of the purposes of the 
Financing. 
 
7. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or 
deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in 
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered 
accordingly: 
 
(a) 
The definition of the term 
“Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as 
follows:   
 
“‘Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Financing is put in 
support of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded 
pursuant to the Financing Agreement.” 
 
(b) 
The term “Financial Statements” and its definition as set forth in the 
Appendix are deleted in their entirety. 
 
(c) 
The term “Project” is modified to read “Program” and its definition is 
modified to read as follows:  
 
“‘Program’ means the program referred to in the Financing Agreement in 
support of which the Financing is made.”  All references to “Project” 
throughout these General Conditions are deemed to be references to 
“Program”.
 
