Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB4499 
Operation Name 
Tanzania Seventh Poverty Reduction Support Credit 
Region 
AFRICA 
Sector 
Central government administration (25%); General industry and 
trade sector (25%); General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector 
(25%); General public administration sector (25%) 
Project ID 
P101230 
Borrower(s) 
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA 
Implementing Agency 
MINISTRY OF FINANCE 
Date PID Prepared 
January 26, 2009 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
March 10, 2009 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
May 28, 2009 
1.  Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement  
With an estimated per capita income of US$340 in 2006, Tanzania remains one of the poorest countries 
in the world. Since the mid 1990s, Tanzania has implemented a comprehensive program of reform, 
including macro-economic stabilization, privatization, strengthening of the financial system, reduction 
of barriers to trade, strengthening of the tax system, decentralization, strengthening of public 
expenditure and financial management, and public service reforms.  These reforms 
–
supported by 
significant amounts of development assistance - have resulted in an acceleration of economic activity, 
with an average real GDP growth of over 6 percent between 2002 and 2007. Clear signs of progress 
have been registered in recent years with respect to non-income poverty – notably in health and 
education.  Net primary school enrolment increased from 57 percent in 2000 to 95 percent in 2005; life 
expectancy from 44 years in 1978 to 54 years for males and 56 years for females in 2002; infant 
mortality dropped from 100 to 68 per 1000 between 2000 and 2004, while child mortality dropped from 
141 to 112 per 1000 in 2004. The fraction of chronically undernourished or stunted children declined 
from 44 percent in 1999 to 38 percent in 2004. Trends of income-poverty remain unclear, though, as 
different sets of available data and different assumptions on income distribution result in contrasting 
projections for poverty reduction.   
In 2005, a new PRSP – the National Strategy for Growth and Reduction of Poverty (commonly referred 
to by its Swahili acronym MKUKUTA) – was approved.  It focuses on three clusters of outcomes, 
namely growth and reduction of income poverty, quality of life and social well being, and governance 
and accountability.  Compared to the first PRSP, it places greater emphasis on growth and the reduction 
of income poverty.  Key structural measures currently pursued by government to sustain and accelerate 
high rates of economic growth include the improvements in the business environment, improvement of 
infrastructure, and reforms of agricultural marketing with a focus on the role and functioning of crop 
boards. 
The rationale for Bank’s involvement rests on (a) its ability to provide significant resources to narrow 
the gap between the financing needs for the implementation of the MKUKUTA and available resources 
from Tanzania’s own sources and other donors, (b) its technical contributions to the policy dialogue, 
grounded in a combination of the Bank’s international experience with a long track record of work in 
Tanzania in the areas covered by the PRSC, and (c) the preference by the Tanzanian authorities to 
receive a significant part of IDA resources as general budget support with the objective of enhancing 
Page  2
domestic ownership, capacity building through learning by doing, and accountability to domestic 
stakeholders by using the government’s budget process for the use of donor resources. 
 
2.  Proposed objective(s)  
This PRSC 7, in the indicative amount of US$200 million, is the penultimate operation of a series of five 
PRSCs (PRSC 4-8) supporting the Government’s Second Poverty Reduction and Growth Strategy, the 
MKUKUTA, within a highly harmonized framework for General Budget Support (GBS) provided by 14 
Development Partners.
1
Within the overall GBS framework, the PRSC series’ strategic focus is on two sets of objectives: (a) 
sustaining high and shared economic growth, and (b) expanding the effective delivery of basic services 
through the government budget. The financial support of PRSC sustains reliable budget financing of 
core public goods 
3. 
Preliminary description  
The proposed seventh poverty reduction support credit (PRSC-7) would be the penultimate one in a 
series of five annual operations (PRSC-4/8) supporting the implementation of Tanzania’s National 
Strategy for Growth and Reduction of Poverty (known as MKUKUTA). The Bank’s PRSC support to 
Tanzania is provided within a harmonized framework for general budget support.  
The strategic focus of the PRSC4-8 series is on two key sets of objectives: (i) sustaining high and shared 
economic growth, and (ii) expanding the effective delivery of basic services through the government 
budget.  Given the advanced stage of reforms in Tanzania, and the key constraints identified, these 2 
main strategic areas map out into 7 operational policy areas for the PRSC series: (i) agriculture; (ii) 
infrastructure; (iii) environment for private sector development; (iv) monitoring of service delivery in 
social sectors; (v) public expenditure and financial management; (vi) effectiveness of public 
administration; (vii) anti-corruption and accountability of the State. 
4.  Environment Aspects  
As the PRSC focuses primarily on institutional reforms, there are no direct significant effects on 
Tanzania’s environment, forests, and other natural resources.  In addition, the PRSC supports reforms of 
Tanzania’s legal and institutional framework for environmental management, environmental impact 
assessments, and strategic environmental assessments (SEAs).  In an effort to mainstream the 
environmental sustainability dimension into the PRSC process, the Bank has undertaken various 
analyses with the objective to identify linkages between key macro and structural reforms policies and 
the environment. This analysis identifies measures at both national and local government levels to 
reduce poverty and enhance environmental sustainability of policy reforms. The analysis concluded that 
environment and poverty are linked in three major ways: (a) poverty reduction programs should not 
damage the resource base and the environment of which poor depend for their livelihoods (b) improving 
environmental conditions can help to reduce poverty and promote sustainable pro-poor growth; and 
(c) mitigating measures may be necessary as part of policy dialogue. 
Working with the government and other development partners, the analysis identified a number strategic 
entry points for mainstreaming key issues of the poverty-environment nexus in Tanzania into PRSC 
1
The GBS framework comprises a Performance Assessment Framework (PAF), a Partnership Framework Memorandum (PFM) for GBS 
for the implementation of MKUKUTA, and a streamlined review process, in common between the 14 Development Partners (DPs) that 
provide GBS. The framework is designed to support domestic accountability, further reduce transaction costs (especially for the 
government) and encourage the further development
 and use of Tanzania’s own systems - rather than setting up and using parallel donor 
systems.
 
Page  3
process and ongoing policy reforms in general. This included 
inter alia
 further support for EA activities, 
a
comprehensive environmental review of all taxes and levies associated with the agricultural sector, and 
increased attention to removing land tenure uncertainties.  
 
5. Tentative financing 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 0 
International Development Association (IDA) 
200 
 Total 
200 
 
6. Contact point 
Contact: Paolo B. Zacchia 
Title: Lead Economist 
Tel: 5355+3252 
Fax:  
Email: Pzacchia@worldbank.org 
Location: Dar es Salaam  (IDA)
 
