                                                CONFORMED COPY


                                            CREDIT NUMBER 4683-TA




    Financing Agreement
(Supplemental Financing for Seventh Poverty Reduction Support
                Development Policy Financing)


                          between


            UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA


                            and


    INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION




                   Dated January 29, 2010
                                                         CREDIT NUMBER 4683-TA

                            FINANCING AGREEMENT

        AGREEMENT dated January 29, 2010, entered into between UNITED
REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA (“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (“Association”) for the purpose of providing supplemental financing in
support of the Program, as defined in the Appendix to the financing agreement for the
Seventh Poverty Reduction Support Credit (Credit No. 4635-TA) between the Recipient
and the Association, dated July 22, 2009, (“Original Financing Agreement”).

         The Association has decided to provide this supplemental financing on the basis,
inter alia, of: (a) the actions (“Prior Actions”) which the Recipient has already taken
under the Program and which are described in Section I of Schedule 1 to the Original
Financing Agreement; and (b) the Recipient’s maintenance of an appropriate macro -
economic policy framework.

        The Recipient and the Association therefore hereby agree as follows:

            ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS

1.01.   The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to the Original Financing
        Agreement) constitute an integral part of this Agreement (“Financing
        Agreement”).

1.02.   Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
        Financing Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General
        Conditions, in this Financing Agreement or in the Appendix to the Original
        Financing Agreement.

                            ARTICLE II — FINANCING

2.01.   The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions
        set forth or referred to in this Financing Agreement, a credit in an amount
        equivalent to one hundred and seven million Special Drawing Rights
        (SDR 107,000,000) (referred to variously as “Credit” and “Financing”).

2.02.   The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in support of the
        Program in accordance with Schedule 1 to this Agreement.

2.03.   The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the
        Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per
        annum.
                                           -2-


2.04.   The Service Charge payable by the Recipient on the Withdrawn Credit Balance
        shall be equal to three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum.

2.05.   The Payment Dates are March 15 and September 15 in each year.

2.06.   The principal amount of the Credit shall be repaid in accordance with repayment
        schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Financing Agreement.

2.07.   The Payment Currency is Dollars.

                            ARTICLE III — PROGRAM

3.01    The Recipient declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.
        To this end:

        (a)    the Recipient and the Association shall from time to time, at the request
               of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out
               the Program;

        (b)    prior to each such exchange of views, the Recipient shall furnish to the
               Association for its review and comment a report on the progress
               achieved in carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Association
               shall reasonably request; and

        (c)    without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this
               Section, the Recipient shall exchange views with the Association on any
               proposed action to be taken after the disbursement of the Financing
               which would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the
               Program, or any action taken under the Program, including any one or
               more of the Prior Actions.

               ARTICLE IV—REMEDIES OF THE ASSOCIATION

4.01.   The Additional Event of Suspension shall be that a situation has arisen which
        shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part of it, will be
        carried out.

                          ARTICLE V—TERMINATION

5.01.   The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this
        Agreement.
                                           -3-


                ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES

6.01.   The Recipient’s Representative is its Minister responsible for finance.

6.02.   The Recipient’s Address is:

                Ministry of Finance and Economic Affairs
                P.O. Box 9111
                Dar es Salaam
                United Republic of Tanzania

                Facsimile:

                (255) 222 11 0326

6.03.   The Association’s Address is:

                International Development Association
                1818 H Street, N.W.
                Washington, D.C. 20433
                United States of America

                Cable address:           Telex:                   Facsimile:

                INDEVAS                  248423(MCI)              1-202-477-6391
                Washington, D.C.

        AGREED at Dar es Salaam, United Republic of Tanzania, as of the day, month
and year first above written.

                        UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA



                        By
                                                            /s/ Ramadhani Mussa Khijjah
                                                                Authorized Representative

                        INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION



                        By
                                                                    /s/ John M. McIntire
                                                               Authorized Representative
                                       -4-


                                  SCHEDULE 1

                       Availability of Financing Proceeds

A.   General. The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in
     accordance with the provisions of this Schedule and such additional instructions
     as the Association may specify by notice to the Recipient.

B.   Allocation of Financing Amounts

     The Financing shall be withdrawn in a single tranche. The allocation of the
     amount of the Financing to this end is set out in the table below:

                                          Amount of the Financing Allocated
             Allocations                        (expressed in SDR)

      Single Tranche                                   107,000,000

      TOTAL AMOUNT                                     107,000,000


C.   Deposits of Financing Amounts

     Except as the Association may otherwise agree:

1.   all withdrawals from the Financing Account shall be deposited by the
     Association into an account designated by the Recipient and acceptable to the
     Association; and

2.   the Recipient shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the Financing
     into this account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the Recipient’s budget
     management system, in a manner acceptable to the Association.

D.   Excluded Expenditures

     The Recipient undertakes that the proceeds of the Financing shall not be used to
     finance Excluded Expenditures, as defined in the Original Financing Agreement.
     If the Association determines at any time that an amount of the Financing was
     used to make a payment for an Excluded Expenditure, the Recipient shall,
     promptly upon notice from the Association, refund an amount equal to the
     amount of such payment to the Association. Amounts refunded to the
     Association upon such request shall be cancelled.

E.   Closing Date. The Closing Date is November 30, 2010.
                                         -5-


                                   SCHEDULE 2

                                Repayment Schedule

                                                     Principal Amount of the Credit
                                                                repayable
               Date Payment Due                       (expressed as a percentage)*

On each March 15 and September 15:
commencing March 15, 2020, to and including                        1%
September 15, 2029
commencing March 15, 2030, to and including                        2%
September 15, 2049

* The percentages represent the percentage of the principal amount of the Credit to be
repaid, except as the Association may otherwise specify pursuant to Section 3.03(b) of
the General Conditions.
