Page  1
The World Bank 
1818 H Street N.W. 
(202) 477-1234 
I
NTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
 
Washington, D.C.  20433 
Cable Address:  INTBAFRAD 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
 
U.S.A. 
Cable Address:  INDEVAS 
 
CONFORMED COPY FOR PUBLIC DISCLOSURE
 
May 5, 2010 
 
His Excellency 
Hugo Martinez 
Minister of Foreign Affairs 
Ministry of Foreign Affairs 
Calle El Pedregal, Blvd. 
Cancillería 
Ciudad Merliot, Antiguo Cuscatlán 
La Libertad, El Salvador, C.A. 
 
Re: GEF Grant No. TF055925-SV (Protected Areas Consolidation and Administration Project) 
First Amendment to the Grant Agreement
Excellency: 
 
Please refer to the agreement between the Republic of El Salvador (the Recipient) and the 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) dated May 15, 2006, with regard to the 
above-captioned Project (the Grant Agreement). Capitalized terms used in this amendment letter and not 
defined herein have the meaning ascribed to them in the Grant Agreement. 
 
Section I. Grant Agreement 
 
Based on discussions between the Recipient and the Bank and in accordance with your letter dated 
December 7, 2009 wherein a request is made to amend the Grant Agreement, to allow for financing 
implementation of Community Subprojects under Part B.3 of the Project, we are pleased to inform you 
that the Bank hereby agrees to your request and consequently proposes to amend the Grant Agreement as 
follows: 
 
1. 
The following definitions are included in Section 1.02 of the Grant Agreement, placed in 
alphabetical order, (and the existing definitions are consequently renumbered to keep the 
alphabetical order) to read as follows: 
 
“Beneficiaries” means any individual, group of individuals or a non-government organization, all 
of which have met the criteria set forth in the Operational Manual to be benefited by a 
Community Grant (as defined below).   
“Community Grant” means a grant made out of the proceeds of the Grant to finance a 
Community Subproject (as defined below) of an amount up to twenty five thousand dollars 
(
US$25,000)
.
“Community Subproject” means any of the demand-driven investments mentioned in Part B.3 of 
the Project. 
Page  2
2
“Community Subproject Agreement” means any of the agreements referred to in Section 3.01 (e) 
(i) (A) to this Agreement. 
 
“Involuntary Physical Relocation” means a mandatory movement of people, when no 
choice whether to stay or leave is given to said people, or when their choice to stay is not 
appropriately taken into consideration.
 
“Process Framework” means the framework dated September 2, 2005 and duly adopted by the 
Recipient, which sets out the mitigation measures to be taken under the Project with respect to 
involuntary restriction of access to resources under the Project, including the formulation of 
projects for substitute economic activities, as such framework may be revised from time to time 
with the agreement of the Bank. 
 
2. 
A new Section 3.01 (e) is included in the Grant Agreement to read as follows: 
 
“(i) 
Upon approval of a Community Subproject, the Recipient shall: 
 
(A) 
make available, on a grant basis, part of the proceeds of the Grant allocated to 
Category (3) (the Community Grant) to the corresponding Beneficiary under a 
community subproject agreement (the Community Subproject Agreement) to be 
entered into between the Recipient and said Beneficiary under terms and 
conditions acceptable to the Bank, which shall include, inter alia, those set forth in 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement;   
 
(ii)  
(A)  
The Recipient shall exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under 
each Community Subproject Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests 
of the Recipient and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Grant; and  
 
(B)  
except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall not assign, 
amend, abrogate, repeal, terminate, waive or fail to enforce any Community 
Subproject Agreement or any provision thereof.” 
 
3. 
A new Section 3.01 (f) is included in the Grant Agreement to read as follows: 
 
“The Recipient shall ensure, and cause MARN, CNR and ISTA to ensure, that any 
Project activity, including any activity financed under the Community Subprojects, does 
not involve any Involuntary Physical Relocation of people.” 
 
4. 
Section 3.03 (a) to the Grant Agreement is hereby amended to read as follows: 
 
“
The Recipient, through MARN, shall issue an operational manual (the Operational Manual), 
satisfactory to the Bank, setting forth rules and procedures for the carrying out of the Project, 
such manual to include, 
inter alia: 
(i) 
the duties and responsibilities of MARN, ISTA and CNR in Project 
implementation; 
Page  3
3
(ii) 
the technical, legal, administrative, financial, procurement and monitoring 
procedures for Project implementation;  
(iii) 
the Process Framework; 
(iv) 
the Environmental Procedures; 
(v) 
the updated management plans referred to in Part B.3 of the Project; and 
(vi) 
the criteria and procedures for selecting Beneficiaries and approving Community 
Subprojects.” 
5. 
The table set forth in Section A.1 of Schedule 1 to the Grant Agreement is hereby amended to 
read as set forth in Annex I to this Amendment Letter. 
 
6. 
Part B.3 of Schedule 2 to the Grant Agreement is hereby amended to read as follows:  
 
“Development and implementation of participatory management plans in priority portions of the 
Pilot Protected Areas, including the provision of Community Grants, to carry out demand-driven 
conservation-compatible investments.” 
 
7. 
Section I.A of Schedule 3 to the Grant Agreement is hereby amended to read as follows: 
 
“All goods, works and services (other than consultants’ services) shall be procured in accordance 
with the provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in October 2006 (the Procurement 
Guidelines), and with the provisions of this Schedule.” 
 
8. 
Section I.B of Schedule 3 to the Grant Agreement is hereby amended to read as follows: 
 
“All consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with Sections I and IV of the 
“Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by 
the Bank in May 2004 and revised in October 2006 (the Consultant Guidelines), and with the 
provisions of this Schedule.”  
 
9. 
A
new Section II.B.3 is included in Schedule 3 to the Grant Agreement to read as 
follows: 
 
“Community Participation. Goods, works and Non-Consultant Services under 
Community Subprojects shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
Community Participation procedures.” 
 
10. 
Section II.B of Schedule 3 to the Grant Agreement is hereby amended to read as follows:
 
“Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services.  The following table specifies 
the methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, which may be 
Page  4
4
used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances 
under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
(a) Quality-based Selection 
(b) Individual Consultants 
(c) Consultants' Qualifications Selection 
(d) Least Cost Selection 
(e) Single Source Selection (with prior no objection from the Bank) 
11. 
A new Schedule 5 is included in the Grant Agreement to read as set forth in Annex 2 to this 
Amendment Letter.  
 
Section II. Effectiveness 
 
This Amendment Letter will become effective after the following conditions have been met:  
 
(a)  The Recipient has amended the Operational Manual, and said revised manual has been found 
satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
(a)  The Recipient has countersigned this Amendment Letter. 
 
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing amendment by signing and dating this letter in 
the spaces provided below.  This amendment letter shall be executed in two counterparts, each of which 
shall be an original.  Thenceforward, all other provisions of the Grant Agreement, except as amended 
through this letter shall remain in full force and effect. 
 
Page  5
5
Upon confirmation, please return one fully executed original to us.  Once this amendment letter 
has been countersigned by you, and the rest of the effectiveness conditions mentioned in Section II of this 
Amendment Letter are met, the provisions set forth herein shall become effective as of the date of 
countersignature. 
 
Very truly yours, 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Humberto Lopez 
Acting Director 
Central America Country Management Unit 
Latin America and the Caribbean Region 
 
AGREED: 
 
REPUBLIC OF EL SALVADOR 
 
By:   
/s/ Hugo Martínez 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
Name: Hugo Martínez 
 
Title: 
Ministro de Relaciones Exteriores 
 
Date: 
August 16, 2010 
 
Page  6
6
Annex 1
Category 
Amount of the Grant 
Allocated (expressed 
in USD) 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
Financed 
(inclusive of Taxes) 
(1)  Goods, works, non-consultant 
Services, consultants’ services training 
and operating costs, except those 
covered in Categories (2) and (3) below. 
 
2,000,000 100% 
(2) Goods, works, non-consultant 
Services, consultants’ services, training 
and operating costs under Part B of the 
Project, except those covered in 
Category (3) below.  
 
2,600,000
100% 
(3) Goods, works, Non-Consultant 
Services and/or consultants’ services 
financed by Community Grants 
200,000 100% 
(4) Unallocated 
     
200,000 
 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 5,000,000 
 
Page  7
7
Annex 2
SCHEDULE 5 
Terms and Conditions of Community Subproject Agreements 
 
Each Community Subproject Agreement shall contain, 
inter alia
,
the following provisions: 
 
(a) 
the obligation of the Recipient to promptly disburse to each Beneficiary the proceeds of 
the corresponding Community Grant to finance the cost of the pertinent Community 
Subproject, and in a manner acceptable to the Bank; 
 
(b) 
the right of the Recipient to take remedial actions against the pertinent Beneficiary in 
case said Beneficiary shall have failed to comply with any of its obligations under the 
pertinent Community Subproject Agreement  (which actions may include, 
inter alia
,
the 
partial or total suspension and/or cancellation of the proceeds of the Community Grant 
(as the case may be), all as previously agreed with the Bank); and 
 
(c) 
the obligation of each Beneficiary: 
 
(i) 
to carry out the pertinent Community Subproject with due diligence and 
efficiency and in accordance with sound technical, economic, financial, 
managerial, environmental, social and cultural property practices, and in 
accordance with the pertinent provisions of the Operational Manual, the 
Environmental Procedures and the Process Framework (as applicable); 
 
(ii) 
to use the Community Grant for purposes of partially financing the carrying out 
of the pertinent Community Subproject; 
 
(iii) 
not to assign, amend, terminate, abrogate, repeal, waive or fail to enforce the 
Community Subproject Agreement or any provision thereof unless previously 
agreed by the Recipient and Bank; and 
 
(iv) 
to take or permit to be taken all action to enable the Recipient to comply with its 
obligations referred to in this Agreement, as applicable to the carrying out of 
Community Subprojects. 
 
