                                                      54378 v1
                           Document of
                       The World Bank


                                                              Report No:




                  RESTRUCTURING PAPER

                                 ON A

           PROPOSED PROJECT RESTRUCTURING
                         OF

PROTECTED AREAS CONSOLIDATION AND ADMINISTRATION
                         PROJECT
                         TF55925
        Approved by the Board on November 29, 2005

                            TO THE

                REPUBLIC OF EL SALVADOR


                          May 31, 2011




     Regional Vice President:       Pamela Cox
            Country Director:       C. Felipe Jaramillo
    Sector Manager / Director:      Karin Kemper/Laura Tuck
           Task Team Leader:        Anna Corsi
                                Extension of Closing Date

 EL SALVADOR – PROTECTED AREAS CONSOLIDATION AND ADMINISTRATION
                        PROJECT (P092202)

                                         TF 55925

                                  Restructuring Paper


1.      The closing date for El Salvador, Protected Areas Consolidation and
Administration Project, TF No. 55925, PO92202, will be extended from June 30, 2011
until June 29, 2012.

2.      The Project suffered an 18-month effectiveness delay stemming from political
polarization and the consequent delay in the 2007 congressional approval. At the time of
the Project Mid-Term Review (MTR) in April 2010, Project implementation lagged
behind projections with only 27% accumulated disbursement. Following completion of
the agreed Action Plan aimed at accelerating implementation, there has been a significant
progress and accumulated disbursement currently stands at 45% of total grant resources.
Accordingly, the Development Objective-DO and Implementation Performance-IP
ratings for the Project have been upgraded to Moderately Satisfactory. The Project
objectives continue to be achievable. Government confirmed that the Project is a
government priority and expressed a strong interest in its extension. Such commitment
has been revived through the shift in environmental policy adopted by the new
administration which took office in August 2009. The new Government considers the
Project to be a key tool to implement its inclusive environmental management policy,
which, by combining conservation, sustainable use, and local development objectives, is
fully in line with the project’s vision and approach.

3.      The proposed extension is necessary to compensate partially for the delay in
effectiveness. It will ensure that the Government of El Salvador has adequate time to
complete some activities that are essential for the achievement of the Project objective, in
particular: i) supervision of key field activities (surveying, delimitation and demarcation
of the pilot areas) currently financed with counterpart funds; (ii) completion of productive
subprojects that benefit the pilot areas’ residents and are a tool to mitigate the negative
impact stemming from restriction of access to resources; (iii) a follow-up legal
consultancy for a proposal of Protected Areas Law regulations; (iv) update of
participatory management plans for the two pilot areas; and (v) an updated strategy and
action plan for the consolidation of a sustainable National Protected Areas System. An
action plan for implementing these activities has been agreed by the Recipient, and it is
attached to the Government’s request letter.

4.     This will be the first extension of the Project closing date.
