Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 14973-CHA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CHINA
SECOND SHANGHAI SEWERAGE PROJECT
FEBRUARY 21, 1996
Environment and Municipal Development Division
China and Mongolia Department
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of January 1, 1996)
Currency    Renrminbi
Currency Unit = Yuan (Y)
Y I 00  =  00 fen
Y 1.00 = $0.12
$1.00    Y8.4
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
I millimeter (mm) = 0.0394 inch (in)
I centimeter (cm) = 0.3937 inch (in)
I meter (m) = 3.2808 feet (ft)
I kiloimieter (kin)    0.62 14 mile (mi)
I square meter (mi) = 10.7639 square feet (ft2)
I square kilometer(ki 2) = 0.3861 square mile (mii)
I cubic meter (rm')   35.3 147 cubic feet (ft31
cubic meter (in3) or ton of water = 284 lJS gallons
I hectare (ha) = 2.4711 acres (ac)
I milligram (mg) = 0.001 grams = 0.0 15 grains
I liter (I) = 0 2642 US gallon (gal)
liter per capita per day (1/c/d) = 0 2642 UIS gallon per capita-day
cubic meter per second (ni3/sec) = 35.3145 cubic feet per second



PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
BOD    - Biological Oxygen Demand
CAS     - Country Assistance Strategy
COD    - Chemical Oxygen Demand
DRA     - Design Review and Advisory (Consultant)
EA      - Environmental Assessment
GDP    - Gross Domestic Product
IBRD    - International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB     - International Competitive Bidding
ITC     - International Tendering Company (of Beijing)
LIBOR   - London Interbank Borrowing Rate
NCB     - National Competitive Bidding
NEPA   - National Environmental Protection Agency
RAP    - Resettlement Action Plan
RCG     - Resettlement Coordination Group
SASS    - Shanghai Academy of Social Sciences
SEP     - Shanghai Environment Project
SITICO - Shanghai International Trust and Investment Company
SM      - Shanghai Municipality
SMEAB - Shanghai Municipal Engineering Administration Bureau
SMEAD - Shanghai Municipal Engineering Administration Division
SMEDI - Shanghai Municipal Engineering Design Institute
SMG    - Shanghai Municipal Government
SMSC   - Shanghai Municipal Sewerage Company Ltd.
SMWC  - Shanghai Municipal Waterworks Company
SOE     - Statement of Expenditure
SSC     - Shanghai Sewerage Company
SSPI    - First Shanghai Sewerage Project
SSPII   - Second Shanghai Sewerage Project
SSPCC   - Shanghai Sewerage Project Construction Company






CHINA
SECOND SHANGHAI SEWERAGE PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                 The People's Republic of China.
Implementing Agency:      Shanghai Municipal Sewerage Company, Ltd. (SMSC).
Beneficiary:              Shanghai Municipality (SM) and SMSC.
Poverty:                  Not applicable.
Amount:                   $250 million.
Terms:                    20 years, including 5 years of grace, at the standard interest
rate for LIBOR-based US dollar single currency loans.
Commitment Fee:           0.75 percent on undisbursed loan balances, beginning 60
days after signing, less any waiver.
Onlending Terms:          From the Government of China to SM: on the same terms,
with SM bearing the foreign exchange risk.
From SM to SMSC: 15 years including 5 years of grace at
the standard interest rate for LIBOR-based US dollar single
currency loans, and a commitment charge at the Bank's
standard rate, with SMSC bearing the foreign exchange risk.
Financing Plan:           See Table 3.2.
Economic Rate of Return:  An economic analysis of the least-cost options was carried
out.
Map:                     IBRD 27376
Project ID Number:        CN-PE-3648






CONTENTS
1. URBANIZATION AND THE ENVIRONMENT .....................................................1
A. Urbanization: Growth and Impact .......................................................1
B. Urban Environmental Services: Current Arrangements and Issues ...................2
C. Bank Group Sector Strategy .......................................................4
2. PROJECT  BACKGROUND .......................................................6
A. Urban Growth And Economic Development in Shanghai ..................................6
B. Water Resource Degradation in Shanghai ....................................................... 7
C. Shanghai's Wastewater Management Program ...................................................7
D. Wastewater Flows and Pollution Loads ......................................................                10
E. Lessons Learned ......................................................                                   12
3. THE PROPOSED PROJECT                                      ....................... 14
A. Project Objectives .......................                                                                14
B. Project Preparation .......................                                                              14
C. Project Description .......................                                                              15
D. Project Cost Estimates .......................                                                            16
E. Financing Plan                                                 .17
F. Project Organization And Management ...................................                                  18
G. Status of Project Analysis and Engineering ...................................                           19
H. Procurement ...................................                                                          19
I. Disbursement ...................................                                                         22
J. Land Acquisition And Resettlement ...................................                                    22
K. Environmental Impact Assessment ...................................                                      24
L. Project Monitoring, Reporting And Supervision ...................................                        25
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission that visited China in June/July
1995. Project team members included Mr. Geoffrey Read (Municipal Engineer and Task
Manager), Mr. Lee Travers (Environmental Economist), Mr. Maninder Gill (Resettlement
Specialist), Miss Linda Mih (Program Assistant), Mr. Terry Hall (Sanitary Engineering
Consultant), Mr. Patrick McCarthy (Financial Consultant), Dr. George Taylor
(Environmental Consultant), and Mr. Zhang Zhun (Institutional Consultant). Assistance
was also provided by Miss Meredith Dearborn and Mrs. Socorro Manila (Report
Processing) and Mr. You Ji (Interpreter). Peer reviewers for the project were Mr. Harvey
Gamn (Economic Adviser), Mr. Wiebe Moes (Sanitary Engineer); Mr. Lars Rasmusson
(Water Engineer); and Ms. Selina Shum (Financial Analyst). The managing Division is
EA2EM. The Division Chief is Ms. Katherine Sierra and the Department Director is
Mr. Nicholas C. Hope.



- ii -
4. THE BENEFICIARY .................                                         27
A. The Shanghai Municipal Sewerage Company, Ltd .27
B. Organizational Improvements .29
C. Accounting .30
D. Audits .30
E. Staff Training And Development .30
5. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS .32
A. Past And Current Financial Position .32
B. Financial Objectives .33
C. Sewerage Tariffs .34
D. Financial Performance Forecast .35
E. Shanghai Municipal Finances .35
6. ECONOMIC, SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL CONSIDERATIONS . 37
A. Project Justification .37
B. Project Benefits .37
C. Economic Analysis .37
D. Environmental Impact .41
E. Affordability .41
F. Project Risks .41
7. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION .43
ANNEXES
Annex 1: Organization Of Environment Protection In China .45
Annex 2: Wastewater Demand And Pollution Load Projections .46
Annex 3: Detailed Project Description .47
Annex 4: Detailed Cost Estimates .59
Annex 5: Organization Of The Construction Department Of The Shanghai
Municipal Sewerage Company, Ltd .67
Annex 6: Schedule Of Contract Packages .68
Annex 7: Schedule Of Disbursements .70
Annex 8: Land Acquisition And Resettlement Plan .71
Annex 9: Environmental Assessment .84
Annex 10: Implementation Schedule .98
Annex 11: Proposed Monitoring Indicators .99
Annex 12: Organization Of Shanghai Municipal Sewerage Company, Ltd .101
Annex 13: Shanghai Municipal Sewerage Company, Ltd. (SMSC) Financial
Projections .102
Annex 14: Shanghai Municipal Finance Projections .110
Annex 15: Economic Analysis .114



- iii -
Annex  16:  Proposed  Supervision  Plan ...................................................                                          128
Annex 17: Selected Documents And Data Available In The Project File ...................... 129
TABLES IN TEXT
Table 3.1: SUMMARY COST ESTIMATES ...................................................                                                  16
Table 3.2:  FINANCING  PLAN  ..................................................... 17
Table 3.3: PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS ...................................................                                               20
MAP
IBRD 27376






1. URBANIZATION AND THE ENVIRONMENT
A. URBANIZATION: GROWTH AND IMPACT
1.1   National economic policies and resource allocation practices in China sought until
the mid-1980s to limit urban population growth and restrain expenditures on essential urban
infrastructure. Urban population expansion was controlled through resident permits and
grain rationing. With accelerating economic growth and a relaxation of control on
migration, urban growth rates averaged 4.2 percent through the 1980s, then jumped to
nearly 6 percent with the economic boom that started in 1992. Currently, the urban
population is increasing at about 5 percent a year, and urban GDP is growing at an annual
15 percent. Although the overall urbanization rate is still only 28 percent, in absolute terms,
China now has the world's largest urban population-340 million "permanent" residents
and another 70 million "temporary" residents in 600 cities and 15,000 statutory towns.
Thirty-two cities have more than I million residents within the city boundaries, and another
30 cities each have more than 500,000 residents. Given these trends, the majority of
China's population-an estimated 700 million persons-will live in existing or emerging
urban areas by the year 2010.
1.2   Growing urban population and industrialization are causing widespread pollution
in China, and environmental problems have become a central issue in Chinese cities.'
Industrial production, particularly by outdated plants and fuel systems, has generated
serious urban pollution problems of all types but particularly water pollution that directly
affects human health. Many important water resources, which are already scarce in most
regions, have been seriously threatened. Industrial wastewater is the predominant source
of pollution, in some cases contributing up to 70 to 80 percent of the pollutant load.
During 1984-92, only about 13 percent of the estimated 25 billion tons of industrial
wastewater annually discharged throughout China was treated, and often only to the
extent of pretreatment. After treatment, only about half of this water met effluent
discharge standards. While industrial wastewater discharge has been kept constant
through water use quotas and water recycling requirements, municipal (domestic and
commercial) wastewater discharges have increased rapidly, from about 7 billion tons in
1984 to about 13 billion tons in 1992. Municipal wastewater treatment capacity can
currently handle only about 4.5 percent of municipal wastewater flows, while industrial
pretreatment raises overall treatment rates to 17 percent.
1 For a detailed discussion please see "China: Environmental Strategy Paper" (Report No. 9669-CHA, April
1992); and "China: Urban Environmental Service Managemenf' (Report No. 13073-CHA, December
1994).



-2-
B. URBAN ENVIRONMENTAL SERVICES: CURRENT ARRANGEMENTS AND ISSUES
Organization and Financing
1.3   Urban environmental services, including water supply, wastewater collection and
treatment systems, and solid waste collection and treatment, are handled by city
Construction Commissions, which oversee the municipal bureaus and companies directly
responsible for providing services. The Commissions are typically among the largest and
most powerful of the municipal administrative bodies. The Central Government confines
itself to providing guidance and interregional coordination. The Ministry of Construction
sets physical and financial performance standards for the services, appraises major
investments in the sector to help guarantee adherence to standards, and provides guidance
in implementing new management approaches. The National Environmental Protection
Agency (NEPA) similarly provides technical and policy guidance on environmental
issues and implementation of the national environmental protection system, comprising a
broad set of control instruments administered by local environmental protection bureaus.
1.4   Local governments have great latitude to manage their own affairs and, subject to
tax-sharing arrangements and annual consultation with the central authorities, are largely
free to allocate resources according to their own priorities. Those resources are largely
derived from local taxes and the earnings of municipal enterprises, supplemented to some
extent by Central Government investments and (increasingly scarce) grants. Even on
technical and regulatory matters, local agencies are free to adapt national guidelines and
standards to their specific circumstances.
Issues
1.5   While progress in decentralization is important for effective, efficient urban
environmental management, the adequacy and sustainability of the current system is
severely limited by the need to improve: (a) arrangements for mobilizing financial
resources; (b) institutional capacity to meet the growing challenges faced; and
(c) environmental policies and institutions to maximize pollution prevention and exert
effective oversight and regulatory enforcement.
1.6   Financing. China subscribes to the "polluter-pays" principle of environmental
management. As is common in other countries, a combination of administrative sanctions
and economic incentives is used to induce desired behavior. However, China has
consistently underpriced water supplies and wastewater treatment. The major policy
problem identified in the Bank's study, China: Urban Environmental Service Management
(Report No. 13073-CHA, December 1994) was the dependence on municipal budget
transfers to fund environmental services and the failure to charge, or charge adequately, for
those services. Although cities have long charged for water delivery, residential wastewater
charges are virtually unknown, while enterprise charges have been rare, and where
collected, fall far below operating needs. An important consequence of this failure to
charge adequate user fees is that service investment programs have failed to meet goals due
to lack of finance. The Ministry of Construction estimates that two thirds of the municipal



-3 -
wastewater treatment plants either do not operate, or operate far below capacity, due to lack
of funds. And, when users do not have to pay, they have no incentive to reduce waste
volumes. This creates the need for larger service systems when they are provided.
Evidence of that comes from analysis of water and wastewater company finances and from
studies that have shown industrial wastewater streams to be highly dilute compared to those
from similar industries elsewhere in the world. Underpricing leads not only to excess
demand and needlessly large water and wastewater streams, but also to reduced removal
efficiencies experienced when treating dilute wastewaters. Thus, greater reliance on user
charges would induce resource conservation, and create a more dependable income stream
for system operation and maintenance; Bank analysis indicates that such charges would be
affordable.
1.7   Commercialization.  Institutionally, there is a need to introduce commercial
practices for all urban environmental services. Currently, water systems tend to be run by
financially autonomous enterprises, while wastewater collection and treatment as well as
solid waste collection and disposal are managed by city government bureaus that see their
role as providing welfare services. Managing bureaus do not depreciate fixed assets, so
they cannot identify the true cost of service provision. Nor do their accounting practices
provide managers with the financial tools needed for efficient management. Financially
autonomous wastewater agencies need to be established, using enterprise accounting rules
that allow them to set tariffs which at least fully recover costs. Environmental sanitation
bureaus handling solid wastes need to introduce cost accounting techniques that permit
them to identify the cost of operations so that they can charge those full costs to the
commercial and industrial users of their services.
1.8   Regulation. NEPA is the lead agency for environmental management in China,
with authority to draft national regulations and other aspects of environmental policy and to
interpret national environmental regulations and  standards.   However, it lacks
implementation authority, a power left to local governments and environmental protection
bureaus (EPBs). Provincial EPBs coordinate local policies, while municipal, urban district
and county EPBs bear the main burden of enforcement for both national and provincial
regulations. Since local governments usually own the major enterprises within their
boundaries, pressures may be exerted on the EPBs to relax regulation or fee collection in the
interest of employment and profits. Also, enterprises operating on the periphery of cities
may have a large impact on municipal environmental quality, yet fall outside municipal
control.  Furthermore, one of the main regulatory instruments, pollution levy fees
chargeable against waste streams with pollutant concentrations above permitted levels, are
typically set below the marginal cost of effluent treatment, which encourages enterprises to
pay the fee rather than address the problem.
1.9   The proposed project continues efforts under the FY87 Bank Group-assisted
sewerage project, the Shanghai Sewerage Project-SSPI (Loan 2794/Credit 1779-CHA),
to address the financial and institutional factors limiting effective wastewater
management in Shanghai, China's largest city, while the FY94 Bank-assisted Shanghai



-4 -
Environment Project-SEP (Loan 371 1-CHA) is dealing with issues of environmental
regulatory enforcement in the city.
C. BANK GROUP SECTOR STRATEGY
1.10  As indicated in the China Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) presented to the
Board in June 1995, Bank Group support for urban environmental management in China
follows directly from two of our four areas of concentration in the country-enhancing
enviromnental protection and alleviating infrastructure bottlenecks.  Our support,
designed in close collaboration with our Chinese counterparts, covers both the regulatory
and service provision aspects of this increasingly important sector. On the regulatory
side, the China. Environmental Strategy Paper led to an Environmental Technical
Assistance Project (Credit 2522-CHA), which assists NEPA to find more efficient
regulatory methods, improve staff capabilities and bolster environmental monitoring.
That project complements Bank-administered, Japanese Government-financed technical
assistance to NEPA in other critical areas.
1.11  Service delivery as well as enhanced regulatory capacity at the local level are
supported under five ongoing urban environrnental projects in eight cities, which
incorporate policy, financing and organizational strategies for improved environmental
regulation and service delivery at the provincial and municipal levels. Another four
ongoing investment projects involving 12 cities include related issues such as municipal
water supply and sanitation. Most of these projects focus on China's largest cities-
Shanghai, Beijing and Tianjin-and those located primarily in the wealthier northeastern
and coastal provinces. Environmental pressures remain very high in these areas and
cooperation will continue, for example, under the proposed Second Shanghai Sewerage
Project (SSPII) and the Shandong Environment Project now being prepared. These
initiatives are balanced by a move to assist inland and poorer areas, as exemplified by the
recently approved Hubei Urban Environmental Project (Loan 3966/Credit 2799-CHA),
for a medium-income province in central China, as well as projects being prepared by the
very poor provinces of Yunnan and Guangxi, which will further test the feasibility of
policy and institutional solutions.
1.12  Our strategy for Shanghai responds in general to current and previous CAS
objectives and in particular to the recommendations of a 1986 study on an optimal
wastewater management strategy for Shanghai and Shanghai's Environmental Master
Plan prepared in 1995 with Australian assistance. SSPI supported wastewater system
investments in the northern part of the city, complemented by establishment of the
Shanghai Sewerage Company-SSC [reorganized in December 1995 as the Shanghai
Municipal Sewerage Company, Ltd.-SMSC (para. 4.1)], a comprehensive training
program for SSC staff, and four studies-of SSC's future organizational and staffing
needs, appropriate tariffs, water resource management in the Huangpu River Basin, and
economic approaches to rehabilitating the existing combined sewerage system. SEP
provides complementary support focused on improving and protecting drinking water
quality and controlling pollution. Key project features include construction of a major



-5 -
raw water supply intake, improvements in the water distribution network, institutional
strengthening, enhanced environmental monitoring and preparation of a water supply
master plan.   The proposed second sewerage project emphasizes institutional
development, including organizational strengthening of SMSC, further financial capacity
building, and investments in the southem part of the city's wastewater management
system.  On completion, these projects will have:  (a) established economically
sustainable and financially viable water and wastewater pricing policies and institutions;
(b) initiated Shanghai's long-term wastewater management strategy and operation of
improved and affordable water and wastewater services; and (c) launched a phased
strategy to arrest environmental degradation of the Huangpu River and the surrounding
watercourses, enabling regional economic growth consistent with the vision of the
Shanghai government.
1.13  The Bank's assistance to Shanghai in addressing these problems is particularly
important because of Shanghai's role as a leader in urban environmental management and
protection throughout China.  Shanghai's environmental problems typify those in
Chinese cities, and the city is a development model for other Chinese urban areas.
Successful completion of the wastewater system would give impetus to that aspect of our
sector policy dialogue, a crucial element of which seeks adequate pricing for and the
financial sustainability of urban services. Though a difficult issue for the Shanghai
Municipal Government (SMG) in the current inflationary environment, the 30 percent
water tariff increase already implemented under SEP signaled a willingness to deal
effectively with this challenge. The higher water tariffs agreed under that project would
further moderate water demand and hence wastewater flows, increase revenue, and enable
more efficient urban services management. The approval in July 1995 of average
wastewater tariff increases in Shanghai of some 100 percent through the proposed project
would promote Government national policy and Bank Group efforts to introduce these
practices in other provinces where projects are being prepared for Bank assistance.



-6 -
2. PROJECT BACKGROUND
A. URBAN GROWTH AND ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT IN SHANGHAI
2.1   Shanghai Municipality (SM), one of three provincial-level cities in China, is the
country's largest contiguous urban center, with a permanent, registered population
approaching 13 million and a temporary population of about 3 million. The city is China's
most important industrial base, and the major center of commerce, trade, finance and
science. Shanghai's per capita gross domestic project (GDP) in 1993 was Y 11,205 (almost
four times the national average, 2.3 times that of Guangdong, and 44 percent higher than in
Beijing). After decades of neglect and comparatively low economic growth, economic and
institutional reforms during the 1990s have allowed the city to recapture its former
importance in China (and the world) and have led to real annual GDP growth rates of
almost 15 percent in the first half of the decade. From 1990 to 1993, Shanghai's per capita
GDP grew by 36 percent in real terms.
2.2   Over 78 percent of Shanghai's population is concentrated in the municipality's
urban zone of 254 square kilometers (kn2). The greater Shanghai area also includes nine
rural counties and covers 6,340 km . Counting temporary residents, at least half of whom
are rural migrants, Shanghai has an urban population density of just under 50,000
inhabitants per km., making it one of the world's most densely populated cities.
Although natural population growth rates have declined markedly in recent years (to
minus 0.08 percent in 1993 in the urban area), Shanghai's population is expected to
continue to grow to at least 17 million people by the year 2000, largely due to a growing
number of rural migrants seeking employment in China's premier commercial center.
2.3   Shanghai has regional importance as well, by being situated at the mouth of the
Changjiang (Yangtze River) and thus at the heart of the Yangtze Delta Economic Region
(YDER), which includes Jiangsu, Zhejiang and Anhui Provinces (see IBRD Map 27376).
The YDER has a population of 193 million-the same as Indonesia's-and is the
principal economic producer in China, providing 22.1 percent of GDP and 39.4 percent of
secondary sector GDP.
2.4   Demographic and economic trends in Shanghai and the YDER have major
implications in terms of demand for municipal infrastructure and the spatial distribution
of this demand. Rapid urban growth is causing increased domestic and industrial
wastewater discharges, new suburban growth poles are attracting inner-city residents
whose urban communities are being redeveloped, and job opportunities are attracting
large inflows of migrant workers. Planning for Shanghai's environmental infrastructure
must cater for all of these trends.



- 7 -
B. WATER RESOURCE DEGRADATION IN SHANGHAI
2.5   Shanghai, located where the Changjiang joins the East China Sea, has numerous
watercourses and canals flowing through the municipal area. These waters mainly drain
to the Huangpu River, which passes through the city center and flows into the
Changjiang. The water courses are interconnected and tidal, experiencing several hours a
day of reverse flows during high tides. The waterways serve many functions, among
them receiving stormwater and industrial wastewater flows, and acting as major transport
corridors. The Shanghai Municipal Waterworks Company (SMWC) supplies the city
with water abstracted principally from the Huangpu River, which is then treated and
pumped into an extensive distribution network. Industry also abstracts water from the
River for its own uses.
2.6   Still, low wastewater collection and treatment levels in Shanghai have resulted in
substantial pollutant loads entering the surrounding waterways, causing major
environmental and ecological damage to the water resources. This poses significant
health risks and restricts economic growth. Fish cannot live in the lower Huangpu and
tributary streams, and shellfish downstream of the city carry very high pathogen levels
that result in illness when eaten by humans. The river system tides drive pollutants
upstream as far as Shanghai's drinking water treatment plant intakes. Not only has this
forced massive investment to relocate these intakes to safer areas, but it has also
considerably increased water treatment costs and given rise to a high and costly risk of
emergency water treatment shutdowns. Inevitably, domestic sources of pollutants will
further increase over the next few years, as living standards rise and the 50 percent of
Shanghai's citizens, who currently rely on yard taps and nightsoil buckets (emptied daily
to holding tanks) for indoor sanitation, relocate to housing with flush toilets and indoor
taps that allow the use of washing machines and other conveniences.
C. SHANGHAI'S WASTEWATER MANAGEMENT PROGRAM
Wastewater Management Strategy
2.7   About a decade ago, both the central government and SMG recognized the serious
backlog in the provision of basic and essential urban environmental services in Shanghai,
and took action to begin the necessarily long process of putting in place the physical
infrastructure and institutional capacity for adequate wastewater management. In 1986,
SMG completed a study identifying an optimal wastewater management strategy for the
city, comprising a two-phased investment program of combined wastewater collection
systems, to be managed by a financially sustainable urban wastewater utility which would
charge for services. Phase I of the investment program covered 1987-95; Phase II includes
three stages of works (1996-98, 1999-2006, and 2007-2010) to accommodate flows up to
the year 2020.
2.8   The strategy also calls for: (a) conveying wastewater to the Changjiang rather
than to the Huangpu, which now has very limited assimilative capacity; (b) phasing out
the nightsoil and septic tank systems; (c) reducing the water volumes extracted by



- 8 -
industries from the Huangpu, with consequent reductions in wastewater discharges. The
latter would be achieved by reorienting industries from "end-of-pipe" treatment to a
"clean technology" approach. In the latter connection, industries would be encouraged to
keep cooling water streams (which tend to be warmer than intake water) separate from
other waters, and recycle water where possible; (d) continuing use of combined sewerage
and stormwater systems where they already exist but switching to separate systems where
feasible such as when new construction is being undertaken, as in Pudong; (e) providing
treatment before discharge to the Changjiang in order to limit the total phosphorus
discharged to less than 18 tons/day; and (f) phasing out existing small municipal
treatment plants when they become obsolete and conveying the flows to the Changjiang.
2.9   With Bank assistance under the previous and proposed sewerage projects, SMG is
pursuing that strategy, which has been validated by subsequent technical analysis
factoring in the impact of more recent developments. The ultimate environmental
objective of these projects is to raise the quality of water in both the network of city
canals and the Huangpu River. Canal water, now failing to reach even the lowest level
needed for productive use, would be raised to no lower than Category IV quality, suitable
for fishery, industrial and agricultural use. Water quality in the Huangpu, which in its
lower reach now falls below a level suitable for industrial use, would be raised to
Category IIT, suitable as a raw water source for municipal treatment plants. This very
significant improvement is critical to the health of the city's people and to the vitality of
its economy.
System Facilities
2.10  The Conveyance System. Shanghai's sewerage system currently collects about
48 percent [or 2.6 million (M) m3/day] of total wastewater flows of 5.4 Mm3/day, with the
remainder discharged directly into the city canals or the Huangpu.  Prior to the
commissioning in 1993 of the main interceptor constructed under SSPI, only about 1.2
Mm 3/day was collected. SSPI works were concentrated in the city's northern section.
2.11   Collected wastewater is discharged as follows: 700,000 m3/day flows to the
Changjiang via the western interceptor at Shidonkou; 500,000 m3/day flows to the East
China Sea via the southern interceptor at Bailonggang; and 1.4 Mm3/day flows to the
Changjiang via the Zhuyuan interceptor constructed under the first sewerage project. The
Changjiang's assimilative capacity at Zhuyuan ensures no adverse effect to downstream
users. Recent studies have confirmed that discharge of wastewater from Shanghai to the
Huangpu River is no longer sustainable in terms of either the River's assimilative
capacity or, most importantly, its role as the primary source of potable water for the city.
All wastewater is therefore being conveyed to the Changjiang estuary where, after
treatment (pretreatment or, in the medium term, primary treatment to remove phosphorus,
thereby minimizing eutrophication), the effluent is discharged through submerged ocean
outfalls and diffuser systems.



- 9 -
2.12  The second phase of the conveyance system to be constructed under the proposed
project would serve the rapidly developing Pudong and Puxi areas in the southern part of
the city, covering some 240 km2. The system would be designed to handle 1.7 Mm3/day
and be sized to capture projected flows of 5.0 Mm3/day in the year 2020. The flows
would be discharged through a submerged outfall to the Changjiang at Bailonggang,
some 25 km downstream of Zhuyuan. Extensive modeling of the Bailonggang area has
confirmed that the Changjiang has sufficient assimilative capacity, and that the
environmental impact of the discharges at Bailonggang and in the adjacent Hangzhou
Bay would be acceptable.
2.13  Treatment Facilities. Less than two thirds of the wastewater collected receives any
form of treatment, most of that being restricted mainly to pretreatment of industrial wastes,
or through septic tanks from which the effluents are discharged into nearby waterways. The
12 existing treatment plants, most handling no more than 40,000 m3/day, operate at less
than half their design capacity and handle about 3 percent of Shanghai's average dry-
weather flows, usually at the secondary treatment level.
2.14  The proposed project would rehabilitate the systems and facilities associated with
three existing treatment plants of about 255,000 m3/day total capacity at Quyang, Tianshan
and Longhua. As mentioned above, studies indicate that discharges at Bailonggang from
the proposed project's conveyor system would require only preliminary treatment
(screening and grit removal) in the medium term. However, land has been allocated for the
future construction of a chemically-assisted primary wastewater treatment plan, with an
initial capacity of about 0.86 Mm /day. Engineering studies for the treatment plant are
underway, ensuring that the plant could be constructed in stages as pollution loads and
flows increase over time, commencing in about the year 2000. The environmental objective
would be to ensure that phosphorus levels discharged do not cause eutrophication in the
vicinity, and that dissolved oxygen levels do not endanger marine life. This phased strategy
is the least-cost approach to environmental management.
Institutional Development
2.15  Shanghai's strategy for wastewater management includes phased strengthening of
the Shanghai Municipal Sewerage Company, Ltd. (SMSC) in parallel with physical
development of the system. SMSC was preceded by the Shanghai Sewerage Company
(SSC), which was established in 1987 under SSPI. SSC benefited from training under
that project but its organization required adjustment to allow effective management of the
expanding system needs; this led SMG to form SMSC (para. 4.1), absorbing SSC and
allocating enlarged responsibilities to the new organization. Based on an organizational
study carried out under the earlier project, SMSC has prepared an action plan for its
reorganization and further strengthening, which it would carry out with technical
assistance to be provided under the proposed project. The plan includes a focus on
furthering the company's commercialization by improving financial and accounting
capabilities. Details of SMSC's institutional objectives are given in Chapter 4.



- 10-
Financial Strategy
2.16  Achieving financial sustainability of the wastewater system is critical to adequate
operation and maintenance of existing facilities and to the system expansion required to
support Shanghai's continued growth. SSPI introduced tariffs that now meet operating
and maintenance expenses (excluding depreciation). However, with only marginal tariff
increases during 1993-95 but wage and administrative cost increases of about 55 percent
and 46 percent a year, respectively, SSC had to rely on government transfers-
construction taxes and public utility levies (principally on water supply)-to meet
stormwater drainage and debt service costs. Recently, SMG signaled its intention to
press on towards making the system financially self-sustaining by approving substantially
increased wastewater tariffs in July 1995, which are scheduled for implementation from
March 1996. To meet Shanghai's financial targets for SMSC under the project would
require further tariff adjustments which, if implemented, would ensure continued
development of SMSC's financial capacity. SMSC's current and projected financial
performance is discussed further in Chapter 5.
D. WASTEWATER FLOWS AND POLLUTION LOADS
2.17  Wastewater flows and pollution loads to be handled by Shanghai's sewerage
system have been estimated based on parameters described in the following paragraphs.
Water Consumption and Wastewater Projections
2.18  Per capita water consumption in Shanghai rose from 79 liters per capita per day
(l/c/d) in 1984 to 118 l/c/d in 1992, which is considered reasonable for a wealthy city like
Shanghai. Average consumption by the year 2000 is expected to reach 160 I/c/d with
higher personal incomes, increasing use of water-consuming appliances, and the gradual
change from bucket latrines to flush toilets. However, the past growth rate of 6.0 percent
will likely slow to 2.5 to 3.5 percent by the year 2000, in response to water pricing policy
changes introduced as part of the ongoing SEP that are geared to providing a positive rate
of return on revalued assets.  Higher water charges should blunt demand and
consequently reduce wastewater flows. Per capita consumption levels are therefore
expected to rise from their year 2000 level to 225 l/c/d in 2010 and 280 l/c/d in 2020.
These growth rates are considered reasonable, given the current rate of economic growth.
2.19  Total wastewater flows in SMSC's service area now total about 5.5 million (M)
m 3/day (average dry weather flow). This includes 0.6 Mm3/d (11 percent) of wastewater
that is treated and discharged to local watercourses, 2.6 Mm3/d (48 percent of wastewater
conveyed and discharged to the Changjiang Estuary (without treatment), and 2.2 Mm3/d
(41 percent) of wastewater discharged to local watercourses without treatment.
Projections of wastewater flows show increases to 6.0 Mm3/d, 6.9 Mm3/d and 7.8 Mm3/d
in the years 2000, 2010 and 2020, respectively. Estimates are based on water supply
projections and include groundwater infiltration (estimated at 2,000 m3/d/km' in the Puxi
area and 1,000 m 3d/km in Pudong). Wastewater projections are shown in Annex 2.



Pollution Loads
2.20  Industry currently accounts for, and is projected to remain at, approximately
50 percent of the total wastewater flow in Shanghai in the year 2000. The pollution
loads, in terms of biological oxygen demand (BOD), chemical oxygen demand (COD),
ammonia and phosphorus, however, are dominated by those of domestic wastewater and
the significance of industry is much lower, accounting for 30 percent or less of the total
loads. This can be attributed to the particularly low strength of industrial wastewater as a
result of excessive water consumption per unit of output, and to the predominance of
industries based on inorganic materials, therefore discharging little if any organic matter
in wastewater.
2.21  Quantities of industrial wastewater are expected to decline initially, mainly as a
result of process improvements and moves to more water-efficient technology, and rise
slowly thereafter as a result of sustained growth in industrial output. However, the
growth in domestic loads consequent upon the phasing out of nightsoil and septic tank
systems will mean that the relative significance of industrial pollution loads will not
increase.
2.22  There are, however, a number of toxic and sparingly degradable substances of
industrial origin in Shanghai's wastewater. The principal substances include heavy
metals such as arsenic, copper, mercury, lead and zinc, cyanide and phenol.
2.23 The impact of the overall loads of BOD, COD, phosphorus and ammonia in the
context of the assimilative capacity of the Changjiang Estuary is limited (a "footprint" of
under 1 km2), particularly in the immediate term. Extensive modeling studies have
shown that predicted pollution loads up to the year 2000 can be fully assimilated; beyond
that time, manageable amounts of phosphorus should be removed as flows and loads
increase. This has been carefully analyzed during preparation of the Environmental
Assessment. It is proposed, therefore, to adopt a strict control policy for toxic substances,
based largely on control at source, but to adopt a total load approach in respect of organic
pollutants such as BOD. As mentioned above (para. 2.14), phosphorus is the limiting
pollutant, and phosphorus control would be the objective of the management strategy.
Pollution load projections are shown in Annex 2, and further background provided in
Annex 9.
2.24  As indicated previously, wastewater pretreatment facilities would be provided for
in the proposed project, and land would be reserved and provision made in the system
design for the future construction of further treatment as pollution loads increase. Phase I
investments under SSPI were designed to remove about 20 percent of the total urban
pollution load in the Huangpu, and Phase II investments under the proposed project
would aim to collect parts of the remaining loads. The rationale for this approach in
terms of compliance with discharge standards is discussed in detail in Annex 9.



- 12 -
E. LESSONS LEARNED
2.25 There are three principal lessons learned from our lending in Shanghai and
elsewhere that have been incorporated into the project: (a) provision and management of
financially sustainable urban environmental services; (b) effective environmental
management and pollution control; and (c) the need for rigorous project preparation and
careful implementation.
2.26  Provision and Management of Urban Environmental Services.   The
Operations Evaluation Department review of Bank water and sanitation projects (Water
Supply and Sanitation Projects: The Bank Experience 1967-1989), concluded that to
meet borrower and Bank development objectives, project design should incorporate
institution building, financial viability, and poverty alleviation as core conceptual
elements. Bank municipal management sector work in connection with incentives for
urban service delivery emphasizes the need to properly assign functional responsibilities
and link revenue to expenditures. In China, environmental services are provided at the
municipal level, where a high percentage of government revenue is also captured. Recent
sector work (China. Urban Environmental Service Management) concluded that the
major failing in environmental services has been dependence on municipal budget
transfers to fund services, while greater reliance on user charges would be affordable,
induce resource conservation, and create a more dependable income stream. Increasing
tariffs has therefore been a focal point of our policy dialogue. Under the first Sewerage
Project, a conflict arose between SMG's desire to protect SSC's financial viability and
the political pressure on SMG to limit tariff increases in an inflationary environment.
Discussions during preparation of the proposed project highlighted the need for a
resolution of this conflict, and SMG approved a tariff increase in consequence prior to
appraisal for implementation commencing in 1996. This aspect of the project would be a
focal point for dialogue during implementation.
2.27 Effective Environmental Management and Pollution Control. Reviewing
recent Bank experience in pollution control including projects in China, Asia, Latin
America and Africa has highlighted the importance of facilitating the means for all
polluters to connect to wastewater systems, thereby expanding system coverage and the
numbers of paying consumers, and ensuring the cost-effective capture of all polluting
wastewaters. The project design draws on these lessons and those in the two recent sector
studies (China: Environmental Strategy Paper and China: Urban Environmental
Service Management). The latter stresses issues of political commitment especially with
respect to pricing matters, appropriate environmental standards and management
incntives, and monitoring and enforcement capabilities. This project also addresses those
issues through an action plan to enhance system connections, and strengthen wastewater
utility management. The ongoing Shanghai Environment Project includes important
supporting initiatives under implementation, which provide in-plant water pollution
reduction and treatment of the 33 major polluting industries (some 80 percent of the total
industrial wastewater pollution in Shanghai), implemented through an ongoing time-
bound Action Plan.



- 13 -
2.28  Project Preparation And Implementation.  The ongoing support from
international and Chinese expertise, with a focus on strong project management backed
by high-level political commitment to project goals has proved effective, and would be
repeated for project implementation. The extensive involvement of a local design bureau
during preparation is also expected to ensure a high degree of borrower ownership. The
importance of sustained technical assistance during initial stages of project
implementation was demonstrated in SSPI, for example, where technical problems
encountered during construction caused flooding and loss of one of two outfall tunnels
being constructed as part of the Phase I works. This underscored the need for the
proposed project to support technical assistance expertise in the areas of construction
management, financial and institutional systems development, and a technical review
panel.



- 14-
3. THE PROPOSED PROJECT
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES
3.1   The project is part of the next phase of Shanghai Municipality's development
program to improve environmental conditions and management. The overriding project
objective is to provide a safe environmental setting for the long-term growth of Shanghai,
enabling sustained economic and industrial growth. Specific objectives of the project are
to:
(a)   enhance wastewater and stormwater management through expanding
wastewater collection, pretreatment and disposal capacity and stormwater
drainage facilities;
(b)   reduce urban pollution impact, while facilitating pollution control;
(c)   improve wastewater utility financial and operational management; and
(d)   strengthen sector institutions through training, feasibility studies, and future
investment project preparation in the environment area.
B. PROJECT PREPARATION
3.2   Recognizing the significant environmental damage that has been caused by
uncontrolled wastewater pollution in China, the Central Government has targeted
Shanghai to improve its environmental management. It therefore approached the World
Bank for support in funding a long-term program of investments in environmental
protection in Shanghai. SMG recognizes that the sustained protection of the environment
is a prerequisite for long-term economic growth and considers that appropriate
investments in environrmental protection are of the highest priority.
3.3   SMG directed the Shanghai Sewerage Project Construction Company-SSPCC
(paras. 3.13-3.14), which was set up to prepare and execute SSPI, to prepare and implement
the proposed project. SSPCC carried out these responsibilities until December 1995 when
it was merged with SSC to become the Shanghai Municipal Sewerage Company, Ltd.
(SMSC), which would now be responsible for completion of preparation and for project
implementation (para. 4.1). The Bank and bilateral agencies were approached for assistance
in funding project preparation. As a result, the Norwegian Government funded a major
Design Review and Advisory (DRA) consultancy to review the initial preparation work
already undertaken by SMG, and to assist in the completion of the remaining work
supporting SMG-appointed consultants. The French Government funded a consultancy to
review wastewater treatment, telemetry and improvements to SMSC's existing wastewater



- 15 -
treatment plants. Danish government-supported specialists were retained to review and
confirm the findings of modeling studies carried out by two Shanghai institutions on the
assimilative capacity of an outfall at Bailonggang, and Canadian government-supported
specialists assisted in developing wastewater connection options and strategies.
C. PROJECT DESCRIPTION
3.4   The project would comprise (a) financial and policy initiatives, planning,
institutional and management reforms, and (b) an investment program of environmentally-
oriented capital works and institutional measures to support management and operational
capacity-building of SMSC. A detailed description of the various project components is
presented in Annex 3. A summary of these components is given below. The indicated
costs include physical and price contingencies, and local taxes and duties. The investment
program would comprise the following components:
(a)   Sewerage and Sanitation Improvements comprising trunk conveyor and
secondary sewers, and pumping facilities, with a supporting program of
wastewater flow management and connection and collection for domestic,
industrial and enterprise systems. Improvements in stormwater drainage,
nightsoil and septic tank systems management;    $531.2 million
(b)   Wastewater Treatment and Disposal Systems at Bailonggang comprising
pretreatment, effluent pumping facilities and a marine outfall for a flow
capacity of about 1.7 Mm3/d, and rehabilitation of existing sewerage
systems;                                          $83.2 million
(c)   Institutional Development and Training for supporting and strengthening
project management, wastewater organizational, financial and urban utility
operations and management systems; wastewater system rehabilitation,
monitoring technology and data management; pollution control; and
training, feasibility studies and future project preparation. $18.9 million
TOTAL ESTIMATED PROJECT COST                     $633.3 million
3.5   The institutional development and policy strengthening component would
enhance policy formulation and operational experience in wastewater and water pollution
control. These initiatives have been grouped into three technical assistance packages-
Package A (institutional and financial), Package B (technical, environmental management
strengthening, and future project preparation), and Training-and would include:
(a)   assisting SMSC in its reorganization and institutional strengthening, and
developing utility accounting and management information systems
(Package A. I);
(b)   strengthening project management and sector institutions through technical
assistance and training for efficient project implementation (Package B.1);



- 16-
(c)      improving measures and mechanisms for water pollution monitoring, for the
enforcement of water pollution regulations, providing technical assistance
for studies, including sewerage master planning, measures to alleviate water
pollution, and future project preparation (parts of Package B); and
(d)      training, including  training  for  SMSC   senior managers, technical and
environmental monitoring, and upgrading the SMSC wastewater sector
Training Center.
This component would be implemented in accordance with a time-bound Institutional
Development and Training Action Plan (See para. 4.9).
D. PROJECT COST ESTIMATES
3.6      Total project costs, including contingencies, are estimated at Y 5,967.9 million
($633.3 million). The foreign exchange component is Y 1,953.0 million ($200.2
million), or about 32 percent of project costs. Local taxes and duties on items expected to
be imported directly for the project are estimated at Y 216.7 million ($21.3 million), or
about 3 percent of project costs. Land acquisition costs are estimated at Y 1.329.1
million ($153.6 million), or about 24 percent of project costs. A summary of cost
estimates is given in Table 3.1. Interest during construction is estimated at $34.6 million
and total financing required would be Y 6,307.3 million ($667.9 million). Detailed cost
estimates are provided in Annex 4.
Table 3.1: SUMMARY COST ESTIMATES
Y million                        $ million
% foreign   %total                       % foreign   %total
Local  Forrign  Total  exchange  base costs  Local Foreign  Total  exchange  base cost
Sewerage and sanitation   2,766.8  1,091.7  3,858.4    28      84     329.4  130.0  459.3    28          84
improvements
Wastcwater treatment and   352.5  218.1   580.6      38        13      43.2  26.0   69.1    38           13
disposal
Institution developmnent and  28.9   104.0   132.9   78         3       3.4  12.4   15.8    78            3
training
rotalBsimeLiCostsjL    3.11  1413.8 4.571,        31        10      327.   1l6 8     41     3 1Q
Physical contingencies     332.3   161.2  493.4      33        11      39.6  19.2   58.8    33           11
Price contingencies        524.6  378.0  902.6       42        20      17.5  12.7   30.2    42            6
TotalProiectCosts      4.015.0  19530  5.967.9    3         1i1     4311  20      633       32        a
Interest during construction k  0.0  339.4  339.4                       0.0  34.6   34.6
Total Financing Reqed  4.015.0 2,292.4 6 307.3                      4331  234U 8    z6
La Minor errors due to rounding.
Al Interest during construction is based on onlending rates for projected disbursements of loan proceeds, and payment of commitment
charges.



- 17-
3.7   The above estimates have been based on a 5.5-year implementation period, with
disbursement of the IBRD Loan spread over 6.5 years, consistent with the standard Bank
disbursement profile for urban projects in China. All financial analyses have been
performed using the 5.5-year implementation period. SMSC, however, plans to complete
implementation of the project in three years, by December 31, 1998.
3.8   Project cost estimates are based on local design institutes' and the DRA (para. 3.3)
consultants' engineering designs, reflecting price levels prevailing in December 1995. The
unit prices were derived through a reconciliation of data from the following principal
sources: (a) quotations obtained from manufacturers and suppliers; (b) prices of goods and
works from recent contracts under SEP; and (c) construction costs according to prices
published by the Government, adjusted for inflation. Physical contingencies of 10 percent
have been applied to base costs, except for the treatment and outfall works, where
15 percent has been applied. Price contingencies have been applied to expenditures at
projected global foreign and local inflation rates. In view of the large variation between
foreign and local price contingency projections, the dollar/yuan exchange rate has been
assumed to vary in order to maintain purchasing power parity. The projections used are as
follows:
Parameter                   1996    1997    1998    1999    2000    2001
Foreign (MUV)                2.6     2.6      2.6     2.6     2.6     2.6
Local                       10.6     8.5      7.0     6.5     6.2     6.2
E. FINANCING PLAN
3.9   The financing plan for the project is shown in Table 3.2.
Table 3.2: FINANCING PLAN
($ million)
Source                        Local      Foreign       Total     Percentage
Shaiighai Municipality        383.3         34.6       417.9        62.6
IBRD                           49.8       200.2        250.0        37.4
Total Financing Required Za    4331     234 8       66.9-        100
Za Includes interest during construction (IDC) of $34.6 million.



- 18-
3.10  China is eligible for single currency loans under the Bank's expanded program.
The Government of China and Shanghai Municipality have selected LIBOR-based US
dollar single currency loan terms for the project in order to facilitate management of the
foreign exchange risk of their borrowings by more closely matching the currency of their
liabilities with that of their net trade flows, about 75 percent of which are US dollar-
denominated. They selected the LIBOR-based product in order to preserve the full
maturity of the loan, compared to the fixed-rate option that would have resulted in a 15-
year loan. The Borrower judges that it can manage any interest rate risk. This loan
represents about 8 percent of the fiscal year 1996 IBRD expected lending to China, and is
well within the 50 percent volume guideline approved by the Bank's Board.
3.11  The IBRD loan would be made to the People's Republic of China. The loan of
$250 million would be for a 20-year term, including a 5-year grace period at the standard
interest rate for LIBOR-based US dollar single currency loans. The proceeds of the loan
would be onlent to Shanghai Municipality (SM) on the same terms and conditions, and a
commitment charge at the Bank's standard rate on the outstanding balance. SM would
bear the foreign exchange risk. These arrangements are satisfactory to the Bank. SM
would onlend the proceeds to SMSC for 15 years, including a 5-year grace period, at a
rate equal to the standard interest rate for LIBOR-based US dollar single currency loans.
SMSC would bear the commitment charge and the foreign exchange risks. Assurances to
this effect were obtained during negotiations, andfound acceptable to the Bank
3.12 Execution of a subsidiary loan agreement between SM and SMSC, satisfactory to
the Bank, is a condition of loan effectiveness. A separate Project Agreement, including
operational, financial and monitoring covenants, would be executed between SM and
IBRD.
F. PROJECT ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
3.13 The Shanghai Municipal Sewerage Company, Ltd.-SMSC (para. 4.1) would
implement the project. SMSC was established and started operations on December 7,
1995, resulting from the merger of the Shanghai Sewerage Company (SSC) and the
Shanghai Sewerage Project Construction Company (SSPCC), established in November
1986 as a state-owned enterprise to prepare and execute SSPI. That project was executed
in a satisfactory manner. SMSC comes under, and reports to, the Shanghai Major
Construction Project Leading Group, which oversees the preparation and execution of all
major urban projects on behalf of SMG. The Leading Group is headed by a vice-mayor
and supported by the Vice Secretary-General of SMG and the Director of the Shanghai
Construction Commission (SCC) as group deputy leaders. Senior representatives from
the major government agencies concerned with urban services and environmental
management also support the Leading Group.
3.14  The organization of SMSC's Construction Department is shown in Annex 5. The
Department, with a total staff strength of about 260, has been organized and staffed to
prepare and execute the project, including undertaking the supervision and monitoring of



- 19-
contracts, maintenance of records, and preparation of implementation progress reports. It
has interacted well with the DRA consultants (para. 3.3), resulting in the proposed project
having been prepared satisfactorily to date. During negotiations, assurances were
obtained that SMG would ensure that SMSC would be maintained throughout the project
period with staffing and functions satisfactory to the Bank.
3.15  Day-to-day construction management services and supervision would be provided
by local consulting engineers, assisted by international consultants engaged through
SMSC (Technical Assistance Package B. 1). The consultants' duties would include
verification of compliance with specifications for works and goods, supervision of
construction, quality assurance of construction materials and major items of plant and
equipment, testing and commissioning of completed works and advice on training of staff
to operate the completed facilities.
G. STATUS OF PROJECT ANALYSIS AND ENGINEERING
3.16  Project preparation and design work has been undertaken for SMG jointly by
international and local consultants and design bureaus (para. 3.3) to a high standard, and
is well advanced. Work on the final design and bidding documents preparation for the
wastewater conveyor system was completed in 1995. For the remaining components of
the project, this work is scheduled to be completed during 1996.
H. PROCUREMENT
3.17  Procurement procedures and arrangements satisfactory to the World Bank were
agreed with SMG. All procurement activities would be organized through the Shanghai
International Trust and Investment Company (SITICO), and the International Tendering
Company of Beijing (ITC), who have been appointed procurement agents by SMSC for the
project. Both companies are experienced and competent procurement agents that are
familiar with, and have recent and relevant experience in international competitive bidding
(ICB) work on World Bank Group-financed projects. The tender documents to be used in
the project would be based on the model bid documents that were prepared by the Ministry
of Finance and approved by the World Bank Group. All works and goods would be
packaged whenever practicable into packages of over $10 million for works and over
$250,000 for goods, to attract international competition. Prequalification of bidders would
be undertaken for civil works contracts for pump stations and Bailonggang wastewater
treatmnent plant with an estimated value over $12.0 million each, and for goods contracts for
the supply and installation of pumping plant and system telemetry equipment with an
estimated value over $4.0 million each. Annex 6 lists the Schedule of Contract Packages
and the metlhod of procurement, and Table 3.3 summarizes the procurement categories and
the expected procurement methods. The contract packages and the method of procurement
have been agreed with SMSC.



- 20 -
Table 3.3: PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
($ million, including contingencies)
Procurement Method
Project Component                  ICB     NCB   Otherla  NBF,!   Total
Civil Works                       167.9    90.6      -       9.9   268.4
(91.9)   (49.6)    -      (0.0)  (141.5)
Equipment & Materials             104.2     7.8      0.8    15.4   128.2
(74.4)    (7.0)    (0.7)    (0.0)   (82.1)
Land Acquisition                    -        -       -     153.6   153.6
-  -  -  (0.0)    (0.0)
Institutional Development & Training  -      -      18.9      -      18.9
-       -      (18.9)    -      (18.9)
Construction Management Services    -        -       7.5      -       7.5
-       -       (7.5)    -       (7.5)
Supervision & Project Management    -        -       -      56.7    56.7
(0.0)    (0.0)
TOTAL                          272.1    98.      222    235.6   633.3
(166.3!                          5 )  (27.)520.0)
La Other procurement methods include national shopping, consultant services (recruited in
accordance with the Bank's Guidelines) and training.
/b NBF = Not Bank financed.
Note: Figures in parenthesis are amounts to be financed by the Bank.
3.18 Civil Works. There is a total of about $268 million of civil works, of which about
$168 million (63 percent) would be procured using ICB procedures. Qualified domestic
contractors under ICB will be eligible for a 7.5 percent preference in bid evaluation, in
accordance with the Bank's Procurement Guidelines-January 1995. ICB procedures
would be used for all civil works contracts of estimated value over $10.0 million (about
nine contracts). All remaining civil works are too small, scattered or scheduled too far apart
to be packaged to be of interest to foreign firms. Of the remaining works, about $91 million
would be awarded through national competitive bidding (NCB) procedures acceptable to
the Bank. The NCB procedures recently promulgated by the Government have been
reviewed and found to be satisfactory to the Bank. Interested foreign bidders would be
allowed to bid for NCB contracts.
3.19  Equipment and Materials. There is a total of about $128 million of equipment
and materials in the project, of which about $104 million (81 percent) would be procured



- 21 -
using ICB procedures. Qualified domestic bidders will be eligible for a preference in bid
evaluation of 15 percent or customs duties and import tax payable by a nonexempt
importer, whichever is less. All equipment and materials with individual contract values of
$250,000 or more equivalent would be procured using ICB procedures. Equipment and
materials with individual contract values less than $250,000 equivalent up to an aggregate
amount of about $7.8 million would be awarded using NCB procedures, acceptable to the
Bank. Contracts costing $50,000 equivalent or less, up to an aggregate amount of $0.8
million, would be procured through national shopping procedures with at least three price
quotations. Service contracts for model and pilot plant testing would be procured through
national shopping.
3.20  Direct Contracting. Direct contracting (not Bank-financed) anounting to about
$25.3 million will be used for: contracts to be made with the local power companies to
provide electricity supplies to the pump stations, buildings and facilities under the project,
for utility services diversions and protection, and the provision of small tools.
3.21  Technical Assistance and Training. All consultants to be retained under the
project would be recruited in accordance with the World Bank's "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing Agency-
August 1981." National consultants and counterpart staff would be engaged or assigned by
SMSC and the concerned agencies of SMG. Consultants have already been retained for:
(a) project preparation and design; (b) strengthening of the organization of SMSC,
including financial and management improvements, and management information
systems improvements proposed under the project (Package A.1); and (c) the construction
management and supervision of works to be constructed under the project (Package B.1).
The terms of reference for Packages A. 1 and B. I are in the project file (see Annex17).
3.22 Review of Bid Documents and Contracts. All civil works packages (about 12
contracts, 70 percent of the works) of $6 million or more, and all equipment and materials
contracts (about 14 contracts, 81 percent of the equipment and materials) of $500,000 or
more, would be subject to the Bank's nornal prior review, including prequalification, notice
of invitation to bid, bid documents, bid evaluation and contracts. The threshold for prior
review of contracts for consultants would be $100,000 equivalent for firms and $50,000 for
individual contracts, including letters of invitation, terms of reference, evaluation of
proposals and contracts. Other contracts would be subject to selective post-award review.
An estimated 75 percent of the total value of contracts proposed to be financed by the Bank
would be subject to prior review.
3.23  Prequalification.  The Standard Prequalification Document for the People's
Republic of China, issued by the Ministry of Finance and approved by the World Bank
Group, would be used for preparing the invitation document. SMSC, SITICO and ITC hold
copies of this document (together with model bidding documents for ICB and NCB works
and goods invitations, prepared in consultation with the Bank).



- 22 -
I. DISBURSEMENT
3.24 The proposed loan of $250 million would be disbursed over a period of about six
and a half years, as follows:
1.   Civil Works              $135.0 million   56 percent of expenditures
2.   Materials & Equipment    $ 80.0 million   100 percent of foreign expendi-
tures, 100 percent of local expen-
ditures (ex-factory cost), and
75 percent of local expenditures
for other items procured locally
3 .   Construction Management   $ 6.5 million   100 percent of expenditures
Services
4.   Institutional Development   $ 16.0 million   100 percent of expenditures
and Training
5.   Unallocated              $ 12.5 million
Tot31                 $250.0 million
3.25  To expedite disbursements, a Special Account with an authorized allocation of
$15.0 million, representing about four months' average disbursements, would be
established. It would be replenished monthly or whenever the Special Account is drawn
down to 50 percent of its initial value, whichever occurs first. Disbursements would be
made against statements of expenditure (SOEs), certified by SMSC, for: (a) contracts for
civil works costing less than $6 million; (b) contracts for equipment and materials costing
less than $500,000 equivalent; (c) contracts for consulting services costing less than
$100,000 equivalent for firms and $50,000 equivalent for individuals; and (d) all training.
Documents supporting SOEs would be retained by SMSC and made available for review
by external auditors and Bank supervision missions. Disbursements for all other
expenditures would be based on full documentation. A Schedule of Disbursements is
given in Annx 7. As an early start is expected to be made by SM on some works,
retroactive financing of up to $5.0 million would be provided for eligible expenditures
incurred after August 1, 1995 but prior to loan signing, covering initial civil works, goods
and services contracts. The project is expected to be completed about December 2001
and, therefore, the Loan Closing Date would be June 30, 2002.
J. LAND ACQUISITION AND RESETTLEMENT
3.26  Project Impacts. The project entails acquisition of land and resettlement of
affected persons. During project preparation, a detailed survey of affected persons and
properties was carried out by SSPCC with the assistance of local township and district
governments and the affected people. According to the results of the survey, permanent



- 23 -
land acquisition of 188 ha of land would be necessary for the project and 114 ha would
need to be leased temporarily during project construction. A total of 4,924 persons would
be affected by land acquisition and 4,018 persons would need house relocation as a result
of the project.  Of these, 1,516 would be affected by both land acquisition and
resettlement, hence the total number of persons affected by the project due to land
acquisition and resettlement would be 7,426. A total of 173 enterprises would also be
affected by the project, of which 21 would need to be relocated to new sites. The
Shanghai Academy of Social Sciences (SASS) also conducted a preliminary
socioeconomic survey of the affected people. Detailed baseline socioeconomic surveys
of affected persons would be carried out for each contract, before the initiation of
resettlement implementation for the respective contract
3.27  Resettlement Action Plan (RAP). In order to mitigate the adverse impacts of
land acquisition and also to implement the resettlement/rehabilitation activities as a
development program, a comprehensive strategy and practical framework for
implementation was prepared by SMG and SSPCC; these are described in a Resettlement
Action Plan (RAP), which was prepared by SSPCC and submitted to the Bank for review
prior to appraisal, and found to be satisfactory following minor revisions. The RAP
consists of: (a) the objective and principles of resettlement; (b) legal framework and
resettlement  policies;  (c) institutional  arrangements;  (d) costs  and   budget;
(e) implementation schedule; (f) participation and consultations with affected persons;
(g) grievance redressal mechanisms; and (h) monitoring and evaluation of RAP
implementation.
3.28  Resettlement Strategy.  All persons affected by land acquisition would be
provided jobs in nonagricultural enterprises. The elderly affected persons would be
eligible for old-age pension and special rehabilitation arrangements. Affected enterprises
would be compensated at full replacement cost of structures affected and those
substantially affected would be relocated to sites in the vicinity. Those affected by house
relocation would be given options of various types of housing (described in detail in the
RAP). Workers in affected enterprises would be given allowances in lieu of wages
during the period when enterprises are not working.
3.29  Resettlement Costs. The costs associated with RAP implementation have been
included in the project budget. The total cost of implementation is estimated at Y 1,329.1
million, including provisions for physical and price contingencies.
3.30  Implementation Arrangements.   SMG  has given the responsibility for
resettlement planning, financing and coordination and implementation to SMSC.
Implementation would be carried out with assistance from local government institutions
at the SMG, township (Pudong) and district (Puxi) level. Specialized agencies dealing
with land acquisition and resettlement and placement of labor in new jobs have been
formed by SMG for Pudong new area. A Resettlement Coordination Group (RCG), with
members from various agencies involved in land acquisition and resettlement activities,
has been formed specifically for the project.



- 24 -
3.31  RAP implementation would be carried out in a highly participatory manner;
affected people and their representatives have been and would be consulted at each stage
in RAP planning and implementation. Avenues for redressing grievances of affected
persons have been established specifically for the project; provisions for appeals are also
in place.
3.32  Monitoring and Evaluation. Monitoring and evaluation of the resettlement and
rehabilitation program would be carried out both internally and externally. Internal
monitoring would be carried out by SMSC bimonthly on the basis of detailed formats that
have been agreed with the World Bank and included in the RAP; monitoring indicators
have also been specified. The RCG would take follow-up action on the findings of
internal monitoring. External monitoring and evaluation would be carried out by SASS,
during and after project completion, concentrating on qualitative aspects of RAP
implementation.  Monitoring reports would be prepared every three months and
submitted to the Bank every six months. The first external monitoring report would be
submitted to the Bank by end-June 1996. The monitoring reports would be discussed in
the RCG and each report would record the progress of follow-up actions initiated as a
result of the previous reports.
3.33  A Resettlement Action Plan, acceptable to the Bank, has been received. A
summary of the RAP is presented in Annex 8. During negotiations, assurances were
obtained from SM that it would cause SMSC and all other concerned agencies to (a) carry
out the resettlement of'persons affected by the project in a manner and according to a plan
(the RAP) that is satisfactory to the Bank; (b) report annually on the progress in carrying
out the resettlement plan using monitoring indicators satisfactory to the Bank; and (c) carry
out land acquisition in accordance with the RAP.
K. ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT
3.34  The project is a Category A project according to the Bank's Operational Directive
classification. SSPCC, through its consultants, prepared the Environmental Assessment
(EA) in accordance with Bank requirements, which was extensively reviewed within China,
and approved by NEPA. The EA incorporates assessment of possible impacts on local
water (improvements in water quality in the Huangpu and its tributaries) and land, and on
environmental quality in the Changjiang estuary. The EA concludes that the project would
have an overall substantially positive environmental impact.  Detailed mathematical
computer modeling studies have determined the optimal discharge location, the assimilative
capacity of the Changjiang at the proposed outfall location, and the wastewater treatment
strategy and phasing requirements. An issue of particular concern is the phosphorus load
carried by the Changjiang, which has implications for red tides in the East China Sea/
Hangzhou Bay.
3.35  These studies concluded that, initially, simple pretreatment would be adequate to
avoid unacceptable impact upon water quality in the Changjiang. As pollution loads build
up, wastewater treatment would be phased in, probably adopting chemically-assisted



- 25 -
primary treatment.  A key objective of treatment would be to control the loads of
phosphorus discharged to the Changjiang from Shanghai, which would be sustained at or
below the predicted loads discharged in 2005. This will be achieved by introduction of
treatment by not later than that year.
3.36  To maximize treatment efficiency, the required pollution load reduction would be
achieved by treatment of part of the wastewater flow to a high standard. During
negotiations, assurances were obtained from SMG that SMSC would provide wastewater
treatment facilities for the SSPII wastewater as required to limit the average annual
phosphorus loads from Shanghai as a whole into any receiving waters at or below 18 tons!
day. The first treatment plant would be designed on the basis of experience with the pilot
plant and in accordance with terms of reference acceptable to the Bank to be located at
Bailonggang, and would be constructed and fully operational not later than January 1,
2005, or such other date that the Bank and Shanghai may agree. The capacity would need
to be extended to an estimated 1.7 Mm3/d in 2010, and 2.2 Mm3/d in 2015. As treatment is
introduced, considerable quantities of sludge would be generated; feasibility studies for the
future treatment requirements and plans for sludge disposal have been completed, and
preliminary design is underway for works that would be phased in over time.
3.37  Ensuring wastewater flows are collected into the new and existing system is crucial
to both project impact and the long-term financial sustainability of the Shanghai wastewater
system. The enhanced collection of wastewater to the Phase I system and connections to
the new system to be constructed under the project will be undertaken in accordance with a
Wastewater Connection time-bound Action Plan. This would include the construction and
commissioning of pump stations and secondary sewers in the Pudong area, and linking the
project to ongoing in-plant pollution control programs (supported under SEP). Shanghai
has an ongoing Water Conservation Program, with strong public-outreach activities and
publicity campaign. The Wastewater Connection Action Plan would be implemented
integrally with this latter program. At negotiations, assurances were obtainedfrom SMG
that SMSC wvould implement the Wastewater Connection Action Plan, discuss any revisions
with the Bank, and implement any such agreed revisions.
3.38 A comprehensive summary of the EA is given in Annex 9.
L. PROJECT MONITORING, REPORTING AND SUPERVISION
3.39  The proposed project implementation schedule is shown in Annex 10. Project
impact would be monitored with respect to the objectives, for which the key indicators are
summarized below:
(a)   wastewater management:
Indicators: customers, system connections, loads and flows;
(b)   urban pollution impact reduction:
Indicators:  licenses performance, Huangpu River quality, outfall
performance (mixing area);



- 26 -
(c)   operational and financial performance:
Indicators: financial parameters, operational efficiency; and
(d)   institutional development and project management:
Indicators: % achievement of two time-bound Action Plans, % of project
implementation plan.
A tentative list of proposed monitoring indicators for environmental improvement is
included in Annex I 1. Financial monitoring indicators for SMSC are appended to its
financial projections in Annex 13. The format and content ofproject progress reports and
project impact monitoring indicators and methodology were discussed and confirmed
during negotiations, and an understanding reached that parameters, baseline and targeted
values would be developed by SMSC for review during the proposed Project Launch
Workshop (para. 3.41).
3.40  Assurances were obtained during negotiations that quarterly project progress
reports would be prepared by SMSC and sent to the Bank commencing April 1996. The
last progress report of each year would include the latest project cost estimate and financing
plan for the following year, including SM's draft budget for local counterpart funds. An
understanding to that effect was reached during negotiations, and recorded in the minutes
of negotiations. An implementation completion report, reviewing the planned objectives
and the achievements of the project, including costs and benefits derived, and performance
and contribution of all parties associated with project execution, would be prepared by SM
and submitted to the Bank within six months of the Closing Date. During negotiations,
assurances were obtained that, not later than six months after the closing date, or such
later date as may be agreed between SM and the Bank SM would cause SMSC to:
(a) prepare and submit to the Bank an outline plan for the future operation of the
investments financed under the project; and (b) afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to
exchange views on the said outline plan.
3.41  To facilitate implementation, a Project Launch Workshop would be held in early
1996. Project supervision requirements would be based on experience with the supervision
of SSPI. Bank supervision would require about 108 staff-weeks over the life of the project,
of which about 30 staff-weeks would be at headquarters for the review of progress and audit
reports, procurement actions and correspondence, and 78 staff-weeks would be in the field.
More extensive supervision would be required during the first three years of the project
during which time the technical assistance would be made operational and many contracts
would be tendered, evaluated and awarded.  Supervision would be provided by
environmental engineering and financial staff, as well as other specialists as needed. The
project supervision plan is shown in Annex 16.



- 27 -
4. THE BENEFICIARY
A. THE SHANGHAI MUNICIPAL SEWERAGE COMPANY, LTD.
4.1    Organization. The Shanghai Municipal Sewerage Company, Ltd. (SMSC) was
established as a self-accounting, self-funding state-owned enterprise under SM, and started
operations on December 7, 1995, following the merger of the existing Shanghai Sewerage
Company (SSC) and the Shanghai Sewerage Project Construction Company (SSPCC). The
establishment of SMSC represents the second step in SMG's plans to reorganize and
strengthen institutional arrangements for the delivery of efficient wastewater management
services in Shanghai. At the first step, SSC was established in 1987 as a self-accounting,
self-funding state-owned enterprise, to be responsible for sewerage and stormwater
collection, treatment (as required) and disposal in the following 14 urban districts of the
Shanghai Municipality: Baoshan, Changning Hongkou, Huangpu, Jiading, Jing'an, Luwan,
Minhang, Nansi, Pudong, Putuo, Xuhui, Yangpu and Zhabei. Its service area comprised
about 750 kM2, approximately the same as that of the Shanghai Municipal Waterworks
Company (SMWC). Its registration in accordance with the Registration Regulations was a
condition of effectiveness of the First Shanghai Sewerage Project-SSPI (Loan 2794-
CHA/Credit 1779-CHA). SSPCC was established in November 1986 as a state-owned
enterprise, to prepare and execute SSPI.
4.2   SSC evolved from the Shanghai Municipal Engineering Administration Bureau
(SMEAB), under which two divisions, the Shanghai Municipal Drainage Administration
Division (SMDAD) and the Shanghai Municipal Engineering Administration Division
(SMEAD), were responsible for sewage pumping stations and sewage treatment works, and
sanitary and combined sewers, respectively. SMEAD is also responsible for maintenance
of urban roads and bridges. Nightsoil (and solid waste) collection and disposal is handled
by the Shanghai Environmental Sanitation Administration Bureau (SESAB).
4.3   SMSC, whose parent bureau is the Shanghai Public Utility Bureau, which comes
under the Shanghai Construction Commission, is headed by a General Manager appointed
by a Board of Directors comprising representatives of the Shanghai Construction
Commission, Shanghai Planning Commission, Shanghai Finance Bureau, Shanghai Price
Bureau and SMEAB. The General Manager is assisted by four vice-managers responsible
for: (a) administration, (b) finance, (c) operations, and (d) construction. Total staff strength
is about 4,100.
4.4   Until it was reorganized in November 1995, the structure of SSC had undergone
little change since it was established in 1987. It was a relatively flat-structured organization
with about 36 units (18 Divisions at Headquarters, and 18 Business Units, e.g., tariff, repair
and maintenance, monitoring, flood control stations, etc.) reporting to the Director's Office.



- 28 -
One of these units was the Combined Sewerage Management Division, formed about two
years ago, with a strength of about 590 staff. The purpose of this Division was to operate
the assets constructed under SSPI. These assets were formally handed over to SSC for
operation and maintenance in April 1995. Some functional tasks were shared between a
number of divisions, leading to duplication of effort and a waste of resources. Within some
Business Units, there was no clear distinction between operational and nonoperational
functions. Other areas were functionally weak including accounting and financial planning
(paras. 4.6 and 4.8).
4.5    With the exception of the five formal Development Zones in Pudong and other
designated estates (e.g., industrial, housing, etc.), SMSC's responsibilities include
ownership, operation and maintenance of all combined (storm and wastewater) sewers in its
service area, and wastewater sewers only in areas that have separate storm and wastewater
systems. The ownership, operation and maintenance of the separate storm and wastewater
systems in the five formal Development Zones of Pudong, and the sewerage and storm
network within certain estate holdings, vest with the respective administrations of those
zones and estates as the initial investments were made by them. SSC delegated the
mainitenance of some of its network to other organizations. In the Puxi area of Shanghai,
for instance, SMEAD maintained the link sewers. Branches of SMEAD in each district,
known as Municipal Engineering Administration Sectors, maintained the secondary and
tertiary network. Pump stations and link sewers in Baoshan and Chuansha counties were
financed and operated by SSC with staff appointed by the county governments.
4.6   Accounting, Billing and Collection. SSC and SSPCC's accounting system has
historically been cash-based bookkeeping, modeled more on the lines of its parent
government bureau, rather than on enterprise lines. Initial steps were taken during the first
project to move to enterprise accounting. As structured, SSC found that it was unable to
respond to the pace of development that has taken place, or that is expected to take place in
Shanghai during the next few years; for example, it was unable to identify all possible
nondomestic units that are connected to its reticulation system. With the establishment of
the new development zones in Pudong District, all sewers, pump stations, and connections
to the trunk sewer system, belong to the development zones, which precluded SSC from
establishing the identity of the nondomestic users in these zones. In other respects, the city
appears to have expanded too quickly for the agencies concerned to maintain up-to-date
commercial/industrial customer data bases. The above has resulted in a loss of revenue for
SSC, requiring increased transfers from SMG to sustain its operations; further, some
industries have their own source of water supply, but discharge to sewers without paying
charges.
4.7   SMG recognize that effective sewerage services in the Shanghai urban area can be
sustained only if these functions are reorganized and strengthened, and agencies given clear
lines of responsibility. The strategy for achieving this, which included the formation of
SMSC, is discussed below.



- 29 -
B. ORGANIZATIONAL IMPROVEMENTS
4.8   As part of SSPI, an organizational study was commissioned by SMG, and
completed in October 1992. The study's recommendations, which were accepted by SMG,
called for a more responsive and rational structure for the then SSC in order to improve its
operational effectiveness, and prepare that company for the additional responsibilities
envisaged under the proposed project and beyond. These included: (a) reducing the span of
control of top management by developing an organization structure based on a pyramid;
(b) grouping of support services in a more rational way; (c) strengthening centralized
planning and management functions; (d) clearly separating operational and nonoperational
functions; (e) improving management accounting; (f) improving financial planning,
management and control functions; (g) developing medium and long-term planning in line
with corporate objectives; (h) improving the coordination of the technical divisions;
(i) developing the training function to include management training; (j) improving the
coordination of commnunity functions; and (k) rationalizing the management functions in the
business units, thereby reducing the duplication between business units and headquarters
staff.
4.9  In recognition of the need to strengthen its wastewater sector operations and put in
place an organization to effectively manage the already large wastewater assets in place and
those to be constructed under the project, SMG merged its two leading sector institutions-
SSC and SSPCC-creating SMSC (para. 4.1). SMSC's organizational structure, which
was modeled on recommendations included in the above-mentioned study, is shown in
Annex 12. Prior to negotiations, the Bank received conformed copies of the Charter and
Business License of SMSC. SMG has also prepared a strategy and time-bound Institutional
Development and Training Action Plan, acceptable to the Bank, for the further
strengthening of SMSC. Under the Action Plan, SMSC would principally (a) rationalize
management functions, (b) strengthen operations and finance, (c) enhance customer and
community contact, and (d) strengthen planning. Assurances were obtained during
negotiations that SMG would cause SMSC to implement the Institutional Development and
Training Action Plan, revise the Plan as necessary, discuss any revisions with the Bank
and implement any such agreed revisions.
4.10  SMSC has begun to implement some of the changes necessary to improve its
organizational and managerial capability. It has also retained consultants to help it
implement the necessary remaining changes (para. 3.21). The Institutional Development
and Training component of the project includes technical assistance and training to SMSC
to assist in the development of an enhanced management information system, appropriate
managerial and financial accounting systems, including billing and collection systems, and
pricing policies (see Annex 3). The technical assistance would be supplemented by a
number of study tours to comparable major utilities by senior managers and SMG officials.



- 30 -
C. ACCOUNTING
4.11  Different accounting systems are used by enterprises (autonomous units),
construction units (which execute investment projects) and local government departments,
in accordance with regulations prescribed by the Ministry of Finance.
4.12  Enterprise Accounting. Historically, the accounting framework in China was
developed in the context of a centralized planned economy. With a view to complementing
the ongoing efforts to deepen reforms in the financial sector and enterprise management, the
accounting system in China needed modernization to permit satisfactory financial
management in an increasingly decentralized and market-oriented environment.  To
facilitate these economic reforms, China has decided that all state-owned enterprises should
follow a unified enterprise accounting system on an accrual basis. As a first step, the
general principles of enterprise accounting (the term to include public utilities such as water
and wastewater companies including SMSC) were revised by the Ministry of Finance from
July 1, 1993 to be more consistent with internationally generally accepted accounting
practice. As part of the reforms, enterprises are also required to produce five reports for
submission to Government: balance sheet, income statement, source and application of
funds, profit distribution, and details of main business. The first two reports are required to
be produced monthly, the remainder on an annual basis. This process is now under way in
SMSC. Resources and expenditures relating to the implementation of the project would be
identified separately within SMSC's accounts and financial statements.
4.13  Government Accounting. The regular government department accounts reflect
expenditures incurred against budget allocations by SM. Accounting is handled in a
decentralized manner through transfers to subunits from which actual expenditures are
made and recorded on a cash basis. Accounts are kept at all levels, and each subunit reflects
in its accounts the budget allocation it receives from the unit above.
D. AUDITS
4.14  As with other Bank Group-financed projects in China, the Foreign Investment Audit
Bureau of the State Audit Administration (SAA), established in 1983, would have overall
responsibility for auditing accounts concerning the project. The actual auditing work would
be conducted by the Shanghai Municipal Audit Department under SAA's supervision. This
arrangement is satisfactory. During negotiations, assurances were obtained that the
following annual audits would be submitted to the Bank within six months after the end of
thefinancial year: (a) audit of the Special Account; (b) audit of statements of expenditures;
and (c) audit of the financial statements of SMSC.
E. STAFF TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT
4.15  The Institutional Development and Training component includes comprehensive
training initiatives for SMSC staff. The reorganization and strengthening of SMSC would
require the application of modern management methods underpinned by sound
management information systems. Senior and junior management would need training in



- 31 -
modem management practices, and particularly in interpreting the output from financial
and management information systems. The development of appropriate accounting and
management information systems, including billing and collection procedures, would be
achieved by supporting the acquisition and initial operation of such systems, coupled with
training to selected staff.  Technical assistance would also be provided for the
development of an equitable sewerage tariff structure that would enable SMSC to meet its
financial objectives, and be affordable to all users, including the lower-income groups.
4.16  There is a perceived shortage of skilled mechanical engineers who have up-to-date
knowledge of the latest technical requirements in pumping techniques and the capability to
advise on design criteria for pumping stations. This deficiency can best be remedied
through seconding suitably qualified mechanical engineers to a major pump manufacturer.
On-the-job training of staff in the operation and maintenance of sewerage services is also
needed. This would be achieved by including support for SMSC's existing training center
with equipment and other teaching material. The training program is estimated to cost $1.1
million. Details are provided in Annex 3.



- 32 -
5. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
A. PAST AND CURRENT FINANCIAL POSITION
5.1   Two years-1993 and 1994-of historic financial statements of SMSC2 have been
compiled from audited accounts (Annex13). As indicated earlier, the accounts are largely
cash-based, with, for instance, domestic sewerage revenues collected by SMWC on behalf
of SMSC being handed over only after the end of the fiscal year. They are not, therefore,
included in the financial year in which they accrue. Other features of SMSC's accounts
include (a) 99 percent of sewerage revenue being paid over to government, to be returned as
budgetary allocations to cover expenses; (b) residual surpluses, which represent the excess
of operating subsidies over costs, which are intended to repay loan interest, not accounted
for as an expense in the accounts; (c) depreciation charged for the first time in 1991; and
(d) costs of sewer maintenance by SMEAD being funded by SMEAB, which provided
SMSC with a corresponding income amount in payment of the work as the sewers form
part of SMSC's fixed asset base. In financial terms, therefore, SMSC is still in a
transitional phase to becoming a self-accounting, self-funding state-owned enterprise.
5.2   Recent levels of direct wastewater service charges, which, between 1993 and 1995,
increased only marginally, have not covered the costs of providing the service. Wages and
administration costs increased by about 55 percent and 46 percent a year, respectively.
SMG has, therefore, been allocating construction taxes and other city-generated revenues
(75 percent of required revenues came from these indirect sources in 1994, compared to
67 percent in 1993, and 57 percent in 1992) to meet operational and debt service costs, and
to be in compliance with its financial covenants under SSPI.  SMG has restated its
commitment to applying the "polluter pays" policy, and in support of that commitment,
raised the average sewerage tariff 100 percent for implementation from March 1996 (see
para. 5.11).
5.3   For the reasons stated in para. 4.6, SMSC has been unable to collect all potential
revenues from its sewerage operations. It is, however, in the process of updating its
customer data base of the nondomestic sector with information supplied by the SMWC, and
in addition, has pursued the following initiatives: (a) the development of regulations
requiring enterprises and units to connect to the wastewater system if within a certain
distance of a sewer line; (b) amendment to the SMG directive Document No. 116 through
Document No. 199 of October 14, 1995, which allows for sewerage billing and collection
from nondomestic units located within the formal development zones of Pudong; and
2 SMSC took over all of the assets and liabilities of SSC in November 1995. References in the text to
SMSC's historic accounts therefore imply SSC's accounts.



-33 -
(c) revision of the penalties for overstandard discharge to sewers. SMSC and SMWC also
recently reached agreement on joint billing arrangements for domestic consumers,
permitting the joint billing and collection of the enhanced tariff introduced on January 1,
1996.  This arrangement represents a significant step forward in organizational
development.
5.4   A formal revaluation of SMSC's fixed assets is underway and expected to be
completed by December 1996; this would include revaluation, as necessary, of assets
constructed under SSPI, and additional sewer networks constructed by SMEAD. The
aggregate of the revalued assets would then be incorporated into SMSC's accounts.
5.5   During negotiations, an understanding was reached and recorded in the minutes
of negotiations that SMG would (a) arrange to transfer to SMSC quarterly (i) the
proceeds of the 5 percent public utility additional tax collected by SMWC on its water
bills; and (ii) one quarter of SMSC's annual estimate as approved by SMG of the
stormwater operations and maintenance costs; and (b) cause SMWC to provide to SMSC
not less than biannually copies of its nondomestic consumer data base and corresponding
volume sales data.
B. FINANCIAL OBJECTIVES
5.6   In mandating the reorganization and strengthening of SMSC, SMG recognizes that
sustained sewerage operations in Shanghai can best be achieved if SMSC is allowed to
function as a public utility company whose customers should be charged towards paying the
full economic cost of the service. This approach would be consistent also with China's and
SMG's policy of "the Polluter Pays." Financial objectives under the project would provide
for wastewater revenues to meet operations and maintenance expenses, and the larger of
debt service or depreciation, while making a reasonable contribution to future investment.
There would be significantly less reliance on indirect revenues in order to stimulate a price-
based response to wastewater service provision.
5.7   Under SSPI, revenues are required to at least cover system  operation and
maintenance expenses and the larger of either depreciation or debt service. To ensure its
capacity to pay debt service, SSC was covenanted to maintain a debt service coverage ratio
of not less than 1.3 times. SMG considers, however, that the above covenants are not
appropriate for the proposed project and future investment programs in sewerage, as the
counterpart funding requirements would strain SMG's finances unless the users and
potential users of the service also were to make a contribution. Accordingly, SMG has
directed that SMSC's tariffs and charges be set at levels that would allow SMSC to make a
reasonable contribution, over time, to its investment programs. SMG would provide the
balance of counterpart funding requirements through capital grants.
5.8   In setting the above financial objectives for SMSC, SMG expects that the resulting
tariff structure would have a demand management effect, which, in turn, would have an
imnpact on total investment requirements, that could be substantial in the long run. A study
carried out in Shanghai on price elasticity of demand showed a value of -0.38, which is
consistent with international experience. Therefore, for a 1O percent increase in the real



- 34 -
price of water/wastewater, demand would fall by 3.8 percent. A study of income elasticity
in Shanghai estimated income elasticity of 0.22, meaning that if real incomes rose by
10 percent, water demand would rise 2.2 percent, in addition to any price effect.
5.9   Given the substantial rise in personal income in Shanghai during the past few years,
the resulting tariff would be easily affordable. As the current water/sewerage bill represents
only about 0.7 percent of average monthly household income, there appears ample scope for
increasing charges without prejudicing consumers' ability to pay. This is discussed further
inparas. 6.16 and 6.17.
C. SEWERAGE TARIFFS
5.10  As part of SSPI, a tariff study was carried out concurrently with the organization
study referred to in para. 4.8 above. The study concluded that: (a) a simple volumetric
charge, based on quantities of water supplied, for both domestic and nondomestic users was
the most appropriate tariff form at present, as data to support a more sophisticated structure
was not available; (b) an increasing block tariff would be desirable in terms of resource
conservation in the long term; (c) tariff levels should be based on average financial cost,
rather than marginal economic cost; (d) initial tariffs should be set at a relatively low level
sufficient for loan repayment, with escalation in future years to bring the levels in line with
full cost recovery and investment return objectives; (e) cross-subsidization between
domestic and nondomestic users should be avoided; and (f) government transfers should be
provided in relation to the costs associated with stormwater drainage and flood control and
for certain institutional users such as schools, hospitals and community facilities. SMG is
now implementing the main recommendations, though more slowly than expected, due to
pressures from the State to control inflation, and an expressed perception that tariff
increases could cause dissatisfaction in the community.
5.11   Commencing on December 1, 1986, SMG instituted a sewerage charge of
Y 0.12/m3 for industrial and commercial consumers only. The charge was based on
90 percent of water sold by SMWC. In July 1993 when water tariffs were increased, SMG
decided that Y 0.02/m3 of the increase should be paid to SMSC for sewerage services, thus
imposing an indirect charge on domestic consumers, and an additional, albeit indirect,
charge on nondomestic consumers. On August 1, 1994, SMG raised the direct charge for
nondomestic consumers by Y 0.02/mr3, to Y 0.14/m3. On July 1, 1995, SMG approved the
following tariff structure:   domestic-Y 0.14/m3, based on 100 percent of water
consumption, to be billed and collected by SMWC on behalf of SMSC; and nondomestic-
Y 0.34/m3, based on 90 percent of water consumption. The resulting average tariff
represents a 100 percent increase over the existing average. The revised tariffs were
scheduled to be implemented from March 1996. Implementation of these agreed increased
wastewater tariffs would be a condition of loan effectiveness.
5.12  In addition to the revenues derived from sewerage tariffs, SMSC's revenues would
include two additional sources: (a) the 5 percent public utility additional tax collected by
SMWC as part of its water tariffs, which, from January 1, 1994, SMG has directed should
be allocated specifically to SMSC; and (b) transfers from SMG to defray the cost of



- 35 -
stormwater removal. SMG considers stormwater removal to be a municipal service, to be
funded from general municipal revenues, as opposed to a sewerage service, to be recovered
from sewerage tariffs. SMSC has estimated that such costs represent 23.5 percent of its
annual operations and maintenance costs. In SMSC's financial projections (Annex13), the
utility tax and the transfers for stormwater have been treated as operational revenue and
nonoperating income, respectively. After 1996, SMSC would operate without further
operating subsidies.
D. FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE FORECAST
5.13  A financial analysis has been completed, using the following assumptions: SMSC's
operating revenues and transfers from SMG would meet: (a) (i) the cash operations and
maintenance costs; (ii) working capital needs; and (iii) debt service requirements; (b) a
contribution to SMSC's capital investment program starting at 5 percent in 1997, and
increased to 10 percent from 2001; and (c) a debt service coverage of not less than 1.3
times. In addition to the direct tariff, revenues would include (a) Government transfers
equivalent to some 23.5 percent of SMSC's estimate of storrnwater removal costs; and
(b) the proceeds of the 5 percent public utility additional tax collected by SMWC. The
balance of capital counterpart contributions would be provided by SMG in the form of
3.
capital grants. The resulting average annual tariff per m3, in current terms and assuming
adjustinents are made in mid-year, would be as follows: 1996-Y 0.35; 1997-Y 0.35;
1998-Y 0.38; 1999-Y 0.44; 2000-Y 0.46; 2001-Y 0.69; 2002-Y 0.69; and 2003-
Y 0.76. The projected financial statements, operating and financial monitoring indicators,
and the assumptions underlying the projections, are given in Annex 13.
5.14 Assurances were obtained during negotiations that SMG would, commencing in
fiscal year 1997, cause SMSC to (a) generate revenues from its sewerage operations
sufficient to cover its operating and maintenance costs (before depreciation), increases in
working capital, debt service requirements, and the following percentages of the average
capital expenditures made in a three-year period (the year preceding the reference year, the
reference year itself and the year after the reference year): 5 percent in years 1997, 1998,
1999 and 2000, and IO percent thereafter; and (b) incur no additional debt without the
Bank's agreement, unless a reasonable forecast shows that SMSC would have a debt
service coverage of at least 1.3 times.
5.15 Assurances were also obtained during negotiations that SMSC would prepare,
before September 30 of each year, forecasts satisfactory to the Ban/k reviewing whether it
would meet the covenanted requirements set forth above in such fiscal year and the
following fiscal year, and furnish the results of such reviews to the Bank If any such
review would show that SMSC would not meet the requirements set out above, SMG would
cause SMSC to take all necessary measures, including adjustments to the structure and
level of its tariffs and charges, in order to meet the requirements.
E. SHANGHAI MUNICIPAL FINANCES
5.16  Shanghai Municipality has two types of finance, on-budget and off-budget. On-
budgetary revenues are provided through taxes, the base and rate of which are set by the



-36 -
central government. The central government directly controls the largest tax source-the
value-added tax-receipts from which are shared with local government. A variety of other
taxes are collected and used directly by local government. Most off-budgetary revenues
consist of special fees paid by enterprises, and fees and charges relating to construction
activities. These are used for capital expenditures. On-budget and off-budget accounts are
not consolidated; the accounts of Shanghai's public service corporations are kept on an
enterprise basis and, therefore, not consolidated into the municipal accounts. While
information on the off-budgetary revenues and expenditures is confidential, and was not,
therefore, provided to the Bank, they are reported to be at least as large as the on-budgetary
data
5.17  Total revenues per capita amounted to about Y 1,350 in 1994, and represented
about 14 percent of Shanghai's GDP. Annex 14 provides projections of SM's municipal
finances up to the year 2002, together with some assumptions underlying the data.
Generally, the projections have been based on Shanghai's past performance. However,
given the additional accelerated economic growth forecast for Shanghai, the projections
should be treated as preliminary. The reduction in 1994 revenues is due to a change in
the tax structure, whereby value-added taxes are now collected by the state, not SMG.
5.18  Financial Resources for Environmental Protection. SMG's capital budget for
environmental protection programs in 1994 amounted to about Y 11,873 million
(equivalent to about $1,413 million), or about $150 per urban household (high for the
income level). These funds form a part of the regular municipal budget and are allocated by
the Shanghai Finance Bureau and the Shanghai Construction Commission. They are
elastic, being based on sales and income of the enterprises under SMG jurisdiction. While
they stagnated during the austerity period in the late 1980s, they increased steadily during
the subsequent ongoing economic recovery. The off-budgetary revenues (para. 5.16)
generally parallel the real rate of economic growth and the change in unit rates determined
by SMG, subject to national guidelines. Revenue growth would translate directly into
increased investment expenditures, which accounted for the major part of the infrastructure
budget in the past.
5.19  Given the growth prospects of revenue resources, especially for capital accounts,
additional expenditures attributable to the project represent a manageable portion of SMG's
infrastructure budget: about 26 percent in the first year, 27 percent in the second year,
20 percent in the third year, declining through the remaining years to about 8 percent in the
last year. If off-budget revenues were included, these rates would be about half those
indicated, which appear to be affordable. Debt service attributable to the project would be
equivalent to between 0.3 and 1 percent of the regular capital budget, rising to about
2 percent in the first year of repayment of principal, and declining thereafter. However,
debt service on about 97 percent of project investments would be met from user charges,
and would not, therefore, be a drain on the municipal budget. Additionally, the operation
and maintenance expenses on the same 97 percent of project investments would be met
from user charges.



-37 -
6. ECONOMIC, SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL
CONSIDERATIONS
A. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION
6.1   Some 52 percent of Shanghai's average daily wastewater flow of 65 m3/sec
discharges directly into the network of canals in the city, or to the Huangpu River that
bisects Shanghai. As a result, canal water quality typically fails to reach the lowest level
needed for productive use and in its downstream reach the Huangpu quality falls below the
level deemed suitable for industrial use. Although raw water supplies for municipal use
would be protected through relocation of the main intake, emergency raw water abstraction
points and industrial abstraction continue at risk of either extraordinary treatment demands
or sheer unusability. The continued use of surface waters for clothes washing and small
boat travel expose people to unacceptable health risks and the fishery industry has been
destroyed by pollution. Other losses include amenity value. Significant improvements in
the management of wastewater and nightsoil systems, achieved through the project's
investments, would raise these waters to no lower than Category IV, suitable for fishery,
industrial and agricultural use, and ultimately the Huangpu itself to Category III, suitable as
a raw water source for municipal treatment plants.
B. PROJECT BENEFITS
6.2   The cost-effective provision of adequate wastewater facilities for Shanghai
Municipality is a prerequisite to the sustained public health and economic growth of the
most important city on the eastern seaboard of China. The implementation of fiscally
rational charges for wastewater management services under the project would induce
conservation of water supplies, reduce overall investment demand in both the water and
wastewater sectors, finance the needed investments and enhance government's efforts to
reform the economy. Improvements in the structure and management of wastewater
services would minimize the cost of meeting these goals.
C. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
Economic Evaluation
6.3   The investment program supported by this loan would protect and improve the
quality of surface water in Shanghai and, as a consequence, enhance its value for
drinking, industrial, and agricultural use while minimizing any health threats. Further
benefits would come from recreational and aesthetic value increases.  Accurately
attributing specific values to these improvements would require a sophisticated model of
the entire Huangpu basin system (and part of the downstream Changjiang system) linking
polluting inputs, water quality outcomes, and the relationship of those to the uses noted



-38 -
above. The complexity of attributing results to this specific project is engendered in part
by the fact that other projects, such as SSPI and SEP, as well as industrial relocation and
pollution control efforts, would be coming on line over the implementation period of this
project. All of these change the structure of polluting inputs or the risk created by those
inputs. Rather than attempt to build a model capturing these inputs and outputs, the
economic analysis rests on the generally accepted importance of capturing and safely
disposing urban wastewater flows. The main challenge for engineering and economic
analysis has been to identify the least-cost strategy to sustainably meet the national and
local surface water quality standards that represent a consensus on desirable water
quality.
6.4   The no-project alternative currently results in pollution levels that cause
unacceptable risk to Shanghai residents and their municipal and industrial water supplies.
Continued increases in wastewater flows, coupled with heavier pollution loads as
households switch to flush toilets and connect washing machines would simply
exacerbate current problems. The 1984 master plan used experience with Changjiang
conveyors built during the 1970s, and the long history of running treatment plants, to
establish that the least-cost abatement strategy would involve building additional
conveyors to handle remaining untreated flows. That analysis was confirmed during
Bank appraisal of SSPI, at which time the highest priority investment was deemed to be
capturing and conveying wastewater discharging into the downtown area (Suzhou Creek)
and surrounding waters. That investment, now operational, leaves about 52 percent of
wastewater to be collected and safely disposed of. In the long run, virtually all
wastewater must be captured if local waters are to be maintained at a quality that allows
human contact (and eventually allows the return of fish to the lower Huangpu). The
Shanghai Municipal Government, in a 1994 update of the 1984 Master Plan, confirmed
the priority in providing new sewerage services to be (a) the Wujing/Minhang districts;
(b) Puxi South Block; (c) Pudong New Area; (d) Puxi Middle Block; and (e) Puxi North
Block.
6.5   The priorities were based on projected flow increases to the year 2020, the nature
of the effluent from a given district, and the area that would suffer from the impact of that
effluent.  Of the unserved districts, Wujing/Minhang is both the most heavily
industrialized and the furthest upstream. Their proximity to the existing and new raw
water intakes supplying 90 percent of Shanghai's potable water reinforced the concern
that they be properly sewered, as the risk of catastrophic accidental industrial discharges
is greatest in Wujing/Minhang. The remaining districts are of two types: districts with
mixed domestic, commercial, and industrial waste streams quite similar to those handled
under SSPI; and the Pudong district, the new development zone that has large amounts of
greenfield industrial, commercial, and residential development. Taking advantage of the
new development of Pudong, separate sewers for foul water and drainage are being
installed there. In the built-up areas of Shanghai, the present combined systems would be
maintained because of the prohibitive cost of retrofitting separate systems.



- 39 -
6.6   Given these characteristics of the remaining districts, the highest priority goes to
upstream effluents, reflecting the larger area of impact of the upstream discharges.
Pudong spans the Puxi south, middle, and north blocks, but the use of separate systems in
Pudong makes it important to pick up the undiluted foul water flows. Furthermore, much
of Pudong now drains to the existing Southern Sewer, the load on which already equals
its design capacity of 4.6 m3/sec.  The rapid development of Pudong can be
accommodated only with additional interceptor capacity.
6.7   Shanghai's priority ranking for further work, as described above, has been used to
develop a phased investrnent prograrn in wastewater handling. Construction of link
sewers in Wujing/Minhang, the highest priority area, has begun with support under SEP.
The scope of the present project was determined by matching the availability of funds to
the work needed to connect and convey wastewaters from each of the remaining districts.
The proposed program is thus the next phase of the work envisioned under the updated
1984 Sewerage Master Plan.
6.8  In the current phase, the Shanghai Municipal Government has judged, and the
Bank affirmed, that their financial resources permit a project of approximately Y 5,970
million ($633 million). Least-cost analysis, as discussed below, has shown that such a
program could capture and safely discharge effluent from Wujing/Minhang, Puxi South
Block, and Pudong. Puxi Middle Block and North Block would await the availability of
additional funds, with construction unlikely to commence before the year 2000.
Least-Cost Analysis
6.9   The analysis proceeds on a district-by-district basis, reflecting the accepted
priorities. Fundamental decisions were made for Wujing/Minhang prior to this project.
They involved possible discharge points for Wujing/Minhang wastewaters, for which
possibilities ranged from the Hangzhou Bay in the south, north to an area above the
chosen discharge point of Bailonggang. Although feasibility studies showed it to be
financially least cost, discharge to Hangzhou Bay was eventually dismissed as an option
due to the Bay's ecological fragility. The decision was therefore made to discharge to the
north, through the conveyor that would also pick up Puxi and Pudong loads.
6.10  Least-cost disposal options for Pudong and the suburban counties of Shanghai
have also been carried out. For projected flows to the year 2020, eight scenarios were
constructed. The first three discharge to Hangzhou Bay, the next three to the Huangpu,
and the last two to the Changjiang estuary. For each discharge location, a variety of
treatment options was considered, and their expected impact on the receiving waters
calculated. Full details are in the project files ("Strategic Planning Report"), but can be
summarized by noting that none of the Hangzhou Bay discharge options left that water
body with acceptable quality. The only Huangpu option that maintained water quality
within limits involved secondary treatment of all Pudong flows, at an economic NPV
(12 percent discount rate) of some Y 16,988 million. The two Changjiang discharge
scenarios did not significantly degrade that water body, although it was noted that
background phosphorus levels at the outfall already exceeded surface water quality



- 40 -
standards and the Pudong/Puxi flows would add another 3 percent to those levels. The
two Changiiang discharge scenarios included one providing preliminary treatment, and
costing Y 4,754 million; and another providing enhance primary treatment, and costing
Y 6,140 million. Clearly, for Pudong, the Changjiang discharge option is far less costly
than the Huangpu option, and entails less environmental risk.
Wastewater Conveyor Routing
6.11  The next stage of analysis involved optimizing the conveyor routing to capture
flows and deliver them to Bailonggang. Here, seven routing options were considered,
each constrained to an outfall at the current site of the Southern Sewer outfall at
Bailonggang and at least one of the river crossings at the site of the Outer Ring Road
Crossing. All options envisage a possible second outfall 7 km south of Bailonggang to
handle augmented flows if Pudong development proceeds as anticipated. Differences
among the options relate principally to the number of river crossings, sizes of various
sections, and connections between existing and planned conveyors for flow balancing
purposes. Environmental impacts also vary among the options. The average incremental
economic cost for each option was calculated, and evaluated at a 12 percent discount rate.
The costs ranged from Y 1.50/m 3 to Y 1.76/m3. Although the lowest cost option was
selected, that selection also considered some uncosted factors reported in Annex 15, para.
26.
Wastewater Conveyor Sizing
6.12  The conveyor costs are very sensitive to sizing. Under the current strategy, the
conveyors would be sized to handle estimated flows up to the year 2006, at which time
additional conveyors would have to be built. The anticipated future investment program,
system financing requirements, and, ultimately, cost of the service are very sensitive to
changes in wastewater production. That, in turn, is a function of water demand and the
use of any processes that may minimize wastewater output. The current SMG estimates
for water demand reflect historical water and wastewater pricing regimes, in which water
prices have fallen substantially in relation to income and wastewater prices have
historically been zero. As a result of these assumptions, the year 2020 per capita
domestic water demand (medium growth scenario) is estimated to be 280 lcd. This can
be compared to Hong Kong, where current demand levels are about 260 lcd. The Hong
Kong experience, where real income levels are higher than can be expected for Shanghai
in 2020 and penetration of water-using labor-saving appliances is very high, suggests that
260 lcd might serve as a high estimate for Shanghai 2020 domestic consumption.
6.13  The impact of sizing conveyors for the medium growth scenario, while expecting
a lower growth rate in the outer years, is that future conveyor investments can be delayed.
This has a very favorable impact on the average price of services. Moreover, the use of
the higher growth scenario during this phase has the advantage of being less risky than a
lower growth assumption. Sizing to the low growth scenario would run the risk of
quickly using up all excess capacity and facing increasingly frequent discharges to
surface waters during wet weather.



-41 -
6.14  The economic analysis shows a marginal cost of Y 1.50/m3, while the proposed
tariff is set at Y 0.40/m3. The tariff covers all financial costs because it applies to all
wastewater discharges in the city, not just those to the new system. An optimal tariff
would equal the marginal damage of pollution, which is currently unknown. The actual
tariff chosen is 20 times that prevailing in 1994 and marks a fundamental shift in
wastewater financing strategies for Shanghai. While economically suboptimal, it, like the
system itself, represents a phased movement toward radically improved service. Further
details of the economic analysis are shown in Annex 15.
D. ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT
6.15  The construction of large-scale civil works proposed under the project would
initially have a disruptive environmental impact on Shanghai, while in the medium term,
once the works are commissioned, the investments would contribute significantly to the
sustained improvement of Shanghai's environment and urban infrastructure services.
Potential adverse impacts from wastewater treatment and sludge disposal components
require an "A" category in terms of the World Bank's Operational Directive on
Environmental Assessment (EA). Accordingly, a full EA has been completed, reviewed
and found satisfactory by the Bank and approved by NEPA. The EA identified a number of
potential impacts, most related to construction (traffic disruption, noise, spoil, etc.) and
others to system operation. All identified impacts are common to projects of this type.
Mitigation measures have been detailed in Table 7 of Annex 9. Overall EA findings are
also summarized in Annex 9.
E. AFFORDABILITY
6.16  Affordability of the new wastewater systems was tested against the current
consumption patterns and average income of the poorest 10 percent of Shanghai's urban
population. At the 1996 tariff level and assuming no price response, wastewater charges
would consume an average of 1.5 percent of the income of the poorest 10 percent. This
would increase the sum going to water plus wastewater to approximately 3.5 percent of
income for that group, assuming no change in their consumption pattern.
6.17  The long-run affordability of the tariffs would clearly depend on changes in real
income among the urban poor over time. Over the past decade, the real incomes of the
urban poor have risen in line with overall income increases. If that pattern continues, tariff
increases would be fully offset within the first year of the project. However, the very
poorest, at or below the bottom 0.5 percent income bracket, have not shown the sarne
responsiveness to new economic opportunities. This group would need additional income
from social welfare funds or other sources to avoid a fall in real consumption after the
imposition of the new tariffs.
F. PROJECT RISKS
6.18  Project risks fall into two basic categories: implementation risk and policy risk.
The main project risks are the following:



- 42 -
(a)   delays by SMG in implementing tariffs and service charges that reflect
financial costs. To sustain the financial viability of providing adequate
wastewater services for Shanghai would require substantial and regular tariff
increases-this is politically challenging for SMG. The authorities have
expressed concern that increased tariffs could lower consumption of other
goods and services to an extent that would be politically unacceptable.
Furthermore, they have noted that even if affordable and politically
acceptable in themselves, the tariffs would add to inflation at a time when
the central authorities are insisting that cities limit price increases. Failure to
implement agreed tariffs would seriously impair the performance incentives
of SMSC.  To mitigate this risk, a tariff increase was approved for
implementation from March 1996. Financial sustainability will remain a
core element of our dialogue with SMG over the course of project
implementation;
(b)   institutional reform  in the sewerage company may lag the pace of
investment. To mitigate this risk, SMG has been encouraged to ensure
assets constructed under the project are taken into the accounts of SMSC,
and a careftilly designed technical assistance component has been included
in the project, which would begin implementation well before planned
effectiveness;
(c)   encountering construction difficulties at the proposed outfall site at
Bailonggang, due to unstable ground conditions. This risk would be
responded to in part by ensuring rigorous engineering standards, and
continued oversight by an engineering Review Panel, which has been
agreed. Members are being appointed;
(d)   possible delays by SMG in implementing the institutional development and
training components. These risks were discussed in detail with SMG, and
formed the core of our dialogue during project processing.  Project
formulation and design has been structured to minimize these risks, and to
maintain a focus on the overall policy framework; and
(e)   as noted above, the proposed investment is one stage in a long-term
investment plan. Sustained investment to expand wastewater coverage and
the adoption of a rigorous wastewater connection strategy consistent with
SMG's long-term wastewater management strategy, and compatible with
municipal financial capacity, would be needed to meet long-term
environmental protection and city service needs.
6.19  To encourage continued implementation of the broader program, the proposed
project includes funds for further project preparation and sets tariff targets that would
sustain future investment.



-43 -
7. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
7.1   The following assurances were obtained at negotiations:
(a)   SMG would onlend the proceeds of the loan to SMSC on terms acceptable
to the Bank (para. 3.1 1);
(b)   SMSC would be maintained throughout the project period with staffing and
functions satisfactory to the Bank (para. 3.14);
(c)   SM would cause SMSC and all other concerned agencies to (i) carry out the
resettlement of persons affected by the project in a manner and according to
a plan (the RAP) that is satisfactory to the Bank; (ii) report annually on the
progress in carrying out the resettlement plan, using monitoring indicators
satisfactory to the Bank; and (iii) carry out land acquisition in accordance
with the RAP (para. 3.33);
(d)   SMSC would provide wastewater treatment facilities for the SSPII
wastewater as required to limit the average annual phosphorus loads from
Shanghai as a whole into any receiving waters at or below 18 tons/day. The
first treatment plant would be designed on the basis of experience with the
pilot plant and in accordance with terms of reference acceptable to the Bank,
to be located at Bailonggang, and would be fully constructed and operational
not later than January 1, 2005, or such other date that the Bank and Shanghai
may agree (para. 3.36);
(e)   SMSC would implement the Wastewater Connection Action Plan, discuss
any revisions with the Bank, and implement any such agreed revisions (para.
3.37);
(f)   quarterly progress reports would be prepared by SMSC and sent to the Bank
commencing April 1996 (para. 3.40);
(g)   SMSC would (i) prepare and submit to the Bank not later than six months
after the closing date, or such later date as may be agreed with the Bank, an
outline plan for the future operation of the investments financed under the
project; and (ii) afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views
on the said outline plan (para. 3.40);
(h)   SMG would cause SMSC to implement the Institutional Development and
Training Action Plan, revise the Plan as necessary, discuss any revisions
with the Bank, and implement any such agreed revisions (para. 4.9);



- 44 -
(i)    SMG would arrange for the following annual audits to be submitted to the
Bank within six months after the end of the financial year: (i) audit of the
Special Account; (ii) audit of statements of expenditure; (iii) audit of the
financial statements of SMSC (para. 4.14);
(j)    SMG would, commencing in fiscal year 1997, cause SMSC to (i) generate
revenues from its sewerage operations sufficient to cover its operating and
maintenance costs (before depreciation), increases in working capital, debt
service requirements, and the following percentages of the average capital
expenditures made in a three-year period (the year preceding the reference
year, the reference year itself, and the year after the reference year):
5 percent in years 1997, 1998, 1999 and 2000, and 10 percent thereafter; and
(ii) incur no additional debt without the Bank's agreement unless a
reasonable forecast shows that SMSC would have a debt service coverage of
at least 1.3 times (para. 5.14); and
(k)   SMSC would prepare, before September 30 of each year, forecasts
satisfactory to the Bank, reviewing whether it would meet its financial
covenanted requirements set forth above in such fiscal year and the
following fiscal year, and furnish the results of such reviews to the Bank; if
any such review would show that SMSC would not meet its requirements,
SMG would cause SMSC to take all necessary measures, including
adjustments to the structure and level of its tariffs and charges, in order to
meet the requirements (para. 5.15).
7.2   Execution of a subsidiary loan agreement between SM and SMSC, satisfactory to
the Bank, and the implementation of the agreed increased wastewater tariffs are
conditions of loan effectiveness (paras. 3.12 and 5.1 1).
7.3    With the above assurances and conditions, the proposed project would be suitable
for a Bank loan of $250 million for a period of 20 years, including 5 years of grace, at the
standard interest rate for LIBOR-based US dollar single currency loans, to the People's
Republic of China.



-45 -                            ANNEX I
ANNEX 1: ORGANIZATION OF ENVIRONMENT
PROTECTION IN CMINA
People's Republic
of China
|state Council|
Beijing: Shanghai         Provinc'ial &                Nat'ional                   Ministries,
& Tianjin              Autonomous                Environmnental                   State
Municipal                Regional                  Protection                 Commissions,
GovSments               Goven ments                  Agency                    Administration
Provincial
EnviromAental
Protection
Bureaus (EPBs)
MnMunicip
Similar nGovennents
Anrangement                                           Municipal
as under                                              EPs
Municipal
Governments                     an; ,
District &
County
Goveminments
_                 ~~~~~Urban
District &
County EPBs
Urban
Neighborhood,
Town, Township
Governments
Urban Neigh-
Legend                                ~~~~~~~~~~borhood, Town,
Legend                                  ~~~~~~~~~~Township EP
Offices
Direct reporting
Indirect reporting



- 46 -                           ANNEX2
ANNEX 2: WASTEWATER DEMAND AND POLLUTION
LOAD PROJECTIONS
SSP II Sewerage
Averte Dry Wexther Fbws Carried
S
4
i                                                                             A CX 0e i-ed
M 2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~$T.
o
1995        2000          2005         2010         2015         2020
Year
Effect of Treatment upon Total P and BOD Loads Discharged from Shanghai
23                               Projected Load Without Treatmen
22
Total Pho phorus DisJharged t/dI
21ro     t20                5      20It2
20l    _%1                   
0 r       1ea 200 LIM_



-47-                       ANNEX3
ANNEX 3: DETAILED PROJECT DESCRIPTION
A. BACKGROUND/SETTING OF PROJECT
1.    Shanghai, China's largest metropolitan area, has a population of about 14 million.
The city is located on the lower delta of the Changjiang (Yangtze) River, where it joins the
East China Sea. Numerous watercourses flow through the municipal area, mainly draining
to the Huangpu River which passes through the city center and flows into the Changjiang.
These watercourses are interconnected and tidal, experiencing several hours a day of reverse
flows during high tides. The waterways serve many functions, among them receiving
stormwater, and industrial and domestic wastewater flows. Prior to the commissioning in
1993 of the main interceptor financed under the Shanghai Sewerage Project-SSPI (Loan
2794/ Credit 1779), only about 0.5 Mm3/day of the 5.4 Mm3 /day of wastewater flows was
collected by combined (wastewater and stormwater) sewers.  Currently, only about
48 percent of the flows (2.6 Mm3/day) can be collected, due to a lack of basic urban
infrastructure; the remainder is discharged directly into streams or the Huangpu.
2.    Less than two thirds of the wastewater collected receives any form of treatment,
most of that being restricted mainly to pretreatment of industrial wastes, or through septic
tanks from which the effluents are discharged into nearby waterways. Low collection and
treatment levels result in substantial pollutant loads entering the surrounding waterways,
causing major environmental and ecological damage to the water resources, posing
significant health risks, and restricting economic growth. Fish cannot live in the lower
Huangpu and tributary streams, and shellfish downstream of the city carry very high
pathogen levels that result in illness when eaten by humans. The river system tides drive
pollutants upstream as far as Shanghai's drinking water treatment plant intakes, which has
forced either massive investment to relocate these intakes to safer areas, or considerably
increased water treatment costs, and given rise to a high and costly risk of emergency shut
downs.
3.    As living standards rise, the 50 percent of Shanghai's citizens who currently rely on
nightsoil buckets (emptied daily to holding tanks) for indoor sanitation and yard taps are
relocating to housing with flush toilets, and indoor taps that allow the use of washing
machines and other conveniences. Domestic sources of pollutants would therefore steadily
increase over the next few years, further overloading the wastewater facilities. This project
would aim to put in place strategies and mechanisms to address the urban environmental
management problems highlighted above.



- 48 -                    ANNEX3
B. SHANGHAI'S WASTEWATER MANAGEMENT STRATEGY
4.   In the mid-1980s, both the State and the Shanghai Municipal Government (SMG)
recognized Shanghai's serious backlog in the provision of basic and essential urban
environmental services and the long-term economic and environmental damage that this
would cause to Eastern China. Ultimately, these deficiencies would increase the cost of
achieving sustainable development. The various government levels therefore began to
identify strategies for city wastewater and for environmental protection of the whole East
China area. With the help of international consultants, SMG completed a study in 1986
identifying an optimal wastewater management strategy for the city, which it subsequently
adopted, comprising a phased investment program of combined wastewater collection
systems, managed by a financially sustainable urban wastewater utility, which would
charge for services.
5.    SMG embarked on a medium-term program of investments in combined sewers,
with World Bank Group support of the FY87 SSPI assisting the program's first phase,
serving the northern part of the city. The project was instrumental in creating a company to
manage the wastewater systems and in introducing wastewater tariffs. Construction is now
substantially complete, with the new system currently handling an average dry-weather
flow of 1.2 Mm3/day. The program's second phase (Phase II), for the southern part of the
city, would be supported under the proposed Second Shanghai Sewerage Project (SSPII),
which would consolidate and extend the institutional and policy objectives of the first
project. Complementing these initiatives are: (a) a water quality protection program being
supported under the recently approved Shanghai Environment Project-SEP (Loan 3711-
CHA), which supports investments in water supply and related environmental management;
(b) the ongoing, Japanese-assisted Hangzhou Bay Study, aimed at formulating an
environmental protection strategy for Hangzhou Bay, the most heavily loaded receiving
water body in Eastern China; and (c) institutional development measures, including water
tariff enhancements and selective reduction of point source pollution, undertaken to support
Phase I.
6.    Phase I of the Shanghai Wastewater Strategy was designed to remove about
20 percent of the total urban pollution load in the Huangpu River, leaving about 80 percent
of the pollution load and approximately 2.8 Mm3/day of dry-weather flow to continue
discharging directly to surface waters. With the assistance of the proposed project, Phase II
would aim to collect these pollution loads, thereby contributing to the biological viability of
the lower Huangpu and the long-run protection of Shanghai's principal fresh water intake.
The project would facilitate collection of flows from an area covering some 240 km2 in the
rapidly developing Pudong and Puxi areas of the city. It would have an initial capacity of
1.7 Mrn3/day of dry weather flow and be sized to capture projected flows of 5.0 Mm3/day
for the year 2020; the system would also collect wastewater flows from the first stage of the
Wujing/Minhang conveyor system funded under SEP, discharging to a watercourse with
sufficient assimilative capacity for the flows and pollution loads expected to occur during
the next two decades.



-49-                       ANNEX3
7.    As noted above, approximately two thirds of collected discharges receive some form
of treatment. The Phase I conveyor discharges to the Changjiang River at Zhuyuan, where
the assimilative capacity ensures no adverse effect to downstream users. Phase II flows
would discharge through a submerged outfall at Bailonggang at the freshwater/saltwater
interface with high turbidity mixing zone (currently the site of a small surface outfall).
Bailonggang is some 25 km downstream of Zhuyuan. Extensive modeling of the
Bailonggang area has confirmed that the Changjiang has sufficient assimilative capacity as
an outfall for a BOD discharge of some 300 tons/day, and that the environmental impact of
these discharges at Bailonggang and in the adjacent Hangzhou Bay would be acceptable. In
addition, SMG has allocated land for the future construction of a chemically-assisted
primary wastewater treatment plant, with an initial treatment capacity of about 0.8 Mm3/day
of wastewater. Engineering studies for the treatment plant for Phase II flows are underway,
ensuring that the plant could be constructed in stages as pollution loads and flows increase
over time (commnencing about the year 2000). The environmental objective would be to
ensure that phosphorus levels discharged do not reach levels that would cause
eutrophication in the vicinity, and that dissolved oxygen levels are such as to not endanger
marine life; the discharge studies found these criteria to be acceptable. This phased strategy
is also the least-cost approach to environmental management.
8.    The proposed Second Shanghai Sewerage Project (SSPII) would build on SSPI and
would comprise a focused package of financial and policy initiatives, and planning and
management reforms, supported by an investment program of wastewater capital works and
related institutional strengthening, thereby improving the quality of life in China's largest
city and preventing further costly environmental degradation. This second phase would
comprise a conveyor and treatment system to discharge effluent into the East China Sea in
the vicinity of Bailonggang where the assimilative capacity is considered satisfactory. This
phase of the overall program would accommodate the recent decision by SMG, after
considering viable options, that all wastewater from the Wujing/Minhang area would be
discharged to the east. The first stage of the Wujing/Minhang conveyor system is included
in SEP.
9.    Data on the method and extent of system connections is limited and complicated by
the lack of data on property, enterprise and residential ownership. Responsibility for
dwelling maintenance, including for wastewater services, at present in most cases under the
main enterprises, is expected to change as economic reform deepens, and individual and
corporate asset ownership increases. To safeguard the water bodies round the City, and in
particular the main water supply system (the Huangpu River), steps are urgently required to
establish a reliable data base, and policy framework for future wastewater collection and
disposal; all important would also be a data base on which sustainable financial charging
policies can be developed and implemented.
C. BACKGROUND TO WASTEWATER DIsPosAL IN SHANGHAI
10.   Wastewater Discharges. The combined storm and sanitary wastewater from
Shanghai urban areas is at present estimated at about 5,400,000 m3/d. Sewers already



- 50 -                     ANNEX3
constructed and those recently completed under Phase I (SSPI) of the SMG Sewerage
Program allow discharges of wastewater as follows:
(a)   Western Interceptor-Shidonkou (Changjiang) 700,000 m3/d;
(b)   Southern Interceptor-Bailonggang (E. China Sea) 500,000 m3/d; and
(c)   Phase I Sewerage-Zhuyuan (Changjiang) 1,400,000 m3/d.
11.   These works leave remaining some 2,800,000 m3/d of wastewater to be discharged
into the Huangpu and hence to the Changjiang. Phase II, of which SSPII is a part, is
planned with an ultimate capacity of 5,000,000 m3/d by the year 2020, including the
discharge of 700,000 m3/d of wastewater from the Minhang and Wujing area.
12.   The wide environmental impacts of these discharges including those from the
proposed outfall at Bailonggang are being examined under the Hangzhou Bay Study.
However, the local effects have been modeled by the Danish Hydraulics Institute and the
East China Normal University, and the requirements for treatment determined.
D. RATIONALE FOR TREATMENT PROPOSALS
13.   A discharge to the Changjiang would be required to comply with the Standards for
Discharge to Fresh Waters (GB 8978-88). The critical parameters of the discharge
standards in terms of treatment process selection are BOD/COD, suspended solids and
ammonia. Although not specifically included in the standards, the concentration of
phosphorus is also of interest in terms of the relative significance of the phosphorus load of
the Shanghai wastewater in terms of the load of the Changjiang. The latter is important in
connection with the nutrient status of Hangzhou Bay.
14.   The concentration of these parameters in the ultimate discharge at Bailonggang
would depend upon water consumption and upon the type of industry in the areas of
Shanghai served by the sewerage system, in particular the Pudong area. However, the
composition of the discharge at the existing outfall constructed as part of the First Shanghai
Sewerage Project (SSPI) is reasonably representative of the prospective discharge at
Bailonggang in the short term, given the relative proportions of domestic and industrial
wastewater.
15.   Data for the SSPI discharge indicate that the Shanghai wastewater is weak,
reflecting the high water consumption in both the domestic and industrial sectors. The
untreated wastewater would comply with the anmmonia and suspended solids standards and
would exceed the standards for BOD and COD on average by about 40 and 30 percent
respectively. Concentrations of the other parameters specified in the standard, such as toxic
metals are substantially lower than the discharge standard limits.
16.   The impact of the initial wastewater discharge of 1,700, 000 m3/d without treatment
on water quality in the Changjiang at Bailonggang under winter low flow and summer



- 51-                      ANNEX3
conditions has been investigated by means of mathematical modeling. Compliance with the
Class III fresh water quality standard in the Changjiang is achieved at dilutions of the SSPII
wastewater by a factor of approximately 50. The mathematical modeling studies predicted
that the impact of the discharge would be minimal, with the area of the immediate mixing
zone in which such a level of dilution were not achieved being small, between 0.5 and
3.2 km2 depending upon the river flow and the tidal conditions. Thus a passage for fish
migration would be preserved. The modeling also indicated that the impact of the ultimate
discharge of 5,000,000 m 3/d via three outfalls would also be small.
17.  In view of the minimal impact of the immediate term discharge upon water quality
in the Changjiang, due largely to the very high flows and dilution capacity of the
Changjiang, and the negative impact of wastewater treatment sludge disposal, it is proposed
to adopt the following approach to discharge standards, and therefore the degree of
wastewater treatment required for compliance:
18.   Pollutants that are toxic or accumulative would be strictly controlled immediately,
principally at source, and the concentration-based standards would continue be met; and
degradable pollutants such as BOD, COD and ammonia would be controlled on a total load
basis.
19.  In terms of the degradable pollutants the concentration-based standards (Class II of
GB 8978-88) would be imposed only in the longer term (2020). In the intermediate term
there would be treatment to reduce the pollution loads only when, without such a reduction,
they would exceed that of the ultimate flow of 5,000,000 m3/d at the Class II standard.
20.   The growth in loads of BOD, COD and ammonia in the SSPII catchment area are
shown below. The growth in BOD and COD loads occurs as a result not only of population
growth and industrial development but also because of the progressive phasing out of the
nightsoil and septic tank systems in favor of direct discharge to sewer systems. It will be
seen that even in 2020 the ammonia concentration would still be within the standard and
treatment would be necessary only to reduce concentrations of BOD/COD.
SSPII POLLUTION LOADS
Pollutant                              Load (tons/day)
2000           2010           2020        2020 Class II
BOD                   169             189            342            300
COD                   487            550             986            750
NH3-N                  34              39             70            125
Total phosphorus        6               7             13



- 52 -                    ANNEX3
21.   On this basis, it is proposed to provide preliminary treatment (screening and grit
removal) only in the immediate term. Based on the data above, it is expected that treatment
of the wastewater discharge at Bailonggang would not become necessary to comply with
BOD load requirements until about 2015.
22.   However, the Changjiang is a major source of nutrients discharged to Hangzhou
Bay, indicating a need for control of nutrients throughout the catchment. As a contribution
by Shanghai towards reducing the phosphorus load in the Changjiang (albeit that the load
from Shanghai represents only about 3 percent of this load) it is proposed to introduce
treatment in the form of chemically assisted primary treatment, using iron salts, in 2005,
with the immediate objective of reducing the load of phosphorus discharged from Shanghai.
23.   The treatment proposed would sustain the average total phosphorus load from
Shanghai as a whole at less than the predicted year 2000 levels (18 tons/day) and in addition
would be sufficient to effect the necessary reduction in BOD and COD to comply with the
concentration based standards when required. To optimize pretreatment process efficiency,
it is proposed to treat only a proportion of the wastewater flow, but to achieve a very high
level of phosphorus removal from this smaller flow, thereby obtaining the required
pollution load reduction. The first stage of treatment will need to be operational by not later
than the year 2005 and would treat a flow of 0.86 Mm3/d, with extensions to increase
treatment capacity to 2.2 Mm3/d in the year 2015.
24.   Details of this approach to compliance with wastewater discharge standards have
been discussed and agreed with NEPA.
E. PROPOSED PROJECT COMPONENTS
25.   The components of the proposed project investments are described in detail below
and summarized in tabular form. The project would be implemented by the Shanghai
Municipal Sewerage Company (SMSC).
General
26.   The scheme, which is designed for the year 2020, provides for the collection,
conveyance, treatment and disposal of mixed industrial, commercial and domestic
wastewater from Luwan and Xuhui districts in Puxi South area, Wujing/Minhang districts,
and the Yangsi industrial and residential area, Gardening Zone, Shangchuan and Hudong
Residential Areas, Jinqiao industrial and residential areas, and other future development
zones in Pudong central area, together with urgent rehabilitation of existing wastewater
pump stations and treatment facilities in these areas. The project area covers about 240 km2
with an average wastewater dry-weather flow of around 1.7 Mmn3/d.
A. Sewerage and Sanitation Improvements ($531.2 Million)
27.   The main conveyor system for the sewerage and sanitation component is shown
schematically in Figure 1. The works would comprise:



- 53 -                    ANNEX3
Puxi South Area
(a)   Puxi trunk wastewater conveyor system comprising about 6.0 km  of
reinforced concrete pipes, culverts or other construction, in sizes in the range
1,200 to 2,800 mm diameter, access shafts, and/or pump stations to
complement the length of conveyor already installed along the inner ring
road, and to convey wastewater through Puxi to the Huangpu river crossing;
(b)   A system of secondary conveyor sewers, system and property connections
and diversions to convey wastewater flows to the trunk system;
(c)   Huangpu siphon conveyor, located near Longhua, comprising about 570 m
of twin pipelines or tunnels, of about 2.2 m diameter, of reinforced concrete
or other construction, together with access shafts, to convey wastewater
under the Huangpu river;
(d)   Construction of new pump stations and interceptors at Pu Hui Tang and
Xiao Mu Qiao, with pumping capacity of about 500,000 m3/d and 180,000
m3/d respectively. Provision of interceptor wells at existing pump stations at
Longhua Town and Wanping Road, to convey wastewater to the main
conveyor; these existing stations will be retained for excess storn
discharges;
Pudong Area
(e)   Pump station (SA), located to west of Yaohua road and east of Huangpu
river, of capacity of about 1.6 Mm3!d with about five duty pumps each of
capacity of about 3.7 m3/sec, 17.5 m head, with one standby pump;
(f)   Wastewater conveyor system comprising the following culverts and/or
pipelines of reinforced concrete construction, or other materials: from pump
station SA to junction with conveyor along route of outer ring road (S3) near
Yangsi Residential Area, about 5.4 km of twin section culvert of about
2.4 m * 2.4 m size; from junction with Minhang sewer at east of Huangpu
river (S6) in vicinity of outer ring road bridge crossing, to Yangsi
Residential Area (S3), about 2.0 km of culvert of about 2.7 m * 2.7 m size;
from S3 to Jianping road/outer ring road junction (S5), about 9.6 km of twin
section culvert about 3.3 m * 3.3 m size; from S5 along Jianping road to
junction with Longdong road (M6) in vicinity of Zhangjiang Hitech Area,
about 7.3 km of single culvert about 3.3 m * 3.3 m size; from M6 along
Longdong road to point M8b at pump station M2, about 3.6 km of twin
section culvert about 2.8 m * 2.8 m size; from M2 along Longdong road to
point MIO about 3.2 km of twin culvert of about 3.0 m * 3.0 m size; from
MI0 to Bailonggang (M12), about 10.1 km of twin section culvert of about
3.2 m * 3.2 m size;



- 54 -                     ANNEX3
(g)   Pump station (SB), located along outer ring road, of capacity of about
2.7 Mm3/d with about five duty pumps each of capacity of about 6.2 m3/sec
and 19m head, with one standby pump;
(h)   Pump station (M2), located about 3.6 km along Longdong road from the
junction with Jianping road, of capacity of about 1.7 Mm3/d with about five
duty pumps each of capacity of about 3.8 m3/sec and 14m head, with one
standby pump;
(i)    Construction of about eight secondary pump stations by the Pudong
Development Authority (financed under another budget) to convey
wastewater flows to the main Pudong conveyor. Pumping station flows
vary in the range 0,29 to 3.84 m3/sec, with a combined maximum daily
output about 1.4 Mm3/d;
(j)    A system of secondary conveyor sewers comprising about 3.9 km of pipes
of reinforced concrete or other materials in the range 700 to 1,600 mm
diameter;
(k)   System and property connections, diversions to convey wastewater flows to
the main conveyor systems;
(1)    Telemetry and Control comprising communications and central control
system for SSPII wastewater operations;
(m)   Rehabilitation and strengthening of existing sewer system in Puxi and
Pudong, covering an area of about 240 km2;
(n)   Sewer cleaning equipment comprising bucket cleaning equipment, hoists,
safety facilities, ancillary equipment, and management facilities.
B. Wastewater Treatment and Disposal Systems ($83.2 milnion)
28.   The treatment and disposal component comprises the following works:
(a)   Wastewater Pretreatment Facility, at Bailonggang, of capacity of about
1.7 Mm3/d ADWF, comprising screens and grit removal facilities, and
ancillary works, together with a 1,000 m3/d pilot scale plant;
(b)   Outfall pump station, at Bailonggang, of capacity of about 1.7 Mm3/d with
six pumpsets each of capacity of about 6.0 m3/sec. capacity
(c)   Outfall facility at Bailonggang, of capacity of about 1.7 Mm3/d, with deep
water diffuser outlet system into the Changjiang, extending about 1.6 km
from the existing shoreline, comprising a bored tunnel (or other
construction), of about 4.2 m diameter (or equivalent section) size, complete



- 55 -                           ANNEX3
with head shaft and emergency discharge culvert, to convey effluent for
disposal;
(d)    Rehabilitation of existing wastewater collection and treatment facilities
associated with Quyang, Tianshan, and Longhua catchments.
C. Institutional Development and Training ($18.9 million)
29.    A comprehensive program of institutional development and strengthening, technical
assistance, studies and training to support and complement the proposed physical
investments.  Details of the scope of work prepared during project preparation, are
contained in the project files and summarized below.
INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT AND TRAINING
Contract                                                 Person-months          Base Cost
No.    Description                                 Local        Foreign        Y million
Priority
P. I      Pump Station Model Tests                                                  2.7
P.2       Outlet Shaft Model Tests                                                  0.5
P.3       Pilot Wastewater Treatment Plant Model       100          12              2.0
(1,000 m3/d) study
Institutional & Financial
A.l       Accounting (including billing & collection),  121         59             21.0
organizational & MIS systems support for
SSC and SSPCC
Technical
B. I      Construction Management Services            500          125
B.2        Review Panel                                 3            2              1.0
B.3       Sewer Condition & Mapping Survey            560           90             45.0
Other
B.4        Future Project Preparation                                              30.0
B.5       Planning Studies                                                          5.0
B.6        Regulations Study/Drafting                  12            6              2.5
TRAINING
TN. I     Senior managers                              10            -              3.0
TN.2      Training Center & Equipment.                                              2.0
TN.3      Technical Training (include District Staffs)  30                          4.0
TN.4      Environmental. Monitoring Training           60                           3.0
TN.5      Training to be defined                                                    5.0
TOTAL (excluding B 1)                                                  126.7



- 56 -                               ANNEX3
PROJECT COMPONENT SUMMARY
Component        Location                 Description                Capacity/size        Function
Sewerage and Sanitation
Improvements
Puxi               Puxi      Reinforced concrete pipes, culverts or    6.0 km       To convey wastewater
Interceptors                 other construction in sizes between 1200-             to Huangpu crossing
2800 mm dia.
Puxi link          Puxi      Secondary sewers, connections and                      To convey wastewater
sewers                       diversions of reinforced concrete or other            to interceptor
pipe materials.
Property         Puxi and    Property connections to sewer system, of               To connect wastewater
connections       Pudong     concrete or other pipe materials, and/or               from properties to
septic tank diversions.                               sewer system.
Pump Station       Puxi      Construction of two pump stations of    920,000 m3/d   Improved operational
rehabilitation               680,000 m3/d total capacity, and facilities            efficiency.
and                          to divert a further 240,000 m3/d from
construction                 existing sewers to new conveyor.
Huangpu          Huangpu    Twin pipelines of reinforced concrete or    540 m       To convey wastewater
Crossing          River at    other construction of about 2200 mm dia.,             under the Huangpu
Longhua    with access shafts.                                    River.
Pump Station     Yaohua      Pump station of reinforced concrete and  1,600,000 m3/d  To pump wastewater
"SA"              Road      other construction, including screens, grit            along Pudong
facilities, pumping equipment comprising              Interceptor.
five duty pumpsets, each of 3.7 m3/sec
capacity, with one standby pumpset,
piping, controls.
Pudong         Pudong from   Wastewater conveyor system comprising     41.1 km      To convey wastewater
Interceptor     Yaohua to   single and/or multiple section culverts                to Bailonggang outfall
Bailonggang   and/or pipelines of reinforced concrete
construction or other materials in sizes in
the range 2.2 m * 2.2 m to 3.3 m * 3.3 m.
Pump Station     Jiangjing    Pump station of reinforced concrete and    2,700,000 m3/d  To pump wastewater
"SB"               Road      other construction, including screens,                 along Pudong
pumping equipment comprising five duty                Interceptor.
pumpsets, each of 6.2 m3/sec capacity
with one standby pumpset, piping,
controls.
Pump Station     Longdong    Pump station of reinforced concrete and  1,700,000 m3/d  To pump wastewater
"M2^'              Road      other construction, including screens,                 along Pudong
pumping equipment comprising five duty                Interceptor.
pumpsets, each of about 3.8 m 3/sec
capacity, with one standby pumpset,
piping, controls.
Link sewers       Pudong     Secondary sewers of reinforced concrete   2.9 km.      To convey wastewater
or other pipe materials in sizes between              to interceptor.
700 and 1500 mm dia.



- 57 -                                ANNEX3
Component        Location                  Description                Capacity/size         Function
Pump stations     Pudong      Construction of about eight pump stations   1,400,000 m3/d  To convey wastewater
by Pudong Dev. Authority (not financed                 to interceptor.
in this project)
Property          Pudong      Property connections, diversions to sewer              To connect wastewater
connections                   system, of concrete or other pipe                      from properties sewer
materials.                                             system.
Sewer             Puxi &      Rehabilitation of existing sewerage       240 km2      Improved system
Rehabilitation    Pudong      system.                                                operation.
System            Puxi &      Telemetry system comprising controls                   Control of SSPII
Telemetry         Pudong      and communications for SSPII project.                  system operations.
Sewer             Puxi &      Bucket cleaning equipment, hoists, safety              Improved sewer
cleaning        Pudong areas  and ancillary equipment, management                    cleaning & operational
equipment                     facilities.                                            efficiency.
Wastewater Treatment and Disposal Systems
Wastewater      Bailonggang   Wastewater treatment plant comprising   1,700,000 m    To provide preliminary
treatment plant               screens and grit removal facilities, and    3/d        treatment to wastewater
ancillary works for flow capacity of about             prior to discharge to
1.7 Mm3/d with 1,000 m3/d pilot plant.                 Yangtze estuary.
Outfall pump    Bailonggang   Pump station of reinforced concrete and  1,700,000 m3/d  To pump treated
station                       other construction, including screens,                 effluent to Outfall.
pumping equipment comprising six
pumpsets, each of 6.0 m3/sec capacity,
piping, controls.
Outfall         Bailonggang   Deep water outfall about 1.6 km. long  1,700,000 m3/d  To disperse treated
from shoreline of Yangtze, comprising                  effluent to Yangtze
bored tunnel of about 4.2 m. dia. or other             estuary.
construction, with diffuser outlet system,
head shaft, and emergency discharge
submerged culvert.
Wastewater       Including    Rehabilitation of collection and treatment  Up to      To improve operational
systems and       Quyang,    facilities associated with existing plants of   255,000 m3/d   efficiency of existing
treatment plant    Tianshan,    about 255,000 m3/d total capacity.                   wastewater treatment
facilities reha-  Longhua                                                            facilities.
bilitation      catchments
Power             Various    Power supply facilities to pump stations                To provide power
supplies                      and treatment facilities.                              supplies for system
operations.
Monitoring        Various     Wastewater monitoring equipment                        Improved efficiency of
equipment                                                                            wastewater monitoring
operations.



vr~~~~~~~~
I-4
0                                       ........
...........            6
En'C.
/~~8



ANNEX 4: DETAILED COST ESTIMATES
CHINA
Second Shanghai Sewerage Project
Expenditure Accounts Project Cost Summary
(RMB Million)                                 (USS Million)
%     % Total                                %      % Total
Foreign   Base                               Foreign   Base
Local    Foreign     Total   Exchange  Costs   Local  Foreign   Total  Exchange  Costs
I. Investment Costs
A. Civil Works                               1,144.9      768.1    1,913.0       40       42    136.3    91.4   227.7         40       42
B. Equipment and Materials                     405.0      493.6      898.7       55       20     48.2    58.8   107.0         55       20
C. Construction Mgmt Svcs                        5.9       48.0       54.0       89        1      0.7      5.7      6.4        89        1
D. Technical Assistance and Studies             28.9      104.0      132.9       78        3      3.4    12.4    15.8         78        3
E. Land Acquisition and Resettlement         1,160.7          -    1,160.7        -       25    138.2        -    138.2                25
F. Engineering and Mgmt                        412.7          -     412.7          -       9     49.1        -    49.1          -       9
Total BASEUNE COSTS                             3,158.1    1,413.8    4,571.9       31      100    376.0   168.3   544.3         31      100
PhysicalContingencies                          332.3      161.2     493.4        33       11     39.6    19.2    58.7          33      11
Price Contingencies                            524.6      378.0     902.6        42       20     17.5    12.7    30.3         42         6
Total PROJECT COSTS                             4,015.0    1,953.0    5,967.9       33      131    433.0   200.2   633.3         32      116
CHINA
Second Shanghai Sewerage Project
Components Project Cost Summary
(RMB Million)                                 (USS Million)
%     % Total                                %      % Total
Foreign   Base                               Foreign   Base
Local    Foreign     Total   Exchange  Costs   Local  Foreign   Total  Exchange  Costs
1. Sewerage and Sanitation Improvements         2,766.8    1,091.7    3,858.4       28       84    329.4   130.0   459.3          28       84
2. Wastewater Treatment and Disposal              362.5      218.1      580.6       38       13      43.2     26.0    69.1        38       13             Z
3. Institution Development and Training            28.9      104.0      132.9       78        3       3.4    12.4    15.8         78        3
Total BASELINE COSTS                               3,158.1    1,413.8    4,571.9       31      100    376.0   168.3   544.3          31     100
Physical Conlingencies                            332.3      161.2      493.4       33       11      39.6 .  19.2    58.7         33       11
Price Contingencies                               524.6      378.0      902.6       42       20      17.5    12.7    30.3         42        6
Total PROJECT COSTS                                4,015.0    1,953.0    5,967.9       33      131    433.0   200.2   633.3         32      116



CHNA
Sed S-*S S-r Ptect
Tab 100. Swge md Sanltaon hw_mmeuts
Debiaed Costa
Base Cost (RUB Mhllhon                                                Base Cost (USS Millonj
11_8    1t"     t937    1998    1999    200       2001      Total    1935    1956    1997    1998    It"        200    2001    Total
L liesbnsr Costs
A. Chlv Wo*s
1.1 IH_swuSypof                              5.4    21.6    21.6      2.7      2.7        .               53.9     0.6      2.6      2.6     0.3      0.3       -               6.4
2.1 Coswell-63                                 .      09.9    29.9    29.9     0.0      5.0     5.0       90.6              2.4      3.6     3.6      1.2      0.1     0.6       1.9
2.2 ConerymS.S4                                .    24.5    36.8    36.6    12.3        6.1     6.1      122.7       -      2.9      4.4     4 A      1.5      0.7     0.7    14.6
2.3CowqiuS4-S5                                 -    19.7    20.6    29.6       9.9      4.9     4.9       98.7              2.3      3.5     3.5      1.2      0.6     0.6    11.7
2.4 ConvyuSi                                   -    24.1    36.2    36.2    12.1        6.0     6.0      120.6       -      2.9      4.3     4.3      1.4      0.7     0.7    14.4
2.5Conveyor 0 M-IO                                   22.0    33.1    33.1    11.0       5.5      5.5     110.2        .     2.6    3J         3.9     1.3      0.7     0.7    13.1
2.ICweywrMIO-M12                               -    30.6    50.4    50.4    19.6        0.9      9.9     196.1        -     4.7      7.1     7.1      2.4      1.2     1.2    23.6
3.1 PumpSMhSA.S82M2                            -       -    30.7    51.1    10.2        5.1      5.1     102.2        -       -      3.7      6.1     1.2      0.6     0.6    12.2
4.1 PuW Ln Sew                                 -       -        -    58.9    78.6    30.3    19.6        190.4                         -      7.0     9.4      4.7     2.3    23.4
5.1 PuS hd   trPt  Sos                         -       -        -      2.0     2.7      i.4      0.7       6.8        -       .              0.2      0.3      0.2     0.1      0.8
6.1 PudoIgLMnk*Swws                            .       -               9.5    12.6      6.3      3.2      31.6        -       -        -      1.1     1.5      0.8     0.4      3.6
7.1  nPux 9daComseS1na                         -       -               s 5.9   7.8      5.9      2.0      19.6        -       -        -      0.7     0.9      0.5     0.2      2.3
8.1 stQualw                                    -       -        -      9.2    12.3      S.1      3.1      30.7        -       -        -      1.1     1.5      0.7     0.4      3.7
9.1 Sawer Rlheblilon -l-o-                                            30.2    40.2    20.1    10.1       100.5                -               3.6     4.8      2.4      1.2    12.0
AW1.I MtecAvanceWosta                       93.6    93.6                 -       -        -        -     187.2    11.1    11.1                  -       .        -       -    22.3
AVWI.2 Mmdvansceflbs                        37.6    37.6        -        *       *                 *      75.3      4.5      4.5       -                         -              9.0
AVW2.1 TreabrnoSPlSPP                        1.1      1.1       -        -                -        -       2.2      0.1     0.1        -        -       .       .        .      0.3
SubtotalCiviWodc                             137.3   303.9   277.2   304.5   242.2   119.7    81.2    1.556.5         6.4    36.2    33.0    47.0    26.1    14.3        0.7   165.3                   O
B. Equime   nd NW MaIelab
20.1 PunpEquipdS"S.2                           -       -        -    60.9   101.5    20.3    20.3        203.0        *       *        *      7.2    12.1      2.4     2.4    24.2
21.1 IIhhcp   Pump Equip.                      -       -        .      2.3    1117      7.0      2.3      23.3        -       -        -      0.3     1.4      0.8     0.3      2.8
22.1 Pow   Supply                              -       -        -        -    51.6    41.3    10.3       103.2        -       -          -            6.1      4.9     1.2    12.3
23.1 Systun T Iry                              -                         -    23.3    18.7       4.7      46.7                -        -       -      2.       2.2     0.6      5.6
24.1 SwwrCluan*n a Mgm Eqdp.                   -       -        -      4.7     6.2      3.1      1.6      15.6        -       -        -     0.6      0.7      0.4     0.2      1.9
25.1 Snig Tools                                -       -      0.6      0.8     0.8      0.3     0.3        2.8 0                     0.1     0.1      0.1      0.0     0.0      0.3
26.1WWPR ehtleon                               .       ,    25.4    33.9    16.9        8.5       -       84.6        -       -      3.0     4.0      2.0      1.0       -    10.1
27.1 Enmvuaity MonhoulgEqLdp.                  -       -        -        -     8.0      0.9                8.9        -       -        -       -      1.0      0.1       -      1.1
30.1 SupplyudCement                         15.5    15.5        -        -       -        *       -       31.1      1.9     1.9        -       -        -        -       -      3.7
30.2SupplyofCament                             -    15.5    15.5                                          31.1              19       1                           .               7 3
30.3SupplyofCwment                             .             15.5    15.5        .                        31.1                       1.9      1.9           -        -          3.7
30.4SupplyofC nt                               -       -              15.5    12.4      3.1               31.1        -       *        .      1.9     1.5      0.4       -      3.7
40.1 SupplydRetof oWebnnt                   40.1    40.1        -        *       .        *       -       80.1      4.8     4.8        -       -        -        .       -      9.5
40.2 Supply of Rbtodrcwnehn                    -    40.1    24.0    16.0         -        -               80.1        -     4.8      2.9      1.9       -        -       -      9.5
40.3Supply offekfrement                        -             40.0    24.0    16.0         -       -       79.9       -        -      4.8     2.9      1.9       .        .      9.5
SubtotalEqulpmentand Mterbhls                 55.6   111.2   121.0   173.7   248.5   103.1    39.5         852.6      6.6    13.2    14.4    20.7    29.6    12.3        4.7   101.5
C.LandAcqsiulionAResatettent                 522.3   417.9    52.2    52.2         -        -       -    1,044.7    62.2    49.7       6.2     6.2        -        .       -   124.4
D. Enginhering & Mgmt
CIAVtWuks                                   14.1    31.8    29.3    41.3    25.0    12.4        8.4      162.2      1.7     3.6      3.5     4.9      3.0      1.5     1.0    19.3
EquipietAMalealbs                            5.9    11.7    12.9    18.7    27.0    11.2        4.3       91.7      0.7     1.4      1.5     2.2      3.2      1.3     0.5    10.9
Lnd Acqitsbn a Relement                     52.2    41.8      5.2      5.2       -        -       -      104.5      6.2     5.0      0.6     0.6        .       .        .     12.4
Subtotal Engineerng & Ugmt                    72.2    65.1    47.4    65.2    52.1    23.0    12.7         358.3      8.6    10.1      5.6     7.8      6.2      2.8      1.5    42.7
E. Constton Mgmt
Cii Works                                    2.6      5.8     5.3      7.5     4.6      2.3      1.5      29.5      0.3     0.7      0.6     0.9      0.5      0.3      0.2     3.5
Equipmenl& Mateds                            1.1     2.1      2.3      3.4     4.9      2.0      0.8      16.7      0.1     0.3      0.3     0.4      0.6      0.2     0.1      2.0
Subtotal Consttruon Mgmt                       3.6     7.9      7.7    10.9      9.5      4.3      2.3      46.2      0.4     0.9      0.9      1.3     1.1      0.5      0.3     5.5
Total                                          791.5   926.1   505.6   006.6   552.3   250.7   135.7    3.858.4    94.2   110.2    60.2    82.9    85.7    29.8    16.2   459.3



Second Shanghai Sewerage Prel
Table 100. Seewage nd Saniaon Inprovente nQ
Detailed Costs
Totals lncludinc Contingencies (RMB MEoniSr                            Totals Including Contingencies (US$ Million)
139      UN        191    1993    199    2000    2001          Total    1995    19f    1597    1998    19S5    2000    2001    Total
1. Invet lenlt eosts
A. CviN Works
1.1 Huangpu Sypons                           5.9      25.0    27.4       3.7     3.9                -       65.9     0.7      2.9      2.9     0.4      0.4        -              7.3
2.1 Con teyarSl-S3                                    23.1    37.0    40.8    14.5        7.7     8.2      132.3              2.6      4.1      4.2     1.4      0.7      0.8    13.8
2.2 Convyor S6iS4                              -      28.4    46.7    50.3    17.9        9.5    10.1      162.9        -     3.3      5.0     5.1      1.8      0.9     0.9    17.0
2.3 Covem    S4-S5                                    22.9    37.5    40.4    14.4        7.7     8.1      131.0        -     2.6      4.0      4.1     1.4      0.7      0.7    13.7
2.4ConeorS5-M6                                 -      27.9    45.9    49.4    17.6        9.3     9.9      160.1        -     3.2      4.9      5.1     1.7      0.9      0.9    11.7
2.SCmwyorL-tMIO                                -      25.5    41.9    45.2    16.1    6i5         9.1      146.3       -      2.9 -    4.5     4.6      1.6      0.8      0.8    15.3
l8CoveymMIO-M12                                       45.9    75.4    81.2    28.9    15.4    16.3         263.0              5.3      8.1      8.3     2.8      1.5      1.5    27.4
3.1 Pumy Ski SA.SB2.M2                         -         -    40.7    73.0    15.6        6.3     6.6      146.4       -        -      4.4      7.5     1.5      0.8      0.8    14.9
4.1A Pi Link Sws                               -         -        -      0.5   114.6    60.9    32.3       288.3        .                -      8.2    11.3      5.8      3.0    28.2
5.1PuishIaI cpi,PwSkni                         .         -        -      2.8     4.0      2.1     1.1       10.0        -       -        -      0.3     0.4      0.2      0.1      1.0
6.1 Pudig LIb Sewers                           -         -        -    13.0   1.4        9.1     5.2       46.4        .       -        -       .3      1.8     0.9      0.5      4.5
7.1 PtPudong Camons                            -         -        -      6.0    1A        6.1      3.2      28.7        -       -               0.8     1.1      0.6      0.3      2.8
8.1 Staff urea                                 -         *              12.6    17.9      9.5     5.1       45.1        -       .               1.3      1.8     0.9      0.5      4.4
9.1 Sw  Retlon                                 -         -        -    41,2    58.7    31.2    16.1        147.6        -       -               4.2     5.8      3.0      1.5    14.4
AWfA.1 MlscAdvance Ia s                    103.0      106.4           -            -        .       -      211.4    12.3    12.4         -        -       -        -        -    24.7
AWI.2  ac Advance%Woks                      41.4       43.6       -        .       -                        85.0      4.9      5.0                -       -                        9.9
AW2.1 Tre_t nsPMoPlu                         1.2        1.3       -                -                -        2.5      0.1     0.1                     -        -            -      0.3
SubtlotlCWINWorks                            151.6     352.1   353.4   542.1   353.6    186.1   134.1    2,073.1       18.0    40.3    37.9    55.4    34.8    17.6    12.3   216.4
S. Equipment a*nd Maeelals
20.1 Piamp Equ nwtSA.SB12                      -         -        -    87.0   154.7    32.9    35.0        309.6        .                -       .9    15.2      3.1      3.2    30.4
21.1 bmtrceplorPuWEquip.                                -                3.3    17.6    11.3      4.0       36.5        -       -        -      0.3      1.7     1.1      0.4      3.5
22.1 Powt   Supply                             -         -        -        -    75.2    64.0    17.0       158.3        .       -        -              7.4      6.1      1.6    15.0
23.1 SysInI Tmey                                                  -             34.0    29.0      7.7       70.7        .       -        -        -     3.3      2.7      0.7      6.8
24.1 SwwCbleaning &Mgmd Equip.                 -         -        -      6.4     0.1      4.8     2.6       221         -       -        -      0.7     0.9      0.5      0.2      2.2
25.1 Smr lTods                                 -         -      0.7      1.1     1.2      0.4      0.5       4.0        -              0.1      0.1     0.1      0.0      0.0      0.4
26.1WWTPReh  llon                              -               32.2    46.3    24.7    13.1         -      116.3        .       .      3.5      4.7     2.4      1.2              11.9
27.1 Env Oudl Moloruing Equip.                 *         .                 .    11.7      1.4               13.1                         -               1.2     0.1        -      1.3
30.1 SupplyoCent                            17.1      18.0        -        -       -                -       35.1      2.0     2.1        -                -                 -      4.1
30.2SupplyoCement                                      16.0    19.7        *       *                -       37.7        -      2.1     2.1        -        -                       4.2
30.3SupplydConCenl                             -         -      9.7    21.2        -        -       -       40.9        -       -      2.1      2.2                         -      4.3
30.4SupplyofCenment                            -         -        -    21.2    18.1       4.6               44.2                         -      22       1.8     0.5               4.4
40.1 Supply ofRenorcSment                   44.1      46.4        -        -       .        -        -      90.5      5.2      5.3       -        -        -       -        -     10.6
40.2Suppl of ReIrloermnr                       -      46.4    30.5    21.9         -        -       -       98.8        -      5.3     3.3      2.2        -                      10.i
40.3SSupply of ReIroemenl                       _              50.7    32.8    23.3                        10.8         .       -      5.4      3.3      2.3                      11.1
SublotallEqulpwmentandMalerlalf 61.2                    120l,8f   153.5   241.2   369.9   tOt.8    G6.7    1,183.2      7.3    14.6    16.5    24.7    36.3    15.3         6.1   121.0
C.LandAcqulsalon&Resataemenl                 574.6     484.0    66.2    71.4         -                 -    1,196.2    68.4    55.4      7.1      7.3        -       -             138.2
D. Engineering & Ugmt
Ch%tWrks                                    15.5      36.7    37.2    56.4    36.5    19.2    13.9         215.3      1.6      4.2     4.0      5.8      3.6     1.1      1.3    22.5
Equdpnwnt&Malweus                            6.4       13.6    16.3    25.1    39.4      I4        7.1     125.8      0.8      1.6      1.8     2.8      3.9      1.6     0.8    12.9
LwndAcqtdsNon&Reselkei                      57.5      48.4    6f6        7,1       -     .          -      119.6      6.8      5.5     0.7      0.7                         -    13.6
Subtotl Englneerlng& Mgmt                     79A       961      60.1    89.1    75.9    36.6    21.0        460.8      9.5    11.3      6.4      9.1      75     3.5      1.9    49.2                       &
E. Constnrclton Ugmt
ClvIWmts                                     2.8       8.7      6.8    10.3      6.6      3.5      2.5      39.2      0.3      0.6     0.7      1.0      0.7     0.3      0.2      4.1
Eqtiprrent& Mauth                            1.2        2.5     3.0      4.7     7.2      3.2      1.3      22.9      0.1      0.3     0.3      0.5      0.7     0.3      0.1      2.3
Subtobl Conslnaction Mgmt                      4.0       9.l      9.7    14.9    13.8       0.7      3.8      S2.1      0.5      1.0     1.0      1.5      1.4     0.1      0.3      6.4
Total                                          870.7    1072.7   643.0   95838   813.5   391.1   2256.    4.975.3   103.7   122.1    69.0    98.0    79-9    37.1    20.7   531.2



CHINA
Second Shat Sewvae Projed
Tabte 200. Wastewater Treatment and Disposal
Detailed Costs
Base Cost (RMB Uillon   _                                            Base Cost (USS Mllilon)
1995    1916    1997    1996    1999    2000    2001    Total    1995    1996    1397    1938    1999    2000    2001    Total
1. Investment Costs
A. Cltv Works
1.1 BaIeorggangWTP                           -       -    59.9    59.9    59.9    20.0           -   199.5                 -     7.1      7.1      7.1     2.4        -    23.8
2.1 OuUtal Punm Statlon                      -        -     6.6    11.1       2.2     1.1      1.1    22.1        -               0.8     1.3      0.3     0.1      0.1      2.6
3.1 OutLR Vltks                                       '    27.0    67.4    27.0       6.7      6.7   134.8        -               3.2     8.0      3.2     0.8      0.8    18.0
SubtotaIClvUi Works                            -        -    93.4   138.3    89.0    27.8        7.8   356.4        .        ,    11.1    16.5    10.6       3.3      0.9    42.4
B. Equlpment & Matdisal
20.1 Outl Punp EquIp.                        -        -       -    11.8    19.7       3.9      3.9    39.4        -        -       -      1 4      2.3      0.5     0.5      4.7
21.1 Ulsc Equpwnt                                -   -      0.7      1.3      2.0     2.0      0.7      6.6       -        -      0.1     0.2      0.2     0.2      0.1      0.8
Subtotal Equlpment & Uaterls                   -              0.7    13.1    21.7       11       4.6    46.0                 -      0.1     1.6      2.6      0.7     0.5      5.5
C.LandAbAcqullion&RRestdlement              58.0    46.4      5.8      5.8                         -   116.1      6.9      5.5      0.7     0.7        -.      -        -    13.8
0. Englnaedng & Ugmt
CtvI W,is                                    -        -     9.9    14.6       9.4     2.9      0.8    37.7        -        -      1.2     1.7      1.1      0.3     0.1      4.5
Equlpment&Maltrlas                           -        -     0.1      1.4      2.4     0.6      0.5      5.0                -    .0.0      0.2      0.3     0.1      0.1      0.6
LandAcquislbn&Resettlmcnt                  5.8      4.6     0.6      0.6                -        -    11.6      0.7      0.6     0.1    *0.1                 -        -      1.4
Subtotal Engineardng   Mgmt                  5.8      4.6    10.5    16.6    11.8       3.6      1.3    54.3      0.7      0.6      1.3     2.0      1.4      0.4     0.2      6.5
E. ConstrucUon Mgmt
Clv Wor ks                                   -               1.8     2.7      1.7      0.5     0.2      6.9                -      0.2     0.3      0.2      0.1     0.0      0.6
Equipment&Mateals                                           0.0      0.3      0.4     0.1      0.1      0.9       -        -      0.0     0.0      0.1      0.0     0.0      0.1
Subtotal Construction Mgmt                              -      1.8     2.9      2.1     0.7      0.2      7.8       -        -      0.2     0.3      0.3      0.1     0.0      0.9
Total                                          63.8    51.1   112.2   176.8   124.6    38.0    14.0   580.6          7.6     6.1    13.4    21.1    14.8        4.5      1.7    69.1
CHINA
Second ShanghaI Sewerage Project
Tabb 300. InsutIonal Devebprnent & Trainhg
Detailed Costs
Base Cost (RMB MIllIon)                                              Base Cost (USS Million)
1995    1396    1997    1998    1999    2000    2001    Total    1995    1996    1997    1998    1999    2000    2001    Total
1. Investment Costs
A. TechnIcal Assistance & Studies
TA                                          -      5.8    23.0    23.0    23.0    23.0    17.3   115.1           -      0.7      2.7      2.7     2.7      2.7     2.1    13.7
TN1                                                0.9      3.6     3.6      3.6     3.6      2.7    17.6        -      0.1      0.4     0.4      04       04      0.3      2.1
Total                                                  6.6    26.6    26.6    26.6    26.6    19.9   132.9                   0.8     3.2      3.2     3.2      3.2      2.4    15.8



CD
CHINA
Second Shanghai Sewerage Project
Table 200. Wastewater Trealment and Disposal
Detailed Costs
Totals Including Contingencies (RMB Mlillon)                          Totals including Contingencies (US$ Million)
1995    1996    1997    1998       1999    2000    2001    Total    1995    1996         1997    1998    1999    2000    2001    Total
1. Investment Costs
A. Civil Works
1.1 Balonggang WWTP                           -        -    79.4    85.5    91.3    32.3                 288.5                 -      8.5      8.7      9.0      3.1        -    29.3
2.1 Outlall Pump Station                                       8.8     15.8     3.4       1.8     1.9    31.6         -        -      0.9      1.6      0.3      0.2      0.2      3.2
3.1 Oufalla Works                              -              35.7     96.3    41.1      10.9    11.6   195.7         -        -      3.8      9.8      4.0      1.0      1.1    19.8
SubtotalClvil Works                                       -    123.9   197.5   135.7    45.1        13.5   515.8                 -     13.3   .20.2    13.3        4.3      1.2    52.3
B. Equipment & Materials
20.1 Outfail Pump Equip.                       -        -        -     16.9    30 0      8 4      6.8    60.1         -        -        -      1.7      3.0      0.6      0 6      5.9
21.1 Misc Equipment                                     -      0.8      1.6      2.9     3.1      1.1      9.7                 -      0.1      0.2      0.3      0.3      0.1      0.9
Subtotal Equipment & Materials                            -      0.8     18.7    32.9      9.5      7.9    69.8         -        -      0.1      1.9      3.2      0.9      0.7      6.9
C. Land Acquistion & Resettlernent            63.8    53.8       7.4      7.9        -       -        -   132.9       7.6      6.2      0 8      0.8        -                 -     15.4
D. Engineering & Mgmt
CMi Works                                      -        -     12.5    20.0      13.7     4.6      1.4    52.1                         1.3      2.0      1.3      0.4      0.1      5.3
Equipment & Materials                          -        -      0.1      2.0      3.5      1.0     0.8      7.3        -               .0.0     0.2      0.3      0.1      0.1      0.7
Land Acquisitlon b Resettlement              6.4      5.4      0.7      0.8                         -     13.i      0.8      0.6      0.1      01         -        -        -      1.5
Subtotal Engineering & Mgmt                    6.4      5.4     13.4    22.7      17.2      5       2.2    72.8       0.8      0.6      1.4      2.3      1.7      0.5      0.2      7.5
E. Construction Mgmt
Cvil Works                                     -        -      2.3      3.6     2.5      0.8      0.2      9.5        -        -      0.2      0.4      0.2      0.1      0.0      1.0
Equipment & Materials                          -       -      0.0      0.4      0.6      0.2      0.2      1.3        -        -      0.0      0.0      0.1      0.0      0.0      0.1
Subtotal Construction Mgmt                       -        -      2.3      4.0     3.1       1.0     0.4    10.8                  -      0.2      0.4      03       0.1      0.0      1.1
Total                                           70.2    59.1    147.8   250.9   189.0    61.1    24.0   802.1            8 4      6.8     15.9    25.6    18.6        5.8      2.2    83.2
CHINA
Second Shanghai Sewerage Project
table 300. institutional Developmeni & Training
Detailed Costs
Totals Including Contingencies (RMB Million)                            Totals Including Contingencies (US$ Millon)
1995    1996    1997    1998       1999    2000    2001    Total    1995        1996    1997    1998    1999    2000    2001    Total
1. Investment Costs
A. Technical Assistance & Studles
TAI                                           .      6.7    29.2    31.4      33.6    35.7    28.4    165.0          .      0.8      3.1      3.2      3.3      3.4      2.6    16.4
TN1                                                  1.0      4.5      4.9      5.2      5.5     4.4     25.6               0.1      0.5      0.5      0.5      0.5      0.4      2.5
Total                                             -      7.7    33.7    36.3    38.8    41.2    32.8    190.5                    0.9      3.6      3.7      3.8      3.9      3.0    18.9



CD
CHINA                                                                     CHINA
Second Shanghai Sewerage Project                                          Second Shanghai Sewerage Project
Expenditure Accounts by Components - Base Costs                           Expenditure Accounts by Components - Base Costs
(RMB Million)                                                             (USS Million)
Wastewater  Institution                                                   Wastowater  Institution
Sewerage and  Treatmnent Development                 Physical             Sewerage and  Treatment Development                Physlcal
Sanitation     and         and                  Contingencies             Sanitatlon     and         and                 Contingencies
Improvements  Disposal    Training      Total      %     Amount           Improvements  Disposal    Training     Total     %     Amount
I. investment Costs
A. Civil Works                        1,556.5      356.4            -    1,913.0    11.2   214.2                  185.3       42.4            -   227.7    11.2    25.5
S. Equipment and Materials              852.6       46.0            -      898.7    11.5   103.2                  101.5        5.5            -   107.0    11.5    12.3
C. Construction Mgmt Svcs                46.2        7.8            -       54.0    10.0      5.4                  5.5         0.9                   6.4    10.0      0.6
D. TechnicalAssistance and Studies         -           -        132.9      132.9    10.0    13.3                     -                     15.8    15.8    10.0       1.6  $
E. Land Acquisition and Resettlement  1,044.7      116.1            -    1,160.7    10.0   116.1                 124.4        13.8            -   138.2    10.0    13.8
F. Engineering and Mgmt                 358.3       54.3            -      412.7    10.0    41.3                  42.7         6.5                 49.1    10.0       4.9
lbtal BASELINE COSTS                    3,858.4       580.6        132.9    4,571.9    10.8   493.4                 459.3       69.1         15.8   544.3    10.8    58.7
Physkal Contingencies                   402.3       77.8         13.3      493.4       -                          47.9         9.3          1.6    58.7        -        -
Price ConUngencies
InflaUon
Local                              408.1        74.0          9.6      491.7                -                 48.6         8.8          1.1    58.5
Foreign                             78.1        18.9         10.1      107.1       -        -                  9.3         2.2         1.2    12.7
Subtotal lnflaUon                    486.2        92.9         19.7      598.8                                  57.9        11.1          2.3    71.3
Devaluation                          228.4        50.8         24.7      303.9       -        -                -34.0        -6.3         -0.8   -41.0        -
Subtotal Price Contingencies            714.6      143.8         44.3      902.6    10.1    91.4                  23.9         4.8          1.5    30.3    10.1       3.1
total PROJECT COSTS                      4,975.3      802.1        190.5    5,967.9     9.8   584.8                 531.2       83.2         18.9   633.3       9.8    61.8
Taxes                                   199.3       17.4            -      216.7    11.0    23.9                  19.6         1.7           -    21.3    11.0        2.4
Foreign Exchange                      1,486.6      317.3        149.1    1,953.0    10.3   200.6                 153.4        32.0        14.8   200.2    10.2    20.5



F-a
CHINA                                                               CHINA
Second Shanghai Sewerage Project                                    Second Shanghai Sewerage Project
Expenditure Accounts by Components - Totals Including Contingencies    Expenditure Accounts by Components - Totals Including Contingencies
(RMB Million)                                                       (USS Millon)
Wastewater  Institution                                             Wastewater  InstituUon
Sewerage and  Treatment Development                                 Sewerage and  Treatment Development
Sanitation     and          and                                     Sanitation      and         and
Improvements  Disposal    Training       Total                      Improvements  Disposal    Training      Total
1. Investment Costs                                                                                                          '%
A. Civil Works                                  2,073.1       515.8            -    2,588.9                           216.4        52.3            -   268.7
B. Equipment and Materials                      1,183.2       69.8            -    1,253.0                            121.0         6.9           -   127.8
C. Construction Mgmt Svcs                         62.1         10.8           -       72.9                              6.4         1.1            -     7.5
0. Technical Assistance and Studies                  -           -        190.5      190.5                                -          -          18.9    18.9
E. Land Acquisition and Resettliment            1,196.2      132.9            -    1,329.1                            138.2       15.4                 153.6
F. Engineering and Mgml                          460.8        72.8            -      533.5                            49.2         7.5            -    56.7
rotal PROJECT COSTS                               4,975.3       802.1        190.5    5,967.9                           531.2        83.2         18.9   633.3
Taxes                                             199.3        17.4           -      216.7                             19.6         1.7            -    21.3
Foreign Exchange                                1.486.6      317.3        149.1    1,953.0                            151.4        32.0         14.8   200.2



CD
CHINA                                                                              00
Second Shanghal Sewerage Project
Expenditure Accounts by Years - Base Costs
Base Cost (RMB tlillon)                 Foreign Exchange                   Base Cost (USS Million)                  Foreign Exchange
1995   1996   1997   1998   1999   2000   2001   Total    %   Amount 1995   1998   1997   1998   1999   2000   2001   Total    %    Amount
1. Investment Costs
A. Civil Works                    137.a  303.9  370.7  532.8  331.2  147.5   89.0 1,913.0   40.2  768.1   16.4   36.2   44.1   63.4   39.4   17.6   10.6   227.7   40.2    91.4
B. Equiproeni and Materlais        55.6  111.2  121.7  186.8  270.2  In0    44.1  898.7   54.9  493.6    6.6   13.2   14.5   22.2   32.2   13.0    5.2   107.0   54.9    58.8
C. Constniction Mgnit Svcs          3.6    7.9    9.5   13.8   11.6    4.9    2.6   54.0   89.0   48.0    0.4    0.9    1.1    1.6    1.4    0.6    0.3             6.4   89.0       5.7
D.Techincal Assistance and Studies    -    6.6   26.6   26.6   26.6   26.6   19.9  132.9   78.3  104.0           *    0.8    3.2    3.2    3.2    3.2    2.4    15.8   78.3    12.4
E. Land Acquisition and Resettlement   580.4  464.3   58.0   58.0   -      *       - 1,160.7      -      -   69.1   55.3    6.9    6.9         -      -       -   138.2
F. Engineerng and Mgml             78.0   89.8   57.9   81.9   63.9   27.2   14.1  412.7          *      -    9.3   107    6.9    9.7    7.6    3.2    1.7    49.1
Tot;tl BASELINE COSTS                855.4  983.8  644.4  900.0  703.5  315.3  169.7 4,571.9   30.9 1,413.8  101.8  117.1   76.7  107.1   83.7   37.5   20.2   544.3   30.9   168.3
Physical Contingencies             85.5   98.4   70.6  103.2   82.0   34.7   18.9  493.4   32.7  161.2   10.2   11.7    8.4   12.3    9.8    4.1    2.3    58.7   32.7    19.2
Pruce Contingencies
Inflatlon
Local                             -   47.0   60.7  135.6  128.3   73.0   47.1  491.7          -              -    5.6    7.2   16.1   15.3    8.7    5.6    58.5          -       -
Foreign                           -    2.5   12.3   27.8   32.5   18.8   13.0  107.1  100.0  107.1           -    0.3    1.5    3.3    3.9    2.2    1.6    12.7  100.0    12.7
Subtotal Inflatlon                  -   49.6   73.0  163.4  160.9   91.8   60.1  598.8   17.9  107.1                 5 9    8.7   19.5   19.2   10.9    7.2    71.3   17.9    12.7
Devaluation                         -    7.8   36.4   79.4   95.0   51.6   33.7  303.9   89.2  271.0           -   -4.2   -5.3  -11.5  -10.4   -5.8   -3.8   -41.0          -       -
Sublotal Price Contingencies          -   57.4  109.4  242.8  255.8  143.4   93.8  902.6   41.9  378.0           -    1.7    3.3    7.9    8.8    5.1    3.4    30.3   42.1    12.7
Total PROJECT COSTS                  940.9 1,139.5  824.4 1,246.0 1,041.3  493.4  282.4 5,967.9   32.7 1,953.0  112.0  130.5   88.5  127.4  102.3   46.8   25.9   633.3   31.6   200.2
Taxes                                        -    9.5   45.7   98.1   43.5   20.0  216.7          -              -       -    1.0    4.7    9.6    4.1    1.8    21.3         -
Foreign Exchange                   62.3  205.4  360.6  520.7  458.6  216.6  128.6 1,953.0         -       -    7.4   23.5   38.7   53.2   45.1   20.5   11.8   200.2
CHINA
Second Shanghai Sewerage Project
Expenditure Accounts by Years - Totals Including Contingencies
Totals Including Contingencies (RMB Million)                             Totals Including Contingencies (USS Million)
1995    1996    1997    1998    1999    2000    2001    Total   1995    1996    1997    1998    1999    2000    2001    Total
I. Investment Costs
A. Civil Works                           151.6   352.1   477.3   739.7   489.6   231.1    147.6 2,588.9            18.0    40.3       51.2    75.6    48.1       21.9     13.5   268.7
B. Equipment and Materials                61.2   128.8   154.4   259.9   402.9   171.3           74.6  1,253.0      7.3      14.8     16.6    26.6    39.6       16.2      6.8   127.8
C. Construction Mgmt Svcs                  4.0      9.1     12.0      18.9    16.9       7.7      4.2     72.9       0.5      1.0      1.3      1.9      1.7      0.7      0.4       7.5
D. TechnicalAssistance and Studies           -      7.7     33.7    36.3    38.8    41.2         32.8   190.5          -      0.9      3.6      3.7      3.8      3.9       3.0     18.9
E. Land Acquisition and Resettlement  638.4   537.8         73.6    79.3          -        -         - 1,329.1     76.0    61.6        7.9      8.1         -        -        -   153.6
F. Engineering and Mgmt                   85.8   104.0      73.5   111.9    93.1    42.1         23.2   533.5      10.2      11.9      7.9    11.4       9.1      4.0       2.1     56.7
Total PROJECT COSTS                         940.9  1,139.5   824.4  1,246.0  1,041.3   493.4   282.4  5,967.9   112.0   130.5    88.5   127.4   102.3    46.8    25.9   633.3



-67 -                             ANNEX5
ANNEX 5: ORGANIZATION OF THE CONSTRUCTION
DEPARTMENT OF THE SHANGHAI MUNICIPAL
SEWERAGE COMPANY, LTD.
General Manager
(SMSC)
|Vice General |      |Vice General |       | Chief        |
| Manager   |       | Manager   |         |Engineer|
. Construction    kdministrative          Engineermg              Minary         aterial 
Supervision          Department            Department         Engineering        Equipment
Departinent           78 staff               48 staff         Departnent        Department
102 staff                                                     25 staff           7 staff
Construction        Administration          General           Preliiny           Materials &
Supervision                               Engineering        Engineering         Equipment
Planning &           Design &
Accounting           Tendering
N   Personnel &  |
Education|
Safety    |
Shanghai
Sewerage
_Project II
Note: Annex 12 shows the organization of SMSC.



-68 -                               ANNEX6
ANNEX 6: SCHEDULE OF CONTRACT PACKAGES
Contract   Description                                           Procurement
No.                                                               Type         Remarks
ADVANCE WORKS
AW/I. I  Misc. Advance Works                                      NCB          Several contracts
/1.2  Misc. Advance Works                                      NBF
/2.1  Treatment Pilot Plant                                   IS/NS
SND SANITATION IMPROVEMENTS
Civil Work
SSI/I1.   Huangpu Siphon                                          NCB
/2.1  Conveyor SI -S3                                          ICB
/2.2  Conveyor S6-S4                                           ICB
/2.3  Conveyor S4-S5                                           ICB
/2.4  Conveyor S5-M6                                           ICB
/2.5  Conveyor M6-MIO                                          ICB
/2.6  Conveyor M10-M12                                         ICB
/3.1  Pump Stations SA,SB,M2                                   ICB         PQ required.
/4.1  Puxi Link Sewers                                         NCB         4 contracts
/5.1  Puxi Interceptor Pump Stations                           NCB
/6.1  Pudong Link Sewers                                       NCB
/7.1  Puxi/Pudong Connections                                  NCB         Several contracts
/8.1  Operating Staff Quarters                                 NCB
/9.1  Sewer Rehabilitation.                                    NCB         Several contracts
Equipment & Materials
SSI/20.1  Pump Equipment SA,SB,M2                                  ICB         PQ reqd.
/21.1  Interceptor Pump Equipment                               ICB
/22.1  Power Supply                                           DC(NBF)       Electric Co.
123.1  System Telemetry                                         ICB         PQ reqd.
/24.1  Sewerage System Maintenance Equipment.               ICB/NCB/NS    Several contracts
/25.1  Small Tools                                              NBF
/26.1  Wastewater System Rehabilitation                      ICB/NCB        To be decided
/27.1   Water Quality Monitoring Equipment                    ICB/NCB
/30.1  Supply of Cement                                         ICB
/30.2  Supply of Cement                                         ICB
/30.3  Supply of Cement                                         ICB
/30.4  Supply of Cement                                         ICB
/40.1  Supply of Reinforcement                                  ICB
/40.2  Supply of Reinforcement                                  ICB
/40.3  Supply of Reinforcement                                  ICB



-69 -                               ANNEX6
Contract   Description                                          Procurement
No.                                                              Type         Remarks
TREATMENT AND DISPOSAL SYSTEMS
Civil Works
WWT/1 .1  Bailonggang WWTP including equipment                     ICB         PQ required.
/2.1  Outfall Pump Station                                    NCB
/3.1  Outfall Works                                           ICB
Equipment & Materials
WWT/20. 1  Outfall Pumping Equipment                                 ICB        PQ reqd.
/21.1  Miscellaneous Equipment.                            ICB/NCB/NS    To be decided
INSTITUTIONAL, DFVELOPMENT AND PROJECT MANAGEMN
Priorit
P.1  Pump Station Model Tests                              NS
P.2   Outlet Shaft Model Test                              NS
P.3  Pilot WWTP Model (1000 m3/d) study                    NS
Institutional & Financial
A. 1  Accounting (including billing & collection),         BG
organizational & MIS systems support for SMSC
Technical & Planning
B. I  Construction Management Services                     BG
B.2  Review Panel                                          BG
B.3  Sewer Condition & Mapping Survey                      BG
QDIJ
B.4  Future Project Preparation                            BG
B.5  Planning Studies                                      BG
B.6  Regulations Study/Drafting                            BG
Training
TN. I  Senior managers                                       BG
TN.2  Training Center & Equipment.                           BG
TN.3  Technical Training (include District Staffs)           BG
TN.4  Environmental. Monitoring Training                     BG
TN.5  Training to be defined                                 BG
Legend
ICB      =  International Competitive Bidding
NCB      =  National Competitive Bidding
IS/NS    =  International/National Shopping
DC       =  Direct Contracting
NBF      =  Not Bank Financed
PQ       =  Prequalification required
BG       =  Bank Guidelines for Procurement of Consultants
WWTP  =  Wastewater Treatment Plant
n.a.     =  not applicable, included elsewhere



-70-                      ANNEX7
ANNEX 7: SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENTS
Bank fiscal year   Semester     Cumulative       Project    Bank profile La
and semester    -----------($ million)-----------   -----------------(  -----------------
1997
First lk            23.0          23.0            9.2            9.0
Second              26.0          49.0           19.6           16.0
1998
First               33.8          82.8           33.1           27.0
Second              34.8          117.6          47.0           57.0
1999
First               35.2          152.8          61.1           60.0
Second              32.4         185.2           74.1           65.0
2000
First               28.5         213.7           85.5           69.0
Second              16.0         229.7           91.9           70.0
2001
First                8.2         237.9           95.2           75.0
Second               5.9         243.8           97.5           79.0
2002
First                3.6         247.3           98.9           82.0
Second               2.6         250.0          100.0          100.0
La Disbursement profile for China (urban sector), issued August 1993.
lb Includes initial Special Account disbursement of $10 million.
k Includes $5 million balance of Special Account disbursement, for a total Special
Account allocation of $15 million.



-71-                       ANNEX8
ANNEX 8: LAND ACQUISITION AND RESETTLEMENT
PLAN
A. INTRODUCTION
1.    This annex describes the likely land acquisition and resettlement impacts under
the Second Shanghai Sewerage Project (SSPII) and discusses the framework developed
by the Shanghai Municipal Government (SMG) for implementation of land acquisition
and resettlement activities. Section B describes the impacts of the project and the surveys
carried out to measure them. Section C discusses the elements of the resettlement
implementation framework. The major portion of the project would be in the Pudong
new area, the suburban and rural area on the outskirts of Shanghai. The implementation
of the project is proposed to commence in April 1996 and would continue up to June
2001.
B. PROJECT IMPACTS
2.    Project components requiring land acquisition are the following:
(a)   Interceptor in Puxi;
(b)   Interceptor in Pudong;
(c)   Two siphons under the Huangpu river (Wujing/Minhang and Puxi to
Pudong);
(d)   Four pumping stations; and
(e)   Treatment plant and outfall at Bailonggang.
3.    Construction of the above-mentioned components of the project would require
land acquisition and resettlement/rehabilitation of people affected by the project. In order
to determine the impact of the project on affected people and properties, Shanghai
Sewerage Project Construction Company (SSPCC) conducted two surveys:
(a)   Census survey of affected persons and properties; and
(b)   Socioeconomic survey of affected persons
4.    The census survey of affected persons and properties was carried out from
March 1-31, 1995 by SSPCC in collaboration with the local governments and the



- 72 -                     ANNEX8
representatives of the affected people. The surveys were carried out on the basis of the
engineering designs available as of March 31, 1995. There may be some minor
modifications in the engineering designs that would be the basis of the final census
surveys to be carried out sufficiently before implementation of land acquisition and
resettlement activities. The following impacts were identified in the census surveys:
(a) the total amount of land to be acquired is approximately 188 ha; (b) approximately
114 ha of land would be required temporarily during construction; (c) a total of 1,092
houses with an area of 147,250 m2 would be relocated; (d) 173 enterprises would be
affected by the project, out of which 21 would need to be relocated while the rest can be
reorganized at the same location after construction; (e) the total number of persons
affected by land acquisition andlor resettlement is 7,426. Out of these, 1,516 are affected
both by land acquisition and house relocation. A total of 4,924 and 4,018 persons are
affected by land acquisition and resettlement alone, respectively; (f) there are 2,143
persons within the working age out of the 4,924 affected by land acquisition; (g) 671
persons would be eligible for payment of old-age pension and other special rehabilitation
measures; (h) 30,091 workers, working in 173 enterprises affected by the project would
also be affected. Some 2,391 workers, working in the 21 enterprises to be relocated,
would be affected until the enterprises are reconstructed. The remaining 27,700 workers
would be affected only during the construction period and would continue to work at the
enterprises at the same location.
5.    The socioeconomic survey of affected people was carried out by the Shanghai
Academy of Social Sciences (SASS) in May 1995 to identify the main socioeconomic
impacts of the project on the affected people. The survey results stress the need to pay
adequate, replacement levels of compensation to affected people and the need for timely
provision of new jobs. The affected people are in support of the project and wanted
timely and adequate compensation and resettlementlrehabilitation arrangements. SASS
would conduct detailed baseline socioeconomic surveys of the affected persons in each
contract before the initiation of land acquisition and resettlement activities on the
respective contract of the project. The baseline survey would measure the income levels
and standards of living of the affected persons before land acquisition and resettlement.
This baseline socioeconomic survey would form the basis for future comparison of their
income levels and standards of living as reported by the monitoring reports.
Minimization Of Land Acquisition And Resettlement
6.    Substantial efforts were made throughout the planning and preparation stages of
the project to minimize the impacts of land acquisition and resettlement. Regular
discussions were held between the Pre-Engineering Department of SSPCC, the Shanghai
Municipal Engineering Design Institute (SMEDI) and the Shanghai Urban Construction
and Design Institute. Discussions were also held by the above agencies with World Bank
missions. The design and alignment of the interceptor was modified at a nurnber of
locations to avoid or reduce the impacts of land acquisition. Special efforts would also be
made during implementation to minimize the disruption of economic and other activities
due to construction. It is the result of systematic efforts to minimize land acquisition and



-73 -                      ANNEX8
resettlement impacts that only 4,018 persons would need relocation by construction of an
interceptor, which is about 50 km long, four pumping stations and a treatment plant.
C. FRAMEWORK FOR IMPLEMENTATION OF LAND ACQUISITION
AND RESETTLEMENT ACTIVITIES
7.    The framework for implementation of land acquisition and resettlement program
was set out by SSPCC in the Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) dated July 1995.
Following the merger of SSPCC with the Shanghai Sewerage Company in November
1995, the new company-the Shanghai Municipal Sewerage Company, Ltd. (SMSC)-
would have responsibility for implementation of the RAP (para. 16). The framework
consists of the following:
(a)   Objectives and Principles of Resettlement;
(b)   Legal framework and resettlement policies;
(c)   Provisions for Job Creation;
(d)   Resettlement Institutions and agencies;
(e)   Costs and Budget;
(f)   Implementation schedule and arrangements for resettlement;
(g)   Participation and Consultations;
(h)   Redressal of grievances and the appeals process; and
(i)    Monitoring and Evaluation of Resettlement.
The RAP, covering the above components of resettlement implementation framework,
was prepared by SSPCC based on discussions held with various Bank preparation
missions and the experience gained by SSPCC through implementation of the First
Shanghai Sewerage Project (SSPI).  These components of the framework for
implementation are described below:
Objectives and Principles of Resettlement
8.    The main objective of the land acquisition and resettlement (LAR) program is to
ensure that the standards of living and income levels of all categories of affected persons
are improved, or at least restored after resettlement. The main principles on the basis of
which the LAR program would be implemented are as follows:
(a)   Minimize resettlement as much as possible through changes in design and
alignment;
(b)   Compensation for all structures would be paid at the replacement value of
these structures;
(c)   Compensation for collective land would be paid to local collectives. This
compensation would be used to increase the productive capacity of the
collectives and would not be used for any other purpose;



- 74 -                     ANNEX8
(d)   Persons whose lands are affected  would  be provided jobs in
nonagricultural enterprises. They would be paid a transition allowance
until jobs are provided. Apart from payment of old-age pension, special
rehabilitation measures would be taken to ensure that the elderly affected
persons are able to restore their standards of living;
(e)   The new houses of the affected persons would be of at least the same
standards as the affected houses or equal to the minimum current standard,
whichever is more;
(f)    All affected civic infrastructure would be replaced at project cost;
(g)   All affected enterprises would be assisted to resume operations at nearby
locations provided by the local governments. Workers would be provided
allowances equivalent to their salaries for the period of closure of their
enterprises;
(h)   Planning and implementation of LAR program would be carried out with
the participation of affected persons and their representatives; and
(i)   The affected persons/enterprises would be able to redress their grievances,
if any, from the LAR program, and if they are not satisfied, can appeal to
higher authorities and courts.
Legal Framework and Resettlement Policies
9.    The RAP has been prepared based on the following laws, regulations and
guidelines for land acquisition and resettlement issued by various authorities in the
People's Republic of China:
(a)   The People's Republic of China Land Management Law;
(b)   The People's Republic of China Land Management Implementation Act;
(c)   Measures for Management of Shanghai Construction Land Use issued by
the Shanghai Municipal Government, 1992;
(d)   Implementation details for management of Shanghai Urban Housing
Resettlement;
(e)   Compensation standards for properties affected in Land Acquisition for
State project in Shanghai; and
(f)    Collective owned property compensation levels issued by the "Shanghai
Pricing Bureau," 1990.



-75 -                     ANNEXS
Implementation of the land acquisition and resettlement program required for the project
would be carried out in accordance with these laws, regulations and guidelines.
Compensation/Resettlement Policies for Different Categories of Project Impacts
10.   The following categories of project impacts were identified on the basis of the
census survey of affected persons and properties:
(a)   Permanent land acquisition of collective land;
(b)   Temporary acquisition of collective land;
(c)   Loss of housing;
(d)   Partial impacts on houses and other structures;
(e)   Relocation of various types of enterprises; state, town, village and private;
(f)   Temporarily affected persons;
(g)   Loss of employment in agriculture;
(h)   Temporary loss of employment in agriculture due to temporary land
acquisition;
(i)   Impacts on public infrastructure and other assets;
(j)   Loss of standing crops;
(k)   Indirect impacts in the disturbance zone; and
(1)    Relocation allowance.
11.   The compensation and/or resettlement policies for the above categories of impacts
are as follows:
(a)   Permanent Land Acquisition Of Collective Land. SMSC would pay to
the affected township government, compensation at the rate of
Y 110,000/mu.'  The compensation would be used by the township
government for developing the productive potential of the township
residents through development of economic activities.
(b)   Temporary Leasing Of Land During Construction. Compensation for
temporary land requisition would be paid at the rate of Y 48,600/mu/year
for a period of two years. With this compensation local township
governments would arrange the economic rehabilitation of persons
affected temporarily.
(c)   Loss of Housing. The affected persons, losing government owned or
private apartment/house in Puxi/Pudong would have the options of:
* accepting a rented apartment free of cost
1 mu = 0.0667 ha or 0.1648 ac.



- 76 -                    ANNEX8
*  moving into a community-built house of the same standard as
previous house, without any extra payment.
*  self-constructing a house upon payment of compensation at
replacement value for the affected house/structures. No deductions
would be made for depreciation.
Further details of housing allocation/reconstruction options have been
provided in the RAP.
(d)   Partial Impacts on Structures. Full replacement value would be paid as
compensation for partially affected houses/structures.  No deduction
would be made for depreciation.
(e)   Impact on Enterprises. Affected enterprises would be allocated an
alternative plot for relocation free of cost. Compensation for affected
buildings and structures and other fixtures, furnishings would be paid at
replacement rates. Full cost of transfer of facilities would be paid.
Compensation to affected workers would be paid in lieu of salaries at rates
equivalent of monthly salaries of affected workers. Full compensation for
net losses in production during the period when production is stopped
would be paid to affected township, village and private enterprises.
(f)   Shops and Small Businesses. These would be provided with alternative
roadside premise for continuing their business. They would be fully
compensated for the net losses in income during the period when their
business is closed.
(g)   Temporarily Affected Enterprises. All impacts would be compensated
at replacement value with regard to special features of construction. No
deduction would be made for depreciation. Arrangements would be made
to provide alternative sites to affected enterprises. Staff would be fully
compensated for loss of salary and production losses would be
compensated.
(h)   Loss Of Employment In Agriculture.  Farmers affected by land
acquisition would be provided jobs in nonagricultural enterprises. SMSC
would pay a one-time payment of Y 40,000/person to be employed to
township enterprises and Y 30,000/person to other enterprises for
providing jobs to affected persons. Out of this, an amount of Y 4,000
would be reserved for training. During the period when the affected
persons are waiting for jobs, they would be provided with Y 250/month as
subsistence allowance by SMSC. In case they are not provided jobs
within a period of three months from the date of land acquisition, SMSC
would provide temporary jobs to the affected persons until they can be
provided with jobs in enterprises. In case the affected persons want to opt



-77-                      ANNEX8
for self-employment, they would be provided with an amount of
Y 30,000/person in lieu ofjobs in enterprises. Affected men above the age
of 55 and women above the age of 45 years would be eligible for old age
pension of Y 245/month. In addition to this specific measures would be
taken by SMSC and the local governments to ensure that the standards of
living of the elderly persons are restored after relocation.
(i)   Temporary Loss Of Employment In Agriculture. SMSC would pay the
respective township governments Y 48,600 per mu of land. With the help
of this compensation amount, the local governments would plan
rehabilitation activities for affected persons.  Upon completion of
construction, SMSC would return the land to the local township after
restoring it tot its original condition.
(j)   Impact On Public Infrastructure And Other Assets.  All civic
infrastructure would be compensated at replacement rates without any
deduction for depreciation. The infrastructure would be reconstructed by
the local township governments.
(k)   Loss Of Standing Crops. Standing crops compensation would be paid
directly to the affected farmers at the full market value of affected crops.
(1)   Indirect Impacts In The Disturbance Zone. Indirect impacts, if any,
due to the construction of the project, on structures in the disturbance zone
would be compensated for at the full replacement rates.  Structures
needing repairs would be compensated full for the repairs. If any houses
need to be relocated due to such impact, they would be treated on the same
lines as houses affected by permanent land acquisition.
(m)   Relocating households would be paid transfer allowance (Y 300-400/
household), an incentive for early relocation (Y 400-600/person) and a
transition allowance of Y 100/person/ month for the duration of transition.
In case it is found that the standards of living of any category of affected persons have not
been restored after relocation/resettlement, SMSC would be responsible to take additional
measures to ensure that the main objective of the RAP is achieved.
Job Creation
12.   The persons affected by land acquisition would be provided with jobs in
nonagricultural enterprises or have the option of self-employment in case they posses
some technical qualifications. The number of persons to be provided jobs is calculated
on the basis of maintaining the average per capita land holding in Pudong new area. Out
of the 2,801 to be provided with nonagriculture based rehabilitation, 2,132 are eligible for
jobs and 669 are eligible for old-age pension. The residence registration of those who are



- 78 -                    ANNEX8
eligible for provision of jobs would be changed from rural to urban. Jobs to the eligible
persons would be provided through one of the following methods:
(a)   Provide jobs in state enterprises.
(b)   Provide jobs in collective (township and village) enterprises.
(c)   Provide job in the land user department (SMSC).
(d)   Provide jobs in other land user agencies who have the capacity to provide
jobs.
(e)   Provide resettlement subsidy in lieu of jobs.
13.  Job creation is the responsibility of SMSC, assisted by the Shanghai Land
Management Bureau (SLMB), the Pudong New Area Labor Management Center
(PNALMC) and the labor bureau in Puxi. Arrangements to provide jobs to eligible labor
are necessary before the Construction Land Use Certificate (CLUC) is issued by the
Shanghai Housing and Land Administration Bureau (SHLAB). SMSC would pay
Y 40,000/worker to township enterprises and Y 30,000/worker to other enterprises for job
creation. In case the affected person opts for self-employment, he/she would be paid a
resettlement subsidy of minimum Y 15,000 (males <35 years, females <25 years) and
Y 1,000 additional for each additional year.
14.   Jobs should be provided within one month of signing the agreement for land
acquisition and resettlement between SMSC and the local Land Acquisition Business
Agencies (LABAs). However, if jobs are not provided within three months of land
acquisition, SMSC would provide temporary jobs to affected persons in SMSC until
enterprise jobs can be provided. For a period of three months a monthly subsistence
allowance of Y 250/eligible person would be paid. The job creation schedule and the
names of enterprises that would provided jobs have been provided in the RAP.
15.   The persons eligible for job creation would be provided training in specific skills
before they are employed on the jobs. The training would be provided in Technical
Training Schools, Professional Training Centers at the district/county level, Township
Training Centers and in-house training centers of large enterprises.  Out of the
resettlement subsidy to be paid to enterprises, an amount of Y 4,000 would be reserved
specially for training.
Resettlement Institutions and Agencies
16.   SMG  has vested overall responsibility for coordination of planning and
implementation of resettlement activities with SMSC. Implementation of resettlement
would be carried out by SMSC supported at the local level by the respective LABAs and
local governments. Apart from these, the main departments/bureaus/agencies responsible



-79 -                     ANNEX8
for providing support to the various aspects of LAR planning, implementing,
coordinating and monitoring resettlement activities are the following:
(a)   The Shanghai City Planning Administrative Bureau (SCPAB);
(b)   The Shanghai Housing and Land Administration Bureau (SHLAB);
(c)   The Housing Relocation Center (Pudong) and the Municipal Engineering
Construction Company (Puxi) are responsible for housing allocation under
SHLAB;
(d)   The Shanghai Municipal Labor Bureau (SMLB);
(e)   The Pudong Labor Bureau (PLB), the Pudong New  Area Labor
Management Center (PNALMC) and the Labor Assistance Centers
(LACs) at the township level;
(f)   The Shanghai Municipal Engineering Design Institute and other design
institutes as appropriate; and
(g)   The Economic Legal and Social Consultancy Center of the Shanghai
Academy of Social Sciences (SASS).
In addition to the above, a Resettlement Coordination Group (RCG) has been formed
with members from all involved agencies and chaired by SMSC for SMG. This group
would meet every two months throughout resettlement implementation to resolve
coordination issues.
17.   Staff of SSPCC (now SMSC) attended the Resettlement Training Program
organized by the World Bank at Nanjing in April 1995. The staff who received training
at Nanjing have been conducting in-house training programs in SMSC. Officials of key
departments of SMG also have regular discussions and seminars with SMSC officials.
SMSC would organize a training program at least once a year, throughout resettlement
implementation.
Costs and Financing
18.   The costs to be incurred on RAP implementation would be a part of the overall
budget of the SSPII project. The annual requirement of funds would be included in the
annual investment plan for the project. The total base cost of land acquisition and
resettlement is estimated at about Y 1,161 million; detailed cost estimates (yearwise) are
shown in Table 1. SMSC would provide the funds for RAP implementation to the
respective LABAs, State and Collective enterprises, public utility companies and Labor
Bureau/PNALMC who would incur expenditures based on the specific provisions of the
RAP.



- 80 -                                   ANNEX8
Table 1: COST ESTIMATES OF LAR IMPLEMENTATION
Estimated base cost (Y million)                   |       Annual cost (Y million)
Reinforce-
Relocation               ment of
Processing     LAR         of state     Labor     structures
LAR       agreements  enterprises   resettle-    in the
Contract   permission      with      and urban    ment (ob   disturbance
certificates  LABA        dwellings    creation)    zone        Total    1995    1996      1997      1998
1.1            1.00         6.00        23.43         -           3.40       33.83    -        -       23.43    10.40
1.2            0.50         4.00         3.46         -           1.62        9.58    -        0.28     6.30      3.30
2.1             .080        2.00         3.60         2.51         -           8.91    5.83    2.32      0.76      -
2.2            4.00        25.18        28.50        15.72        15.59       88.99    -      45.99    38.00      5.00
2.3            2.00        27.14        12.61        10.00        0.64        52.39   17.04   22.28     13.07     -
2.4            2.00        10.00        10.00         9.00         -         31.00    -       23.61      7.39     -
2.5            1.20        16.60        12.50         7.08        3.53       40.91    2.45   24.75       6.84     6.87
2.6            8.00        45.28        54.54        17.37         5.85      131.04   11.93   83.94    35.17       -
2.7            3.00        19.47        20.45        31.25        4.65       78.82    1.12   39.15    30.35       8.20
2.8            5.00        44.38        35.45        19.98        3.97       108.78    -      39.96    52.47    16.35
2.9            4.00        80.00        40.00        67.00        3.85       194.85    -      64.86    96.28    33.71
3.1            0.80         7.03         5.00         3.90        2.10        18.83    0.23   14.13      4.47      -
3.2            0.80         8.00         6.09         2.37        0.88        18.14    -       4.68     12.88     0.58
3.3            1.00         5.40         5.76         6.80        0.35        19.31    -      11.71      7.60     -
3.4,4.0,5.0    4.00        80.68        13.14        50.00         -         147.82    3.68   67.02    48.44    28.68
7.0            2.00         8.43        17.19         5.40        2.02       35.04    -        -        13.14    21.90
Other           -            -          42.46       100.00         -         142.46    -       -       71.00    71.46
Btl         40M1        389.59       334.18      348.38        48.45     1.160 70   42M 2844.68   467.59   205 90
19.   The respective LABAs responsible for implementation of LAR agreements would
be paid administrative expenses at the rate of 2 percent of the total compensation payable
in their areas. The cost estimates would be adjusted annually based on the actual inflation
rate for the past year. Physical contingencies of 10 percent of the cost estimates have also
been budgeted for. SMSC would be responsible for the provision of adequate funds to
carry out RAP implementation and for financing cost overruns, if any.
Implementation of Land Acquisition and Resettlement
20.      The construction of the conveyor and the pumping stations would be carried out
in phases. There would be 13 separate contracts with separate "startup" dates of
construction ranging from April 1995 to November 1998. The land acquisition and
resettlement activities (specified in detail in the RAP) on any given contract should be
completed at least one month before the proposed date of start of construction on that
contract. SMSC would certify before the start of any given contract that the LAR
activities on that contract have been completed. The proposed "startup" and completion
dates for the various contracts are given in Table 2. The RAP also provides a generic
schedule for completion of all land acquisition and resettlement activities in any given
contract. Based on this, a "Generic Implementation Schedule" has been prepared which
can be used to arrive at the specific dates of completion of the various land acquisition
and resettlement activities in any contract by providing the proposed start up date for
resettlement activities.



-81-                            ANNEX8
Table 2: LAND ACQUISITION AND RESETTLEMENT (LAR) IMPLEMENTATION-
STARTUP AND COMPLETION DATES
Contract  Description                        Start LAR    End LAR       Start construction
1.1    Puxi interceptor pipeline 1          05/97        04/98             05/98
1.2    Puxi interceptor pipeline 2          05/97        04/98             05/98
2.1    Huangpu siphon                       11/94         10/95            11/95
2.2    Conveyor SI -S3                      08/95         07/96            08/96
2.3    Conveyor S6-S3                       04/95         03/96            04/96
2.4    Conveyor S6-S4                       01/96         12/96            01/97
2.5    Conveyor S4-S5                       06/95         05/95            06/96
2.6    Conveyor S5-M6                       05/95         04/96            05/96
2.7    Conveyor M6-M8                       06/95         05/96            06/96
2.8    Conveyor M8-M10                      01/96         12/96            01/97
2.9    Conveyor MIO-M12                     05/96         04/97            05/97
3.1    Southern line Nr A Pumping Station   06/95         05/96            06/96
3.2    Southern line Nr B Pumping Station   01/96         12/96            01/97
3.3    Middle line Nr 2 Pumping Station     08/95         07/96            08/96
3.4    Outfall pumping station              06/95         05/96            06/96
4.0    Wastewater treatment plant           05/95         04/96            05/96
7.0    Pudong link and connections          01/97         12/97            01/98
Participation and Consultations
21.    The LAR program  has been designed with the active involvement of affected
persons and their representatives. The affected persons were informed about the project
at the very early stages through meetings in the affected areas. The affected persons and
their representatives participated in the census surveys carried out by SMEDI, SMSC and
SASS. A Resettlement Information Booklet (RIB) would be given to each affected
household after the project is approved by the Bank. The RIB would contain information
regarding the project and its resettlement aspects and also information on the specific
entitlements of each affected household. SMSC has also located a field office, easily
accessible to the affected persons, within the affected area, in order to provide
information to affected persons and resolve their grievances. The affected persons have
participated in/would participate in the following activities:
(a)    Select specific  resettlement locations for residential sites  and  for
enterprises;
(b)    construct their own houses (depending on their option);
(c)    transfer their assets to the new houses;



- 82 -                    ANNEX8
(d)   select enterprises for jobs;
(e)   exercise the option of self-employment; and
(f)   Manage implementation of the LAR program through their village,
township representatives.
Redressal of Grievances and the appeals process
22.  In order to ensure that the affected people have avenues for redressing their
grievances, detailed procedures for redressal of grievances have been established. The
procedure consists of four stages: (a) in the first stage the affected person can lodge a
grievance with the local LAB, SHLAB, SMSC or the Pudong LAB or District LAB (in
Puxi). The local (township) LABAs should respond to the request in 15 days; (b) in case
the person is not satisfied, he/she can appeal to PLEBE or the District LABAs within one
month from the date of response of the LAB; (c) if the affected person is still not
satisfied, an appeal can be made to the SHLAB of SMG for redressing of grievance; (d) if
the affected person is still dissatisfied with the response, an appeal can be lodged with the
People's Court, in accordance with the "Civil Procedure Act," within 15 days of
receiving the decision from CLIMB. For grievances related to job provision, the
respective labor bureau at the various levels would be the appropriate authorities. The
grievance could be for any aspect of the LAR program including rates of compensation.
Grievance mechanisms would be widely publicized among the affected persons through
the RIB.
Monitoring and Evaluation
23.  In order to ensure that the implementation of the LAR program would be carried
out in accordance with the provisions of the RAP, detailed monitoring and evaluation,
both internal and external would be carried out, both during and after implementation of
the project.
24.   Internal Monitoring. SMSC would be responsible for internal monitoring of the
LAR program. Monitoring would be carried out based on the provisions of the RAP.
The main indicators to be monitored are, payment of compensation, allotment of housing
in accordance with the options exercised, provision of jobs, restoration of public
facilities, payment of pension, payment of self-employment subsidy, restoration of
production activities of enterprises. The internal monitoring reports would be prepared
every three months. Detailed monitoring formats have been agreed and are provided as
an annex to the RAP. The internal monitoring report would be submitted to the World
Bank quarterly, starting April 30, 1996. The report would be discussed in the next
meeting of RCG and detailed follow-up measures would be recommended by RCG.
25.   External Monitoring. The Legal Economic, and Social Consultancy Center of
SASS has been contracted to conduct independent, external monitoring and evaluation of
the LAR program. In addition to verifying the results of the internal monitoring reports,



- 83 -                    ANNEX8
SASS would monitor the following qualitative indicators: (a) is the compensation paid
on time and is it adequate; (b) verify the linkage of land acquisition and resettlement;
(c) timely provision of appropriate jobs; (d) adequate restoration of civic infrastructure;
(e) relocation of enterprises in accordance with the policy provisions contained in the
RAP; (f) provision of alternative housing in accordance with the option exercised and in a
timely manner; (g) measure the level of satisfaction among the affected persons;
(h) survey the standards of living after relocation. In order to measure the standards of
living after resettlement, SASS would conduct another socioeconomic survey of the
resettled persons one year after project completion.
26.   The methodology for carrying out external monitoring and evaluation has been
described in the RAP. SASS would maintain a data base with files on each affected
household, which would be updated based on information collected in successive rounds
of monitoring. The Monitoring and Evaluation Report would be prepared by SASS every
three months, starting end-June 1996 until project completion. The report would be
discussed in the next meeting of RCG and specific follow-up measures would be initiated
by RCG. The report would review the adequacy of implementation measures and report
on the perceptions of the affected persons. It would also identify critical issues in
implementation and make recommendations to improve overall effectiveness of the
resettlement program. The report would also report progress of follow-up initiated by
SMSC/RCG on the recommendations of the previous monitoring reports.



-84 -                      ANNEX9
ANNEX 9: ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT
Introduction
1.    Shanghai is located in the Changiiang (Yangtze River) delta plain and is the largest
and most heavily industrialized urban agglomeration in China. Historically, discharges of
municipal and industrial wastewater from Shanghai (in excess of 4.8 Mm3/d in 1995) have
been to the Changjiang and to the middle and lower reaches of the Huangpu River (a
tributary of the Changjiang) and its tributaries. As a result the latter have become
increasingly polluted. In particular, discharges to Suzhou Creek, a tributary of the lower
Huangpu, caused severe degrees of deoxygenation, leading to severe odor problems and
potential health risk; the pollution of Suzhou Creek was addressed as a priority through the
Bank-supported Shanghai Sewerage Project-SSPI (Loan 2794/Credit 1 779-CHA)
coommencing in 1987.
2.    The Huangpu River serves as the primary source of potable water for Greater
Shanghai, and the wastewater discharges threaten the sustainability of the Huangpu water
resource in this respect. To improve the reliability of the quality of the drinking water
supply the main water supply intake has been relocated further upstream on two occasions,
to Linjiang in 1987 and to Da Qiao as part of the Shanghai Environment Project-SEP
(Loan 371 1-CHA), currently under implementation.
3.    In order to address these concerns the project is focused on sustaining water quality
in the Huangpu and the Changjiang based on the following:
(a)   a phased program of provision of sewerage facilities to divert municipal and
industrial wastewater out of the Huangpu catchment for ultimate discharge
to the Changjiang, of which the Huangpu is a tributary; and
(b)   provision of wastewater treatment facilities as necessary to avoid
deterioration of water quality in the Changjiang.
4.    Technical support and training would comprise financial and policy initiatives,
planning, institutional and management reforms, including institutional measures to support
management and operational capacity-building of the Shanghai Municipal Sewerage
Company, Ltd. (SMSC).



- 85 -                     ANNEX9
Administrative and Institutional Framework
5.    The State Environmental Protection Committee (SEPC) is the highest level of
authority on environmental policy and includes the State Council and heads of all relevant
ministries and agencies. The National Environmental Protection Agency (NEPA) functions
as the secretariat of SEPC and is responsible for all aspects of environmental policy,
although it shares authority with other agencies for certain natural resources. NEPA sets
overall policies and regulations governing the provincial and municipal environmental
protection bureaus (EPBs), including standards for both environmental quality and for
polluting discharges. Implementation of environmental policy is through the municipal and
provincial EPBs, who are empowered to develop and apply standards more rigorous than
the National Standards specified by NEPA if these are required by the local environmental
conditions.
Project Description
6.    The proposed project components comprise:
(a)   Sewerage and Sanitation Improvements. Investments in trunk conveyors
and link sewers (about 50 kin) and secondary sewers, serving part of Puxi
(21.7 km2), Pudong (155.8 km ) and Wujing and Minhang (92.1 kmn), with
a supporting program of wastewater flow management and connection and
collection for domestic, industrial and enterprise systems. Improvements in
storm water drainage, nightsoil and septic tank systems management;
(b)   Treatment and Disposal Systems. Pretreatment of wastewater, supported
by the construction of an appropriate tunneled marine outfall at Bailonggang
for an initial flow capacity of 1.7 Mm3/d, ensuring appropriate arrangements
for an ultimate system discharge capacity of about 5.0 Mm3/d;
(c)   Institutional Development and Training. Support and strengthen project
management, wastewater organizational, financial and urban utility
operations and management systems; wastewater system rehabilitation,
monitoring technology and data management; pollution control; and
training, feasibility studies and future project preparation.
7.    Of these components only (a) and (b) involve physical works and are therefore
covered by the EA studies.
Baseline Data
8.    Shanghai is the largest and most heavily industrialized conurbation in China,
producing about 11 percent of national industrial output. Shanghai Municipality, located in
the Changjiang delta plain, occupies an area of 6,200 kmr, of which 300 km2 are classified
as urban. The Shanghai Municipality area (population 7.5 million in the 12 districts in



- 86 -                     ANNEX9
Shanghai City and a further 6 million in the adjacent five counties) is bordered to the north
by Jiangsu Province and to the east by Zhejiang Province.
9.    The City lies in a convergence zone of cold, dry and warm, humid air masses.
Rainfall patterns are influenced both by monsoons and temperate cyclones. There are well-
defined seasons with average monthly temperatures ranging from 3.4C in January to
27.2C in August. Annual average rainfall is 1,148 mm with a pronounced rainy season
from June to September. The prevailing wind is northwesterly in winter and southeasterly
in summer.
10.   The Changjiang is the longest and largest river in China and the fourth largest in the
world in terms of flow. The river rises on the border with Tibet, and its total catchment area
of 1.8 million km2 covers approximately 19 percent of the total land area of China. It
traverses a total of approximately 6,300 river km before discharging to the East China Sea
to the east of Shanghai. The mean net downstream flow in the Changjiang at its most
downstream gauging station at Datong (550 km upstream of the confluence with the
Huangpu) is approximately 30,000 m3/s, with typical dry season flows in the range of
10,000 to 15,000 m3/s and wet season flows in excess of 50,000 m3/s. On an annual
average basis the tidal inflow at the river mouth could be approximately 266,000 m3/s,
almost nine times the average river flow. The inflow on a spring tide could be of the order
3
of 5 billion m3.
11.   The river Huangpu flows through the Shanghai municipal area, flowing into the
Changjiang at Wusongkou some 18 km to the north of the city. Flows in the Huangpu are
measured at the gauging station at Mishidu, about 70 km upstream of the confluence with
the Changjiang. The river is tidal at Mishidu and the mean net downstream flow is
approximately 340 m3/s, about 1 percent of that in the Changjiang. Under extreme
conditions of low natural flow in the Huangpu and peak tidal influence from the
Changjiang, there can be net upward flows at Mishidu for periods of up to several days.
12.   Water quality in the Changjiang upstream of the confluence with the Huangpu is
generally good, although poorer at Bailonggang, which is downstream of the Huangpu
confluence and is also affected by existing wastewater discharges at the shoreline. The
Changjiang carries very substantial quantities of silt, with suspended solids concentrations
exceeding 500 mg/I on average and annual silt loads of the order of 500 million tons. In the
estuary the silt is mainly fine sand and clay, which has a strong adsorption capacity for a
range of pollutants, particularly heavy metals.
13.   All sources of the Huangpu are generally of good quality, but water quality in the
Huangpu declines as it traverses the Shanghai Municipality area as a result of discharges of
domestic and industrial wastewater and runoff from agricultural areas. Water quality
problems are exacerbated under conditions of low natural flow in the Huangpu, when the
tidal influence of the Changjiang causes extensive upstream movement of pollution from
the lower reaches of the river.



- 87 -                          ANNEX9
14.    The quality of the Changjiang, in particular the concentrations of nutrients nitrogen
and phosphorus, is also important in that it is a major source of water entering Hangzhou
Bay, which is experiencing problems of Red Tides. The Changjiang receives numerous
discharges of urban and industrial wastewater and extensive drainage from agricultural
areas. As a result concentrations of nitrogen and phosphorus are high, particularly during
the dry season when concentrations are of the order of 0.5 mg/l and 0.17 mg/l on average
respectively, and the Changjiang accounts for some 92 percent of the nutrient loads entering
Hangzhou Bay.
15.    The loads are dominated by agriculture (fertilizer runoff) in the case of nitrogen and
animal wastes in the case of phosphorus. Significant reductions in these loads would
require comprehensive agricultural waste and fertilizer management on a catchment-wide
basis.  Typical water quality data for the lower Huangpu at Yangshupu, the most
downstream water treatment plant intake, and the Changjiang at Xuliujing, upstream of the
confluence with the Huangpu, and at Bailonggang are given in Table 1 .
Table 1: WATER QUALITY IN THE CHANGJIANG AND HUANGPU
Parameter                          Concentration (mg/l except salinity)
Changjiang Xuliujing   |    Changjiang Bailonggang       Huangpu
Dry Season    Wet Season     Dry Season      Wet Season     Yangshupu
DO           11.7           7.6           11.1            7.1             2.1
BOD           1.6            1.2            1.5            1.2             6.5
COD          14.7           13.7           15.3           13.5            44.4
Ss         241            436            842            404             108
Salinity (%)     0.011          0.011          0.194          0.011
Ammonia - N       0.46          0.1            0.7            0.05            2.78
Phosphorus       0.17          0.01           0.19          <0.01            0.27
Phenol         0.005          0.002         0.004          0.002           0.018
Cu           0.023          0.044          0.051          0.036           0.023
Zn           0.102          0.11           0.13           0.09            0.08
Pb           0.013          0.021          0.023          0.023           0.013
Cd           0.0004         0.0008         0.0003         0.0011          0.0004
Hg           0.0004         0.0005         0.0004         0.0002          0.0004
Cr           0.024          0.031          0.038          0.024           0.033
As           0.005          0.007          0.012          0.007           0.011
Water Quality and Discharge Standards
16.    Two categories of national water quality standard are appropriate in respect of water
quality in the Changjiang and the Huangpu reflecting their various beneficial uses,
including a source of potable water for Shanghai. These categories are the Environmental
Quality Standard for Surface Waters (GB 3838-88) and the Sanitary Standard for Drinking
Water (GB 5749-85). In addition, there is a Shanghai Municipality Environmental Quality
Standard for Surface Water covering six water quality classes. The National Standard GB



- 88 -                            ANNEX9
3838-88 defines water quality standards applicable to five different classes of surface water,
the requirements for which are given in Table 2. Water to be abstracted for potable supply
should meet at least the Class III standard.
Table 2: ENVIRONMENTAL QUALITY STANDARDS FOR SURFACE WATERS (GB 3838-88)
(Concentration in mg/I, except pH)
Constituent                       Surface Water Classification Maximum Concentration
Class I       Class II      Class III       Class IV      Class V
pH (pH units)               6.5 - 8.5     6.5 - 8.5      6.5 - 8.5       6.5 - 8.5    6.0 - 9.0
Hardness                      <450            450            450             500         550
Sulfate                       <250            250            250             250         250
Chloride                      <250            250            250             250         250
Iron                           <0.3           0.3             0.5            0.5          1.0
Manganese                      <0.1           0.1             0.1            0.5          1.0
Copper                        <0.01      1.0 (0.01)     1.0 (0.01)           1.0          1.0
Zinc                           0.05            1.0            1.0            2.0          2.0
Nitrate Nitrogen               <10             10             20              20          25
Nitrite Nitrogen               0.06           0.1            0.15             1.0         1.0
Un-ionized Ammonia             0.02          0.02            0.02            0.2         0.2
Kjeldahl Nitrogen               0.5           0.5               1              2           2
Total Phosphorus               0.02     0.1 [0.025]     0.1 [0.05]           0.2         0.2
Permanganate Value                2             4              6               8          10
Dissolved Oxygen          >90% Sat             >6             >5              >3          >2
COD                            <15            <15              15             20          25
BOD                             <3              3              4               6          10
Fluoride                       <1.0           1.0             1.0            1.5          1.5
Selenium                      <0.01          0.01            0.01           0.02        0.02
Arsenic                        0.05          0.05            0.05            0.1          0.1
Mercury                     0.00005       0.00005         0.0001           0.001       0.001
Cadmium                       0.001        0.0005           0.005          0.005        0.01
Hexavalent Chromium            0.01          0.05            0.05           0.05         0.1
Lead                           0.01          0.05            0.05           0.05         0.1
Cyanide                       0.005    0.05 (0.005)    0.2 (0.005)           0.2         0.2
Phenols                       0.002         0.002           0.005           0.01         0.1
Oil                            0.05          0.05            0.05            0.5          1.0
Anionic Surfactant             <0.2           0.2             0.2            0.3          0.3
Note:   Class I   =  Very clean waters, for natural protection.
Class II   =   Water used for drinking water source.
Class III  =   Water can be used for drinking water source after some treatmnent.
Class IV   =   Water can be used for recreational use, boating, fishing and as a water source for
industrial water supply.
Class V   =   Water suitable for cooling water only in industry and can be used for irrigation.
Figures in () refer to standards for fisheries use.
Figures in [] refer to standards for lakes or reservoirs.
17.    The longer-term water quality objectives for the lower Huangpu are Class III from
Mishidu to Shanghai City and Class IV from Shanghai City downstream. Water quality
currently frequently fails to comply with these standards. The beneficial uses of the
Changjiang in the region of the proposed discharge of wastewater from Shanghai at
Bailonggang are for navigation, drainage and for passage of migratory fish. There are



- 89 -                            ANNEX9
National standards for disposal of wastewater to fresh water and marine environments, but
none specifically for discharges to estuaries. The standards for discharges to fresh water are
given in Table 3, from which it is apparent that the standards are totally dependent upon the
beneficial use of the receiving watercourse and are totally concentration based, being
independent of the flow of either the wastewater discharge or the receiving watercourse.
The standard most appropriate to a discharge to the Changjiang is the Class II discharge
standard.
Table 3: STANDARDS FOR DISCHARGE TO FRESH WATER (GB 8978-88)
Class       I            I             I              11              I       III
Existing                                     New and
New outfall     outfall     New outfall      Existing     Existing outfall
No.    Pollutant      (mg/])        (mgAI)         (mg/l)      outfall (mg/I)     (mg/i)
I   pH                6-9          6-9            6-9            6-9La            6-9
2    Color             50           80             80             100              -
3    SS                70           100            200           250/2            400
4    BOD               30           60             60             80             300l/
5    CODc,            100           150            150            200            500L
6    Petroleum         10            15            10             20               30
7    Grease/oil        20           30             20             40              100
8    Phenol           0.5           1.0            0.5            1.0             2.0
9    CN-              0.5           0.5            0.5            0.5              1.0
10   S2                1.0           1.0            1.0            2.0             2.0
11   NH4 -N            15            25             25             40               -
12   F                 10            15             10             15               -
-  -         -            2OLd            3OLd              -
13   PO4L- e           0.5           1.0            1.0            2.0              -
14   CH2O              1.0           2.0           2.0             3.0              -
15   Aniline           1.0           2.0           2.0             3.0             5.0
16   Nitro-benz        2.0           3.0           3.0             5.0             5.0
17   LAS                5            10             10             15              20
18   Cu                0.5           0.5            1.0            1.0             2.0
19   Zn                2.0           2.0           4.0             5.0             5.0
20   Mn                2.0           5.0           2.0Lf          5.0/f            5.0
As               0.5           0.5            0.5            0.5             0.5
Hg               0.05         0.05           0.05           0.05             0.05
Cr (Cr VI)     1.5 (0.5)     1.5 (0.5)      1.5 (0.5)      1.5 (0.5)       1.5 (0.5)
Pb               1.0           1.0            1.0            1.0             1.0
Ni               1.0           1.0            1.0            1.0             1.0
Cd               0.1           0.1            0.1            0.1             0.1
La  The pH range of the Class 11 standard is extended to 6-9.5 for existing thermal power plants and glued
fiber industry.
/b  The standard is 300 mg/l for fertilizer industries.
L   For paper mill, feather, food, fur washing, brewing, fermentation, pharmaceuticals, meat products and
fiber board industries etc. that discharge waste water to a domestic sewer system with secondary treatment
the concentrations of BOD and CODc, may be increased to 600 mg/l and 1,000 mg/l respectively
Ld  The standard for low F areas.
Za  The standard for reservoirs and closed water areas.
/f  For new acid industries the standard is 5 mg/I, for existing 7.5 mg/I.
Treatment Process Selection
18.    The critical parwmeters of the discharge standards in terms of treatment process
selection are biological oxygen demand (BOD), chemical oxygen demand (COD),



-90 -                      ANNEX9
suspended solids and ammonia. Although not specifically included in the standards, the
concentration of phosphorus is also of interest in terms of the relative significance of the
phosphorus load of the Shanghai wastewater in terms of the load of the Changjiang. The
latter is important in connection with the nutrient status of Hangzhou Bay.
19.   The concentrations of these paramneters in the ultimate discharge at Bailonggang
would depend upon water consumption and upon the type of industry in the areas of
Shanghai served by the sewerage system, in particular the Pudong area. However, the
composition of the discharge at the existing outfall constructed as part of the First Shanghai
Sewerage Project (SSPI) is reasonably representative of the prospective discharge at
Bailonggang in the short term, given the relative proportions of domestic and industrial
wastewater. This is given in Table 4.
Table 4: COMPOSITION OF SSPI WASTEWATER DISCHARGE
Pollutant                       Concentration (mg/i)
BOD                                    85
COD                                   199
SS                                   130
Ammonia - N                              22.7
Phosphate - P                             1.0
Total Phosphorus                           3.9
Cd                                  0.008
Cr                                   0.03
Cu                                   0.08
Pb                                   0.11
Zn                                   0.37
20.   It is apparent from Table 4 that the Shanghai wastewater is weak, reflecting the high
water consumption in both the domestic and industrial sectors. The untreated wastewater
would comply with the ammonia and suspended solids standards and would exceed the
standards for BOD and COD, as listed in Table 3, on average by about 40 percent and
30 percent respectively. Concentrations of the other parameters specified in the standard,
such as toxic metals are substantially lower than the standard limits.
21.   The impact of the initial wastewater discharge of 1,700,000 m3/d without treatment
on water quality in the Changjiang at Bailonggang under winter low flow and summer
conditions has been investigated by means of mathematical modeling. Compliance with the
Class III fresh water quality standard is achieved at dilutions of the Second Shanghai
Sewerage Project (SSPII) wastewater by a factor of approximately 50. The mathematical
modeling studies predicted that the impact of the discharge would be minimal, with the area
of the immediate mixing zone in which such a level of dilution were not achieved being



- 91-                      ANNEX9
small, between 0.5 and 3.2 km2, depending upon the river flow and the tidal conditions.
Moreover, it was also calculated that the probability of the wastewater discharge plume
reaching the surface was less than 5 percent and that the plume would never reach the
shoreline. Thus a passage for fish migration would be preserved. The modeling also
indicated that the impact of the ultimate discharge of 5,000,000 m3/d via three outfalls
would also be small.
22.  It should be noted also that the freshwater quality standards refer to un-ionized
ammonia, which under the conditions in the Changjiang would account for about 1 percent
of the total ammonia concentration. On this basis the concentration of un-ionized ammonia
would be a maximum of only about 0.01 mg/l and therefore substantially within the Class
III standard.
23.  In view of the minimal impact of the immediate term discharge upon water quality
in the Changjiang, due largely to the very high flows and dilution capacity of the
Changjiang, and the negative impact of wastewater treatment sludge disposal, it is proposed
to adopt the following approach to discharge standards, and therefore the degree of
wastewater treatment required for compliance:
(a)   pollutants that are toxic or accumulative would be strictly controlled
immediately, principally at source, and the concentration based standards
would continue be met; and
(b)   degradable pollutants such as BOD, COD and ammonia would be controlled
on a total load basis; the concentration based standards would be imposed
only in the longer term (2020) and in the intermediate term there would be
treatment to reduce the pollution loads only when, without such a reduction,
they would exceed that of the ultimate flow of 5,000,000 m 3/d at the Class II
standard.
24.   The growth in loads of BOD, COD and ammonia in the SSPII catchment area are
shown in Table 5. The growth in BOD and COD loads occurs as a result not only of
population growth and industrial development but also because of the progressive phasing
out of the night soil and septic tank systems in favor of direct discharge to sewer systems.
25.   On this basis it is proposed to provide preliminary treatment (screening and grit
removal) only in the immediate term. Based on the data in Table 5, it is expected that
treatrnent of the wastewater discharge at Bailonggang would not become necessary to
comply with BOD load requirements until about 2015.



-92 -                      ANNEX9
Table 5: SSPII POLLUTioN LoADs
Load (t/d)
Pollutant          2000       2010      2020         2020 Class II
BOD                169        189       342             300
COD                487        550       986             750
NH3-N               34         39        70             125
Total Phosphorus     6          7        13
26.   However, as referred to above the Changjiang is a major source of nutrints
discharged to Hangzhou Bay, indicating a need for control of nutrients throughout the
catchment. Accordingly, as a contribution to reducing the phosphorus load in the
Changjiang (albeit that the load from Shanghai represents only about 3 percent of this load)
it is proposed to introduce treatment in the form of chemically assisted primary treatment,
using iron salts, in 2005, with the immediate objective of reducing the load of phosphorus
discharged from Shanghai to a limit of 18 tons/day.
27.   The treatment proposed would sustain the average total phosphorus load from
Shanghai as a whole at less than the predicted year 2000 levels (18 tons/day) and in addition
would be sufficient to effect the necessary reduction in BOD and COD to comply with the
concentration based standards when required. To optimize pretreatrnent process efficiency,
it is proposed to treat only a proportion of the wastewater flow, but to achieve a very high
level of phosphorus removal, thereby obtaining the required pollution load reduction. The
first stage of treatrnent will need to be operational by the year 2005 and would treat a flow
of about 0.86 Mmn3/d, with extensions to increase treatment capacity to 1.7 Mm3/d in 2010
and 2.7 Mm3/d in 2015.
28.   Details of this approach to compliance with wastewater discharge standards have
been submitted to and discussed with NEPA and have been agreed.
Consideration of Alternatives
29.   Alternatives were considered in terms of the routing of the main interceptor sewers,
the treatment process to be provided to comply ultimately with the discharge standard and
the type of outfall construction. The alternatives to the selected sewer routes were rejected
on grounds of greater cost, increased construction difficulties of construction and greater
disruption. Biological treatment as an alternative to chemically assisted primary treatment
was rejected on the basis of greater cost, land area requirements and energy consumption.
30.   The sludge generated by the wastewater treatment process proposed would contain
substantial proportions of iron, as a result of residues from chemical treatment.



- 93 -                    ANNEX9
Consequently, the disposal options are expected to be limited. It is proposed that disposal
would be in an engineered landfill site equipped with suitable environmental control
facilities and located near the wastewater treatment plant. Incineration was rejected in view
of the probable insufficient calorific value of the sludge and there is likely to be insufficient
demand for large scale use in agriculture to be viable.
31.   Alternatives considered for the wastewater discharge to the Changjiang were
immersed tube and overhanging bridge structures. Each was rejected on grounds of cost
and/or interference with navigation.
Impacts and Mitigation
32.   The environmental impact of SSPII is on balance substantially positive.  In
particular there would be a substantial diversion of pollution load from the Huangpu to the
Changjiang, where the assimilation capacity is very considerable greater. The current and
projected future BOD loads from Shanghai and their disposal routes are shown in Table 6.
It may be seen that, although the total BOD load from Shanghai as a whole increases from
572 t/d to 712 t/d between 1995 and 2015, the wastewater BOD load discharged to the
Huangpu declines from 116 to 14 t/d and would be small in relation to that from rural
drainage. Reductions in the nutrient loads arising from rural drainage would require
improvements in the used of agricultural fertilizer. In addition the load to the Changjiang
from the southern outfall sewer would be discharged 1.6 km offshore, removing the
pollution of the coastal water currently occurring as a result of the present discharge at the
shoreline.
Table 6: SHANGHAI WASTEWATER POLLUTION LOADS AND DIsPOsAL ROUTES
Pollutant            Loads (t/d)
1995    2005       2015
Total Shanghai wastewater
BOD         572      612       712
COD        1668    1783        2069
Ammonia - N    223      238        276
Wastewater to Huangpu
BOD         116      34         14
COD         639      185       <20
Ammonia - N     47       10        <1
Rural Drainage to Huangpu
BOD         51       59         83
COD         127      148       208
Ammonia-N      118      127        150



- 94 -                     ANNEX9
33.   The principal potential negative environmental impacts are as follows:
(a)   Water Quality: impact of the wastewater discharge on the water quality in
the Changjiang;
Outcome: As discussed above the potential impact of the discharge
upon water quality in the Changjiang is minimal, with deterioration
of water quality only in the immediate mixing zone of area 0.5 to
3.2 km2;
(b)   Sludge Disposal: impact of disposal of any sludge generated by wastewater
treatment;
Outcome: The sludge disposal route proposed, in view of the
chemical treatment residues in the sludge, would be based on
dewatering and disposal at a dedicated engineered landfill close to
the treatment plant site.
(c)   Spoil Disposal: impact of disposal of construction spoil (excavation and
tunneling);
Outcome: Quantities of excavation and tunneling spoil generated
by the project would probably be in the order of 1.3 Mm3. A
detailed spoil disposal plan would be prepared. However, such spoil
is generally regarded in Shanghai as a resource rather than a waste
material in view of the large demands in other major projects under
construction. It is expected that all spoil from SSPII would be used
either in the construction of the proposed Outer Ring Road or in land
reclamation projects. Where contaminated spoil is generated, as a
result of excavation in industrial areas, disposal would be under
controlled conditions in suitable landfill sites.
(d)   Land Acquisition and Resettlement. Land acquisition and resettlement
would be necessary in respect of the construction of trunk sewers and the
treatment plant. There would also be enforced land use changes.
Outcome:  Issues and excepted outcomes in relation to land
acquisition and resettlement are discussed in detail in Annex 8.
34.   In addition there would be a number of less significant impacts as described below.
(a)   Construction Impacts. There would be a number of impacts relating to
construction activities, such as noise, traffic disruption and temporary
problems of access. Working practices would be controlled to minimize
these impacts.



- 95 -                           ANNEX9
(b)    Cultural and Historical Sites. No known cultural or historical site would
be crossed by the route of the trunk sewers or the related works proposed in
the project. However, in the event that during excavation archeological
remains are discovered, it is proposed to halt work temporarily while
appropriate specialists assess the significance of the findings.
(c)    Terrestrial Environment. There are limited natural or even semi-natural
habitats along the routes of the trunk sewers or at the treatment plant site.
Ecological impact of the project construction would be slight.
A summary of the potential impacts and the proposed mitigation measures is given in Table
7 below.
Table 7: SUMMARY OF ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS AND
PROPOSED MITIGATION MEASURES
Item            Potential impacts           Mitigation measures         Action institution
Residences      Resettlement of residents  Resettlement program prepared    SMSC
along the proposed sewer  Local policies and regulations    SMSC/Township
route                     provide for: (I) compensation; (2)    govermment
equal or better housing
Industrial/     Economic losses           Compensation and resettlement     SMSC
commercial                                according to national and local
building                                  regulations
Temporary loss during the    Work out harvest plans         SMSC
borrowing period          The State regulations conceming   SMSC/Township
compensation                     government
Loss of soil fertility &  Land cleared and original topsoil  Contractor/original
Farmland        dumped with debris        replaced, fertilizer application to  land users
land when retumed
Damage to irrigation &    Temporary water channel          Contractor/SMSC
drainage system           Transfer of water by pumps        Contractor/SMSC
Field Tracks              Provision of temporary access    Contractor/SMSC
Highway/ roads  Affecting traffic         Building temporary road          Contractor/SMSC
Bridges        Affecting traffic          Modify routing alignment or build    SMSC/Township
temporary bridge                 government
Diversions                       SMSC/Inland
Rivers          Temporary disruption                                       navigation authority
Putting waming signs at night    Contractor/SMSC
Effluent not used for fishing pond    Contractor/village
Effluent from   Polluting rivers and channels                              & town government
construction                              Providing sedimentation tanks     Contractor/SMSC
sites           Lowering water level of   Connecting mains with water supply  SMSC/village &
wells                     system or transferring water with    town government
vehicles
River/channels  Flooding                  Transferring water or pumping away  Contractor/SMSC



- 96 -                          ANNEX 9
Item           Potential impacts           Mitigation measures       Action institution
Strict control of pollutants of  SMSC/Municipal
Category I; Total Load Control  Environmental
Polluting water environment  Policy to control pollutants of  Protection Bureau
Category II                    (EPB)
Diffuser section located beyond  SMSC
Pollution dispersion impact  -5 m contour, alignment trend 550,
risers set on diffuser section with
multiple ports
Damaging diffusers by    Warning signs                   SMSC/Maritime
Changjiang     shipping                                                  Safety & Superin-
estuary                                                                 tendent Bureau
Good maintenance to keep outlet    SMSC
Emergency outlets        pumps and high tank well
Locating emergency outlets beyond   SMSC
-2 m bathometric contour
Riverbed scour or silting that Making arrangements in structural   SMSC
threatens diffusers      design stage
Regular sounding of riverbed    SMSC
Permanent loss of farmland   Alternative jobs for farmers  SMSC
A large number of        Contractors to employ workers from   SMSC
Society        construction workers     locality
SMSC to provide services       SMSC
Noise          Disturbance during        No construction at night within 200   Contractor/SMSC
construction phase       m from residential areas
Preparation of spoil disposal plan  Contractor/SMSC
Used for raising ground base of new
buildings or backfill for other  SMSC/Shanghai
Disposal of residual spoil    construction if necessary  Spoil Management
Spoil Disposal                           Spoil not disposed on farmland or to  Authority
fill river/channel/pond etc.
Transport of residual spoil   Transport by barges where possible   Contractor/SMSC
_____________                        or by county highway authorities
Immediate transport of spoil   Contractor/SMSC
Cover or water sprays and transport  Contractor/SMSC
in wet condition to avoid windblown
dust
Dust           Dust caused by spoil      Cleaning of wheels of vehicles  Contractor/SMSC
transporting spoil
Spoil-transport vehicles not to be  Contractor/SMSC
overloaded
Spoil for road backfill to be covered  Contractor/SMSC
with asphalt
Domestic waste  Environmental sanitation  Prompt removal of waste        SMSC/Sanitation
problems                                                 Departnent
Vegetation     Coverage area reduced     Roadside tree and grass planting  Villages & town
program                         goverrnent.
Electricity &  Damage                    Contact related departments and  SMSC
communication                            routing of sewers away from major
lines                                   services
Cultural relics   Not found along the route    Stop construction and report to  Contractor/SMSC
& Historic sites                         department concerned if found



- 97 -                          ANNEX9
Item           Potential impacts           Mitigation measures       Action institution
Graves         Removing                  Inform early and respect local  SMSC/Town &
custom                         village govermment
Structures out-  Collapse or damage due to    Careful survey and construction  SMSC
side demolition  construction work       Rebuilding
area                                     Repairing in time
Sewage flooding back to    improve maintenance and repair to   SMSC
System        inland waters due to       keep system in good condition
operation      interuptions to system    Standby power supply system to  SMSC
operation                prevent impacts from power
interruption
Heavy metal impacts on   Enforce sewer-use standards and  SMSC/Municipal
farmland                 restrict application rates      EPB
Explosion by CH4 gas     Ventilation at landfill sites   SMSC/MNunicipal
EPB
Sludge disposal  Contribution to green house  Gas recovery and flaring/reuse  SMSC/Municipal
gas generation                                           EPB
Leachate from landfill site    Collection and treatment of leachate  SMSC/Municipal
EPB
Sewer repair &   H2S poisoning           Strengthening safety education  SMSC
maintenance
Toxic and      Contaminated soil excavated  Report to local EPB and ensure  Contractor/SMSC
hazardous      in industrial areas       disposal under controlled conditions
materials                                at appropriate landfill site



-98 -                                                ANNEX 10
ANNEX 10: IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
Activity                                1995            1996            1997           1998            1999            2000            2001
SEWERAGE & SANffATION T- T___T_____
IMPROVEMENTS                                          
Advanced Works
Design and Documentation
Tender Procedure
Construction                             _       H       HI_
Haangpu Siphon                                                     E      __
Design and Documentation
Tender Procedure
Construction                                                     *f                 l  
astewater Culverts
Desipn and Docutmentation
Tender Procedure
Construction                          II_
Pusmp Station
Design and Documentation
TeOnd5er cProOcedurc                                      _         IIl                              
Construction** **                                                           fl M       I
Link Sewers
Design and Documentation
Tender ProcedureF
Construction                        I          I
T/Works & Misceltaneous Works
Design and Documentation                      
Tender Procedure
Construction
Material Supply I
Design and Documentation
Tender Procedure
Supply
WASTEWATER TREATMENT i
& DISPOSAL                                    |                                           j|              |  
Wastewater Treatment Works
Design and Documentation
Tender Procedure
Construction
utfall Pumping Station
Design and Documentation
Tender Procedure
Construction
Outfall VWorks
Design and Documentation
Tender Procedure
Construction                                                        !
Design and Documentation            |      _E                      !    *                              i UIE  M
Tender Procedure
Construction
Equipment
rechnical Assistance
Training                                                            E                EEI    hhhEE hEI



-99 -                       ANNEX II
ANNEX 11: PROPOSED MONITORING INDICATORS
The effectiveness of project implementation in terms of solving the environmental problems
of Shanghai at which the project is targeted will be measured by reference to a number of
key monitoring indicators. The specific project objectives and the associated monitoring
indicators are listed below.
Objective                       Monitoring indicator
1.    Wastewater Management
(a)    System Utilization
*     Increase of SMSC customer base;
*     Increase in number of system connections;
*     Increasing wastewater flow and pollution load carried in SSPII
outfall (also used to identify timing of treatment requirements-e.g.,
year 2000 phosphorus loads)
2.    Urban Pollution Impact Reduction & Control
(a)   Effectiveness of Control:
*     Increasing number of discharges licensed;
*     Decreasing number of violations of license conditions
(b)   Water quality:
*     Water quality class improvement in Huangpu and tributaries
(c)   Bailonggang outfall performance:
*     Water quality within design mixing performance zone area;
*     Visibility of wastewater plume from satellite image
3.    Improved Operational And Financial Performance
*     Financial parameters
*     Operational efficiency gains over time



-100 -                                       ANNEX 11
4.    Institutional Development, Project Management and Training
*         Physical delivery
*         Achievement of action plans
*         Assessment of job skills
*         Attitude and work performance
Establishment of Baseline Conditions. Each indicator will require a baseline level against
which the effectiveness of the project in achieving the design objectives can be measured.
The base date would be January 1, 1996 and SMSC would take the following action to
obtain the necessary baseline data and develop the necessary methodologies for monitoring.
The parameters, baseline and targeted values shown are appraisal mission estimates; the
baseline data/methodologies would be reviewed and updated at the Project Launch
Workshop.
Base
Objective                  Indicator                            Unit      CY96    CY97        CY98      CY99      CYOO       CY05
Watewater
Maagement
System utlization        Increase of SSC customers billed       %       _            3%         2%        2%        2%         2%/
Increase in number of system         no.                30,000    30,000    50,000    50,000   100,000
connections
Increase wastewater flow and      Mmdy                  0              0          -        1.0       1.1
pollution load canied in SSPII
outfall
Urban Polution Impact
Reduction and Control
Effectiveness of control    Increasing number of discharges    no.           -         -         -                  100        100
licensed
Decreasing number of violations of   no.         500       500       400       400        300       300
license conditions
Water quality             Water quality class im-   General   Class          V         V         V         N         I         Iv
provement in Huangpu  Huangpu       Class         IV        IV        IV         HI        IIm        m
and tributaries
Bailonggang outfall       Water quality within design       D/O level        $         8          7         7         6          6
perfonnance              mixing performance zone area
Visibility of wastewater plume       k'-                               -          2         2          2
from satellite image
Improved Operational &    Covenanted financial parameters        %
Financial Performance
Operational efficiency gains over    ratio staff/
time                              1,000 cust.
Insfttutfonal Develop-     Physical delivery (per plan)        Work
ment, Project Manage-                                        completed
ment & Training            Achievement of action plans       % of plan      (0/%                                              100%/0
Assessment ofjob skills
Attitude and work performance          _
- = no value given until works commissioned and benefits expected to accrue.
D/O = dissolved oxygen.



- 101 -                                              ANNEX 12
ANNEX 12: ORGANIZATION OF SHANGHAI MUNICIPAL
SEWERAGE COMPANY, LTD.
Shanghi Municipal Govemrment
Construction Commission
Public Utilities Bureau
Shanghai Municipal Sewerage Company (SMSC)|
General Manager
Peranent                                           ianc                         Opertion           Conruion                            Chif
Vice Manaer                                      Vicice MagageVice  anager                          Vice Manger                        Engi
Administrat       Exprtin &                      Security    Personnel     Financial                                   ity        Overl 
Of |ice       Development       n                                                   Sv                        Asuane        Manageement         c
Industry                                   iing       Tariff Cdlec-                            Operation      Monitoring     Constution
Company                                   Center        tionOffice                              Company        Stations       Depament
Note Annex S shows the organization of the Construction Department.



-102 -                      ANNEX 13
ANNEX 13: SHANGHAI MUNICIPAL SEWERAGE
COMPANY, LTD. (SMSC) FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS
1.    Assumptions to the projections of the main financial statements of the Shanghai
Municipal Sewerage Company, Ltd. (SMSC) for the period 1996-2003 are provided below.
2.    Inflation and Exchange Rates. Yearly general domestic inflation rates used in the
projections are 10.6 percent in 1996, 8.5 percent in 1997, 7.0 percent in 1998, 6.5 percent in
1999 and 6.2 percent in 2000-03. Foreign price increases are estimated at 2.6 percent for
each of years 1996-2003. The initial exchange rate used to convert foreign costs to local
currency, where applicable, was Y 8.4 per $1.0. It is assumed that exchange rate
adjustments would, on average, maintain purchasing power parity over the projection
period.
Income Statement
3.    Sales. Projections of sewerage quantities are based on the "medium demand"
figures of the Shanghai Municipal Water Company (SMWC), which would add capacity,
when needed, so as not to constrain demand. Sewerage quantities are assumed to be
100 percent of water supplied and billed to SMWC's domestic consumers, and 90 percent
of water supplied to nondomestic consumers. As there is a joint billing arrangement
between SMWC and SMSC for domestic consumers, it is assumed that 100 percent of the
sewerage billed would be collected. For nondomestic consumers, it is assumed that
95 percent of these customers can be billed by SMSC from 1996, with 80 percent being
billed in 1995. Other operating revenue for SMSC is derived from the proceeds of the
5 percent public utility additional tax collected by SMWC as part of its water supply tariffs,
which would be tumed over to SMSC periodically. Nonoperating income includes transfers
from SMG to cover the costs incurred by SMSC in stormwater removal, estimated to be
23.5 percent of SMSC's operations and maintenance costs.



-103 -                      ANNEX 13
4.    Average Tariff. The following average prices in Yuan per m3 in current terms are
projected in order to meet SMG's financial objectives for SMSC, including making a
contribution to capital investment of 5 percent in years 1997, 1998, 1999 and 2000, and
10 percent in years 2001 to 2003:
1996     1997      1998      1999     2000      2001     2002      2003
0.35     0.35      0.38      0.44     0.46      0.69      0.69     0.76
5.    Operating Costs. Salaries, wages and staff benefits are assumed to increase at the
rates given in para. 2 above. Materials and other costs are assumed to increase in line with
general inflation also. Power costs are based on a special municipal utility tariff of
Y 0.30/kWh for 1995, increasing in line with general inflation. For both existing assets and
assets to be constructed under the project, maintenance costs have been estimated in
accordance with established engineering norms, and increase in line with general inflation.
Long-term assets are depreciated at 2.5 percent (40 years) and short-term assets at
6.67 percent (15 years). The split of assets is assumed at 80 percent long-term and
20 percent short-term, based on the project cost estimates and information supplied from
SSC. The composite depreciation rate is 3.8 percent. It is assumed SSC would pay a
business tax of 3.7 percent a year, but no income tax.
6.    Interest and Amortization Expenses. The proceeds of the IBRD loan are assumed
to be onlent to SMSC at the standard interest rate for LIBOR-based US dollar single
currency loans (which was 5.97 percent per year at the time of negotiations), and
0.75 percent per year commitment charge over 15 years, including 5 years of grace. Interest
is paid annually. Amortization of loans would be on an annuity basis. SMSC would bear
the foreign exchange risk. Shanghai Municipality would provide the balance of counterpart
funding requirements as capital grants.
Balance Sheet
7.    Inventories.  Inventories are assumed to be 15 percent of chemicals and
maintenance materials, and have been projected to take into account general inflation as
well as any expanded levels of operations and construction; 2 months lag in payments
8.    Accounts Receivable. Accounts receivable are assumed to be about 7 days of
billings from 1996. This short collection period is based on the following: (a) domestic
water bills are collected on behalf of SMSC by SMWC, which has a proven efficient
collection process (under 10 days); and (b) nondomestic accounts are collected by SMSC
through direct debit.
9.    Bad Debts. Bad debts are assumed to be 2.0 percent of billings.



-104 -                       ANNEX 13
10.   Accounts Payable. Accounts payable are assumed to be 2 months of chemicals,
utilities and maintenance materials from 1996.
Source and Application of Funds
11.   Working Capital Needs. Working capital needs represent the excess, or otherwise,
of the current year's current assets (net of cash), less the excess of the previous year's
current assets (net of cash) over current liabilities.
12.   Change in Cash.  Change in cash (which includes short-term  investments)
calculates the balance sheet cash balance for the current year.



SHANGHAI MUNICIPAL SEWERAGE COMPANY, LTD.-FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS
INCONIE STATENENT                              1993         I994          1993          1996          1997          1998          1999          2000          2001          2002          2003
YOOO
Sewerrevente                                  73,060      76,510       101,969       31327S5       471,174       537,243       632.013       66000,x4     1,021,676     1,045.563     1.182,376
SMWC Public Ulihlty Additional Tax                0            0        45.B40        52.367        58,545        64,377        70,169        76,051        S2,242        88,946        96,208
OPERATINGREVENUE                              73,060      76,510        149,S00      385,152       529,719       601,620       702.184       744,935      1,103,917     1,134,509     1,278,583
Personnel                                      7,718      20,326        38.152        42,196        45,782        51,366        50,483        62,109        66,301        70,412        75,451
Chemicwis                                         0            0             0             0             0             0             0             0             0             0             0
Utilities                                     12,979      23,418        34,960        42,562        48,412        61.125        78,930        90,092        104,759       117,529       137,026
Malerials                                     26,464       53,057       07,692        98,036        109,170       123,870       184,274       197,146      210,905       225,612        264,242
Taxes                                              0           0             0         12,313        17,433        19,87S       23,385         24,749        37,002        38,606        43,740 
Otber                                         66,507       97,924       61,500        68,019         73,800       78,966         84,099        89,313        94,851       100,731       106,977                   
Less: capitalized                                  0           0             0             0             0             0             0             0             0             0             0                    1
OPERATINGEXPENSESUBTOTAL                     113,748      195,525      222,312       263,926       294,598       335,205       429,170       464,208        514,618      552,970        627,443
OPREVENUE LESS EXPENSESUBtTOTAI.             (40.688)    (119,015)      (72,504)      121.227      215,121       266,415       273,014        200,726       509,300       301,539       651,140
Losscs on Receivables                             0            0         2,079         6.656         9,423         10,745        12,640        13,378       20,434        20,911         23,640
. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ -   -   ---   -- -- -       -------.      -- - -   -    .---.. _--         -_..           . __ 
OPERATING EXPENSE                            113,740      195,525      224,391       270,501       304,021       345,949       441,S11       477,506        535,051       573,802       651,091
Prior penod adjustments                           0
INCOME BEFORE DEPRECIATION                   (40,680)    (119,015)      (74,503)      114,571      225,698       255,670       260,373       267,349        560,066       560,628       627,493
Depreciatiosn                                 21,838      20,192        74,370        150,593       186,554      216,542       253,044       384,626       512,417        551,712       593,047
OPERATING INCOME                             (62,526)    (139,207)     (148,961)      (36,022)       39,1.t1      39,129          6,529      (117.271)       56,379         8,916        34,445
Interestexpense                               33,230      45,130        44.513        60,043        Sl 517        101.473       127,486       149,610       157,318       151,797       147,215
Commitmenil ees                                   0            0           971         13,031        10,601         7.216         8,469         5,059         3,710         2,068        15,503
Slotnwvalef contribtinon                      60,359      109,340        52,243        59,129       65.131         74.102        95,360       103,273       112,052       120,857       137,160
SMG, Sbsidies                                 33,250      45,110        1099000        32.(W0            0             0             0             0             0             0              0
Non-opefating revente                          6,047       4,833         4,881          5,399         5,857        6,268         6,673          7,089         7,529         7,995         8.491
NET_INCOME3,000                                           (25.0-4) -- __-       -     ( -2,56- - --   -.9 .. . 0,0.    9        (,)             2,)           4            10 -  ------
NET INCOME                                     3,880      (25,034)      51,679        (12,568)       17,988        10,809       (27,391)     (162,384)       14,911       (16,897)       17,387                  1
__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~._.____.__..    ... .  .. _..   -------_  ______ 



SHANGHAI MUNICIPAL SEWERAGE COMPANY, LTD.-FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS
BAL.ANCE SI18EX                                    1993          1994           1995           1996            1997           199            1999           2000           2001           2002            2003
Fixed assets                                     78 1,473     779,004       4,064,504      5.267,865      6,142.211      7.063,5 35     8,375.887      14.890,22      16,032,209     17,243,620     13,507,375
Accumnulated depreciation                        123,847      144,039        218,417        369,010         555.564        772,105       1,025,949      1,4 10,576     1.923,063      2,474.775      3,067,822
Net fixed assets                                657,626       635,765       3.846,087      4.898.855      5,586.647      6,291.430      7.349,938      13,484.247     14,109,147     14,768.846     15.439.553
Work in progress                               2,250.630    3,006.161       1,538.661      2,497.400      3,788,100      4,633.300      5,513.600        667,400       1,420,800      1,720,300      2,554,900
Oltherlong tern assets                                 0            0               0              0              0              0              0               0              0              0              0
Unrestricted cash                                 31,820       42,824          87,961t       151,753        280,908        437,572        600,606        735,021         966,025      1,211,455      1,537,261
Deposits                                               0            0              0               0              0              0              0               0              0              0              0
Accounts receivable                                7,917         4,924          7,003          6,656          9,423         10.745          12.640         13.378         20,434         20,911         23.6.480
Pnavision for doubtful receivables                     0             0         (2,079)        (0,735)       (18,159)       (28,903)       (41,544)        (54,921)       (75,355)       (96.266)      (119,914)
Invefntry                                          8,686         8,007         1 3,03 7       14(94          16,230        f18,4 16        27,396          29,310         31,356         33,542         39,285
Othser currfen assets                              1.634         1.4 72         1,678          1,056l         2.014          2,155          2,295           2.437          2,588          2,749          2,919
TOTAL CURtRENT ASSETS                             50,057        57.227        107,600        166.2 24       290,4 17       439,984        601.393         72 5,225       945,047      1,172.391       1,483.199
TOTAL ASSETS                                   2.958,313     3,699.153      5,492,348      7,562.4 79     9,265.164      11,364,714     13.464,931     14,8 76,871    16.474.994     17,661,536      19.477,652
Accounts payable                                  25.041        43,987         46,237         52.578         58,093         66,272         87,197          94,741        103,067        111.443         127,604
Long tersm debt, current                          86,803        86.803         86,803         86,803         86,803         86,803         106.803        316,803        316,803        316,803        386,803
Sboql termnloans                                       0             0              0              0              0              0              0               0              0              0               0
Other cuffent liabilities                          9.734         1.131         10,000         11.060         12.000          12,840         13,675         14,523         15.4231        16,379          17,395
TOTAL CURLRENT LIABILITIFS                       121,578       131.921        143,040        150.441        156,896        165,915        207,675         426.066        435.293        444,625        531,802
L.ong lefna dcbl,joog lenrm                      8108,934     972,626       1,025,317      1.430,526      1,660.707       2,032.236      2,4 58.42 1    2.489,667      2,456,742      2,254,766       2,183,330
Deposits                                               0             0              0              0              0              0              0               0              0              0               0
TOTAL LIABILITIES                                940,512     1,104.547      1.160.357      1,580,967       1,823.603      2,198,152      2,666,095      2,915,734      2.892.036      2,699.390       2,715,132
Eqspitv                                        2,017,801     2,594.6D6      4,323,991      5,981,512      7,441,560       9,166,562     10,798,836     11.961,138     13.582,958      14,962,146     16,762,520
Other                                                  0             0              0              0               0              0              0              0              0               0              0
TOTAL EQUrrY AND LIABILMES                     2,958,313     3,699.153      5,492,348      7,562,4 79     9,265,164      11,364,714     13,464,931     14,876,871      16.474.994     17,661,536     19.477.652
Equity + Liabilities.- Assets                          0             0              0              0              0               0              0             (0)             (0)             0              0



SHANGHAI MUNICIPAL SEWERAGE COMPANY, LTD.-FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS
SOURCE AND APPLICATION OF FtUNDS
W000                                           1"3         I94           195          1996          197           19l3          199          2000          2001          2002         2003
Income before depreciation                  (40,638)   (119,015)      (74,583)      114,571      225,699       255,670       260,373       267,349      568,866       560,623       627,493
SMGStonnwalrContributiom                     60,359     109,340        52,243        59,129       65,134        74,102        95,360       103,273       112,052      120,857       137,168
SMGSubidies                                  33,250      45,130       189.000        32,000            0             0            0             0             0             0             0
Non-operging income                           6,047       4,833         4,881         5,399         5.857        6,268         6,675         7,089         7.529        7,995         t,491
INTERNAL CASH GENERATION                     58.965      40,258       171,542       211,099      296,688       336,040       362,408       377,711      683,446       639,480       773,152
Amortization                                 86,803      86,803        56,803        86,S03       86,803        86,803        86,803       106,803      316,803       316,803       316,803
Interestexpense                              33,250      45,130        44,513        60,043       81,537       101,473       127,486       149,610       157,313      151,797       147,215                          0
Commitment fees                                  0            0           971        13,031        10.609        7,216         8,469         5,859         3,730        2,568        15,503
_______________  __________ _  . ____________  _ _________________  _-  - ---------
TOTALDEBTSERVICE                            120,053      131,933      132,287       159,877       17t,949      195,492       222,758       262,271      477,851       471,46t       479,521
Working crpital needs                         9.155     (14,177)        5,233       (11.105)     (10.139)      (14,208)      (18.861)      (17.293)      (13.540)     (25,544)      (23,704)
CONTRIlUTlON TO INVESTMENT                  (70,240)    (77.468)       34.021        1.2.327      127,R78       154,756      153,511       132,732       229.136      243,557       322,336
Capital expenditure                         U,6,631     753,862      1.817,200    2,162,100     1,765,046     2,166,525     2,192,652     1,672,735    1,890,7t7     1,510,911     2,098.354
Purchase(Sele) Ilng tem  ssets                   0            0             0            0             0             0             0            0             0             0             0
Capitalized inlerest                              0           0             0            0             0             0             0            0             0             0             0
TOTAL INVESTMENT COSTS                      U46,631     753,862      1,817,200    2,162,100     1,765,046     2,166,523    2,192,652     1,672,735     1,890,757     1,510,911     2,095,354
REQUIRED FINANCING                          916,871     831,330      1,783,179    2,099,773     1,637.168     2,011,769     2,034,141     1,540,003    1,661,651     1,267,354     1,776,019
Loans                                       274,231     240,495       139,494       492,012       322.984      452,332       532,987       348,049       283,878       114,526      315,367
Deposits                                          0           0             0            0             0             0             0             0            0             0             0
Equity & reserves contributions             657,187     601,839      1,677,706    1.670,088     1,442,060     1,714,193     1,659,665     1,324,686    1,606,909     1,396,0U4     1,782,987
______            _     _     ___ _  _      ___     _ _          __  ___            __________                                                     ._        _     __       _     _                               Z
TOTALFINANCING                              931,418     342,334      1,817,200    2,162,100     1,765,045     2,166,525     2,192,652     1,672,735    1,890,787     1,510,911     2,098,354
CHANGEINCASH                                 14,547       11,004       34,021        62,327       127,877       154,756       158,511      132,732       229,136       243,557      322,336



SHANGHAI MUNICIPAL SEWERAGE COMPANY, LTD.-FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS
PERFORMIANCE INDICATORS I                         1If3         1Q94          1995           1996          1"7            1998          199e 200                     2001           2001          1003
WATER AND SEWAGE
Waterold(Mm3ly)                                  1,351        1,400         1,455          1,503          1,540         1,592          1,629         1,644          1,693          1,724         1,736
Industrial Self-Supplies                          835           837           833            840           842            843           U45            847           U48            850            852
Water AbstractedttSold                           2,135        2,237         2,293          2,343          2,390         2,435          2,474         2,490          2,541         2,574          2,608
Billable WatewauerQuantities(Mm3/y)              1,004        2,052         2,105          2,152         2,196          2,238          2,273         2,291          2,338         2,169          2,400
Ptrcentage Billed                                 45%           42%           55%            63%           63%            64%           64%            64%           65%            65%            66%
Actuallybilled(Mm3ly)                             907           863         1,162          1,347          1,389         1,429          1,463         1.477          1,521          t,550         1,578
Adjusted for Coldction Ratio                      907           863          1,139         1,320          3,361         1,400          1,434          1,447         1,491          1,519         1,547
FJNANCIAL(allindicalorscurrentunlessnoted         1993        1994           1995           1996          1997           1998           1999          2000          2001           2002           2003                         O
VOOD                                                                                                                                                                                                                            C
Operating revenue                               73,060       76,510        149,808       385,152        529,719       601,620        702,184       744,935      1,103,917      1,134,509      1,278,583
Operatingexpense                               113,748      195,525       224,391        270,581       304,021        345,949        441,811       477,586        535,051       573,882        651,091
Depreciation                                    21,838       20,192        74,378        150,593        186.554       216,542        253,844       384,626        512,487       551,712        593,047
Dcbt service                                   120,053      131,933        132,237       159.R77        178.949       195,492        222,758       262,271        477,851       471,468        479,521
SNIWC Public Utility Tax                             0            0         45,840        5?,367         58.545        64,377         70,169         76,051        82,242         88,946        96,208
SMG Stormwater Contribution                     60,359      109,340         52,243        59,129         65,134        74,102         95,360        103,273       112,032        120,357       137,168
SMG Subsidies                                   33,250       45,130        189,000        32,000             0              0              0             0              0              0             0
Non-operdng Revenue                              6,047        4,833         4,881          5,399          5,857         6,268          6,675         7,099          7,529          7,995         8,491
SKNIlContribulionst  Non-operating Revenie      99,656      159,303       246.125         96,528         70,990        80,370        102,035        110,362       339,580        128,8l52      145,659
Operating reveIle 4 Subsidies + Other lnconte  172,716      235,813       395.933        483,680        600,709       681,989        804,219       855,297       1,223,498     1,263,362      1,424,243
Debt coverage objecive                         269.817      367,038       396,364        478,421        536,655       600,090        731,396       818,539      1,156,257      1,186,790      1,274,468
Debtservicecoverageratio                          0.49         0.31           1.30           1.32          1.66           1.72          1.63           1.44           1.44          1.46           1.61
Operating Expense + Debt Service               233,801      327,438       356,678        430,458        482,970       541,442        664,569        739,858      1,012,902     1,045,349      1,130,611
OperalingExpense4 Depreciation                 135,586      215,717       298,769        421,174        490,575       562,491        695,655       862,213       1,047,538     1,125,594      1,244,1338
Max of O&M 4 DeprenorO&M - Debt Service        233,801      327,458       356,678        430,458        490,575       562,491        695,655        862,213      1,047,538     1,125,594      1,244,138
Operating Expense + Depreciation + Debt Servi  255,639      347.650       431,057        581.051        669,524       757,983        918,413      1,124,484      1,525,3R9     1,597,061      1,723,659                        3
Capitl Contlribuition (% 3 year rolling average)    0%           0%            0%             0%             5%"           5/.            5%            5%            30l/.          10%           10%
CapitalContribution                                  0            0             0              0        ta1Ot` 1       102,070       100,532         95,936       169,148        183,335       210,238
Cash Expenses 4 Capital Contribution Objectiv  233,801      327,458       351,445        441,563        594,67n       657,723        783,961        853,086      1,200.590     1,254,229      1,369,554
Rale of return objective                        33,377       32,335        112,046       218,624        262,1 IR      296,952        341,034        520,855       689,835        721,950       755,210                         t
Op. Exp+ Depr4 Debt Service+ RoR               289,016      379,985        543,103       799,674        931,661   .  1,054,935      1,259,447     1,645,339      2,215,224     24319,013      2,478,869



Shanghai Municipal Scwerage Company - Financial Projections
PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 2                      193         1994         199S          1996         197           199S         1999         2000          2001         2002          2003
FINANCIAL (all indieators curetnt unless noted)
Internx' Cash Generation                    5S,968      40,288       171,542      21 1.09       296,688      336,040      362,408       377.711      6SS,446       689,480      773,152
Incime in Worlking Capital                  (9,155)      14,177       (5,233)      11,105        10,139       14,208        18,861       17,293        18,540       25,544       28,704
Cash Balnce                                 31,S20      42,924        S7,961      151,753       280,908      437,572      600,606       735,021      966,025      1,211,455    1,537,261
Operating income, adler depreciation       (62,526)   (139,207)     (148,961)      (36,022)      39.144       39,129        6,529      (117,27')       56,379        8,916       34,445
Net income, antcr depreciation               3,St0     (25,034)       51,679      (12,568)       17,99S       10,809      (27,391)     (162,384)       14,911      (16,897)       17,387
Rateofreturn                                  5.6%        3.1%          4.3%         1.4%          2.1%         2.0%          1.6%        *0.1%          1.3%         1.0'%         1.2%
Capital expenditures                       846,631     753,862      1,S17,200    2,162,100    1,765,046     2,166,525    2,192,652     1,672,735    1,890,787     1,510,911    2,098,354
Capita expenditures (real terms)           994,791     753,862      1,594,035    1,714,809    1,290,227     1,480,097    1,406,522     1,010,368    1,075,401      S09,174     1,058,175
Long lme borrowing                         274,231     240,495       139,494      492,012       322,984      452,332       532,987      348,049       283,878      114,826       315,367
DebtOutstuicding                           905.737    1,059,429    1,112,120     1,517,329    1,753,510     2,119,039    2,565,224     2,806,470    2,773,545     2,571,569    2,570,133
AverageTriff(f/m3)                            0.08        0.09          0.09         0.35          0.35         0.38          0.44         0.46          0.69         0.69         0.76
AverageTariff,incl.SMWCPublic UtilityTlax     0.08        0.09          0.13         029           0.39         0.43   .      0.49         0.51          0.74         0.75          0.83
5yew rollingaverage                           010         0.15          0.19         0.25          0.32         0.40          0.46         0.53         0.61          0.70         0.80
Real tems striff                              0.09        0.09          0.08         0.28          0.25         0.26          0.28         0.28          0.39         0.37          0.39
Average(caub)cost per unit colleeed(V/m3)     0.13        0.23          0.19         0.20          0.22         0.24         0.30          0.32          0.35         0.37          0.41
Averagecostperunitcollectedine.depreciation   0.15        0.25          0.26         0.31          0.35         0.39          0.48         0.58          0.69         0.73          0.79
SMGContributions-Stormwaler+Other           93,609     154,470       241,243       91,129        65.134       74,102        95,360      103,273       112,052      120,857       137,16S
SMG Contributions-Stsmnwater+Other (Y /m      0.10        0.18          0.21         0.07          0.05         005           0.07         007           0.07         0.08          0.09
SMGContributions-S oSmwater+Other(real     109,991      154,470      211,617       72,276        47,612       50,624        61,170       62,379        63,730       64,725        69,172
SMWCPublieUtilityTax(real terms)                 0           0        40,210       41,534        42,796       43,980        45,012       45,936        46,776       47,635        48,516
Working atio                                   1.6         2.6           1.5          0.7           0.6          0.6           0.6          0.6           0.5          0.5           0.5
Operating ratio                                1.9         2.8           2.0          1.1           0.9          0.9           1.0           1.2          0.9           1.0          1.0
Curreniratio                                   0.4         0.4           0.9          1.1           1 9          2.7           2.9           1.7          2.2          2.6           2.8
Contribution to investment                   -8.3%      -10.3%          1.9%         2.9%          7 2%         7.1%          7.2%         7.9%         12.1%        16.1%         15.4%
Contribtion to investment (3 yr average)     -9.8%       46.8%          2.2%         33%           6 7%         7.6%          7.9%         6.9%         13.5%        13.3%         15.3%
Acoms mteeceivattle/Average monthly sales      1.3         0 8           1.0          0.6           0 7          0.9           1.0          1.2           1.1          1.3           1.5
DebItJ(Dbl+Equity)r tio                        29'h        27%          19%           19%          18%           18%          19'%          17%          15%           13%           12%
Price deflator                                1.1        1.00          0.88         0.79          0 73         0.68          0.64         0.60          0.57         0.54          0.50



-110-                       ANNEX14
ANNEX 14: SHANGHAI MUNICIPAL FINANCE
PROJECTIONS
ASSUMPTIONS FOR FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS
1.    The assumptions made when calculating the projections of the on-budget revenue
and expenditure statements of the Shanghai Municipal Government (SMG) for the period
1994-2002 are set out below. On-budget revenues are those arising from taxes levied on
enterprises operating in the Shanghai Municipal area; off-budget revenues consist of special
fees to enterprises and are used chiefly for capital expenditures.
Revenue Forecast
2.    The actual (1990-94) on-budget revenue figures have been derived from data
provided by SMG. Between 1990 and 1993, the average annual increase in revenue was
about 15.5 percent. In 1994, however, the Central Government restructured the tax system,
bolstering its share. As a result, there was a 28 percent decline in revenue in 1994 from
1993. To estimate future revenues, a conservative estimate of an average annual increase of
10 percent in nominal terms has been assumed using 1994 as the base year.
Expenditure Forecast
3.    Historically, on-budget expenditures have represented about 50 percent of on-
budget revenues. In 1994, however, they jumped to 110 percent of that year's revenue as
the tax system was restructured (para. 2). No adjustment was made to the expenditure
program. To estimate future expenditures, the ratio of expenditures to revenues is assumed
to decline to about 80 percent of revenues in 1995; 68 percent in 1996; and 58 percent
thereafter.
4.    Table 1 summarizes the actual revenues and expenditures from 1990 to 1994, and
estimated revenues and expenditures from 1995 to 2002. The details are provided in Tables
2 and 3 of this Annex.



- 111 -                    ANNEX 14
Table 1: EXPENDITURE/REVENUE ANALYSIS
Year                   Expenditure         Revenue          Expenditure/
(Y billion)        (Y billion)        Revenue
Actual:
1990                    7.4                15.8               0.47
1991                    9.9                19.2               0.52
1992                   11.0               20.3                0.54
1993                   12.6               24.2                0.52
1994                   19.2                17.5               1.10
Projected:
1995                   15.3                19.2               0.80
1996                   14.4               21.2                0.68
1997                   13.5               23.3                0.58
1998                   14.8               25.7                0.58
1999                   16.3               28.2                0.58
2000                    17.9               31.1               0.58
2001                    19.7               34.2               0.58
2002                   21.7                37.6               0.58



THE REVENUE OF SHANGHAI MUNICIPAL GOVERNMENT FINANCE FOR FIVE CONTINUOUS YEARS FROM 1990 TO 1994
TABLE 2
AND ESTIMATED REVENUES FROM 1995 TO 2002
(RMf3X 10,000)
BASE YEAR DATA                        EST.                                   PROJECTED
ITEMS/YEARS 
1990      1991       1992       1993       1994      1995       1996       1997       1998      1999       2000       2001       2002
TOTAL FINANCIAL REVENUE                             1.577.151   1,918.635  2.028,476  2.423,509  1.753,300  1,928.630  2,121,493  2,333,642  2,567,007  2,823,707  3,106,078  3,416,686  3,758,354
I. NORMAL BUDGETARY REVENUE                         1,472,579  1,607,230  1,686,540  2,271.428  1,633,095  1,796.405  1,976,045  2,173,649  2,391,014  2,630,116  2,893,127  3,182,440  3,500.684
1.1NDUSTRIAL&COMMERCIALTAX                         1,486,763  1,603,044  1,788,106  2,518,826  1,735.127  1,908.640  2,099,504  2.309,454  2,540,399  2,794,439  3.073,883  3,381,272  3,719.399
a.PRODUCT TAX, VALUE-ADDED TAX                       768,168    823.426    888,881  1,223.898    843,098    927,408  1.020.149  1,122.164  1,234,380  1,357,818  1.493.800  1.642.960  1.807.256
b.BUSINESS OPERATION TAX                            349,413    388,909    467,908    659,177    454.083    499,491    549,440    604.384    684,823    731,305    804.435    884.879    973,387
c.URBANMAINTENANCE&CONSTRUCTIONTAX                    74,588    80,394     86,449    121,659     83,807    92,187    101,406    111,547    122,701    134,971    148,489    163,315    179.8147
d.OTHER TAXES                                       294,594    310,315    384,870    514,092    354,139    389.553    428.509    471.380    518,496    570.345    627.380    690.118    759,129         9
2.AGRICULTURE TAX                                      9,424     9,267     11,832     12,802     30,606    33,887     37.033     40,737     44.810    49,291     54.220     59,642     65,607
3.STATE-OWNED ENTERPRISE (SOE) INCOME TAX           291.592    254.097    132,887     (3,316)   154,248    169,673    186,640    205,304    225,834    248,418    273,280    300,586    330.644
4 SOE ADJUSTMENT TAX                                  52,282    37.540      14.591)
5.SOEPROFITREMITTANCE                                  5,904     7,204      9,686      7,431     12,311     13,542    14.896     16,388     18,025     19,827    21,810     23,991     26,390
6.SOE CONTRACTED INWARD TRANSFERS                    (40,420)   (81,791)   (72,533)  (335,881)  (420,660)  (482,726)  (508,999)  (559.898)  (815.8s8)  (877,477)  (745,225)  (819,747)  (901.722)
7.SOE BUDGETED LOSS SUBSIDY TRANSFERS               (402,603)  (301,388)  (248,132)
8 NATIONAL BUDGETADJUSTMENT FUND                     38.831     37,003     32.555     16,846     19,235    21.159     23.274     25,602     28.182    30,978     34,078     37,484     41,232
9.OTHER REVENUE                                      26,072     18,648     17,020     17.067     41,633    45,796     50,376     55,414     80,955    67,050     73,755     81,131     89,244
10.EDUCATION LEVY                                      6,734     23,584    21,750     37,653     60,595    86,855      73,320    80,852     88,717  . 97,589    107,348    118.063    129.891
IlCONSTRUCTnONBUDGETREvENUE                           104,572    102,555    99,936     91,111     63,099    69,409     76,350     83,985     92,383    101,622    111,784    122,962    135,258
I.FIXED ASSETS INVESTMENT GUIDANCE TAX                24,723     18.580     12.093
2 CULTIVATED LAND OCCUPATION TAX                       2,828      5,823     14,312    25,397     33,784     37,162     40,879    44,967     49,463     54,409     59,850    65,835     72,419
3.POLLUTION LEVY FEE INCOME                           11,800     12.000     12.100     12.121    12.401     13,641     15,005     18.506    18.158     19,972     21,969     24.186    26.583
4.HARBOUR MAINTENANCE REMITTANCE                       7,000      7,000      7,000      7,000     7,000      7,700      8,470      9,317    10,249     11,274     12,401     13.641     15,005
&NATIONALENERGY.TRANSPORT,AND                         30,300     32,890     26.018     11,719     9,914     10,905     11.996     13.196    14.515     15,967     17,583     19.320    21,252
KEY PROJECTS FUND
8.ELECTRIC POVWER CONSTRUCTION FUND                   27,921     28,482     28,415    34,874
IIISOCIAL INSURANCE FUND INCOME                                 208,850    240,000     80,970     57,106    82,817     89,098     78,008     83,609    91,970    101.187    111.213    122.412
I.A



THE EXPENSES OF SHANGHAI MUNICIPAL GOVERNMENT FINANCE FOR FIVE CONTINUOUS YEARS FROM 1990 TO 1994
TABLE 3
AND ESTIMATED EXPENDITURES FORM 1995 TO 2002
(RMB X 10,000)
BASE YEAR DATA                        EST.                                  PROJECTED
ITEMSIYEARS
1990      1991       1992      1993       1994       t995      1996       1997      1998       1999      2000       2001       2002
TOTAL FINANCIAL EXPENDITURES                           737,694    989,254  1,099,697  1,260,144  1,923,981  1,531,588  1,445,819  1,347,797  1,482,577  1,630,834  1,793,918  1,973,310  2,170.641
I NORMAL BUDGETARY EXPENDITURES                         446,166   700,916    800,611    820,763  1,372,294  1,025,954    968,500    902.839   993,123  1,092,436  1,201,679  1,321.847  1,454,032
1AGRICULTURE, FORESTRY, WATER RESOURCE,                  7,875      9,716    14.325     16,023     19,979    20,029     18,907    17,625     19,388    21,327     23,459     25,805    28,386
WEATHER AND RELATED ADMINISTRATIVE EXP.
2 INDUSTRIAL, TRANSPORT,COMMERCIAL AND                   6,496      7,334     8,621     10,708     15,591    13,385     12,635     11,779    12,957    14,252     15,678     17,245    18.970
RELATED ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES
3.URBAN MAINTENANCE EXPENSES                            23,522     28.328    21,087    107,397    119,579    134,246    126,728    118,137    129,950   142.945    157,240    172,964    190,260
4.CULTURE, EDUCATION AND HEALTH DEPARTMENT             152,445    171,194    204,685    276,314    384,540    345,393    326,051    303,945    334,340   367,774    404,551    445,006   489,507           _
ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES                                                                                                                                                                                   W
INCLUOINGADMIN. EXP. ON EDUCATION                     105,078    118,272    140,947    190,281    264,798    237,826    224,508    209.287    230,216   253,237    278,561    308,417    337,059
ADMIN EXP. ON HEALTH (NOTE 1)                       47,367     52,922    83.738     86,053    119,762    107,588    101,543   94,658    104,124    114.537    125,990    138,589    152,448
5 SCIENTIFIC ORGANIATION ADMIN. EXP.                    12,833     14,183    16,280     19,399    27,940    24,249      22,891    21,339     23,473    25,820     28,402     31,242    34.367
6 ADMIN EXP. OF OTHER DEPARTMENTS                       16,852     17,763    22,878     32,097     52,378    40,121     37,874    35,307     38.837    42,721     46,993     51,693    56,862
7.PENSION AND SOCIAL WELFARE EXPENSES                    7,183      8,177     9,676     12,684     20,064    15,855     14,967    13,952     15,348     16,882    18,571     20,428    22,470
8 GOVERNMENT ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES                    22,958     27,107    35,927     55,674    76,396    69,593      65,695    61,241     67,366    74,102     81,512     89,664    98,630
9.POLICE, PROCURATE AND COURT SYSTEM EXP.               24,616     27,083    34,690     52,708    100,385    65,885     62,195    57,979    63,777     70,154     77,170     84.887    93,375
10.OTHER EXPENDITURES                                   46,804     58,450    67,571    140,651    403,222    175,814    165,968    154,716    170,188    187,206   205,927   226,520    249,172
11.PRICE SUBSIDY EXPENOITURES                          118,048    119,089    104,308    61,999    104,188    77,499     73,159     68,199    75,019    82,521     90,773     99,850    109.835
12.EDUCATION LEVY FUND OUTLAYS                           6,734     23,584     20,563    35,109     48,012    43,886     41,429     38,620    42,482    46,730     51,403     56,543    62,198
13.SOCIAL INSURANCE FUND OUTLAYS                                  188,908   240,000
14.GENERAL RESERVE EXPENDITURES
IIBUDGETARY EXPENDITURES ON CONSTRUCTION                291,528    288,338    299,086   439,381    551,687   505,634    477,318    444,958    489,453    538,399    592,239    651,483   718,609
i.BASIC CAPITAL CONSTRUCTION EXPENDITURES              139,707    127,708    188,917    222,145    341,565   277,681    262,131    244,360    288,795   295,675    325.242   357.767    393,543
2.ENTERPRISE MODERNIZATION EXPENDITURES                 68,852     79,528    31,953    124,351    140,427    155,439    148,734    138,786    150,465    165,511    182,082   200,269    220,295
3 CONSTRUCTION OF OUTBUILDINGS                           1,050      1,010     1,010        990       810      1,238      1,168      1,089     1,198      1,318     1,449      1,594      1,754
4.SCIENTIFIC AND TECHNICAL INNOVATION EXP.               3,767      3,474     2,337        722      2,856       903       852        794        874       961      1,057      1,183      1.279
5 INVESTMENT IN AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION                 31,583     34,081    29,581     38,981    46,844     46,226     43,638    40,679     44,747    49,222     54,144     59,558    65,514
6ENVIRONMENTPROTECTIONFUNDEXPENDITURES                  11,848     12,057    11,873     12,318     12,185    15,398     14,535     13,550    14,905    16,395     18,035     19,838    21,822
7.HARBPURMAITENANCE EXPENDITURES                         7,000      7,000     7,000      7.000      7,000     8,750      8,260     7,700      8,470     9,317     10,249     11,274    12,401
8&OUTLAYS FROM THE ELECTRIC POWER                       27,921     23,482    28,415     34,874
CONSTRUCTION FUND                                                                                                                                                                                          1



-114-                      ANNEX 15
ANNEX 15: ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
1.    The April 1992 Environmental Strategy Paper for China (9669-CHA) and the
recently completed Urban Environmental Services Management sector study (13073-CHA)
showed that decades of slighting environmental protection to maximize investment in
industrial production has now created a critical threat to the sustainability of growth in
China. The threat manifests itself in almost all areas of the country, but is particularly acute
in large urban areas, where the concentration of population and economic activity has led
more rapidly to an overloading of the absorptive capacity of the environment. In response,
the Bank has formulated an urban environmental lending strategy that uses price-driven
incentives to reduce effluents and pay for their handling and treatment, while also assisting
in the long-neglected task of providing a physical infrastructure that can provide services
and manage pollution in the most cost-effective manner.
2.    The choice to work in Shanghai follows directly from the Bank's strategy. As the
largest and most developed urban area of China, Shanghai has long served as a model for
China's urban and industrial development. Shanghai has the oldest industrial base of all
Chinese cities, but the pressure to remit a very high percentage of profits to the national
government has until very recently seriously constrained Shanghai's ability to invest in
social infrastructure. By the early 1980s, that underinvestment had resulted in rapidly
increasing transportation costs over an antiquated road network; in industrial effluent
discharges far exceeding national standards, often discharged directly into waterways used
for industrial and drinking water supply; in uncontrolled hazardous waste disposal; and in
solid waste disposal into landfills with no provision for leachate control. Little attention
had been given to systematic evaluation of these problems either singly or, most
importantly, in their cumulative impact.
3.    Since 1984 the Bank has been working with Shanghai to address this range of
problems. Transportation constraints are being eased through Shanghai Metropolitan
Transport Projects I and II (Credit 2296 and Loan 3652), which finance transportation
planning, improved traffic management, and investment in key urban roads. The first step
in the long-term program to end the direct discharge of effluents into municipal waters, the
Shanghai Sewerage Project-SSPI (Loan 2794/Credit 1779), captures the waste- and
stormwater discharges in downtown Shanghai for preliminary treatment and disposal
through an outfall on the Yangtze, relieving pressure on the most highly polluted waters in
the urban core of the municipality. The Shanghai Environment Project-SEP (Loan 3711)
addresses a wide array of problems, including that of a safe source for the city water supply,
improved solid waste handling, and the sewering of a major industrial district. Those Bank



-115-                      ANNEX15
loans and credits have speeded the infrastructure construction program, but much more
remains to be done.
4.    The sewerage works under SSPI were not the first in the city. Indeed, Shanghai had
some of the earliest wastewater treatment facilities in China, with the first plant
commissioned in 1926. Between then and 1978, 11 more plants were commissioned, most
of them handling no more than 40,000 m3/day and all discharging to the Huangpu or its
tributaries. These plants operate at less than half their design capacity and handle about
3 percent of Shanghai's average dry-weather flows, most at the secondary treatment level.
In 1970 and 1971, two large interceptors were constructed to divert wastewater from
Shanghai to the Changjiang (Yangtze River), one serving the northern edge of the city and
the other the southern. These discharge about 18 percent of urban flows through untreated
surface discharge. Those interceptors did not attempt to deal with the difficult challenge of
intercepting flows from the densely populated inner city neighborhoods. This was first
done in the SSPI works, commissioned in 1994, which pick up an additional 25 percent of
the flows and, as noted above, discharge them to the Changjiang after preliminary
treatment. The remaining 54 percent of urban wastewater discharges directly, and typically
without treatment, to the small canals found across the city, or to the Huangpu River.
5.    Shanghai is built on a fluvial plain showing very little variation in elevation, ranging
between 3.5 to 4.5 meters above mean sea level. The municipality is laced with rivers and
2                             2
canals, averaging some 7 km/kmn  overall, and a higher 8.5 km/km  in Pudong. The
Huangpu River, which is tidal along its entire length in Shanghai, discharges an average of
340 m /sec. Puxi, with the bulk of the population and economic activity, sits on the western
bank of the Huangpu. The Pudong district, the Shanghai Municipal Government's (SMG)
focal point for future development, is located to the east of the Huangpu in a triangle of land
bounded on two sides by the Huangpu and the Changjiang. The surface waters tributary to
the Huangpu forn a network, much of which has no source aside from the Huangpu, the
Changjiang, stormwater runoff and domestic, industrial, and commercial wastewater
discharges. The wastewater discharges total some 65 m3/sec.
6.    The minor waterways serve a variety of functions, including transport, industrial
water source, washing water, waste receptor, and (in Pudong) potable water source. To
control flows in the minor waterways, most are gated at the point they join the Huangpu or
the Changjiang. While the gates prevent high tides from causing flooding, they also create
stagnant bodies of water with very little self-flushing capacity. The results of this are quite
apparent if one compares indicators from the Huangpu and some of the tributary water
bodies, as shown in Table I below.
7.    Pudong potable water comes in part from three treatment plants drawing from
surface waters, including one at Yaoshi (see table above). Puxi potable water is drawn from
the Huangpu, with most of the extraction well upstream of the Suzhou Creek point shown
in the following table.



-116-                      ANNEX15
Table 1: WATER QUALITY COMPARISONS
River section                  DO (mg/1)    BOD (mg/i)      COD (mg/I)
Huangpu (at Suzhou Creek)           5.1          2.5            14.3
Longhua Gang (Puxi)                 0           77             156
Puhui Tang(Puxi)                    0           31             157
Zhangjiabang (Pudong)               1.3          9.3            39.5
Yaoshi (Pudong)                     0           12              53.5
Surface Water Standard III          5            4              15
(suitable for drinking water source)
Surface Water Standard V (lowest:   2           10              25
not suitable for human contact)
Note: DO: Dissolved Oxygen; BOD: Biological Oxygen Demand (5-day); COD: Chemical
Oxygen Demand. Source: EA Report, pp 4-3, 8-3.
8.    Two factors have an important impact on the quality of the effluents discharging to
these water bodies.  These are the nightsoil system and industrial pretreatment of
wastewater. The nightsoil system keeps much of the household waste out of the local
waters. Within Shanghai, some 2.5 million people collect their nightsoil in buckets emptied
daily to public dumping stations. Also, many of the private and public toilets discharge to
holding or septic tanks. In 1992, the bucket system handled 3,780 tons/day and the septic
tanks 2,850 tons/day. Of this, 83 percent fertilizes crops on suburban farms, while the
remainder is dumped to urban drains. Because of this diversion, city wastewaters tend to be
quite dilute, with recent measurements at the SSPI outfall showing BOD of only 85 mg/I, in
contrast to the 200 mg/l that might be expected in a full strength domestic wastewater. The
rebuilding of Shanghai would allow most of the population access to flush toilets within 25
years, and that, combined with a program to connect septic tanks to the wastewater
reticulation system, would increase domestic loads on the system.
9.   Industry accounts for about 46 percent of Shanghai's wastewater flow and about
37 percent of the COD load. The relatively weak industrial wastewater (COD of about
190 mg/I, BOD about 45 mg/1) probably results from discharge of cooling water to sewers,
or, for plants near surface water supplies, dilution of waste streams with surface water to
meet the concentration-based pollution standards used in China. New industries are not
permitted to discharge untreated wastes to surface waters. Licensing procedures designed
to ensure compliance with this rule are administered by the Environmental Protection
Bureau (EPB) and the urban planning bureaus. In Pudong, all new enterprises must connect
to city sewers. Unfortunately, the capacity to absorb these flows has not been put in place
and illegal discharges to surface waters are not unknown. All alternatives to improve
handling of Shanghai wastewaters discussed below have, as an element of their strategy,
better industrial compliance with discharge standards. To achieve that goal requires
political commitment to the enforcement of those standards. Disregard of standards



-117 -                     ANNEX 15
becomes more difficult when enterprises connect to sewers, for their wastewater becomes
subject to inspection by the Shanghai Municipal Sewerage Company, Ltd. (SMSC) in
addition to the EPB. That company has the power to fine firms that exceed quality
standards and a strong interest in identifying violators, for illegal discharges can threaten the
physical fabric of the sewerage system and any treatment processes that may be in use.
10.   SMG's wastewater handling strategy was laid out in the 1984 Wastewater Master
Plan, which has been elaborated through feasibility and design work for the SSPI and SEP
projects. Major findings of the Master Plan were that preliminary treatment and discharge
to the Changjiang would be about half as expensive as intercepting the current flows into
the Huangpu and providing secondary treatment before discharge. At the same time,
Changjiang discharges could maintain water quality goals for the Changjiang, if the river
outfalls were properly designed. The Master Plan contains details of the analysis, but the
intuitive appeal of the finding can be appreciated simply from comparing the 65 m3/sec
current wastewater flows from Shanghai to the 340 m3/sec average and 90 m3/sec low flows
of the Huangpu and the 31,000 m3/sec average and 7,000 m3/sec low flows of the
Changjiang.
11.   Maintenance of Huangpu water quality affects both municipal and industrial water
supplies. The new municipal raw water intake is at Daqiao, on the Huangpu above urban
Shanghai, but emergency raw water abstraction points are all below Daqiao and threatened
by discharges. The raw water below the current intake at Linjiang is untreatable to national
and the World Health Organization (WHO) drinking water quality guidelines when using
economically feasible methods, and at the intake, it usually fails some WHO and Chinese
drinking water quality recommendations at all times and fails by a large margin in the two
summer low flow months. The water treatment plants in the system can insure that
coliform bacteria counts are held well under WHO guidelines, but are unable to cope with
oil, phenols, and ammonia that seasonally continue above safe levels. As a result, Shanghai
consumers have continued to suffer from drinking water virtually unpalatable out of the tap
for up to two months each year. Domestic users further treat the water by boiling (which
can reduce the more volatile pollutants), and higher income families can avoid the problem
through use of activated carbon filters or the purchase of bottled water. The latter remedies
are not accessible to the poorer members of the population, although the basic supply of
piped water remains extremely inexpensive by international standards. Fish no longer live
in the urban reaches of the Huangpu and recreational and aesthetic values of the river are
similarly affected by low water quality.
Proposed Project
12.   SMG has requested Bank assistance in financing the second stage of Shanghai's
wastewater development program through the Second Shanghai Sewerage Project (SSPII).
This would involve further improvement in the management of the municipal system and
construction of interceptors and conveyors capturing an additional 31 percent of municipal
flows, over and above the 48 percent currently intercepted. The remaining 21 percent
would be intercepted in subsequent phases of Shanghai's wastewater development program.



-118-                      ANNEX1S
The stage currently proposed for Bank financing would capture the Wujing/Minhang flows
sewered under SEP, and the Puxi and Pudong flows that would otherwise discharge to the
upper Huangpu. The program (see Annex 3 for a detailed description) involves
construction of approximately 41.1 km of major wastewater conveyors, associated pumping
stations, preliminary treatment, and discharge through a deep-water outfall.  The
interception of current discharges would significantly increase the quality of Pudong surface
water, taking strain off of the current water intakes, raise the quality of the Longhua Gang
and Puhui Tang sections of the Puxi network, and modestly improve Huangpu water quality
at the new raw water intake. Expected improvements have been modeled, with a sample of
the results shown below:
River section                          Water Quality Values (before/after)
DO (mg/l)    BOD (mg/I)    COD (mg/i)
Huangpu (at Suzhou Creek)           5.1/5.9       2.5/2.1      14.3/13.1
Zhangjiabang (Pudong)               1.3/4.4       9.3/2.9      39.5/22.0
Yaoshi (Pudong)                     0/5.1        12/3.2        53.5/14.8
Surface Water Standard III (suitable  5           4            15
for drinking water source)
Surface Water Standard V (lowest:   2            10            25
not suitable for human contact)
Note: DO: Dissolved Oxygen; BOD: Biological Oxygen Demand (5-day); COD: Chemical
Oxygen Demand. Source: EA Report, pp 4-3, 8-3.
13.   Similar modeling has not been done for the Puxi sections of Longhua Gang and
Puxi Tang. These creeks are connected through a complex network and the modeling
results are very sensitive to tidal impacts, themselves dependent on gate management
regimes. However, once local connections to the conveyor are complete, wastewater
discharges to these waters would cease and the primary source of their water would then be
stormwater runoff and the Huangpu, itself at an acceptable quality. As the above table
shows, the water quality improvement on the Huangpu would be on the order of 10 percent
for most indicators. This improvement would not change the water quality class of the
Huangpu, but would provide additional protection against any other sources of
deterioration. Furthermore, the conveyors would provide significant protection against
accidental industrial discharges of toxics, which previously would have entered the river.
14.   The Pudong water quality improvements are remarkable. At all modeled points the
reduction in COD is no less than 45 percent and of BOD no less than 66 percent. Dissolved
oxygen increases to no less than 3.9 mg/l, with most nodes above 4.5 mg/. For the Pudong
area, waters go from worse than Class V to no worse than Class IV and, at several nodes,
Class III. Moreover, the new system would protect those waters from deterioration as total
Pudong wastewater flows as much as double over the coming two decades.



-119-                       ANNEX15
15.   The tariffs enacted to finance the construction and operation of the works would
encourage careful use of water and reduce the size of the conveyors and other works needed
to meet future discharges. Teclnical assistance would allow company management to
make efficient use of their income in meeting current and future needs.
Economic Evaluation
16.   The economic analysis of the project is reviewed in the main text, and further
amplified in this Annex. The proposed investment program would protect and improve the
quality of surface water in Shanghai and, as a consequence, enhance its value for drinking,
industrial, and agricultural use while minimizing any health threats. Further benefits would
come from recreational and aesthetic value increases. Attributing specific values to these
improvements would require a sophisticated model of the entire Huangpu basin system (and
part of the downstream Changjiang system) linking polluting inputs, water quality
outcomes, and the relationship of those to the uses noted above. The complexity of
attributing results to a specific project is engendered in part by the fact that other projects,
such as SSPI and SEP, as well as industrial relocation and pollution control efforts, would
be coming on line over the implementation period of this project. All of these change the
structure of polluting inputs or the risk created by those inputs. Rather than attempt to build
a model capturing these inputs and outputs, the economic analysis rests on the generally
accepted importance of capturing and safely disposing urban wastewater flows. The main
challenge for engineering and economic analysis has been to identify the least-cost strategy
to sustainably meet the national and local surface water quality standards that represent a
consensus on desirable water quality.
17.   The no-project alternative currently results in pollution levels that cause
unacceptable risk to Shanghai residents and their municipal and industrial water supplies.
The 1984 master plan used experience with Changjiang conveyors built during the 1970s,
and the long history of running treatment plants, to establish that the least-cost strategy
would involve building additional conveyors to handle remaining untreated flows. That
analysis was confirmed during Bank appraisal of SSPI, at which time the highest priority
investment was deemed to be capturing and conveying wastewater discharging into the
downtown area (Suzhou Creek) and surrounding waters. Following the completion of the
first-phase investment, now operational, 52 percent of wastewater was still inadequately
collected. In the long run, virtually all wastewater must be intercepted if local waters are to
be maintained at a quality that allows safe industrial usage, human contact, and eventually
the return of fish to the lower Huangpu. The Shanghai Municipal Government, in a 1994
update of the 1984 Master Plan, confirmed the priority in providing new sewerage services
to be (a) the Wujing/Minhang districts; (b) Puxi South Block; (c) Pudong New Area;
(d) Puxi Middle Block; and (e) Puxi North Block.
18.   The priorities were based on projected flow increases to the year 2020, the nature of
the effluent from a given district, and the area that would suffer from the impact of that
effluent. Of the unserved districts, Wujing/Minhang is both the most heavily industrialized
and the furthest upstream. Their proximity to the existing and new raw water intakes



-120 -                     ANNEX 15
supplying 90 percent of Shanghai's potable water reinforced the concern that they be
properly sewered, as the risk of catastrophic accidental industrial discharges is greatest in
Wujing/Minhang. The remaining districts are of two types: districts with mixed domestic,
commercial, and industrial waste streams quite similar to those handled under SSPI; and the
Pudong district, the new development zone that has large amounts of greenfield industrial,
commercial, and residential development. Taking advantage of the new development of
Pudong, separate sewers for foul water and drainage are being installed there. In the built-
up areas of Shanghai, the present combined systems would be maintained because of the
prohibitive cost of retrofitting separate systems.
19.   Given these characteristics of the remaining districts, the highest priority goes to
upstream effluents, reflecting the larger area of impact of the upstream discharges. Pudong
spans the Puxi south, middle, and north blocks, but the use of separate systems in Pudong
makes it important to pick up the undiluted foul water flows. Furthermore, much of Pudong
now drains to the existing Southern Sewer, the load on which already equals its design
capacity of 4.6 m3/sec. The rapid development of Pudong can be accommodated only with
additional interceptor capacity.
20.   Shanghai's priority ranking for further work, as described above, has been used to
develop a phased investment program in wastewater handling. Construction of link sewers
in Wujing/Minhang, the highest priority area, has begun with support under the Shanghai
Environment Project. The scope of the present project was determined by matching the
availability of funds to the work needed to connect and convey wastewaters from each of
the remaining districts. The proposed program is thus the next phase of the work
envisioned under the updated 1984 Sewerage Master Plan.
21.   In the current phase, SMG has judged, and the Bank has affirmed, that its financial
resources permit a project of approximately Y 5,970 million ($633 million). Least-cost
analysis, as discussed below, has shown that such a program could capture and safely
discharge effluent from Wujing/Minhang, Puxi South Block, and Pudong. Puxi Middle
Block and North Block would await the availability of additional funds, with construction
unlikely to commence before the year 2000.
Least-Cost Analysis
22.   The analysis proceeds on a district-by-district basis, reflecting the accepted
priorities. Fundamental decisions were made for Wujing/Minhang prior to this project.
They involved possible discharge points for Wujing/Minhang wastewaters, for which
possibilities ranged from the Hangzhou Bay in the south, north to an area above the chosen
discharge point of Bailonggang. Although feasibility studies showed it to be financially
least cost, discharge to Hangzhou Bay was eventually dismissed as an option due to the
Bay's ecological fragility. The decision was therefore made to discharge to the north,
through the conveyor that would also pick up Puxi and Pudong loads.
23.   Least-cost disposal options for Pudong and the suburban counties of Shanghai have
also been carried out.  For projected flows to the year 2020, eight scenarios were



-121-                       ANNEX 15
constructed. The first three discharge to Hangzhou Bay, the next three to the Huangpu, and
the last two to the Changjiang estuary. For each discharge location, a variety of treatment
options was considered, and their expected impact on the receiving waters calculated. Full
details are in the project files ("Strategic Planning Report"), but can be summarized by
noting that none of the Hangzhou Bay discharge options left that water body with
acceptable quality. The only Huangpu option that maintained water quality within limits
involved secondary treatment of all Pudong flows, at an economic NPV (12 percent
discount rate) of some Y 16,988 million. The two Changjiang discharge scenarios did not
significantly degrade that water body, although it was noted that background phosphorus
levels at the outfall already exceeded surface water quality standards and the Pudong/Puxi
flows would add another 3 percent to those levels. The two Changjiang discharge scenarios
included one providing preliminary treatment, and costing Y 4,754 million; and another
providing enhance primary treatment, and costing Y 6,140 million. Clearly, for Pudong, the
Changjiang discharge option is far less costly than the Huangpu option, and entails less
environmental risk.
Discharge Sites
24.   Given the choice of Changjiang discharge, discharge sites themselves need least-
cost evaluation. In the case of this project, however, the choice was determined largely by
the existence of a surface outfall at Bailonggang, the exit point of the Southern Interceptor.
Alternative sites were considered, but none had immediately obvious advantages over
Bailonggang and the high cost of modeling studies to determine suitability of a site
suggested that a sequential pass/fail evaluation of possible alternatives, beginning with
Bailonggang, would he the most efficient selection mechanism.  In the event, the
Bailonggang studies demonstrated that with proper outfall design, the site would be
appropriate, and it was therefore accepted.
Wastewater Conveyor Routing
25.   The next stage of analysis involved optimizing the conveyor routing to capture
flows and deliver them to Bailonggang. Here, seven routing options were considered (for
details see project files "Feasibility Report," Vol. 2), each constrained to an outfall at the
current site of the Southern Sewer outfall at Bailonggang and at least one of the river
crossings at the site of the Outer Ring Road Crossing. All options envisage a possible
second outfall 7 km south of Bailonggang to handle augmented flows if Pudong
development proceeds as anticipated. Differences among the options relate principally to
the numnber of river crossings, sizes of various sections, and connections between existing
and planned conveyors for flow balancing purposes. Environmental impacts also vary
among the options. The table below summarizes the average incremental cost (AIC)
economic cost for each option, evaluated at a 12 percent discount rate:



-122 -                     ANNEX 15
Option        Average Incremrnntal Cost
(yar/r n)
1                     1.53
2                     1.53
3                     1.50
4                     1.54
5                     1.69
6                     1.76
7                     1.67
26.   All options include the economic value of land acquired for the project. Options 1
through 4 have measurably lower economic cost than options 5 through 7; however, the
apparent cost differences among I through 4 and among 5 through 7 are within the bounds
of costing accuracy and should not be considered significant. The options do not all imply
equal outcomes. Option 5 has the advantage of intercepting more wastewater in stage one,
hence has a greater, for a short term, positive impact on the Huangpu. Option 6 leads to the
least resettlement because it relies on only one conveyor line, while all other options use
two lines. Option 6 also relies solely on the Bailonggang outfall, an area of proven
assimilative capacity. Options I and 2 necessitate the removal of 4 road and 9 foot bridges
during construction, which would have a considerable, uncosted impact on users. The
option I and 2 routing also would require some difficult construction along a narrow canal.
Option 4 would require a connection crossing the most densely populated area of Shanghai
and only a tunnel connection would be feasible. Reconnaissance did not reveal an obvious
site for tunnel access shafts, and given the disruption to an already excessively congested
downtown area, this option would be preferred only if it promised substantial cost savings
compared to other options.
27.   Option 3 was chosen as the least cost of the considered options, given the uncosted
environmental impacts and construction risks inherent in Options 1, 2, and 4. The
advantages of option 6 were judged to be outweighed by the 16 percent cost increase it
would entail.
Wastewater Conveyor Sizing
28.   The conveyor costs are very sensitive to sizing. Under the current strategy, the
conveyors would be sized to handle estimated flows up to the year 2006, at which time
additional conveyors would have to be built. The anticipated future investment program,
system financing requirements, and, ultimately, cost of the service are very sensitive to
changes in wastewater production. That, in turn, is a function of water demand and the use
of any processes that may minimize wastewater output. The current SMG estimates for
water demand reflect historical water and wastewater pricing regimes, in which water prices
have fallen substantially in relation to income and wastewater prices have historically been
zero. Based on these assumptions, the year 2020 per capita domestic water demand
(medium growth scenario) is estimated to be 280 lcd. This can be compared to Hong Kong,
where current demand levels are about 260 lcd. The Hong Kong experience, where real



-123 -                      ANNEX 15
income levels are higher than can be expected for Shanghai in 2020 and penetration of
water-using labor-saving appliances is very high, suggests that 260 lcd might serve as a
high estimate for Shanghai 2020 domestic consumption. The impact of sizing conveyors is
discussed in the main text of the Appraisal Report (para. 6.13).
Treatment
29.   The outfall modeling studies have shown that untreated discharges through
Bailonggang up to BOD loads of 294 t/day would not result in significant (i.e., one or more
water quality class) deterioration of the Changjiang estuary. As initial flows are estimated
to contain BOD loads of about 145 t/day, the initial treatment strategy is confined to
preliminary treatment, which itself protects the pumps and outfalls. However, Changjiang
water quality as it enters the Shanghai area fails to meet some of the parameters of the
surface water quality III standards, and Shanghai's discharges could further increase
pressure on that quality. Of particular interest is total phosphorus loads, because of their
possible contribution to red tides in Hangzhou Bay and the East China sea.
30.   The proposed treatment strategy would be designed to hold the average annual
phosphorus loads at a level no higher than their year 2000 discharges (the year full
operations would begin). To achieve this, chemically enhanced primary treatment would be
introduced in stages from about the year 2005 onward. To meet that goal, sufficient land
would be acquired at the Bailonggang site to build those treatment facilities. Furthermore,
the preliminary treatment works would be designed to facilitate the addition of primary
treatment.
Risks
31.   The proposed project faces or mitigates a variety of risks. Those risks are here
grouped into four types: implementation and operational risks; regulatory risk; risk to water
supply; and risks to long term sustainability. Each type of risk is discussed below.
Implementation and Operation Risks
32.   These risks include a variety of physical, institutional, and economic factors that
could interfere with the timely construction or operation of any of the project elements.
These include:
(a)   Financial Risks: These risks are of two sorts, those of counterpart funding
and operational funding. As to counterpart funding, the project would
require an investment of some $633.3 million, a significant portion of the
Shanghai infrastructure investment budget. Of that, the proposed Bank loan
would provide $250 million, and the wastewater company and SMG would
need to identify sources for the remaining $383.3 million. The risk of
counterpart funding problems has been minimized through design
optimization to minimize cost and SMG agreement to implement sewerage
tariffs sufficient to cover O&M costs, debt service and a meaningful



-124 -                      ANNEX 15
contribution to future capital investments. SMG also has a strong incentive
to ensure timely provision of counterpart funding, for the realization of the
Pudong development strategy requires facilities to move wastewater out of
the area. The proposed project would provide those facilities. Good
counterpart funding perfonnance during SSPI gives additional comfort that
this risk would be manageable. Potential operational funding risks are
discussed ftirtlher under regulatory risks. We note here that SMG has agreed
to a financial covenant that would, if implemented, generate sufficient
revenues through operations to meet anticipated operational funding needs
and begin to contribute to meeting capital needs. An initial tariff adjustment
implemented from March 1996, would provide funds adequate to cover at
least O&M costs in the early years of project operation.
(b)   Construction Risk: The proposed investment differs little in construction
demands from SSPI. The project agency demonstrated its ability during
execution of that project to meet construction challenges for this type of
work. The only major problem arose Nvith one outfall tunnel that had to be
abandoned during construction due to methane gas problems. Having faced
this problem once, the project office has asked for the assistance of an expert
panel to review all tunneling work to be undertaklen in SSPII. That panel
would help institute the necessarv safeguards to minimize the risk of similar
problems in this project.
(c)    Operational Risk: The proposed project relies on technologies familiar to
SMSC and within the operational capabilities of the current wastewater
works management and staff. For this reason, operational risks are not
deemed significant if adequate budget is provided for project operation.
Regulatory Risk
33.   Significant regulatory risks are of two types in this project. The first is in regulation
of industrial effluents and the second in timely approval of covenanted tariff adjustments.
The pollution control results anticipated for the Huangpu and other surface waters depend
not only on sewerage technologies successfully constructed and operated by SMSC. Many
important pollutants must be controlled at source by the industries generating them. A
failure to do so could threaten either the sewerage infrastructure or the quality of the
Huangpu and Changjiang waters, depending on where discharged. The principal means of
mitigating this risk is a strong regulatory regime. The importance of this work was
recognized during preparation of SEP, which contains provisions for strengthening the
Shanghai Environmental Protection Bureau and provides for a phased program to bring all
major industrial polluters into compliance with discharge standards. The city had made
good progress in that regard prior to SEP, as detailed in the Staff Appraisal Report for that
project.



-125 -                      ANNEX 15
34.   Tariff Adjustments: During project preparation, SMG approved a tariff schedule
for implementation commencing in 1996 that would ensure self-financing of SMSC's
operations. Nonetheless, any specific tariff increase would need the approval of the SMG at
the time it is proposed. The financial covenant under SSPI permitted financing operations
through government budget transfers, rather than tariffs. SMG demonstrated a strong
preference for that option and, in fact, has met the company's needs to date. However, that
strategy is deemed riskier than beneficiary financing, due to the possibility that strain on the
municipal budget would lead to a reduction, if only temporarily, in transfers. Furthermore,
indirect financing through budget transfers provides no price signals to consumers about the
true cost of producing wastewater, leading to excessive production of wastewater and
increased demands for infrastructure investment. A significant tariff increase was therefore
sought during project preparation, and implemented from  March 1996.  Continued
adherence to the agreed financing covenant would require careful monitoring.
Reduction Of Risk To Water Supply
35.   The Shanghai water supply faces the risk of an accident or willful act that would
prevent operation of the supply system. This could occur if, for example, a major pollution
spill took place that reached the intake or if the works itself had to shut down for
mechanical or other reasons. The Shanghai water supply system contains very little storage
capacity-approximately two hours of operation-increasing the risk of losses from any
such event. The completion of the proposed project would substantially lower the risk to
Shanghai's water supply by intercepting wastewater from the major industrial center in the
city. With completion of the system, a major spill would enter the interceptor and be
discharged to the Changjiang, with its much higher assimilative capacity and lack of
downstream extraction for consumption, instead of the Huangpu.
Risks To Long-Term Sustainability
36.   The major risks to long-term sustainability are financial and regulatory, and have
been discussed above. Additional risks arise from outside of Shanghai itself, and center on
polluting inputs to the various water bodies that Shanghai cannot control. These additional
pollutants would not change the marginal impact of Shanghai on the various receiving
waters, but they could overwhelm any benefit that would otherwise be realized by the
planned investments. In the case of the network of waterways linked to the Huangpu, this
risk is not great. Most of their pollutants are of local origin, and their control would be a
function of the proper operation of the project. However, the Huangpu itself suffers from
nonpoint source pollutants, particularly agricultural, and the Changjiang is carrying
substantial nutrient loads from upstream agriculture, as well as industrial pollution
discharges. Satisfactory abatement of those polluting sources would depend on the actions
of a large number of political jurisdictions, most of which would suffer no immediate harm
from continued discharges to these rivers. The growing appreciation within China of the
importance of water pollution abatement offers the best hope of inducing compliance with



-126 -                      ANNEX 15
the current industrial regulations. A similar appreciation of the risks from agriculture has
yet to appear, and must become an element of river basin quality control.
37.   Even if loads from other sources remain as predicted, minimizing any impact from
growing Shanghai loads would require the treatment facilities tentatively scheduled to begin
going on line in 2005. The risk remains that they would not be constructed as planned and
that the assimilative capacity of the Changjiang would therefore be exceeded sometime
after 2005. Thlis risk may be slightly increased in the with-project case, for without the
project such additional flows would end up in local waterways or in the Huangpu. In either
of the latter two cases, the municipality would suffer immediate damage, while in the
Changjiang case the immediate damage would be less (confined to the fishing industry) and
therefore better able to be ignored. A similar risk exists if the impact modeling studies were
over optilllistic. HIere, however, the planned discharges are so far under the assimilative
capacity that even with an over optimistic estimate, the flows can be safely absorbed.
Tariff and Effluent Levels
38.   The tariff schedule adopted by SMSC is based on average, rather than marginal,
capital and operating costs. An economically efficient tariff would reflect the marginal
environmental damage of discharges, which cannot be known from the cost of collecting
and (if done) treating the discharges. Furthermore, that damage would depend very much
on the particular conmposition of the effluent stream. As a result, tariff policy has been
designed around the needs of providing the service to the municipally-determined level,
rather than as a means of reducing demand. Actual demand for effluent removal and
treatment would also be a function of the demand for water, which is driven in part by water
prices. Water prices are expected to increase substantially in real terns over the next
decade as newAT investments are made in higher quality raw water sources (see the Shanghai
EnvironmenL Project, Report 12386-CHA). The importance of demand regulation can be
seen by comparing the estimated real tariff levels (1994 prices) needed to sustain
wastewater services under the medium and low wastewater output scenarios:
Growth                        Average tariff in given year (Y/m3)
scenario         1996         2000         2004          2008         2012
Medium           0.22          0.28         0.36         0.39          0.44
Low              0.25          0.33         0.39         0.41          0.46
Note: T ariffs assume no contribution to capital, no capture of revenue from industries that
self-supply water. Tariffs above are shown in real terms (1994 prices).
39.   The low growth tariffs are slightly higher than medium growth in 1996, because the
same size capital works are assumed in both cases. However, additional works come on
line much more slowly under the low growth scenario, leading to increasingly large savings
over time. The lower tariffs also help maintain the affordability of the system.



-127-                        ANNEX 15
40.   Differences in average tariffs are not sufficient to generate the differences in
wastewater output between the medium and low growth scenarios. Indeed, most of the
difference in the medium and low scenarios stems from differing assumptions about price
and income elasticity of demand for water and wastewater services. But, as suggested
above, comparison with Hong Kong does support the lower growth scenario and therefore
more moderate increases in tariffs and demand for new investment.
Affordability
41.   Almost all housing in urban Shanghai is served by 24-hour piped water, with only
1 percent of the population now relying on standpipes for water supply. Therefore, because
wastewater tariffs are derived from piped water usage for domestic users, even the poorest
segments of the community would face the higher domestic tariffs proposed to finance the
project. Based on an averaged wastewater tariff of Y 0.40 proposed above, the expected
tariff increase would raise the effective cost of water and wastewater services from the
current Y 0.51 level to Y 0.91 per m3, and the combined water/wastewater bill for families
in the poorest 10 percent of the population would increase to about Y 12/month (assuming a
water consumption of about 13 m3/month/liousehold), or 1.5 percent of their incomes. If
the poorest 10 percent continue to share in real income growth, as they generally have in
recent years, these cost of living increases can be easily covered. For the very poorest
0.5 percent, real incomes have not kept pace with social averages. This group would need
their social welfare payments augmented to meet these additional costs.
42.   SMSC's consultants conducted a willingness-to-pay for wastewater services study.
The study was worded to elicit the broadest measure of willingness-to-pay for a healthier
water regime, rather than to evaluate response to the current project proposal. As such, the
findings could be interpreted as an upper bound to willingness-to-pay for the current
project.  The results were consistent with international experience.  T he average
willingness-to-pay was Y 1.30 per month. This contrasts unfavorably with the Y 4.20 per
month that would be required of the average family, if they do not adjust their consumption
when wastewater costs rise. The difference between the willingness-to-pay and the needed
tariff can be interpreted as a tax on the user to cover the negative externalities generated bv
their wastewater discharges.



-128 -                      ANNEX 16
ANNEX 16: PROPOSED SUPERVISION PLAN
(Proposed Bank Supervision Input)
Proposed             Activities                 Expected Skill      Staff Input
Date                                           Requirement          (SW)
04/96    Project Launch Workshop          Economist, Financial        8
Analyst, Engineer,
Review retroactive financing work,   Procurement &
project organization, procurement    Resettlement Specialists
financial management and reporting
requirements.
09/96    Supervision Mission              Engineer, Financial         8
Analyst, Mechanical
Review progress in financial man-    Engineer
agement, procurement, physical
works. Evaluate single-currency
loan selection
02/97    Supervision Mission              Engineer, Mechanical        8
Engineer, Financial
Review construction management,   Analyst, Resettlement
procurement, operational perform-   Specialist
ance.
09/97    Supervision Mission              Engineer, Financial        10
Analyst, Mechanical
Review progress in treatment plants/ Engineer, Economist,
infrastructure, Institutional auton-    Training Specialist
omy. Evaluate single-currency loan
selection
02/98    Mid-term Review                                             14
Overall review of project perform-
ance compared to objectives.
02/98    Supervision Mission              Engineer, Financial        10
Analyst, Organizational
As above. Evaluate single-currency   Specialist
loan selection
09/98    Supervision Mission              Engineer, Financial        10
Analyst, Environmental
As above                         Engineer, Resettlement
Specialist
1999-   At least one supervision mission per  To be determined
2002    year; last mission would discuss  depending on progress.
with borrower preparation of ICR.



-129-                       ANNEX 17
ANNEX 17: SELECTED DOCUMENTS AND DATA
AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILE
1.    The Second Shanghai Sewerage Project Design Review and Advisory Services,
Preappraisal (Interim Report), April 1995
2.    Shanghai Sewerage Project (Second Stage), The Preappraisal Information
Compilation for the World Bank
3.    The Second Shanghai Sewerage Project Design Review and Advisory Services,
Predesign Review Report, Volume I-Main Report, January 1995
4.    The Second Shanghai Sewerage Project Design Review and Advisory Services,
Predesign Review Report. Appendices Volume I-Background Information, Appendix A,
January 1995
5.    The Second Shanghai Sewerage Project Design Review and Advisory Services,
Predesign Review Report, Appendices Volume 2B-Detailed Studies, Appendix G-N,
January 1995
6.    Feasibility Study for Shanghai Sewerage Project (II), SSPCC, April 1995
7.    Shanghai Sewerage Project (Second Stage), Data Compilation V, January 1995
8.    Supporting Modeling Studies for Feasibility of Proposed Disposal of Shanghai
Waste Water to Sea, Final Report, May 1995; DHI-Denmark
9.    Shanghai Sewerage Project (Second Stage), Appraisal Information Compilation for
the World Bank (SSPCC), June 1995
10.   The Second Shanghai Sewerage Project Design Review and Advisory Services;
Appraisal Report, Volumes 1-6 Plus Appendices-June 1995 (Consultants Interconsult;
Mott MacDonald, Sogreah, Reid Crowther)
11.   Resettlement Action Plan. Shanghai Sewerage Project Construction Company,
July 1995
12.   Shanghai Sewerage Project II. Environmental Assessment Report. Shanghai
Academy of Environmental Sciences, NEPA, SSPCC; with Interconsult/Mott
MacDonald, June 1995
13.   Draft Terms  of Reference  for Institutional Development, Construction
Management and Training. SSPCC and Appraisal Mission Report, July 1995






00                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~) .2 T
,0o                                                                                 o 
i                   M -                                                               0:1 8'. z                                      ;     
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-    - - - -- - - - -             - -     ..     .. . . . . . . . . .
70 ~ ~ ~~~~0
1                                                  111lla  i                   ( m     1 '-     ''                C        'S   (,! 'l    l,  
U~~(  \                                                 I ,(l_
n         i ~~ I _                                     - -0  









IIMAGING
Report No:       14973 CHA
Type: SAR



