Shanghai Second Sewerage Project
Supplementary Statement of
Environmental Impact Assessment
for
Reclamation Project of Wastewater Treatment Plant
Shanghai Academy of Environmental Sciences
Certification. No: 0931
February 1998



EIA Contractor:   Shanghai Academy of Environmental Sciences
Cooperator:       East China Normal University
Project Manager:   Gu Yongzhi
Fang Cuizhen
Member:           Wang Biao
Liu Shuping
Chen Banglin
Xu Chentian
Chen Qimin
Project Supervis:on: Zhou Zhernii
Report Review:    Dai Liufang



Shanghai Second Sewerage Project
Supplementary Statement of Environmental Impact Assessment for Reclamation
Project of Wastewater Treatment Plant
Content
1.     OVERVIEW
1.1    The SSP4I Project
1.2    Main Conclusions from EIA for SSPII
1.3    Proposal of Reclamation for Establishment of Sewage Pretreatment Plant of
SSPII
1.4    Purpose for Supplementary Statement Preparation
1.5    Basis of Environmental Impact, Assessment
1.6    Assessment Criteria, Scope, Phase and Sensitive Object
1.7    Environmentally Sensitive Objective
1.8    Assessment Priorities and Main Assessment Items
1.9    Technical Route for Assessment
2.     GENERAL DESCRIPTION OF CONSTRUCTION PROJECT
2.1    Name, Place and Feature of Project
2.2    Proposal of Land Reclamation
2.3    Project Scale and Items
2.4    Land Utilization
2.5    Requirement and Source of Earth
3.     CURRENT ENVIRONMENTAL STATEMENT OF THE ASSESSMENT
AREA
3.1    Natural Environment
3.2    Ecology Environment
3.3    Social Setting
4.     ANALYSIS OF IMPACT ON SEWAGE DISCHARGE FROM  LAND
RECLAMATION
4.1    Impact on Sewage Discharge of Second Shanghai Sewerage Project
4.2    Impact on Flow Conditions in This Water Area
4.3    Impact on River Bed Stability near Sewage Outfall Diffuser
4.4    Impact on Sewage Discharge Concentration Fields Distribution
5.   IMPACT ON  ECOLOGICAL  ENVIRONMENT  FROM  LAND
RECLAMATION
5.1     Historic Retrospect on Bailonggang Beachfront
5.2    Impact on Beachfront Vegetation
5.3    Impact on Fish Migratory Passage in Near-shore Shallow-water Zones at



Changjiang Estuary
5.4     In.pact on Fishing Ground outside Chang.jang Estuarv
6.     IMPACTS ON SOCIO-ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT
6.1    Impact on Social Environment
6.2    Impact on Economy
7.     ANALYSIS ON CONFORMITY OF RECLAMATION PROJECT WITH
REGIONAL PLANING
7.1    Conformity with Shanghai Overall Urban Development Objective
7.2    General Objective of Environmental Protection in Shanghai
8.     ENVIRONMENTAL  IMPACT  ANALYSIS  FOR  CONSTRUCTION
PERIOD
8.1    Main Environmental Impacts during Construction Period
8.2    Sources of Filling Earth and its Impact
8.3    Resource of Filling Earth
8.4    Construction Noise Impact Analysis
8.5    Impact of Construction Wastes
8.6    Impacts of Domestic Waste
9.     MITIGATION MEASURES FOR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS
9.1    Objectives
9.2    Mitigation Measures for Impacts of Filling Spoil
9.3    Mitigation Measures for Traffic Impacts
9.4    Mitigation Measures for Noise Impacts
9.5    Mitination Measures for Domestic Waste Impacts
9.6     Mitigation Measures for Odour Impacts
9.7    Mlitigation Measures for Impacts on Farmland
9.8    Mitiga,ion Measures for Fishery Impacts
9:9    ';ummarv of Mitigation Measures for Environmental Impacts
10.    CONCLUSION AND RECOMMENDATION
10.1    Conclusion
10.2    Recommendation



Chapter 1
Shanghai Second Sewerage Project
Supplementary Statement of Environmental Impact Assessment for Reclamation
Project of Wastewater Treatment Plant
1.     OVERVIEW
1.1    The SSPII Project
1.1.1   Overall Planning
Shanghai is one of the most important industrial basis and the major center of
economy, science and technology, trade, finance, information and culture in China.
However, the urban service in Shanghai is not compatible with its development. At
present, of 5 million m3/d of wastewater of the city total, 1.79 million m3/d is
collected and discharged into the Changjiang estuary and the East China Sea from the
West Trunk Sewer, South Trunk Sewer, and the sewers completed in the SSPI
(Combined Sewerage Project Stage I), and the 280,000 m3/d of wastewater is treated
by the wastewater treatment plant before discharging. Therefore, the rest of 59% of
the total wastewater is discharged directly into the Huangpu River without any proper
treatmnent, which causes a serious pollution in the Huangpu river the its tributaries.
In order to protect the water quality at the water intake in the upper Huangpu River
and to solve the wastewater discharging problem for the development and
improvement of the investment environment in Pudong New Area, it is recommended
that the SSPII project (Shanghai Second Sewerage Project) intercept the effluent
generated from Minhang, Wujing, Pudong New Area and part of Xuhui and Luwan
districts in Puxi (west of the Huangpu River) by a trunk sewer and discharge them
into the Changjiang River through the outfall at Bailonggang.
1.1.2  Project Service Area and Population
The project service area will be 21.7 km2 in part of Xuhui and Luwan district in Puxi,
155 km2 from south of Zhaojiagou in, Pudong, such as Lujiazui, Yangjing, Jinqiao,
Zhangjiang, Beichai, Zhoujiadu, Yunlian, Yangsi, Liuli, and 92.1 km2 in Minhang and
Wujing at the upper Huangpu River in Puxi. In total, the project service area will be
269.6 km2 with population of 2.757 million.
1.13   Designed Water Capacity and Water Quality
The designed water capacity for SSPII is 1.72 million m3/d in the dry season.
According to the water quality monitored for SSPII, the water quality designed for
SSPII with the compliance rate of 95% is as follows;
1-1



Chapter I
Table 1-1  Water Quality Designed for SSPII
unit: mw-il
Parameter              SS    BOD,   COD    NH l-N    Phosphate   T-P
average concentration    130   85     199    22.7       1.0         3.9
compliancerateof9;%   175   112       248     27.7      1.3         4.2*
* compliance rate oi 72%
1.1.4   Sewer Route
*  The effluent from Puxi will be intercepted by the present pump stations and
collected into the southem trunk sewer of SSPII in Pudong after crossing the
Huangpu River from Baibu Bridge in Longhua;
*  The southern trunk sewer is laid from the east of the Outer Ring Road to Jianping
Road. connecting middle trunk sewer at Jianping Road:
m  The middle trunk sewer is laid from the east of the Jianping Road. along the north
of Longdong Road and to the wastewater treatment plant at Bailonugang of
Changjiang estuarv;
*  The total length of the sewers is 49.12 km. (Fig 1.1)
1.1.5   Wastewater Treatment Plant
A phased proeram will be adopted to build the wastewater treatment plant.
It is planned that a wastewater pretreatment plant with a dailv treatment capacitv of
1 .70 million m xvill be built at Bailonggang in the near future and meanwhile vacant
land will be reserved for future construction of a secondarv treatment plant later.
1.1.6   Outfall
The outfall will be situated at Changjiang estuarvy 1.6 km northeast awav from
Heqing tow%nship. A head tank will be constructed and a main outfall 4200 mm inner
diameter. and (one emergency outfall, will be built. The diffusion section mill
comprise 6 risers with muitiple discharge ports.
1-2



Phasc I sernce ar    I
Changjiang             P                             ¶ _u cc arr 
zhuvu c-,    PhAse I Trunk
A                    ,    Phasc t   and m I ,j
AL   _ Existng South I nmk
.~~~~ -                                                                                      ':  
- \
.A-
L A
Tinuk mWs\\g
t..adMsi' _ __ 
Fig 1-1 Project Service Aresk and Sewer Route of SSPII
'.3



Chapter I
1.1.7   Construction Methods and Spoil Disposal
Trunk:
Sheeting piling or excavation is to be used according to different sections.
Siphon:
-  Reinforced concrete jacking is to be used for the siphons across the Huangpu
River and Chuanyang Canal;
-  Diking is to be used for other rivers in general.
Outfall:
Shield tunneling is to be used.
Spoil:
The total quantity of spoil is estimated to be 1.277 million m3, about 1.249 million m3
will be generated from the section in Pudong and it can be used for road building and
back filling in Zhangjiang Hi-Tech Park and reclamation along shoreline of
Changjiang River.
1.1.8   Land Acquisition and Borrowing
It is estimated that the permanent land acquisition will amount to 158.27 ha, among
which, 15 ha will be built for sewage treatment plant, 107.7 ha will be used for
temporary land acquisition, and in total 70,081 yuan will be needed for land
acquisition and borrowing.
1.1.9  Project Cost and Schedule
The total project investment is estimated to be 4.8 billion yuan, in which, 250 million
USD will be loaned by the World Bank. With tax, interest, the total project cost may
amount to more than 5 billion yuan.
The project construction was start at the end of 1996 and will be completed in 2000.
1.2    Main Conclusions from EIA for SSPII
1) The implementation of SSPII will play an important role in the economic growth
of Shanghai, the development of Pudong, the improvement of water quality in
upper Huangpu River and the improvement of people's health.
2) Project implementation may result in some social impacts, especially land
acquisition, borrowing and dismantling of buildings, which will change the living,
working conditions and employment of the residents. Impacts would be
1-4
, ,



Chapter I
minimized if contractors implemented the project in strict accordance with
national and local policies, whilst carrying out various mitigation measures.
3) By using a submerged outfall with a diffuser system, an improvement has been
made on the existing water environment at Bailonggang. At the design flow of
1.7 million m3/d, a mix zone, in which the dilution of the sewage is less than 50.
is predicted to be around 0.5 to 3.2 km2 in area. Under the most unfavorable
condition, the probability of inadequately diluted sewage rising the surface would
be less than 5%. Since the mix zone is not near the river contour, the passage for
fish migration will be maintained.
4) Pollutants specified as Category I by the National Integrated Wastewater
Discharge Standard need to be strictly controlled and the Category II pollutants
should be controlled on the basis of total load contr6l. For this project the
allocated load for controlling can be defined as:
5-day Biochemical Oxygen Demand (BOD5)      190 t/day
Chemical Oxygen Demand (COD)            422 t/d
Ammonia-Nitrogen                        47 t/d
Total phosphorous                       7 t/d
5) Based on an analysis of many alternatives, it is found that sewage treatment
would be liihiited to preliminary treatment involving screening and aerated grit
removal for the present. Land will be reserved for future extension of treatment
facilities.
6  Bv using a submerged outfall with diffusers, the potential impact on the existing
ecological balance would be minimized so that very limited adverse ecological
environmental consequences would be expected and no eutrophication problem
w;ould be foreseen.
7) Based on relevant analysis, there will be no significant adverse impact on
environmentally sensitive parameters, which even will be benefited.
X) It is required that management and monitoring systems be established for the
preparation. construction and operation phases of the project in order to minimize
the environmental impact of the project.
1.3    Proposal of Reclamation for Establishment of Sewage Pretreatment
Plant of SSPII
In order to minimize cultivated land occupation and ease the difficulty of project
resettlement. based on the experience on reclamation from other similar construction
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-



Chapter I
projects such as Pudong  Intemational Airport. Shanghai Sewerape Project
Construction Con panv changed the original option of farm land acquisition for land
reclamation from  the sea to construct the sewage treatment plant. so that the
preliminarv sewage treatment plant will be set up within the reclamation area and the
land for future extension for secondary treatment will also be ensured. Based on the
studv and appraisal frnm the experts, the option of land reclamation from the sea bears
several advantages as follows:
I ) Making full use of wet land resources of Changjiang estuary: practicallv
implementing the principle national policy for effective land resource
preservation and less or no cultivated land occupation. preserving the limited
cultivated land in Shanghai and having great social benefits.
2) Land reclamation from the sea can provide a land area of 1830 mu (122 ha.).
which can not oaidy reduce cultivated land acquisition about 100 mu (6.67 ha.) for
sewage treatment plant construction as well as the labor force of 2000 needed to
be rearranged because of land acquisition, but also reduce the unit land cost and
reserve land for future project expansion. In total, 2.92 million yuan R-MB will be
reduced and great economic benefits from reclamation can be achieved.
3) By reclamation. layout of sewage treatment plant. outfall pumping station. and
outfall head tank can be more reasonable, thus inflow of the treatment plant will
be more smaoLh and operation cost can be cut down. In addition. the location
changing of the pumping station can reduce length of the outlet channel from
1600 m to 850. therefore, excavation amount can be reduced and construction
difficulties can be eased.
1.4    Purpose for Supplementary Statement Preparation
The Statement tor Environmental Impact Assessment of Shanghai Second Sewerage
Project was completed by Shanghai Academy of Environmental Sciences in Mlav
1995 and approved bv the National Environmental Protection Agency. Iiowever.
because of the changing of land acquisition option for the sewage treatment plant. the
result trom  the original assessment may also be differed. According to the
requirement srom (uidelines for Environmnental Management of construction ProJects
(No. 86 NE003). Shanghai Academy of Environmental Sciences was entrusted bv
Shanghai Sewerage Companv (SSC) to prepare a supplementarv report on
environmental impact ol the reclamation project on the basis of original statement in
order to find x hat will be happened after changing the oniginal plan.
*  whether there arc some impacts on original sewage outfall plan.
-  What will be the changes to flow distribution at the outtall near Changjiang
estuarv anter dvkiing?
1-6



Chapter I
-  Are there any impacts on the river bed stability in the section where the sewage
diffuser is laid?
-  Are there any impacts on concenlration distribution of the sewage discharged?
*  whether there will be some changes on eco-environment at Changjiang estuary.
-  Are there any impacts on the wet land flora in Changjiang River?
-  Are there any impacts on the coastal shallow water for fishing migration passages
in the Changjiang estuary?
-  Are there any impactson fishing grounds outside the Changjiang estuary?
*  whether there will be some impacts on the local socio-economic environment.
*  whether it will be in conformity with relevant plans in Shanghai.
*  which impacts it will cause during project construction phase.
*  put forward the mitigation measures on the adverse impacts which may be
occurred by the project, minimize the adverse impacts and maximize the social
and envirom-nental benefits of the project.
1.5    Basis of Environmental Impact Assessment
1.5.1   Documents on Project Proposal
l) Proposal on Substitution of Reclamation Project for Land Acquisition for the
Construction of Preliminary Sewage Treatment Plant of SSPII  (prepared   by
Shanghai Sewerage Project Construction Company, No (96) 4, February 16,
1996)
2) Supplementary Document on the Substitution of Reclamation Project for Land
Acquisition for the Construction of Sewage Treatment Project of SSPII (prepared
by Shanghai Sewerage Project Construction Company, April 15, 1996)
3) Appraisal Report on the Proposar of Substitution of Reclamation Project for Land
Acquisition for the Construction of-Preliminary Sewage Treatment Plant of SSPII
(Science and Technology Committee of Shanghai Municipal Construction
Commission, No 96-8-25, July 1, 1996)
4) Letter of Application Approval fcr Appraisal on the Proposal of Substitution of
Reclamation Project for Land Acquisition for the Construction of Preliminary
Sewage Treatment Plant of S;SPII (prepared by Science and Technology
Committee of Shanghai Municipal Construction Commission, No (96) 151, July
3, 1996)
5) Letter in Approval for the Proposal of Substitution of Reclamation Project for
Land Acquisition for the Construction of Preliminary Sewage Treatment Plant of
SSPII (issued by Shanghai Municipal Construction Commission, No (96) 0704,
August26, 1996)
6) Letter in Reply for the Proposed Location for the Construction of Preliminary
Sewage Treatment Plant of SSPII (issued by Shanghai Municipal Urban Planning
1-7



Chapter I
Administration Bureau. No (1997) 270. February 5. 1997j
1.5.2   Entrustment Document
1) Entrustment Document for Supplementary Environmental Impact Assessment on
the Substitution of Reclamation Project for Land Acquisition for the Construction
of Sewage 1Treatment Plant of SSPII (Shanghai Sewerage Company. August 6.
1997)
1.5.3   Regulation and Document on Environmental Protection
I ) Enviromnental Protection Law of the People's Republic of China (issued bv the
I I' session of the Standing Committee of the 7" National People's Congress on
December '6. 1989)
2) Water Act of P.R.C (issued by the 24t' session of Standing Committee of the 6'
National People's Congress on July 21, 1989)
3) Water Pollution Prevention and Control Act of PRC (issued bv the 5' session of
Standing Committee of the 6t' National People's Congress on May I1. 1994 and
amended on May 15, 1996)
4) Guidelines of Water Pollution Prevention and Control Act of PRC (issued bv the
State Council on July 12, 1989)
5) Guideline for Environmental Management of Construction Project (issued by
Environmneiltal Protection Committee of the State Council. State Planning
Commission. and State Economic Commission on March 26. 1986)
6) Regulation of Water Source Protection at Upper Huangpu River of Shanghai
(issued bv the 14'h session of Standing Committee of the 8"' Shanghai Municipal
People's Coneress on April 19, 1985 and amended by the 21' session of Standing
Committee of 9"' Shanghai Municipal People's Congress on September 28. 1990)
7) Noise Pollution Prevention and Control Act of PRC (issued by the 22nd session
of Standing- Committee of the 6'h National People's Congress on October 29.
1996)
8  Shanghai Sewerage Plan (prepared by Shanghai Urban Construction Desitn
Institute in September 1994)
9)  Technical (Guideline for Environmental Impact Assessment  IIJ/12.l. 2.3-93
1.6    Assessment Criteria, Scope, Phase and Sensitive Object
1.6.1   Assessiaient Criteria
The criteria adoptcd here are as same as those in the statement of EIA for SSPII.
*  Category III of Environrmental Standard for Surface Water Qualitv of PRC (GB
3838-88) or usual parameters;
I-8



Chapter I
*  Category IV of Environmental Standard for Surface Water Quality of PRC
(GB3838-88) for COD because of its rather high baseline;
*  Class 3 of Shanghai Surface Water Quality Standard for NH3-N;
*  Meanwhile referring to Category 3 of Marine Water Quality Standard (GB3097-
82) and Fishery Water Quality Standard (TJ35-79)
1.6.2   Assessment Scope
(1) The Changjiang Estuary
Southern Passage, Southern Channel, water areas on both sides of the proposed outfall,
about I Okm each side of the proposed outfall
(2) Social Environment
The original land acquisition area for the construction of pioposed sewage treatment
plant in Heqing township
1.6.3   Assessment Phase
Project construction phase, operation phase
1.7    Environmentally Sensitive Objective
* Coastal Shallow Water for Fishing Migration Passage in the Changjiang Estuary
* Fishirng Grounds Outside the Changjiang Estuary
1.8    Assessment Priorities and Main Assessment Items
1.8.1   Assessment Priorities
T he assessment priorities of the project can be categorized into two parts:
(I) construction phase
Soejio-economic impact, such as land resource preservation, increment of land
utilization rate. reduction of cultivated land occupation, land acquisition, resettlement,
labor force rearrangement, earth filling resource and the conformity of the project with
regional planning, and etc. caused by reclamation;
Environmental impacts caused by construction activities.
(2) operation phase
1-9



Chapter I
Impacts on water flow distribution. pollutant migration and transportation. wet land in
the ChangjianL estuary and eco-environrent caused by reclamation.
1.8.2   Main Assessment Items
1) Analysis on the conformity of reclamation project with regional pianning;
2) Impact assessment on socio-economic environment of reclamation project:
3) Impact analvsis on sewage discharge of reclamation project:
4) Impact analvsis on eco-environrent of reclamation project.
1.9 Technical Route for Assessment
1-10



Chapter I
Fig 1.2 Technical Route for Environmental Impact Assessment
[i,ernment-approved
Lj~roject proposal
I.Study on the relevant laws and reg,ulations
2.Studv on the documents relevant to the project
Phase
-~~~Prpr OLutline of EIA             I . 
znvestiza!ation _I
~~~o ieenvironmentalipc
(JUalltv                                     Project~~~~~~ac
P!hase         |National or local,
11            laws, reaUlations
_  _       and standards
XAsseil nten  o the pr 'ect environment impTct
I Provide   environmental   protection
IPhaseI
111I-                  Imeasures
2. C'onclusion
3.EIA preparation
_~~~~~~~- I



Chapter 2
2.    GENERAL DESCRIPTION OF CONSTRUCTION PROJECT
2.1   Name, Place and Feature of Project
* lName:
land reclamation for Second Shanghai Sewerage Project preliminary sewage
treatment plant
*   Place:
Iieqing Township, Shanghai Pudong New Area. i.e.. in the west of People Dam,
at Changjiang Beachfront in the south of planned Zhangjiabang, 27km from
Wusongkou at its upstream side. 1.5km from Bailonggang at its downstream side,
and Changxing and Hengsha Isle on the opposite side
*   Feature:
municipal public utility
*   Occupied land area:
about 1.300.00Om3
*   Greenery coverage:
ratio of greenbelt area to total occupied land area shall not be less than 25%,
among which. ratio of integral greenbelt area to total occupied land area not less
than 10%
2.2   Proposal of Land Reclamation
In order to occupy farm land less or not to occupy farm land. and also to reduce the
amount ot land acquisition and labour force allocation. Shanghai municipal Sewerage
C(ompany. Ltd. has proposed to use the alluvial beachfront at Bailonggang, i.e.. to carry
tout land reclamation as far as 1.04Clm from present Changjiang coastline to planned
(Changjiang coastline. about 1.830mu of land area. The reclaimed land will be used for
Second Shanghai Sewerage Project preliminary treatment plant and secondary
treatment plant as well as their accessories.
2.3   Project Scalc and Items
2.3.1  1'roject Scale
1'lc land reclamation is located on Changjiang beachfront outside of existing
Changiang dam at Xiangyangwei. Heqing Township. the whole length of designed
2-1



Chapter 2
dam 3.030m. North-southward main dam is built on planned Changjiang coastline. the
length 1,10Gm. The alignment of planned Changjiang coastline is in the vicinitv of
beachfront 0-meter isobath. Side-dams at two sides extend into Changiiang from the
original Changjiang dam, north side-dam in length of 750m and south side-dam in
length of 1,180m. The reclaimed land area is about 122ha ( 1.830mu ), except
Changjiang dam land area. the remain land area about 107ha (1.600mu ). The land
areas of outfall pumping station, TBM ( tunnel boring machine, i.e., shield machine )
working shaft for head tank and box-culvert are about 1Oha ( 150mu ), land area of
preliminary treatment plant about 40ha ( 600mu ), therefore, land area for future
secondary treatment plant about 57ha ( 850mu).
223.2 Items of Project
1  ) Construction of Dam
*     Main Dam:
north-southward alignment. the whole length 1. I 0m
top elevation of dam: 8.70m
top elevation of flood wall: I 0.00m
top width of dam:8.00m
road of mud and crushed-stone in 5m width is built on the top of dam
extemal 'lopeness of dam: 1:3 - 1:1.5
intemal slopeness of dam: 1:2
slope is covered by green plant
green plant: elevation 5.00m, width 15m
platform width: 4m
X     South-side Dam
the whole length 1.800m
top elevation of dam: 6.00m
top elevation of flood wall: 7.00m
top width of dam:5.8m
road of mud and crushed-stone in 5m width is built on the top of dam
extemal slopeness of dam: 1:2
intemal slopeness of dam: 1:2
slope is covered by green plant
platforTn width: 4m
*     North-side Dam
the whole length 750m
top elevation of dam: 6.00m
top elevation of flood wall: 7.00m
top width of dam:5.8m
2-2



Chapter 2
road of mud and crushed-stone in 5m width is built on the top of dam
external slopeness of dam: 1:2
intemal slopeness of dam: 1:2
slope is covered by green plant
platform width: 4m
(2)  Temporary Discharge Channel of Existing South Trunk Sewer
The outfall of existing South Trunk Sewer will be included in the proposed land
reclamation area. Therefore. during the land reclamation construction period and after
the commission of new sewage outfall project. sewage will be diverted out of land
reclamation ara. temporary discharge channel and outfall to be built as well.
Verticallv-extended open-channel will be built to divert' sewage to Changjiang
heachfront along newly reclaimedi land. Box-culvert structure will pass through
undemeath newlv reclaimed land. Buffer tank. dam protective structure will be built
outside land reclamation. After the commission of preliminary treatment plant. the
temporary outfall will be blocked.
(3 )  Estuarine-silt Pumping for Land Reclamation
The land area of first phase is 580mu. with construction method of estuarine-silt
pumping from Changjiang. Ground elevation of land reclamation is about 5.OOm.
Width of estuarine-silt pumping area behind main dam is 80m. and not less than lOOm
hehind south-side dam. The land reclamation area by estuarine-silt pumping method
can he utilized as head tank. TBM ( tunnel boring machine, i.e.. shield machine )
construction dumping-ground. and also as temporarv construction site of Changjiang
Daam railing boards. crushed stone and cement.
i4    Simply-built Working Wharf
A simply-built working wharf will be constructed in the form of T-shape landing stage.
IUhe Ienath ot' landing stage is 54m. with boulder stone as its main structure. Pile-base &
heam-board structure will be adopted for wharf construction. 6m in width. 31 m in
lenuth. 1-he v' harf can be used for berthing of I OOt-class boat. Lifting equipment will be
installed on %%hart'to unload stone Hiock and vellow sand.
()uttall tunnel built by shield machine and box-culvert type of emergency
outtall passinzz undemeath dam will be used for deep water sewage discharge.
tX  (Construction access road shall be widened within land reclamation.
2-3



Chapter 2
2.4   Land Utilization
According to original plan of Second Shanghai Sewage Project. preliminary treatment
method will be used for near-term future sewage treatment. and secondarv sewage
treatment will be kept in planning as well, total land area 2000mu.
According to phased-implementation planning of sewage treatment plant. preliminary
treatment plant will be implemented at first with land acquisition about 15ha ( 225mu).
land acquisition for secondary treatment about 51.7ha ( 775mu ) of farm land.
122ha (I ,830mu ) of land can be increased by land reclamation. Meanwhile, originally
planned land acquisition of 1,OOOmu can be cancelled.
2.5    Requirement and Source of Earth
2.5.1 Requirement of Earth
Large quantity of earth will be needed for this land reclamation project. i.e.. for dam
construction and filling & raising of beachfront. According to preliminary assessment.
about 272,000m3 of silty-earth will be filled in geo-textile bags, about 1,552.000m3 of
silty-earth for estuarine-silt pumping to be conveyed by hydraulic machines. i.e.,
altogether about.2,000.000m3 of silty earth, another 1,000,000 m3 of earth from land.
2.5.2 Source of Earth
*    Silty Earth
I )  Ruifengsha Sand Isle. in the north-west of project site. about 15km awav.
2)  Beachfront sand at downstream of project site.
(3)   Jiuduansha Sand Isle near Hengsha Island, in the north-east of project site. about
I 2km awav.
I-or location of siltv earth source. see Fig 2-2.
*    E arth from Land
XI )  Box-culvert earth.
2 ' ) Pumping station earth.
(3)  Earth spoil from sewage pipelines.
2-4



|- \    .   lI.i' f  .        11\ ' .I \engsba isle
..o)                    - . \_(                                          ----        _    
_-          -.--.  -/                                                                      -W             \               \
S   A-   _''~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ '   '  'S          \      -    '           ;     t\__-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- *   ..  __
r1                                                                        -   L-.....~                                                        0...
.        Y                                                          -              -- -                                      _   -..                /~
ff   .       .Wuh.aogou\                                                                           .
°   , ,  \       j ~~~~~~~~~~~~7 ~~planncd shoricline      SC'k%agc outfall                        .                      ,
o   \                                     X           n~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t Zhangjiabang   -,-<
n >>;, > : @ * " | ;: - --v- ~~~~~~~~~~pun) staiolio'
:  :. \.  .;::: ,emporal oufall ofsouth trunk
;   ;'\ ., | Pudong New Area       ;Biog              gv       k n       a c 
O  1 -                                                 .kl4\|@t@!=I ,!t8@*-..-< 
.~~~~~~~~ ,  :                                             ai':,l,,,,:,
LA   .-~~~~~~_    - --          --                            -a--.~~~~Blon an   1
-I          -                              -a-a                                       -                                         -a-
0  2kni~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- pnp tto
'i    C  eprloClo  ot  rn
PudongNew  Area    I'''~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ '~~~~~~',i  d~~~~~~~~~~~~kingarca  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-.~~~



Chapter 2
Jiangsu Province
X,e'- '-
fi   Shanhjl        - .
Baiongglan~g
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Wusong-kou-Zhuvuan 12km      Zhuvuan-Bailonggang 16.5 km
Figure 2-2 Location of Sand Soil Deposit
2-6



Or3
3.    CURRENT ENVIRONMENTAL STATEMENT OF THE ASSESSMENT
AREA
3.1   Natural Environment
3.1.1 Geographic Situation
The land reclamation project is situated at Xiangyang darn of Renmin dam in the
Heqing town of Pudong new area. adjacent to the intemal side of the water dam of
Changjiang River. The project is sited to the east of estuary of Changjiang main
channel. 27km away from Wusonglcou upstream and 1.5km away from Bailonggang
downstream. opposite to Hengsha and Changxing islands. The geographic situation of
the project is shown in Figure 2-1.
3.1.2 Geology and Morphology
The strata in Pudong new area is an alluvion of the Changjiang River formed by
accumulation of silt carried by the Changjiang under the interaction of wave. tide, river
flow and human activity. The shoal of Xiangyang dam is relatively flat. tilted from
southwest to northeast. The elevation of the shoal before the dam is 3.89 m, longitudinal
gradient is about 3.0 . -5.00 m elevation line is 1800 m away and -10.00 m elevation
line is 2300 m away from the bank. The original elevation of the top of the Changjiang
dam is 8.0-6.0 m. and its width is 3-5 m. The extemal dam is boulder-mortared, while
the intemal dam is reed-planted.
3.1.3 Climate
i'udonu new area is in the seashore belt. strong affected bv east Asia monsoons. The
climate is maritime with four dislinct seasons and abundant precipitation. full of
%unshine. and with moderate temperatures. In summer. wind usually comes from
,outheast and in w6inter from northwest.
3.1.3.1 Air Temperature and Earth Temperature
.Air 1'emperature
tlFe zi erage temperature irom year 1991 to 1995 is 16.0   The coldest month
I :hruarv. the average temperature is 4.1  while the highest. August. 27.5   The
cxztrcme lowest temperature in the h,istory is -11  and highest is 40
*karth l'emperature
34I



C13
The surface temperature of the earth is 3.5  higher than mean air temperature. The
temperature of the shallow layers 5cm and 10cm below the earth surface is historically
1.7-1.9  higher than mean air temperature.
The mean earth temperature of January and February is about 5 . of July and August is
28-30   and of other months is above 5  . As to the date which the temperature
initially rises up to 10  and 15  , the date of earth layer which is 5cm below the
surface is 10 days before that of the air.
3.1.3.2 Sunshine, Precipitation and Frost
eSunshine
The mean sunshine of five years from 1991 to 1995 in Pudong new area was 2037.9hr.
* Precipitation
The mean precipitation of five years from 1991 to 1995 was 1188.5mm. most of which
concentrated on the period of spring rain. plum rains and autumnn rain. Flood season is
from May to September. Year 1996 was an exception. The rainfall of June and July was
435. 1mm. which covered 84.9% of the entire rainfall of flood season. In that year. the
rainfall of flood season was 512.2mm which accounted for 53.6% of the precipitation of
the year. Compared to others, this number was relatively small. The rain caused by
tvphoon concentrates on flood season(June to September) with the characteristics of
high intensity and short lasting time.
.Frost
The mean non-frost period of five years from year 1991 to 1995 is 225 davs.
3.1.3.3 Wind
The area is strong afTected by the monsoons. From Mav to September. wind comes
from the sea southeast. causing damp. hot and rainy weather. From October to next
-\pril. wind comes from the inner land northwest. causing the weather to be dry and
cold. As far as the wind direction is concemed, the southeast is the most frequent. the
northwest and the northeast come the next, the southwest is the least. The area is hit bv
the typhoon which comes from the Pacific Ocean every year from mid July to mid
September.
3-2



Qr3
3.1.4 Hydrology
3.1.4.1 River Svstem
Rivers within the area are the river system of the Huangpu River, which belong to full
idal -sensitive rivers. Among the Huangpu river system. there are Renmin river and
Suitang river north-southward. After dredging the Qingong river in 1984. Huangpu
river system were integrated from the west to the east. The water level of the inland
river was generally controlled to 2.5-2.8m after the flood gate was built.
3.1.4.2 Tide
'rhe tide of the Eastern China Sea is regular demidiurnal. The water area of
Bailonggang of the Changijang River is reiatively wide and is within the tide affecting
area. The speed of water flow in the deep water trough is very fast and the trough is
2300m away from the bank.
The water depth of the water area within the Changjiang Estuary is less than 20m and
the tide tvpe is irregular demidiuanal of shallow sea with twice flood tides a day.
The characteristics of the tide are as follows according to the historical observing data
from Zhongjun hydroiogic station:
fidal time: mean 'flooding time is Shr and 2 minutes. mean ebbing time is 7hr
and 22 minutes:
[idal level: maximum high tidal level is 5.69m. minimum high tidal level is
1 .08m. mean high tidal level is 2.44m.
I'ide dift'erence: mean tide difference is 2.67m. maximum tide difference is 4.65m.
minimum tide difference is 0.02m.
I'ide Flow and Sill
In the area %%here the project is located . the movement of water flow and silt is
rclatively complex and the tide flow is basically back and forth from northwest to
'outheast. lle speed ot' ebbing tide is f'aster than that of flooding tide. Affected bv the
tide and surge. everv year the Changjiang River brings about 468 million ton silt to the
sea and a part of the silt deposit in the area. The speed of the silt deposition in the area is
ouite slow naturall. wxhich is about O.2m higher than previous vear.
I'The silt in the Changjiang Estuarv is transported toward the bank through water flow.
iausine the dievelopment of the deposition. The movement of the silt is basically the
.'ame as that of' the tide and the silt transportation relies mainly on the flow of the
flooding tide.
3-3



OwC3
*Wave
In the area, surge is the main type of the wave . The direction of the strong wing is
northeastwards. According to the data from the pilot ship. the prevailing surge direction
is the same as wind direction in four seasons. Monthly mean wave height of vears is
0.9-1 .Om. the maximum is 2.0-6.2m which appears in August. The second highest wave
is 4.1 m which appears in September.
The area is always affected by typhoon every summer and autumn with frequent strong
wind comes from northeast. This is just when the Changjiang River is in its flood
season and also the season of bid autumn flood. Thus the highest wave always appears
in summer when typhoon comes. Northeast wind and the surge it caused is the major
motive factors which might damage the dam.
3.1.5 Soil
The soil of Pudong new area is formed through alluviation by the silt from the
Changjiang River upstream. After a long time of dripping-dissolution. alluviation and
human activity, together with the factors such as land-forming time and soil-forming
age, area difference of soil is developed.
3.1.5.1 Soil Type
The project is located at the east of Pudong new area, which is to the east of the Qingong
river and its tinre of land-forming is relatively late. The soil type is sand-mixed soil and
seashore saline soil. as well as rice soil cultivated with cotton and grain in the
east( rotation of crops and cotton ). These kinds of soil were directionally formed
through human productive activitv in a long time. There are two soil tvpes of crop soil
and moisture soil in the area. including four categories. they are yellow mud. sand-
mixed soil. piling-up soil and orcharding soil. Five soil species are included. thev are
light *ellow mud. yellow sandy mud, yellow muddy sand. reclamation soil and
orcharding soil.
3.1.5.2 Fertilitv of Soil
The area is in the range of original Chuansha country. The fertilitv of Nitrouen is above
the middle level. The average Nitrogen intensity is 8.01. The intensitv of providing
Nitrogen in Heqing town is between 6.92 and 7.99.
:ks to the distribution features of valid Phosphorus in farming laver. the concentration ot
the cotton-crop area in the east is lower than that of vegetable area in the west.
According to the limit of concentration abundance of 15ppm. 68.4% of the farming
layer in the country appear to be lack of Phosphorus in a certain degree.
34



Chm3
'The shortage of Potassium in the soil is relatively abundant. The concentration of
Potassium in the area is above I OOppm. The characteristics of distribution of potassium
is that the cast is higher than the west and the southeast is higher than the northwest.
3.1.6 Natural Disaster
3.1.6.1 Earthquake
The area is located at the east of the earthquake activity belt of Changjian2 Delta -
Huzhou and is an area with little and weak earthquake.
3.1.6.2 Tvphoon(including torrential rain, spring tide and flood)
T1he location of the project is in the frontier of the Changjiang Delta in the middle
latitudes of north hemisphere. There is also a convergence area of the Changjiang River
and the Eastern China Sea. Affected by monsoons, the climate of the area varies
complicatedly.
Disastrous weather often occurs in the period of typhoon flood every July to September.
It is a great menace if it happens to be an astronomical high tide when typhoon is close
to the seaside. After analyzing the historical data, we find every dangerous situation
occurred when typhoon. spring tide amd flood met at the same time. But arnong three
Iactors. typhoon is the most important one.
According to the analvse of many years data. July to September is found to be the
typhoon season of the area. among which mid July to mid September is the period
hlavin the most chances affected bv tvphoon. Three in everv four vears. typhoon hits
the area. Ihe frequency is one to two times a year. The maximum wind speed rnear the
,,-nter ot the typhoon once landed at Congming was 4Omi/s on Sept.. 1977.
3.2   Ecology Environment
3.2.1  Shoal Resource
Fhe range trnm the south of old seashore to the boundary of Nanhui country in Pudong
nriw- area is shoal. 'rhe shoal can be divided into north shoal. middle shoal and south
hoal. I'he south shoal is where the project located.
In middle shoal. trom old seashore to Sanjiagang. the length is 24km. the shoal is
narrow and unstable. 'rhe area is distributed scatteredly with 1270.96mu of grass
}-5



(ha3
seedlings, 725.66mu of reeds, 511 Omu shoal area over 2m and 921 mu shoal area over
3m.
3.2.2 Natural Vegetation
3.2.2.1 Wetland Vegetation
The intertidal zone of the shoal south of Changjiang Estuary develops generally and is
usually affected by human reclamation. Thus the shoal is quite narrow. There are many
ponds in the area as well as river courses crossing each other. The wetland vegetation
includes intertidal and fresh water vegetation.
*Intertidal Vegetation
The intertidal vegetation includes reed community, rough-leaf sedge communitv and
deer grass communitv. In reed community, reed is dominant which belongs to the grass
family. a kind of renascent. The reed mainly distributed at the external side of the river
dam above the average spring tide level. It can also be seen in the marsh of fresh water.
*Fresh Water Vegetation
Of fresh water vegetation, fox-tail algae, cedar moss and black algae are often seen
distributed in the river courses. brooks and ponds at intemal side of the dam.. Among
them. fox-tail algae is dominant and account for over 50%.
Other communities such as duckweed and ducksmeat communities are alwavs seen in
the ponds. ditches and surface water. Amaranth community is often seen in the ponds.
hrooks and ditches. The community develops very fast and has the inclination for
tertilizer and fresh water. It can be used as feed because of its high yield. Water lettuce
is an aquatic herbaceous plant introduced. It is fond of warmth and water and can grow
either with deep or shallow water. The quality of the grass is fine as a kind of feed.
13roadlv distributed in Changjiang river basin and South China, water hvacinth
communitv grows in the ponds, and ditches. It can be used for feed as its high yrowth
speed and good quality of grass.
3.2.2.2 Land Mesophvte
rhe vegetation tvpe of land mesophyte is phvtic herbaceous community. Its litc style is
mainly annual plant with simple structure. The community mainlv consists of
composite species. the grass family. the pulse familv. Iong-ginseng species and the
polk-onaceae family. The dominant species are Canadian fleabane. annual tleabane.
eleusine indica. green bristlegrass. chrvsanthemum indicum. asiatic plantain. Japanese
rumcx japonicus. summer-planting grass. shamrock and vetch. etc:
3}6



Clm=3
3.23 Planted Forest
3.23.1 Seaboard and Riverboard Shelter Forest
Arundinaceous bamboo comrnunity consists of single plant. that is arundinaceous
bamboo which belongs to the grass family. The community mainly distributes in the
dam along the river and sea. The woods has a high density of plants. The roots and
stems underground develop well. twisting with one another. The growth of the woods
can break the wind and protect the d,am. and has a high economic value.
M.etasequoia community only has metasequoia which belongs to the China fir family. It
is an ideal seaboard and riverboard shelter forest. distributing along the seaboard and
seaboard.
3.23.2 Road Forest Belt
The plane tree communitv has only one plant plane tree which belongs to the plane tree
familv. T'he community is mainly planted as forest belt at both sides of the road. Other
planted forest includes poplar forest. scent camphor tree and elm. etc. They are all kinds
of common planted road forest.
3.2.4 Crop Community
fhe area is rotational farmned with, grain and cotton. The crop community mainly
includes g-rain. cotton and rape. Thev are one kind of the mainly planted vegetation in
the seashore area.
3.2.5  Sea Resource
Ihe project is located in natural environmnent near the river and sea, helpful to the use of
,ea rcsource and the development of the fishery. Everv spring when fry season comes.
there arc a large amount of' eel, crab and mullet fries reproducing in Changjiang
Fstuar  rhere are Z.houshan and Sheneshan far away and Changjiang fishing ground
nearhv Rhe seashore residents can yet fish either in the nearby shoal or in the far away
I'here are 158.5 thousand mu water area south of Changjiang main channel which
helonus to Pludong new area. which is a natural resource for intensive fishpond near the
r;v er and sea.
37



tLb3W
3.2.6 Wild Animal
3.2.6.1 Vertebrate-Terrestrial Animal
Most of the area is developed to farming land because of human activity. The ecology
tvpe of the anirral is subtropical bush-grass-farmland type. There are especiallv more
animals suitable to farning land. Animals which can stay in the farming land
surroundings are mainly small to medium beast of prey, such dominant species as
weasel and ferret badger.
The dominant species of birds is sparrow-shaped day bird. Sparrows and barn swallows
are in big quantity among the species often seen.
3.2.6.2 Invertebrate-Intertidal Animals
The benthic invertebrate animals on the shoal are mainly crustacean. such as crab.
corbicula fluminea and mud snail. etc.
3.3   Social Setting
3.3.1 Land and Farming Land
*Land: In 1996, the total land area is 522.75km2 in Pudong new area and 18.9km- in
Heqing town.
*Farming land: At the end of 1996, the farming land is 1376.1ha in Pudong area and
631 .4ha in Heqing town. decrease of 1283.8ha and 3.7ha respectively.
3.3.2 Population and Labour Force Resource
The rural population of every towns in Pudong new area in 1996 is totally 378.360
persons. The total family number is 133.645. Labour force resource is 235.240 persons.
amongi them 123.94 are female. In Heqing town. the rural population is totallv 22.146
persons. Fhe familv number is 6.540. Labour force resource is 12.703 persons. among
them 6.5333 are female.
3.3.3 Population Densitv
In 1996. the population density is 2891 persons/km2 in Pudong new area and 1250
persons/km2 in Heqing town.
}-8



Qm3
3.3.4 Gross Domestic Product Value(1996, calculated according to present
value)
The GDP of Pudong new area in 1996 was 8699.8 million yuan. of which the primary
industrv is 456.65 million vuan, the secondary industry is 6457.14 million yuan and the
tertiary industry is 1786.01 million yuan. The GDP of year 1996 is 112.2% of that of
1995.
The GDP of Heqing town in 1996 was 548.22 million yuan. of which the primary
industry is 0.62 inillion yuan, the secondary industry is 505.17 million yuan and the
tertiarv industrv is 42.43 million yuan. The GDP of year 1996 is 100.4% of that of
1995.
3.3.5 Agriculture
'The asricultural product *alue of Pludong new area in 1996 is 1082.01 million yuan.
which is 109.9%,o of that of year 1995. Among the value, the plantation is 530.02 million
yuan. tiorestrv is 9.96 million yuan. animal husbandry is 499.29 million yuan and
tisherv is 42.74 million yuan. The agricultural product value of Heqing town in 1996 is
34.89 million yuan, which is 103.2% of that of year 1995. Among the value, the
plantation is 16.75 million yuan. forestry is 0.02 million yuan, animalihusbandry is
16.99 million yuan and fishery is 1.13 million yuan.
The arain seeding area and yield of Pudong new area and Heqing town in 1996 are
shown in rable 3-1.
Table 3-1 Grain Seeding Area and Yield of Pudong New Area and Heqing Town
in 1996
Narne ot Distnct or Seeding Area(ha)   Grain Yield(t)  Yield of Unit Area
rown                                                  (kg/ha)
IPudongr new area   19.263.8        128.895            6.691
I Ieqing town    i 1.009.9          6.869              6.802
I'lhe ie pru ted in Pudong new area and Heqing town in 1996 are shown in Table 3-2.
3.9



C1r3
Table 3-2 Live Pig Fed in Pudong New Area and Heqing Town in 1996
Name of     Annual       Arnual       Among Them  Annual        Among Them
District   or Feeding    Market                    Resting
Town        Amount       Supply                    Amount
Fed     by               Flesh Pig
Farmers
Pudong  new  588.588     419.345      115.719      169.243      116.333
area
Heqing town   13.847     8,191        7.500        5.656        3.697
There are altogether 27 towns in Pudong new area. The comparison of main agricultural
index of Heqing town with others is shown in Table 3-3 whose average agricultural
index come out to be the first place.
Table 3-3 Priority of Average Agricultural Index
Heqing Town             Towns of Pudong New Area
Main              Priority    Average Index      Priority     Average Index
Agricultural                    per capita                      per capita
Index
Gross domestic       12          24,777             1            89.136
product
(yuan)                                                      _
Totai                25           1.577             1             12.073
agricultural
product
% alue( yuan)
Farming              19            285              1              678
land(m-)
Grain *ield(kg)      18            310              I              539
Number of live       23            0.63
pig fed
Milk output on       5             113              1              444
the market(kg)
3.3.6  Living Standard of Rural People
Of the peasants in Pudong new area in 1996. the average income of everv labor torce is
691 1 X uan. of every person is 4555 yuan and an actual increase can be seen compared
%% ith 6419 y uan every labor force and 4148 yuan per person in vear 1995.
3-JO



aC3
Of the peasants in Heqing town in 1996. the average income of every labor force is
8931 Xyuan. of everv person is 4898 yuan, an increase of 9.4% and 4.7% respectively
compared with 8160 yuan every labor force and 4675 yuan per person in year 1995.
3.3.7 Culture, Education and Sanitation in Rural Area
As other towns in Pudong new area. there are cultural centers. cinemas. broadcasting
stations and libraries constructed in Heqing town. The town has one high school and
many primary schools. Nine years of compulsorv education is made universal. Adult
education is also available. The peasant can accept all kinds of technical training and
specialized education in their spare timne. The level of the technology and education of
local residents can be increased gradually.
Like other towns in Shanghai. all residents in Heqing town use tap water. In the towns.
there are commune hospitals. Medical station is available in every village. The residents
can see doctors in the nearest hospital. The condition of medical treatment is improving
%-ear bv year.
3-11



Chapter 4
4.    ANALYSIS OF IMPACT ON SEWAGE DISCHARGE FROM  LAND
RECLAMATION
With the approval by Shanghai Urban Planning Bureau and Shanghai Navigational
Bureau. it is agreed to use land recl,amation method to get the land to be required by
Second Shanghai Sewerage Project preliminary treatment plant. Are there any main
changes in the original environment assessment report after land reclamation? What's
the impact on sewage discharge of Second Shanghai Sewerage Project? These will be
further discussed in this chapter.
4.1   Impact on Sewage Discharge of Second Shanghai Sewerage Project
< Second Shanghai Sewerage Project Environment Assessment Report > explores
potential environmental impact on South Branch South Channel water area in the
vicinity of Bailonggang from sewage discharge as much as 5 million m /d. The
conclusion of report shows that. sew,age discharge as much as 5 million m /d now under
study is only to change the discharge situation from disorder into order. therefore. to
alleviate pollution load in Huangpu River and improve urban environment. The pre-
condition for South Branch and South Channel at Changjiang esturay to avoid pollution
is that sewage discharge must be in different sections and places as well as to keep
appropriate distance between outfialls, and also to maintain the water quality of
upstream water;sources in present standard.
According to the theory of near-field mixture, there are many advantages of
geographical environment under present condition in Bailonggang water area.
I) T'he distance to go upstream for sewage to be discharged in Bailonggang area will
not impact on drink water intake. Sewage will also go downstream into turbid zone
at Changjiang Estuary, therefore, purification effect will be strengthened.
2) .\ccording to pollutants transportation and transformation rule, no pollution in up
stream and down stream river beaches will occur if appropriate amount of sewage
is discharged in Bailonggang area.
3) The self-purification ability in this water area will sufficientlv exerted with
reasonable engineering design and pollutant discharge controlline. sufficient
environment capacity will be imaintained as well. The ideal sewace discharge
capacit, is 1.2 million m /d. But due to large self-purification capacitv. sewage
discharge as much as 1.7 million m /d can still be purified. If sewage discharge
capacity as much as 5 million mi /d. then 3-4 outfalls will be needed. and distance
between each outfall must be longer than 2 km.
4-1



Chapter 4
To guarantee river beach and designated water area to meet with pre-deterrnined water
quality aim is one of fundamental principie for outfall selection in original report.
According to the designated environmental function zones in Changjiang Estuarv water
area. see figure 4-1. there is a sewage purification zone in the vicinity of Bailonggang
water area. Corresponding water quality standard must be reached outside the sewage
purification zone. For designated water quality zones in this water area. see figure 4-2.
Water quality aim has been determined in Bailonggang river part after years of study of
three kinds of ion flows in Changjiang Estuary. therefore, important parameters are
provided for selection of sewage outfall. Navigation. fish passage and flood discharge
are water qualitv function aims in Bailonggang water area. Proposals have been made
during the design that. migratory passage for fish and juvenile nursery fish must be
k-ept. Generallv speaking. pollution zone shall be guaranteed about 1/10-1/12 of total
river width. i.e.. with concentration dilution ratio 50-100 times as its indicator.
pollution zone width shall be limited within I km. In normal condition. the visitation
Irequencv ot pollution flow to -2m river beach is close to zero. Another water quality
aim in this water area is flooding controlling and flood discharge. According to years of
statistic data in Bailonggang area. from May to September every year is flood period
Vwith rainfall about 697 mm. that's to say, more than 60% of the rainfall in whole year.
Normallv, large quantities of rainfall do dilute and quicken the process of dispersion of
*iewage near outfall.
According to hydrodynamics. pollutant distribution rule and "three avoidance". "three
no" principles. appropriate environment capacity can be determined, i.e., the essential
pnnciple of outfall selection. "Three avoidance" principles are. to avoid stable
conglomerate otf river surface pollutants. to avoid submerge of sewage in deep water
laver and to avoid expansion of mixing zone. During the whole process of sewage
initial dilution. mixing. dilution and dispersion with current as well as assimilation with
cnvironment waterbodv. "three no" principle of sewage shall be obeyed. i.e.. "no n'sing
to the surface".  no sinking to the bottom" and "no reaching the shore". The
determination ot' Second Shanghai Sewerage Project outfall in Bailonggang do obey
this pnnciple. We are also concemed with possible environment impact on these
pnnciples alter land reclamation.
4.2   Impact on Flow Conditions in This Water Area
I )iscussions have bween carried out in three scopes about impact on far. middle and near
:..lds Irom Aw:%aLe discharue in Bailonagang. Determination of far field research scope
: mainly on the basis that. whether or not pollutant dispersion will impact on nearby
water areas and upstream water sources. The length from Xuliujing in the west to Jigu
R etf in the cast is about 140 km. the water. area from Lusi Coastal waters to Shengsi
I Jlands about 5.600 km-. Medium-sized research scope is based on maximum distances
it) go upstream and downstream for conservative matters in pollutants. the increased
4-2



Chapter 4
amount within this scope close tc zero ( or the increased amount has reached the
tolerance scope of baseline values ). Pollutants transportation and transformation will
be understood better with study of hydrodynamics, river bed evolution and water
environment condition within research scope. Within medium-sized scope. the distance
between Wusongkou to South Channel estuary is 55 km. The result of detailed
environment condition investigation of near-field mathematical modeling and
substratum water quality shows that, longitudinal length 15 km. width 3 km. Upstream
and downstream scope of mixing zone is within this area.
Distribution characteristics of flow velocity within Bailonggang river area are: bigger
flow velocity in main trough deep water area, uniformed distribution of flow velocity
on transverse direction and less ebbing flow velocity in beachfront shallow water area
than in deep trough. Transversal flow velocity change is severe in transitional area
between deep water area and beachfront shallow water area. According to land
reclamation in Bailonggang this time. there is a shoal about 0.3% slopeness in the
southern bank in the reclaimed area within -0.5-1.0 isobath. This part of river is
located at the upstream side of divergence of Northem and Southem Channels with
wide water area. river width from Bailonggang to Hengsha about 12.5 km. and average
river bed depth -5.1 m. Due to shallower water depth and less flow velocity within
reclaimed area. the reduced sectional area for flow-passing is less than 1% after land
reclamation. Calculation result shows no impact on middle and far fields environment
after land reclamation. There are some impacts on flow condition of beachfront current
when going upstream or downstream, but this kind of impact is only limited around 0-
meter isobath. and no impact on flow condition at -5 m, no impact on mixing zone
around outfall riser at all. ThereFore, this chapter focus on impact on near-field
environment from land reclamation.
,-dimensional hydrodvnamics modeling and water quality modelling are adopted in
near-tield flow current. Limited-elements method and vertical-differential method are
adopted in plane. Flow current distributions of dry season in 1991 and flood season in
1992 are simulated. The result of morphological comparison before and after land
reclamation shows that. impact on flow current in flood season is bigger than in dry
season. Figure 4-4 ( a ) - ( d ) shows flow current distribution under four conditions of
rising. rising still. ebbing and ebbing still in flood season at water areas nearby
Bal longgang.
.4-3



Chapter 4
'  S:                       l~~~~~iangsu Province 
estuan' aquauc resources preservation area
Chongmng bird resources prservation area
1~~~~~~~~~lI~l +\X<                                   4+             5
sewage discharge ;x&e  * **I
purification area                        1k*Clunese sturgeon,
I \IS r-- - ~~~~~~~~~~~~preservauon arae  
4  4*-.4*:~ 
Shanghai                   4+¢,                         tm
I                     ~~~~~~~~na%vigauon area
Water Function Planning   aquauc culuvauon area               offshore aquauc resources
preservation area   T
Figure 4-1 Function Zone Planning at Changiang Estuary
fi @ ~~~~~~~~~-                   - - - - -
* -.   -qt@ .-**.                      !4i       Ctg,       *
_   -._.5  *Sb  -                        - -                          - .__
-a-. --                                             -sComina I
. ~                                -                i'- e      -I
4Shanchai4.:2                    .
....''',.,!.
.. .. .........  .  . . .._ . . ... -. . .
.;.           a '   io           _    
: Water Quaegr Plannin.
Figure 4-2 Water Quality Planning at Changjiang Estuary
4-4



Charvzer 4
i     _   _   _    _   _   _    _                         ,    °.      .              o.
.0~                 10                      :            , 0 
''                 I   \                
I. 
4-5I



Chavter 4
~~Wuhaogou               Baionlggang
Figure 4.4 (a) Comparison of Flow Distribution under Condition of Flood Rising
before and after Dyking
,,~~~~ ¶  2
~-WuhaoL!ou               Bailonggang
~~ Wuhziogo~~~~j           Bailonggang 
F-igure 4-4 (h) Comparison of Flow Distribution under Condition of Flood Rising
Still before and after Dvking
4-6



Chapter 4
Ij ,e. anmt Isle 
~  isle
; h                         -        I                             I
roWuhaogou               .Balonggang  .
,Wuhaogou.- 
Figure 4- (c) Comparison of Flow Distribution under Condition of Flood Ebbing
before! and after Dyking
t ;     > i.eSJf                             0    1  2 k ¶
,hnpn iisic 
. -                                                       . 
-~                     -                            I
Wuhaogou                   Bailonggang
Figure 4-4 (c) Comparison of Flow Distribution under Condition of Flood Ebbing
Silbefore and aifter Dyking
- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  -
F  ~-_*-             - -.ji_p__JF             0   1   2 n..  
: C (hangxing Islce
-;                                     .                         -    
~~~Whoo                            Baionggang _
Figure 4-4(d) Comparison of Flow Distribution under Condition of Flood Ebbing
-                                ~~~~~~~~~~Still before and after Dyking
47



Chapter 4
Three characteristics are shown in flow current condition.
I ) There are forward wave in rising tide and standing wave in ebbing tide. it's related
with n'sing and ebbing tides as well as curvature of Changijang Coastline at
Bailonggang.
2) In individual times, there are two kinds of circulative currents in clockwise and
anti-clockwise. This condition will impact on concentration distribution of
beachfront pollutants.
3) There is some disunifornity of flow current. it will cause some disuniformity to
pollutants concentration distribution along route. The ratio is less than 5% for
diluted water ( to be diluted at least 50 times ) to flow to beachfront as taken back
by rising tide. Diluted water will disperse to downstream side. i.e., to mixing zone
area. Calculation result of flow condition and flow current in flood and dry seasons
at Bailonggang shows that, for flow currents ( including tidal current and runoff
current ) at 1,OOOm from beachfront, their flow velocity about 0.7m/s-I.Omls
except during rising still or ebbing still time ( each rising still or ebbing still time
less than 2 hours ). Therefore, flow directions are sufficiently scattered. i.e..
advantageous to dilution and dispersion. Calculation result shows that, in the
vicinity of beachfront land reclamation at shallow water with low flow velocity,
there is no significant impact on flow condition at near-field outfall mixing zone.
4.3   Impact on River Bed Stability near Sewage Outfall Diffuser
4.3.1 Hydraulics and Silt Characteristics at Bailonggang Water Area
South Branch is located between Changxing, Hengsha Islands and south bank of
Changjiang. From Wusongkou to the divergence of South Channel and North Channel.
the length of Changjiang is about 35km, width about 6.5km. Within river channel here.
there are sand isles such as Ruifeng and Jiangyanan along beachfront. i.e., a group of
sand-bars along the whole channel. Therefore, South Branch is a complex channel. with
main trough in the south of sand-bar and sub-trough in the north of sand-bar. Due to
different hydrodvnamic environment between main trough and sub-trough. water and
sand transportation are complicated in South Branch waterway. Ebbing tide current is
the maioritv in main trough of South Branch. Due to the action of Corollias- force. flow
current tums to right to raise the water level in southem bank. Flow current is blocked to
go dounstream with existence of Jiangyanan sand isle at South Branch estuarv.
therefore. water level is further raised in south bank. According to mathematical
modeling of Bailonggang section. water level of ebbing tide is 10cm higher in south
bankr than in north bank. i.e.. when in a certain tidal period. there is transversal-ebbing
ratio higher in the south and lower in the north in the whole South Branch water area. In
this water area, due to existence of transversal ebbing current. part of river current is
4-8



Chapter 4
divened to North Channel. i.e.. after dilution and dispersion. part of pollutants are
diverted to largest mixing zone through North Channel, and finally to be purified by
geo-biochemical actions. Therefore, to build sewage outfall at Bailonggang will be
advantageous for dilution and dispersion. In a certain period during rising tide time, due
to morphological and Coriolis' force actions. water level in north bank will also be
raised by rising tide current. i.e.. transversal-ebbing ratio higher in the north and lower
in the south occurs in South Branch. part of water in north bank will be diverted into
main trough through passage or overpassing through shoals. But according to
calculation resulL transversal-ebbing ratio occurs more during ebbing time than rising
time. The reason is that, rising tide flow is bigger than ebbing tide flow, i.e.. transversal
tidal movement during rising time not so strong than ebbing time. Therefore, to build
sewage outfall in Bailonggang will be advantageous to reduce the distance for sewage
to go upstream. because river width in South Branch about 6-7km and in Bailonggang
area about 12km. i.e.. advantageous for pollutant dilution and dispersion as well. In the
consideration of residual current in South Branch, waterbody retention time in South
Branch. pollutant dispersion and distance to go upstream. it will also be very
advantageous to build sewage outfall in Bailonggang. In main trough of South Branch,
residual flow velocity in surface'layer about 10-50cm/s, in bottom layer about
8-25cm/s. all the directions of residual current in flood season towards sea. But the
scale of residual currents between main trough and flood tide trench is in great
difference. Dry season residual current in South Branch is complicated with main
trough towards sea. Retention tirne in Bailonggang water area is reduced with
increasing of runoff from upstream. Retention time is 0.5 day and 1.7 days respectively
when runoff 40.000m3/s and 6.000m3/s, therefore advantageous to pollutants to be
transported to ouier sea. Flow velocity in mid-part of South Branch is very big, the
maximum above 2m/s. transversal dispersion low, and factors such as tracer test.
physical modeling, real measurement and calculation result are in agreement as well.
Distance for water quality points going upstream is longer in dry season than flood
%eason. In Bailonggang water area. the distance for surface water quality points going
upstream during tlood season is 14.4km at surface layer, 14.7km at medium layer and
10.5km at bottom layer. The distance for neap tide water quality points going upstream
is less. i.e.. onlv 8.7km at surface layer. and as lesser as 5.8km at bottom  layer. The
distance bor drv season spring tide water quality points going upstream is. i.e.. about
20krm at medium  layer. and only 12.4krn at bottom  layer. The distance for dry season
ne:ap tide water quality points going upstream is. i.e.. about 13km at medium layer. and
tnli I U1km at bottom layer. Therefore. for sewage discharge at the downstream side of
llailoni-gang water area in whatever the flood season or dry season. pollutants will not
cause pollution to emergency intake of Lingqiao Waterworks at its upstream side. In
B.aflonugang water area. tlow velocity in deep trough is verv quick. rising tide flow
xelocitv in dry season bigger than in flood season. ebbing tide flow velocity in flood
season bigger than in dry season. ebbing tide flow velocity bigger than rising tide flow
X elocitv in tlood season and rising tide flow velocity close to ebbing tide flow velocity
in dry season. Flow velocity distribution in Bailonggang water area is characterized as
tOllowing: bigger flow velocity in deep water area in main trough, uniformed
4-9



Chapter 4
transversal flow velocity distribution. bigger ebbing tide flow velocity in deep trough
than in beachfront shallow water area. But the transversal change of flow velocitv is
strong in the inter-tidal zone between deep water area and beachfront shallow water
area. for sand transportation and flow condition, see Fig 4-5 & Fig 4-6. Therefore.
sewage outfall risers shall be close to deep water area as much as possible. but not to
impact on navigational channel, i.e., suitable in inter-tidal zone between deep water
area and shallow water area with water depth about 7-8m. Within South Branch,
Bailonggang river section is of high sand contents. average sand contents of rising tide
vertical line about 0.04-0.82 kg/m3, average sand contents of ebbing tide vertical line
about 0.05-0.65 kg/mr, i.e., significant variation of sand contents in neap tide and
spring tide. with sand contents in spring tide bigger than neap tide. In flood season. sand
contents in ebbing tide bigger than rising tide; and in dry season. sand contents in rising
tide bigger than ebbing tide. Within this river area, waterbody self-purification
capability is strengthened by high sand contents, i.e., beneficiary for pollutants
absorption and purification as well as sewage outfall construction. After the completion
of land reclamation. original main flow condition and flow field will not be impacted.
There will be some impacts on flow condition for beachfront flow going upstream and
downstream, but only to be limited around 0-meter isobath, and basically almost no
impact on -5m isobath, no impact on mixing zone around sewage outfall riser.
4.3.2 Impact on River Bed Stability at Bailonggang River Area
Since the 1950s, the South Branch of the Changjiang Estuary has been subject to
serious scouring and siltation with net volume as high as 280 million mi. During the
period 1961 to 1985. a mono channel has been developed into a complex channel. and
the river bed morphology has also changed greatly and formed Ruifengshazui and
Yawosha shoal. In the south Channel. two deep troughs have formed. called Main
Trough and Changxing Flood Tide Trench of the South Channel. Since 1970s. scouring
and siltation volumes aren't in great different, but the absolute volumes are still very
large. it's the reflection of strong riverbed morphological change. Since 1958. within a
1Okm long, 1Okm wide area of South Channel in the vicinity of Bailonggarg area.
siltation volume is bigger than scouring volume, except the years during 1973 to 1978
while scouring volume a little bit bigger than siltation volume. Therefore. siltation is the
main trend within this area. The reason for stronger scouring than siltation once
occurred during 1973 to 1978 is that. scouring in South Channel Main Trough
strenathened. and deep trough extended to downstream. 32 years investigation of river
depth. scouring and siltation in Bailonggang area shows that. the river bed within 3.0
km of the shore is stable with maximum scouring and siltation of 3.7 m. while the river
bed 3.5 km away from the shore is subject to wide range of scouring reaching about 9
m.
According to analvsis of the river bed morphological section at Bailonggang. the
houndarv between beach and trough is very obvious: the area within I km from the
4-10



Chaptcr 4
shore is the river beach. and the area between 1.0-2.2 km from the shore is a transition
zone with slope of about 1% and little transverse swing. The river bed within 2000 m of
shore is stable. Therefore. 1.700.000) m /d single-tunnel submarine-outfall can be built
within 3 km of the shore of South C'hannel. After land reclamation. there will be some
changes of siltation order in river beach and trough transitional slope of river bed in this
water area. But according to analysis of statistic data in past 20 years. it will not impact
on river bed stability.
In comparison with other sections of Changjiang Estuary, river beach on the southem
bank of South Channel is narrow. In the middle section of South Channel from
Wusongkou to Wuhaogou. deep water is near or just beside bank. almost no river
beach. water depth 100-200m from bank about 15m. River beach is scattered from
Wuhaogou to Sanjiagang. and also the closer to downstream, the wider it is. In 1993,
the width of river beach in Jiuduansha is 750 m. in Sanjiagang 1340 m and in Jiangzhen
1750 m. Inter-reaction of Changjiang Estuary tidal-current is the main reason for river
beach to be widened gradually to downstream side. From Sanjiagang to Zhuqiao. river
beach is stretching in a way of shoal extending with a rate of 20 m per year. Generally.
river beach change is in agreement with river trough change. Along the southern bank
otf South Channel. beach-trough boundary is distinctive. i.e., beachfront. underwater
slope and river bed structures in clear sequence. Outward-siltation of beachfront is in
agreement with the corresponding outward-extension of underwater slope. Therefore,
to some extent, there are impacts on near-shore river bed stability in south bank due to
beachfront outward extension. Beachfront siltation & scouring of south bank at
confluence of North Branch and South Branch is of great impact on river bed
development at downstream side of South Branch south bank. According to retrospect
on near-shorc river bed development at South Branch south bank since 1842. river bed
is stable and with little changes except during the period of Jiangyanan beachfront
'altation and extension. During the period of Jiangyanan beachfront siltation and
extension. beachfront extended outwardly, deep trough moved northwardly. these two
movement happened in close sequence with great changes as well. Now Jiangyanan isle
is undcr stable siltation. the outward- extension of beachfront is limited. i.e.. recovers to
relatlivel stable condition. However. due to northward movement of Jiangyanan isle,
Jianaya navigational channel shrinks. Jiangyanan isle Is on the trend of merging with
Jiuduansha. I.e.. the new confluence of North Branch and South Branch will soon be
fOrmed. WNith the reasonable diversion of North Branch and South Branch as well as
scnsible allocation of "Fish IMouth" Project. siltation of south bank beachfront at
.ontluence area will soon be controlled, near-shore river bed of south bank can still be
in the relatively stable condition. During the selection of sewage outfall location.
p< ssible impact on engineering due to this kind of change has already been noticed.
I and reclamation will not impact on river bed stability at water area of diffusers far
awav tmm bank.
4-11



Chapter 4
-    .-:f
I     - :~- -.==-   == __=-=_.r__--' -" 'tv*=*~              ~             -=:=:
Figure 4-5 Sand Transportation at the Waters near Bailonggang
_-M3          M  n .          Zhangxing Isle =
_   . _  . )   _ _ _ _ = _   E  _  S,\  \                  \___
_   - _   _  _                                   \>s\.    as_nasa_ st _S ~ *~
__-t-          ~              N!
2- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  
/'~~~~~~~~ 4-                                   ~    . . -.. 
\... _ _  .                                    ,, ,_  ' '.*
;Wuhaogou _
*dofg 
~____._____   \  N_
_______ __,____. -... .. _  _                          -E".............. 
Figure 4-6 (a) Current Velocity and Route of Neap Tide during Flood Season in
1994 at Bailonggang River Section
4-12



Chapter 4
_nN   Area-- -            -              _ __
'%-   _, =X~ z   \\-
, *                                       - _ 
Figure 4-6 (b) Currnt Velocity andl Route of Spring Tide during Flood Season in
1994 at Bailonggang River Section
- g t--= .        Ns--,_ o        .=             -      _-
'o.~K
NI.~~~~~N
B\              I-,-
"' \    ~~~'~J')ao80~~~,  flow  iclocit \ Y  --    - .  .
-       ~= n-  -:noir fl-s. - 
_   _    _  :W  ~~~~~~__ _  -      *- _.
'-9 do l---gAil
_77 -  _ - 7X          _. _-       -
Figure 4-6 (c) Current Velocity and Route of Neap Tide during DrF y Season in
1994 at Bailonggang River Section
4 -13
4-"' 3



C(hapter 4
_  +                             ,-_  \
_-- a   
N
Figure~~~~~~ 4-6 (d) Curen VeoiyadRueo Sprn  T-ide- duigDyesni
-Z  :4
.  .  .  .   ..  .  .  .. ... .. ..
. =              flo_ ,eocD-_a      \--- t  !
-~~~~~~41
...          q-0    °     b-, Bailonggang-/ 
a b _ r -         - e, ~    - - =-3,-
F igure 4-6 (d) Current Velocity and Route of Spring Tide during Dry Season in
1994 at Bailonggang River Section
existing dyke    proposed dvke
2  s _average water level
@    00       1000      1500       2000       2500      _COC
Distancc to thc bani; (in)
Figure 4-7 South Section of River Bed at Bailonggang
4-14



Chapter 4
4.4   Impact on Sewage Discharge Concentration Fields Distribution
4.4.1 Determination of Environment Capacity
Determination of environment capacity is on the basis of maximum distances for non-
conservative matter from sewage outfall to go upstream and downstream. Result of
floating test shows that. under nonnal hydraulical condition. water quality points at
Bailonggang water area will go upstream with the maximum distance of 18 km. go
downstream with the maximum distance of 24 km. Within this scope. distance for
pollutants from this sewage outfall going upstream and downstream ( ACx -+ 0 ) is the
important boundarv parameter for considering of environment capacity. ACx as
increment of pollutant concentration.
For non-linear attenuation of pollutant in multi-points water environment capacity
calculation. following formula is ofien used:
i = :N' -(u)Q( oC)I -exp(-A/u) +GVYqi+CNT 1 -eo(-kA  /1u) (Q+qi)
(I)
in this formula:
W:  water environment capacity;
CN: water environment quality standard;
Co:  natural baseline value of pollutants within water:
X.:   distance:
?:   flow:
I*   averace flow velocity:
K.   pollutants attenuation coefficient:
\Xi: distance between sections of sewage outfalls and sections for controlling:
qa:  tlow capacity in sewape outfalls.
D)ue to) 'aneties ot' faIctors to impact on environment capacity. big errors will occur
% hen usinc above simplified formula for calculation. Therefore. water quality
rnathcmaticai modeliniz in 3-D waterbodv can be used for calculation with following
tormnula:
7 (        vcVC~   8C"v      :     JCC 8K
- .A ....   __---(Ex)-                   _--~(Er)--1--  (Ez 2j
;, 'c  c^    c      c(E   c
(A ~     ~      =(. )  r7 C.     cy (r         CZ      C
(2)
in this lormula:
(-k:     concentration of No.k kirLd of pollutant in waterbody; (.K= 1. 2. 3. 4)
4-15



Chapter 4
U. V. W: flow velocities on directions of X ( longitudinal ). Y (vertical ) and Z
(transversal)
Ex. Ey. Ez: dispersed coefficient on X. Y, Z directions
Si:     source items or failed to report items. including increased or decreased items
due to various reactions of pollutants
A:      water passing section of Changjiang River
Changjiang Estuary is a tide-sensitive river estuarv with existing of flow reversal
period. therefore, accumulation phenomenon shall be considered. Under present
condition, in the most adversely tide-rising situation when discharging flow capacity to
be 1.700.000m3!d. average concentration of BOD5 correspondingly to be X = 6km:
ACx = 1.89 x 10-3mg/l. This shows that, the increased volume of pollutants
concentration will impose no impact on environment water quality about 6km from
sewage outfall. Therefore. it is generally considered that, the external boundarv of
maximum normal pollutants environmnent capacity with BOD5 as their indicator is 6km
for going upstream. 7km for going downstream. According to present calculation. Iand
reclamation will impose no impact on water quality points movement at this water area.
and also no impact on the distances for water quality points going upstream &
downstream. i.e.. no impact on pre-determined environment capacity as well.
4.4.2 Scope for Sewage Mixing Zone
In order to preivent the sewage out of the outfalls from destroying landscape and
fuinction of the water bodies while diluting with surrounding waters, requirement such
as sewage should not reach the surface, or-the shore nor the bottom of the river should
be complied with.
Not reach the surface means that the probability of inadequately diluted sewage
rising the surface of the river should be controlled at a minimum level during sewage
dilution.
Not reach the shore  means that the probability of inadequately diluted sewage
reaching the shore of the river. showing the degree of the sewage impact on the
shoreline.
Not reach the bottom" means that the probability of inadequately diluted sewage
reaching the bottom of the river should be minimized during sewage dilution.
\ccordinLn to the result of initial dilution analysis, if the diffuser is about I i in oblique
with the river bottom. it is possible that the probabilitv of sewage mixing zone reachinc
the river bottom is zero. Even if suspended solid is precipitated during dilution and
miniration. no ttirther pollution will be occurred on the river bottom. Therefore. dvkinu
won* t change this requirement for the bottom, and the other two requirements t'or the
river surface and shore will be discussed more detailed in the followina section.
4-16



Chapter 4
4.4.3 Probability Calculation of Sewage Rising the River Surface
The probability of inadequately diluted sewage rising the river surface can be calculated
from the following equation:
P= a P, P.
among which:
P1:   proportion of still flow of the total;
P2:   probability of sewage rising the surface because of density difference:
u:    weighted factor related with sewage amount.
The previous EIA statement calculated the probability of inadequately diluted sewage
rising the river surface. that is. urider the condition that daily discharge amount from
unit outfall is 1.7 million m3/d. when the flow rate is 7000 m3/s, 10000 m3/d and 30000
m'/s (being in corresponding with the water depth of 5. 7. and 9 m respectively), the
probability ot inadequately diluted sewage rising the river surface is 2.7%. 1.8% and
1.4%. That is to say the probability of sewage rising the surface is very small. all under
5%. Because the impact of dyking on the sewage outfall will increase the water level,
the probabilitv of sewage rising the surface after dyking will be less than the prevision
calculation result.
4.4.4 Probabilitv of Sewage Reaching the Shoreline
t*nder anv hvdrological condition. the probability of inadequately diluted sewage
rcachine the river shoreline ( riveir shoal. isodepth of -2m) should be control less than
°O0 rable 4-' shows the calculation result of distance and visiting probability of
ewaae mixing zone to the shoreline after dvking. On the whole. under the previous
estimated condition. the probability of inadequately diluted sewage reaching the river
,horelrne %%ll he maintained below 5%.
4-17



Chapter 4
Table 4-1 Distance (d) and Probabilitv (p) of Sewage Reaching the Shoreline
before Dvking
Flood   Depth                        Flow Rate at Datong Station (m;/s)
Situati                 7000 m3/s              I10000 m3/s _             30000 m3/s
on               ds°    dimo   P(%)    ds0    dioc    P(%)    d50         dim    P(%)
_   (m)    (m)            (m)     (m)              (m)    (m)
Flood   surface   351    156       0      387      182      0      423      207      0
Tide   middle   253       87      0      289      113      0       324     137      0
bottom    155     18      0       191     44        0      228      70       0
Ebb    surface   268     98       0      305      124      0      342      150      0
Tide   middle   180    36         0      217      62       0       254     88       0
bonom     91     -27     1.35     128      -1     0.05     165      25       0
Tide   surface   191      44      0      231      72       0       270      99      0
Chang   middle   112    -12       0.6      146     12       0       190     43       0
ing    bottom    31    -69    3.45       71      -41     2.05     111      -13    0.65
Note:
1. The sewage discharge amount is 1.7 million m3/d.
2. d., and d,i are the distance of sewage mixing zone to the shoreline of isodepth of -2m
under the dilution of 50 and 100 times, the negative value shows the mixing zone is
reaching the shoal of -2 m in depth.
Table 4-2 Distance (d) and Probability (p) of Sewage Reaching the Shoreline after
Dyking
Flood   Depth                          Flow Rate at Datong Station (m3Is)
Situali                 7000 m3/s               10000 m3/s               30000 mrIs
oln              d40    dloo    P(%)    d50      diom    P(%)    d50       dln[ P(%)
I____   (mI)   (m)                 (m)      (m)              (m)     (m,
Flood   surface   332    147       0      368      173      0       404     198       0
Tide   middle   239       82       0      275      107      0      309      131      0
ottom     146     17       0      181      42       0      218      67       0
ILbb    surtace   253     93      0       290     118       0      327      143      0
T.de   middle   170       34       0      206      59       0      243       84      0
bottom    86      -28     1.42    122      -       0.05     158      24      0
|Iide |surtace    180     42      0       219      68       0      258      95       U
Clans   middle        106    -13   0.6     139      11       0       181  |  41       C
--in,  bonom       '9      -73    3.64      67     -43      2.15     106     -14     0.68
Note>:
1. The sewage discharge amount is 1.7 million m3/d.
4-18



Chapter 4
2. d., and doo are the distance of sewage mixing zone to the shoreline of isodepth of -2m
under the dilution of 50 and 100 tiimes. the negative value shows the mixing zone is
reaching the shoal of -2 m in depth.
4.4.5 Estimation of Sewage Back-Flow and Detention Period
The water bodies at Bailonggang are affected by tide about two times a day (total period
of tide is about 24 hours and 50 minutes a day). The diluted sewage mixing zone
flowing toward south channel during ebbing flood will flow back with the rising flood.
thus it will cause the overlay of the sewage at the outlet before adequate dilution and
meanwhile the sewage at the outlet won't be migrated away from this river section until
a certain detention period. It can be learned from the calculation that the sewage mixing
zone from Bailonggang won't leave this section until three tidal periods. Because of
tidal efTects. the sewage mixing zone will flow into south channel and be diffused at
north channel of Changjiang and then flow into the east sea. Table 4-3 shows the
detention period of sewage for different season at Bailonggang before and after dyking
Table 4-3 Estimated Detention of Mixing Sewage at Bailonggang before and after
Dyking
|Flow Rateat Datong Station (m3/s)   6000   10000   30000
Detention before Dyking          1.7    1.4      0.61
|Detenton ater Dvking            1.7    1.4      0.63
4.4.6 Estimation of Sewage Mixing Zone Area
I-able 4-4 illustrates the calculated area of diluted sewage mixing zone under different
h v drological conditions when the sewage amount is 1.7 million m3/d and the effective
lenatth of the diffuser is 240 m. According to the designing quality. sewage at
llohggang can meet the water quality target when dilution is over 50 times. therefore.
the area %here sewage dilution is less than 50 is regarded as mixing zone. However.
,%hen the rain season starts (Mav to June). the pollution load in the Changjiang will be
quite high at the beginning of'the heavy rain. Assuming pollution load is one time more.
.uch high p<ollution load will affect part of the water area at the outlet temporarily. thus
the area %,here sewaue dilution is less than 100 is regarded as mixing zone. It can be
ecn from the Fable 4-5 that there wvill be no significant impact on the area. which can
he maintained smaller than 3 km-. of the sewage mixing zone before and after dyking.
4-19



Chapter 4
Table 4-4 Estimated Area of Sewage Mixing Zone before Dvking
Flow Rate at Datong Station (m'ls)    7000         10000   | 30000
s                    <50  <10   <50  <10   <50  <100
0            0   _
Area of Sewage   Neap Tide   Flood    3.2  5.44  2.93  4.49   1.78   2.42
Mixing Zone                  Ebb    1.83  3.03   1.68  2.53   1.38   1.88
under Different    Normal    Flood   1.99  3.38   1.82  2.79   1.13   1.54
Tidal Condition    Tide
Ebb    1.02  1.69  0.94  1.42  0.72   0.98
Spring Tide   Flood   1.78  2.95   1.62  2.48  0.89   1.21
Ebb      0.96  1.59  0.88   1.33  0.51   0.69
Table 4-5 Estimated Area of Sewage Mixing Zone before Dyking
Flow Rate at Datong Station (m3/s)    7000         10000        30000
s                    <50  <10   <50  <10   <50  <100
_ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _   _ _   ~~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~0 _ _ 0
Area of Sewage   Neap Tide   Flood   3.38  5.74  3.08  4.71   1.86  2.53
Mixing Zone               | Ebb    1.93  3.20   1.76  2.66   1.44   1.96
under Different    Normal    Flood   2.10  3.57   1.91  2.93   1.18   1.61
Tidal Condition    Tide
Ebb    1.08   1.78  0.99  1.49  0.75   1.02
Spring Tide   Flood   1.88  3.11   1.7   2.6  0.93   1.26
Ebb      1.01  1.68  0.92   1.4   0.54  0.72
Analysis shows that. after 50-100 times of physical dilution ( different matter with
varied dilution ratio ). required water quality standard in the water area can be reached
by various pollutants to be discharged from sewage outfalls. and the basis to determine
this kind of water quality standard is the function of respective water area. We have
pointed out that. grade-ll water standard is the aim of Changjiang water environment
protection. But due to geo-chemical process. it is impossible to maintain grade-l1 water
standard at the estuary confluence area of salt water and fresh water. Even if there is no
artificial pollutants to be discharged from Shanghai. grade-11 water standard will still
not he maintained. Under certain special astronomical conditions, even grade-1ll water
standard will be exceeded. Therefore. water quality of Bailonggang water area has
alreadv not been suitable for drinking and agricultural irrigating. Documents have
alreadv shown that. there is sewage discharge area within 3km from Bailonggang water
irea.
- 4-20



Chapter 4
Fig 4 - 8 ( a ) -  c ) show isopleth distribution of dilution ratio at surface. medium and
bottom layers of Bailonggang water area when upstream runoff to be 30.000m Is in
rising-still tlow condition. Result of mathematical simulation shows that. land
reclamation will impact on dispersion area outside the boundary of 100 times of
dilution ratio. Therefore. the original mixing zone area will not be changed. i.e.. limited
impact on distribution of concentration field. Research shows that, land reclamation
around 0-meter isobath beachfront will impose no impact on estuarine geo-biochemical
process. no impact on riverwater-sewage mixing process, no impact on barrier-effect
formed during maximum turbid-belt chemical process. and no impact on the formation
of new phases as well. So. land reclarnation will not impact on pollutants transportation
and transformation. It is estimated that after the completion of SSPII. water quality near
the shore will be improved. So. it is suggested to carry out some monitoring and studies
to verify the estimation after project completion.
4-21



C(hapter 4
~~~~~~~~~                   0 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 1  2 kml
Changxu°g Isic
500
500                     ( )
~,,uaogou                  Balog3     n
J3.,Charngxij  Isle                       -      u   
500
~ uagouBalng g
Figure 4-8 (a) Sewage Dilution at River Surface under Flood Still at the Flow Rate
of 3000 m3Is
4-22



Chapter 4
I 2 km 
Chan.xing Isle
5 00
Wuhaogou                 Bailonggang
_^ - o~~~~~~~ 1                    2 k1M 
Changxing Isle
cz  2500
-    uhao-L  Bou
Figure 4-8 (b) Sewage Dilution at IlFiddle Depth of River under Flood Still at the
Flow Rate of 3000 m3/s
4-23



C&haDler 4
Changxing IsIc   -500
200
;-- uhaou                   Bailonggang
Changxing Isle   -                             \ .
_50X0
200
_-                    ~~~i.
,; Wuhaogou :: :  - - - -:  Bailnggang-
Figure 4-8 (c) Sewage Dilution at River Bottom under Flood Still at the Flow Rate
of 3000 m3/s
4-24



Chapter 5
5.       IMPACT  ON  ECOLOGICAL  ENVIRONMENT  FROM  LAND
RECLAMATION
5.1     Historic Retrospect on Bailonggang Beachfront
Bailonggang beachfront is located on Southem Branch of Changjiang Estuary. The
part of Changjiang in Southem Branch is a gradell section in Changjiang Estuary.
Large quantities of sand from up and middle streams of Changjiang deposit here for
long periods of lime. therefore. the land is silted up. As early as 4-5 centuries. our
ancestors had already carried out agriculture. fishery and salt productions here. In
order to prevent sea tide attack. some dams were built in that time, but not in large
scale. But these dams were often damaged by sea tide. After mid 8th century of Tang
Dynasty. people jointly built dams larger than before to strengthen tide-defense effects.
Late. after the extension of beachfroni towards sea. many sea dams were built in the
castem side of original dams. Large scale sea dams in history were. Guhan Sea Dam
built in AD 713 of Tang Dynastv, Inner Sea Dam built in AD 1173 of Song Dynasty.
Qingong Sea Dam built in AD 1584 o' Ming Dynasty, heightened and consolidated in
AD 1733 of Qing Dvnasty. Penggong Sea Dam built in AD 1883 of Qing Dynasty.
People Sea Dam was successfully built in October 1949 under the direct of the former
mavor of Shanghai. Mr.Chen Yi himself. After experienced ordeals of typhoon. storm
and tide for morc than 40 years. it's still safe today and exerting important functions.
Since 1980s. with economic developmrent of Shanghai and opening of Pudong New
Area. land reclamation are being continually implemented at 0-meter seawater
elevation in the internal beachfront along Southem Branch coastline.
Bleachfront sources on the southern bank of Southern Branch mainly include those
sources along deep-water coastline and on intertidal zones. At present. the deep-water
coastline about 11  km near Wusongkou has all been utilized. Beachfront sources on
the southern bank ot' Southern Branch are mainlv scattered at the areas near
l3ailoneloni! and at the southem side of it. Along the coastline from Wuhaogou to
Blailonegang. there are about 1000-I 500m of intertidal zones outside sea dam. There
.re 'no sianilicant changes of beachfront elevations since past 40 year. and the useable
area ot' heachfront not very large. In the eastem side of Bailonggang. beachfront has
hccn gradually %%idened with the trend of further silting up nowadays.
;ubstratum under beachtfront along Sciuthern Branch are mainly dark grey and vellow
browkn silt with mud contents. average diameters of particles from 0.032 to 0.040mm.
that's lo sav. between medium silt and fine silt. Muddv silt and fine silt scatter in parts
ot the areas. Due to the impact from beach discharge. substratum around Bailonggang
o)uttall ot SouLhern ['runkl Sewer are significantly polluted. Black slick is formed due
to the accumulation ot' pollutant deposit. During high tide period. the thickness of this
!lack slick la%er %%ith strong smell is about 15-20cm. the width about 300m. During
medium tide penod. this laver is gradually transited into yellow brown silt -mingled
%%ith black slick. the thickness gradually becomes thin. usually,,only 3-5cm due to
, I



CUhapter 5
scouring of tide and dispersion of sewage. but the width extend into 600m. Blackl slick
is scattered in discontinuous spots. During low tide period. substratum is vellow
brown fine silt, and black slick disappear.
5.2     Impact on Beachfront Vegetation
Changes of natural and social environmrents will impact on community structures and
species changes. In history, beachfront vegetation along Southern Branch of
Changjiang Estuary were mainly reeds community. Besides, there were also coarse-
leaf moss-weeds community and deer-weeds community. In recent years. due to the
utilization of coastlines. artificial buildings such as wharves and airport is increasing
rapidlv. Therefore. vegetation along coastline are reduced sharply. Now. only
fragmentary reeds and green meadows can be seen. At present. due to direct beach
discharge from Bailonggang Sewage outfall and without any treatment there. surface
substratum of nearby tidal beachfront have been polluted significantly. black slick
also formed. The investigation shows that there is no vegetation growth.
Biomass of phytoplankton species in water is greatly affected by salinity. temperature.
transparency, nutrient salts, toxicant concentration and light. Due to no changes in
sewage mixing zone will be caused by land reclamation, and also no changes of above
factors within this marine area as well, therefore, it will be impossible for the
phytoplanktonic'.species and their amount in the nearby marine areas to be changed
significantly. Original report shows that, even after the commission of LATE and also
with some increasing in dispersion zone, the probability of this kind of impact will
also be greatly reduced due to up and down tidal movements in the mixing zone. The
land reclamnation project does not affect conclusions in the original report. For the
same reason. phytoplanktonic animalcule species also closely rely on marine area
transparencv, salinity, temperature and feed. The above factors within and without the
mixing zone will still be the same'after the land reclamnation. Therefore. no new
impacts on planktonic ecosystem will be constituted.
According to investigations made in recent years, sewage discharges in Shanghai have
greatlv deteriorated beachfront water qualities. The aquatic pollution is especially
senous at Westem and Southem Trunk Sewers Outfalls. and also at the confluence of
I luangpu River and Changjiang. For instance. the aquatic pollution in the 5m areas
trom coastline at Westem Trunk Sewer outfall site is fairly serious. OC ( Oxvgen
Consumption ) indicators 2 times exceeding of standard ( national aradell surface
%,ater standard ). BOD5 8 times exceeding. ammonia-nitrogen 20 times exceeding.
phenol O).0lmgil ( 10 times exceeding ). lead 0.1mg/l. oil as high as 4.Omg/l
accordine to the investieation data of October 1992 ). That's to say. orcanic pollution.
heavv metal and toxic contents at Westem Trunk Sewer outfall site is very hiah. so. a
black slick about 100m wide has been formed at beachfront. Although Southem rrunmk
Seewer outfall site is located on the down stream of Changjiang Estuar and situation
5-2



Chapter 5
here better than Westem Trunk Sewer outfall. but a large piece of intertidal zone is
also polluted due to beach discharge. Therefore. sewage discharge in Shanghai have
already polluted large pieces of intertidal zones at sewage outfalls and parts of the
nearby water areas. Water quality is still good in most of water areas at Changjiang
Estuarv. For instance. water quality at the area about 1.5km from Southem Trunk
Sewer outfall site is basically good. So, water qualities in most of the areas at
Changjiang Estuarv can basically reach national gradell surface water quality. Vast
piece of the Eastem China Sea area in the east of 122°20'E haven't been significantly
polluted, therefore. water quality is good there. Besides. in river estuary area ot
Shanghai, planktonic amount is lower. and variety composition simple as well. From
the viewpoint ot'planktonic community structures and varieties, it's stable until now.
In Changjiang Estuarv. benthic varieties are simple. Due to the serious pollution in
parts of Changjiang Estuary water areas from municipal sewage discharge. benthos
are atfected seriouslv. i.e.. epitomizing in reduction of benthic varieties. damage of
biological communities and losing of ecological balance. Sectional data from
Wusongkou.. Westem Trunk Sewer outfall and Shidongkou show that. those non-
pollution-resisting species reduced or disappeared gradually, but those pollution-
resisting species are growing largely.
rherefore. existing sewage discharge outfalls in Shanghai do cause pollution to parts
of water areas in Changjiang Estuary, especially in intertidal zone and its nearby areas
at Westcrn Trunk Sewer outfall site. but little impacts on water areas in the northern
side of Changjiang Estuarv south main passage and in the east of 122°20'E. Until now.
sewage discharge in Shanghai has imposed no significant impact on planktonic
communitv structures. But according to investigation data in 1991. biological amount
hias been significantly reduced in comparison with historic data. This has already
.ho%ed the harmtul impact of sewage on biological species. Besides. as described
above. impact of sewage on benthos is significant. main reflection is that. those non-
p<Kllution-resistine species reduced or disappeared gradually, but those pollution-
resisting species are growing largely. Within medium tide areas of intertidal zones.
there are almost all shiverinn-earthworm. this shows the seriousness of pollution
thcrc.
submannei-dispersion discharge method is adopted in proposed Second Shanghai
Se%keraue lProject. beach discharge ol' existing Southem Trunk Sewer outfall will also
he rebuilt. [herefore. existing pollution of intertidal zone in Bailonggang will be
-reatlv reduced. In t'uture. due to inter-reactions of runoff-tide. water-sand and
,hannel-hcachfront. the damaged ecosvstem by beach discharge will be graduallv
recovered. I-and reclamation project, will not impact on nearby beachfront. on the
contrary. it will exen an active function for eliminating beachfront pollution due to
hleach discharge at present.
5-3



C hapter 5
5.3 Impact on Fish Migratory Passage in Near-shore Shallow-water Zones at
Changijang Estuary
Changjiang Estuarv is an important migratory passage for sea-water fish and fresh-
water fish from sea to river and vice versa. For whatever the adult fish in active
migration or the spawn and juvenile nursery fish in passive migration. thev are closelv
related with water temperature, salinity, runoff, tide, flow velocity and feed.
Following is three categories of active migration fish.
1. Sea-water fish
i.e.. those fish live in sea-water. for instance, silvery pomfret, large yellow croaker.
little vellow croaker and hairtail.
'. Estuarine pisces
a. Anadromous sea-water fish
i.e.. those fish live in sea-water and breed in fresh-water. for instance. knife fish Coilia
eclenes. pheonix fish coilia mystus and hilsa herring.
b. Anadromous fresh-water fish
For instance. Japanese eel and Songjiang perch.
c. Anadromous brackish-water fish
For instance. variegated perch and mullet.
F Iresh-water fish.
It can be categorized as lake-river migratory and static fish.
All the adult and juvenile of estuarine pisces migrate from sea to river or vice versa
some in long distance. some in near-shore short distance. Most sea-water fish livinyt in
Changjiang Estuarv are shallow-sea or coastal-waters pisces. Knife fish coilia eclenes
and hilsa herring migrate in medium distance during breeding season. silver fish
iemisalunr prognathus. phoenix fish coilia mystus and plumfish mi2rate in short
Llistance within estuary and near-shore shallow-sea. Japanese eel might be a kind of
tir-distance migratory fish from fresh-water to deep sea. Eel fry migrate to upstream
in Februarv everv vear with peak-time between March 20th to April 4th. cssentiallv
.;top for migration bv the end of Ma,v and finally. adult eel go to sea in autumn.
In Clhangjiang Estuarv. breeding and growing migrations of fish are closely related
%%1th water temperature. Peak-time of knife fish coilia ecienes migration to river is
f'rom Februarv to March. water temperature 6-8°C; silver,vpomfret i-n middle and late*
!larch. water temperature 7.5-11°C. Peak-time of spawning-migrations for phoenix
5-4



cnapter 5
fish coilia mystus, silvery pomfret amd plumfish is in May, water temperature
1 8-23°C. Seasons for juvenile fish appearance are, Japanese eel, variegated perch and
mullet in mid-March, water temperature 6-12°C; knife fish coilia ectenes. phoenix
fish coilia mystus and plumfish by the end of July and early August. water
temperature 26-27°C.
Distribution and migration of sea fish, of economic interest are closely related with
Changjiang runoff, their high-yield zones in those sea areas with significant influence
by Changjiang runoff. For instance. hairtail, its yield as high as 30% of annual landed
catches in the Eastem China Sea area., migrate mainly in coastal-waters of Zhejiang
Province. One of its main spawning ground is within the sea area of 28°'3 1°30'N.
1220-124930'E. Hairtail seek feed in sea areas such as Changjiang Estuary, reefs and
mid-southern Yellow Sea. During late autumn and early winter, fish schools mass in
the south of Changiiang Estuary, i.e., the famous hairtail winter fishing season in
Shengshan fishing ground. Large yellow croaker spawn in coastal-waters; including
Northem Changjiang Estuary fishing ground, Lusi fishing ground and sea areas such
as Daijuyang and Dajiyang. These fish seek feed in the vicinity of islands, estuary and
sea areas outside of spawning ground. Before and after late March, spawning colonies
of little yellow croaker appear at Changjiang Estuary and its nearby sea-areas. Feed is
sought in Changiiang Estuary and Zhcoushan fishing ground from June to September.
Related data shows that, since commission of Southem and Westem Trunk Sewers in
1 970s. severe damages have occurred in fishing ground from Wuhaogou to
Bailonggang, and water areas of silver fish hemisalanx prognathus spawning ground
from Xinchuansha of Baoshan District to Shidongkou. Net-casting investigation
shows that, structure and amount of biological comminunities as well as diversification
indicators are very low at water areas in the vicinity of Southern Trunk Sewer outfall.
Beach discharge has caused impacts on intertidal zone around sewage outfall and
downtidal zone ecosystem. Aquatic pollution indicators such as COD. BOD5 and
Nitrogen-ammonia in beachfront within 1000m from shore are significantly higher
than outside water area. It has already caused evasion of fish to this water area and
removal of migratory passage to outside. The conclusion of original report is that. no
appropriate dilution of sewage is mtain cause for pollution. and status quo will be
improved once beach discharge is abandoned and proposed submarine discharge
implemented. Therefore, original report has defined -2m isobath as intertidal
boundarv of mixing zone, so, beachfront passage for fish migration can be reserved.
After completion of land reclamation project, width of mixing zone still less than 1/10
ot total river channel width. so, a passage about 400m wide can be maintained along
southern-bank beachfront for fish migration. Therefore, no new impact on ecosvstem
in this water area will be caused by land reclamation project. There is also no impact
on lishing grounds outside Changjiang Estuary. The pre-condition is that. beach
discharge must be cancelled completely immediately after commission of Second
Shanghai Sewerage Project. otherwise. above conclusions will be untenable.
5-5



Chapter 5
5.4    Impact on Fishing Ground outside Changjiang Estuary
major fishing grounds around Changjiang Estuary area are located on the north of
main navigational channel in Changiang Estuary and Jiuduansha outside Changiiang
Estuarv. Therefore. fishery productions in above fishing grounds has been directly and
significantly affected by sewage discharge in southern coast of Shanghai. Although in
recent years. there are some fluctuations of annual catch of phoenix fish coilia mvstus
and white shrimp palaemon annandalei. but the production is still stable. The fishery
production of fishing grounds along the southem coast. however, have been severely
threatened by the beach discharge of urban sewage. For instance. the fishing ground at
Shidongkou has been damaged. the fishery unit there was transferred to other business.
Fishern ecological production has vanished in the vicinity of Western Trunk Sewer
outfall. Water area along Chuansha was once the place for fixed net fishing. In 1 950s.
fixed net catch production was as high as 8.8t within one tidal period. After the
commission of Southern Trunk Sewer outfall. catch production fell dramatically since
1982. Annual catch in 1982 was 280.5t. in 1987 reduced to 58.3t, and in recent years
fixed net catch production onlv 0.5kg in one catch within one tidal period. Therefore,
aquatic resources have been damaged in water area here. There is no meaning of
1ishery production in water areas near Westem and Southern Trunk Sewers outfall
sites. Especially. silver fish hemisalanx prognathus fishing grounds have been almost
damaged.
At present. it's very serious of partial impact on fishery ecosystem from pollutants.
V-he result mainly relies on pollutants existence varieties, forms and concentrations. as
wvell as endurance and evasion capabilities of different kinds of aquatic lives.
[Because the proposed outfall will be submerged diffusion. the impact on the far field
environment will be lower than that of a beach discharge. The principal reason is that
tht wastewater will be sutficiently diluted to reduce more distant impacts to low
levels. 'The fishery resources spawning areas in the Changjiang estuary are at Tongsha.
Jiuduansha and Nanhuizui. about 15k1m distance from the Bailonggang waters. There
'sill be no impact from the discharge on these areas.
1 low%s trom Changjiang together with the man-made ion-flow and pollutant loads
enter the marine environment in a southeast direction to around 122015'E. turning to
the northcast in summer and to southeast in winter. There is generallv no great impact
on I lanLzhuu Bay. If in consideration of Hangzhou Bay surface current flows and
%%ind-hield. it might impact on Hangzhou Bay. Even if a surface current flows
southwards in Hangzhou Bav. forwards the Zhoushan Fishing Ground, it will impact
on there. but because of dilution. it is estima,ted that the accumulated concentration of
CO'D is about 0.05ma,l at Zhoushan. even without considering any self-purification
process. In summer. the diluted water flows northeastward about 1240E. Due to tidal
5-6



Chapter 5
rising and ebbing mixing, turbulence dispersion and other dynamic process. it affects
the nearby areas of northem Jiangsu Province to some extent, but the main flow does
not directly reach the Lusi coastal area. From the results of other measurements, the
currents in the Lusi coastal area are mainly controlled by the coastal currents of
northem Jiangsu Province.
The main spawning areas of fish of economic importance are all located away from
proposed Second Shanghai Sewerage Project Bailonggang outfall about 20km. For
such a long distance, sewage will be diluted for thousands times. so. there will be
essentially no major impacts on spawning and juvenile nursery grounds. and also less
minor impacts on far away fishing grounds.
Land reclamation will not impact on above conclusions. For the same reason. the
largest existing water source is the Chenhang intake, located upstream of the Baoshan
Iron & Steel Complex. about 40km away from the proposed sewage outfall. The
planned Qincaosha water intake is about 30krn from the proposed Bailonggang outlet.
Because all the water quality points in Bailonggang section will go upstream within
22km. it can be considered that there is no impact on the existing and planned water
intakes. Water quality will be improved after construction of the Bailonggang outlet
because the proposed outlet will replace the existing 300,000m3/d beach outlet. Even
though the volume of wastewater discharge will be increased to I,700.000m3/d. the
impact on the seashore must be greatly reduced by using the Changjiang water body's
self purification:capability. The main water diversion site Wuhaogou and Sanjiagang,
are lOkm and 5km from the proposed Bailonggang outlet respectively. Thus. the
Second Shanghai Sewerage Project outfall will not have any significant impact on
inland water diversion. In fact, the C hangjiang water at Bailonggang is not suitable for
inland diversion because of its high silt content and the high salinity in low water
season.
5-7



Chapter o
6.     IMPACTS ON SOCIO-ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT
It is planned that the land of 1830 mu (122 ha.) will be reclamed from the sea instead
oft 5 mu (25 ha.) needed to be acquired from Heqing Township in Pudong New
Area for the construction of preliminary sewage treatment plant of SSPII. Both social
and economic environment mav be affected by the reclamation project.
6.1    Impact on Social Environmnent
6.1.1   Being in Accordance with Principle for Less or No Occupation of
Cultivated Land
The reclamation project provides not only the land for project construction. but also
the land reserved for future expansion. and it is in accordance with the fundamental
national pnrnciple for less or no occupation of cultivated land by construction project.
6.1.2   Effective Protection of Land Resources
rhe reclamation project will effectively protect the limited land resources in Shanghai.
.speciallv in the Pudong New Area land is scarce and very expensive. The project can
save the land for future development of Heqing township and Pudong New Area and
bring a lot of social benefits to this area.
6.1.3   Plaving an Important Role in Flood Control and Development
DVke construction of the reclamation project can not only play an important role in
flood control. but also provide an opportunity for coastal development.
h.1.4  Impact on Regional Planning
According to the onginal plan. lancl in Heqing Township would be acquired for the
prolect and corresponding regional planning for Heqing Township was made in 1995.
It was expected that west region of the town would be industrial zone. east of the town
'%ould be commercial center where the resettled villagers would move in and the
eastem coastal area would be developed for tourism. In addition. No 6 People's
I lospital would be established on the north of the proposed reclamation project. With
the chaneing of the original acquisition option for reclamation. there will be some
impacts on the omerall town planning. Therefore. corresponding changes on the town
planning should also be made bv the local government.
6.1.5  Impact on Regional Development
Wk ind direction in Shanghai is generally southeast. Local governnent is concemed
6-1



Chapter 6
about the odor from  the sewage treatment plant will affect the surrounding
environment after the project is put into operation. Especially in the downwind area.
some projects development may be hindered because of the poor environment so that
the regional development may be frustrated.
6.1.6  Impact on Regional Traffic
It is required by the project that the grade and width of all the roads and bridges
connecting the dyke comply with certain standard for project construction. Therefore.
the existing roads and bridges need to be renovated. expanded and improved. and new
passages will be opened up. e.g. a 8 m wide Suitang He Bridge will be set up. All of
these activities will improve the local traffic condition, facilitate the communication
between local townships. and increase the traffic flow between rural and downtown
area.
6.1.7  Impact on Local Power and Water Supply
A power and water supply system will be set up to support the main construction and
it will increase the local capacity for power and water supply. so the living of the
residencc and local industrial production will be benefited.
6.1.8  Increasing Green Land and Beautifying the Environment
With the dyke construction, the project proponent can plant greenery along the
shoreline to protect the odor from the sewage as well as purifv and improve the
environment. If there is no polluted water zone on the river surface after sewage
treatment. tourism such as sea sight-seeing can be developed. therefore. society.
environment and economy can be developed in harmony.
6.1.9   Attracting Investment
The reclamation project will improve the local investment environment. provide more
opportunities of communication between local and outside area. improve the local
public image and attract more investment.
6.1.10 Solving Sewage Problem for Shanghai
IUhe reclamation is a preparatory project of SSPII which is a construction project to
sooie the sewvave discharge problem of Shanghai Municipality. In the future. industrial
wastewater can also be intercepted. This project can solve the problem tor local
etfluent discharge and it is benefit for industrial development of Heqing Towrship
and surrounding area.
6-2



Chapter b
6.1.11 Impact on Regional Environment
During project construction period. Xiyang Road will be the only passage on land for
transportation and dwelling houses along the road sides will be affected. Passing
vehicles, especially the heavy lorries. and the operation of construction machines will
afTect the -surrounding area with vibration. noise and dust. thus the living of the
residents will be disturbed especiallv during night.
6.1.12 Impact on Local Public Security and Sanitation
During project construction period. a lot of construction workers will move into this
area, which will place a high burden on the local public security and sanitation.
Hiowever, these adverse impact are temporal and will be vanished with the completion
ot the construction.
6.1.13 Impacts on Cultivated Land
rhe proposed southern dvke will divided the land of 150 mu (15 ha.) in Chaoyang
village. Heqing Township into two parts: 70 mu (4.67 ha.) outside the dyke will be
submerged and unable for cultivation and the other 80 mu (5.33 ha.) will also be
-iiTected because of drainage problem. Therefore. the project proponent together with
the local government should make a full consideration of this issue and adopt proper
measures to make full use of these lands.
6.2    Impact on Economv
6.2.1   Maintaining the First Industrv Output
I.and reclamation trom the sea won't reduce the cultivated land for cultivation. so in
lleqing lownship. output of first industry (agriculture) which occupies the lowest
proportion ot its (iDP wvill be maintained.
6.2.2  I)eveloping the Third Industry
I he increment of' trat'fic tlow will propel the development of local service industry.
Not only the employment channel will be enlarged. but also the output of the third
industrv as %%ell as the income of those who engaged in this industry will be increased.
h.2.3  Increasing Employment
ihe construction and operation of the reclamation project will need a certain amount
01 people '%orking on site day and night. Besides the staffs from construction
compan,v. proiect proponent. and operation company. local labors will be hired. and
6-3



Chapter 6
this will provide an employment opportunity for the local people.
6.2.4   Stimulating Development of Market Economy
During project construction and operation period. food and daily necessities needed
bv the project emplovers will be supplied from the local market. Under the market
economy, those requirements will stimulate the development of local market economy.
Meanwhile. the requirement for various equipment, machines and components as well
as their maintenance and replacement for project construction and operation will
enlarge local supply market.
6.2.5   Impact on Income of Fishery
Since 1970's. the fishing resource has been reduced because-sewerage was laid under
the local villages. However, the fry of eel and crab is still available and January to
April is the peak period for fishing every year. Because of high price of the fry. e.g.
eel frv 2 yuanleach and crab fry 2-3 yuan/each. income of the fishers is quite high.
Altogether. about 100 people are involving in the fishing of eel fry and crab frv in
Heqing Township where reclamation project is situated. The administration fee for
fishing management charged by the local office reaches more than 100.000 yuan per
vear.
During the project construction period, the shoreline will be closed temporarily,
therefore. local fishers have to stop fishing at the present river sections. or they may
go to downstream or upstream for fishing, or temporarily stop working. or change for
another job. To them. all of these options will bring them either transportation
difficulties or economic losses. About 160,000 yuan RMB has been paid to the fishers
tfor compensation by the SSPII project.
Because of reclamation project. fishing ponds with an area of 60 mu (4- ha.) in
Chaoyang village have to be resettled and economic losses in fishery will be occurred.
I lowever. only 2 families. about 5 people are affected. About 40 yuan RMB including
the cost of for pond excavation, resettlement and compensation has been paid bv the
project proponent to the local fishers and fishing administration office.
Atfter the completion of the project construction. it is able to go fishing at the deep
water outside the main navigation passage, however. with the reduction of fishinsg area.
the fishing output will be affected.
64



Charner 7
7.     ANALYSIS ON  CONFORMITY  OF RECLAMATION  PROJECT
WITH REGIONAL PLANING
7.1    Conformitv with Shanghaii Overall Urban Development Objective
7.1.1   Shanghai Overall Urban Development Objective
According to the requirement of Guideline of Shanghai   the Ninth Five Year
Plan and the 1996-2010 Long-term  Plan of National Economy and Social
l)evelopment of Shanghai which was issued at the 4'b session of the Standing
Committee of I0' Peopie's Congress of Shanghai. the development objectives from
now to the beginning of next century are as follows:
Bv the vear 2010. an economic scale and comprehensive strength for an intemational
metropolis is to be basically formed in Shanghai; a city layout for an intemational
first-class metropolis is to be basically taken into shape; an open setup with extensive
economic operation home and abroad is to be basically formed; an infrastructure
tramework for an intemational modem metropolis will be basically taken into shape:
and a social development system with human development as a central task and an
ecological rich environment with htunan and nature in harnony are to be basically
formed.
I ) (General Development Objective of   the Ninth Five Plan   Period of Shanghai
l)eveloping the -Pudong New Area and driving the co-development of Pudong and
l'uxi. Bv the vear 2000. the framework for one of intemational economic. financial
and trade centers will be initially forned in Shanghai.
i2) ()hicctive tor Year 2010 of Shanghai
lhv the %ear 2010. Shanehai will be basically established as one of the international
.conomic. linancial and trade centers: Pudong New Area will be basically formed into
.n intemational t'irst-class. open. and modem urban areas: Shanghai will initially
hecome an intemational economic center with its overall economic strength and the
livng standard of' its residents reaching or above that of the medium-developed
i ountnes or reeions.
-.1.2   Conformity  of Proposed  Project with  Shanghai Overall Urban
l)evelopment Objective
\ceordinu to the overall urban development objective of Shanghai. by 21' centurv. an
economic scale and comprehensive strength for an intemational metropolis will be
basically torrned in Shanghai: a city lavout for an intemational first-class metropolis
7-1



COhapter 7
will be basically formed. and an infrastructure framework for an international modem
metropolis will be fundamentally taken shape.
But. every day 5 million m; sewage is generated from Shanghai. and how to deal with
it is a big challenge for Shanghai to realize a sustainable development. According to
the present economic strength and sewage treatment capacity of Shanghai. there are 8
sewage treatment plants in Shanghai with the total daily treatment capacity of 280.000
mi which accounts for 5.6% of the total sewage amount. and a great anount of
sewage is discharged directly into the Huangpu River or Suzhou Creek or its
tributaries without any treatment. The heavily polluted river not only affects the
drinking water source and do a great harm to the people's health. but also greatly
frustrates the economic sustainable development of Shanghai and damage the image
of Shanghai to be an international metropolis.
T-herefore. collecting the sewage for treatment while using the self-purification ability
of the nature with less input for satisfactory result is the general objective for
Shanghai Municipal Government to start the combined sewage project.
In total. the SSPII project will cover a service area of 269.6 km2. including Wujing
and Minhang areas at upper Huangpu River and Pudong New Area of 155.8 km-. The
project will provide an important urban infrastructure for the sustainable development
of Shanghai and for the opening and development of Pudong New Area. Therefore,
the SSPII project is fully in accordance with Shanghai overall urban development
objective.
The reclanation-project for land from the sea is a preparatory action of SSPII. and it
will provide land for the construction of sewage treatment plant.
Land. the basis of human's survival. is one of the most precious resources possessed
bv human. Reclamating land from the sea is in accordance with the national principle
that the construction should be carried out with less or no cultivated land occupation
and it is in compliance with the overall urban development objective for sustainable
development and economic advancement.
7.2    (;eneral Objective of Environmental Protection in Shanghai
7.2.1   General Objectives for Ninth Five Year Period
A\ccording to the requirements of Shanghai Envirornmental Master Plan. during the
period o(f the Ninth Five Year Period. a primarv framework of' environmental
protection which is adaptable to the city's position as a cosmopolis is to be built. i.e.
tn the premise that economy has grown by a large margin. by me-ans of developing
and opening Pudong. promoting the adjustment of city layout and rationalizing
7-2



Chapter 7
sectonal structure of production. urban infrastructure and pollution abatement will be
perfected. the discharwe of pollutants wviil reduced enorrnously and environmental
pollution will be in control on the wlhole. Then the environmental quality of all the
environmental functional areas will be up to the standard and Shanghai will be
fraduallv transformed into a modem metropolis.
* General Water Environmental Objective
On the basis of improvement on water utilization. protecting the drinking water source.
controlling domestic sewage discharge load. improving urban sewage collection and
treatment coverage and reducing the discharge load of industrial pollutants. so that by
the year 2000. water quality of each functional area will reach the corresponding
water qualitv standard from Class 11 to Class IV of the National Surface Water Quality
Standard (GB3838-88).
Class ll of the standard is for Class I functional area;
C'lass Ill ot'the standard is for Class II functional area:
Class IV ot' the standard is for Class 'l1 functional area:
7.2.2   General Environmental Protection Objective and Task for Year 2010
(1) General Environmental Protection Objective
13y the year 2010. the prospective objectives of environmental protection in Shanghai
are to he conform to the international practice. i.e. by means of further reform and
opening. the take off of Pudong ancl the rejuvenation of Shanghai. environment and
development will be in harmony with each other at high level. the environmental
lunction zones will be compietely built; urban ecological environment will enter a
henii.n cvcle: and the seneral enviranmental qualitv in Shanghai will come up to the
.tandards of a modem metropolis.
'2 (Xtncral Environmental Protection Task
IT'. realizc the aim above of environmental protection. 7 environmental protection
'asks have been tormulated for future development based on the concept of
coordinatiny development of econamy with environment, and on the guideline of
leaner production.
*  Ilmplementiny strategy on development with economv. societv. science and
technology. citv and ecology in harmonv:
*  Adiusting city layout. promoting transition of urban function as a trade and
tinancial center. enhancing comprehensive function of the city:
*  Renovating t'actories in the downtown area. moving. merging or treating 3500
polluting tactonres:
7-3



Chapter 7
*  Accelerating strategic sectorial structure adjustment. based on the development
strategy with the third industry as the prioritv. putting more efforts on
development of the third industry while reducing the proportion of secondarv
industry in the whole national economy;
*  Developing hi-tech industry with less pollution and high value. speeding up
technoiogy renovation. carrying out cleaner production. enhancing pollution
prevention and control, and reducing the discharge of pollutants enormouslv:
*  Increasing investment on environmental protection, speeding up the construction
of environmenta! infrastructure including the improvement of drinkine water
quality and air quality, urban noise abatement, energy structure adjustment. urban
greenery area increment and the enhancement of pollution control on wastewater.
waste gas and solid waste.
*  Strengthening and perfecting environmental legal system. enhancing enforcement
of environmental laws and regulations, strengthening and perfecting
environmental management by powerful legal, administrative. and economic
mechanism. rationalize environmental management system. perfecting the system
of two level government and two level management. mobilizing all the positive
elements to realize the general environmental protection objective.
7.2.3   Conformity of Project with Shanghai Environmental Protection Plan
After the completion of SSPII, everyday sewage of 1.72 million Mi, which is
discharged into'the Huangpu River and its tributaries and causes serious pollution and
poor water quality at present. will be collected.
The collecting of sewage into the sewer for central treatment will not only protect the
drin;king water source at the upper Huangpu River. but also increase the treatment rate
ot sewage for outfall from 41% to 75.8%. and improve the water qualitv at upper
liuangpu River and its tributaries so that the surface water quality of Shanghai will be
improved and it will be possible to meet the water qualitv objective for main waters in
Shanghai.
The reclamnation project can reserve land for future construction of the secondary
sewage treatment plant so that the sewage can be discharged into Changjiang River
atter treatment. and this will preserve the water resource of Changjiang River and
ouarantee a long-term use of the outfall. It ensures the way of sewaize disposal in
Shanuhai and sustainable development of economy and environment.
Fhe SSPII project is an environmental protection project while the reclamation project
will make it even better. Therefore. the reclamation project is in full accordance with
the environmental protection plan of Shanghai.
7-4



Chapter 8
8.     ENVIRONMENTAL  IMI'ACT ANALYSIS FOR  CONSTRUCTION
PERIOD
8.1    Main Environmental Impacts during Construction Period
'The main environmental impacts occurred during project construction period will be
as tollows:
I ) Environmental impact caused bv fill construction:
') Traffic impact caused by construction:
a  Environmental impact caused by construction noise:
4  Environmental impact caused by construction spoils and debris:
E Environmental impact caused by domestic wastes from the construction workers.
:\I ol' these impacts which will be occurred during the construction period is temporal
and will be eliminated with project completion.
8.2    Sources of Filling Earth and its Impact
8.2.1   Main Project
Ehe main project includes three parts:
I ) 13uilding Mtain Dvke. and south and north side dykes
':or the main dvke. the elevation of the levee crown is 8.70 m with the width of 8.00
In and is 10.00 m of the digue. The outside slope is from 1:3 to 1:1.5 and inside slope
vs 1:2 %with surt'ace gireenerv which is 5 m in height and 15 m in width. and the width
ot the platform is 3-4 m. For the south side dvke. the elevation of the levee crown is
t* 00 m -with the width of 5.80 m and is 7.00 m of the digue. The outside- slope is 1:3
and inside slope is 1:2 with surface greenerv. and the width of the platform is 4 m. For
the nonh side dyke. the elevation of the levee crown is 6.0 m with the width of 5.8 m
and is 7.00 m of the digue. The outside slope is from 1:2 and inside slope is 1:2 with
-urtace CrCerervN. and the width of the platform is 4 m.
[lie %%idth o' earth blowina area behind the main dvke is 80 m and behind the south
idt: d%ke it %%ill he less than l00m. The earth blowing area will be used as stockpile
.or the construction ot' head tank and shield tunnel. and it mav also be used as
temporal working site for embankment railing making. stone crashing. cement mixing
.i.. 11-he elevation of the earth blowina area should be controlled to be lower than 5.0
mt.
(2) Sand Soil Blowine for Reclamation
8-1



Chaoter 8
580 mu (38.68  ha.) for the Stage  1 will be filled bv blowing  with the sand from
Changjiang River and the elevation of the land is 5.00 m. The rest area will be filled
bv box culvert with spoils and the land elevation is 4.00 m.
(3) Establishment of an Simple Working Pier
A pier for the ship of 100 tonnage will be set up for loading and unloading the
equipment and construction materials such as sand and riprap.
8.2.2     Earth Filling Quantity
According to the primarv estimation for the dyking project at Bailonggang of SSPII.
all the dvking material such as sand soil, riprap rock, and etc. needed for the project
are listed in Table 8-1 as follows:
Table 8-1    Material Needed for the Dyking Project at Bailonggang
No   Name of Matenals   Unit    Main         South and   Blowing    South         Pier    rotal
dyke       North       fill        Outfall
Side Dyke
I    sand   soil  for  m'         56250      132217      32200       51415               272082
sackiniz_             _ _                            _ __ _ _    _ _ __ _            _ _ _ _
2     - 150  kg  pnsm   m'        28875      4746                     345         4850   38816
riprap                                              _ _ _  _ _  _ _  _ _
3    rprap    bufldine  m-        3850                                                    3850
iith fine stone
4     nprap building by  m        8663        1853
Lcmcnt                                                                               01
crushing    mtore  m        8938        1930                    150                 11018
L..      concrete  m         1650       600                                         2'50
ro ntwirced bars
_    .onvex  arc  m;        2420                                                    2420
dIl!UC %%ail
h%drauhic hlo.ine  m'       216810                  1335280                          155209
}     riprap      ..1opc  In                  9823                                 4941    10313
proectlion    -                                                                               I
I   (ioncrete d        lat  m       413         724                                          1137
I  nprap_
s hr ideJ sackcloth    m:          5500       28950       IhJ000      4h440                14h390
S   nomnoven             m:      27500       8685                                       |3618X5
| sackci8oth-2
8-2



Chapter 8
It can be seen from the above table that sand soil which is 1.85 million ton is with the
oreatest demanding amount.
8.3     Resource of Filling Earth
8X3.1   Resource of Sand Soil
Because of the long shoreline and relative small area of the reclamation project. it is
unreality to excavate the Suitang River inside the dyke for the earth to construct the
dvke. In addition. the transportation on land at the construction area is not convenient.
rherefore. hydraulic blowing fill w-ill be the main method for dyking.
'hangjiang River is a silt-rich river as well as a large flow river. Based on the records
trom the hvdrographic station at Datong. about 624 km upstream from the mouth just
hevond the tidal limit, the annual mean river discharge flow is 29.300 m'ls with max
flow of 92.600 m'ls and total annual flow of 924 billion m3 which ranks fifth among
the large rivers in the world. According to data from Datong Station. the river carries
about 486 million ton of silt per annum. The average silt content is 0.547 kg/mr. The
maximum annual silt-carrving load is 678 million tons and the minimum is 341
million ton. ranking fourth among ihe large rivers in the world. Silt in the estuary
mailv comprises fine sand and clay, becoming finer from Xuliujing towards the mouth.
1:rom the Lanmensha to the outside of the river mouth. the silt content becomes
similar. Te mineral constituents of i:he suspended silt mainly include heavy minerals
as magnetile. ilmenite. epidote. hemratite. amphibole. garnet. etc.. and clay minerals
such as illite. chlorite. kaolinite. and montmorillonite.
In this area the strata is an alluvium Df the Changjiang River formned by accumulation
of silt carrmed bv the Changjiang under the interaction of wave and tide.
I he natural alluvium is quite slow. about 0.2 m in height every year. With the same
movetment direction. silt in the ChangJiang River is carried to the beach by flood
urrmnt and then accumulated.
\lakine lull uzse of the accumulated silt from Changjiang River can both provide the
.ainh lor reclamation to construct the wastewater treatment plant at Bailonggang and
':eip the navication in Changjian- Riiver. Based on relevant analvsis. there are several
±reCXN %% hich can pros ide the sand soili for the project surrounding Bailonogang:
i I ) RuiZlne sand
luWlzene sand. name of a certain kind of sand. is located northwest of Bailonggang. 15
Km away trom the proposed project. It is a gray-yellow colored fine sand with sand
content of 80o and clav of 10%. There is a large amount of sand resource there and
8-3



Chanter 8
the depth of the sand depot is from 3-10 Im.
(2) Downstream sands
The sands deposit downstream of the proposed project is more than 1.5 m in width.
The sand there is soft and without any colloid. Silt takes up 50% of the total content,
sand is about 40%. and clay is 15%. The depth of the sand deposit is 3-10 m and the
storage there is great enough for the project.
(3) Jiuduan sand at the Hengsha Isle
Jiuduan sand, name of a certain kind of sand, is located 12 km northeast of
Bailonggang. The sand there is soft and without any colloid. Fine sand with a small
amount of silica takes up 90% of the total content. and clay is about 5%. The depth of
the sand deposit is 3-8 m and the storage there is great enough for the project.
(4) Project spoil
A great amount of spoil which will be excavated from the SSPII project can be used
for reclamation. This can not only solve the spoil from box culvert excavation, but
also provide a filling resource for reclamation at Bailonggang. About 400.000 m3 of
spoil can be used.
Based on the comparison of all the above alternatives in term of quality,
transportation distance, quantity and construction condition of the sand resources.
sands from downstream of the project is the best option to be chosen for the project
tillina. and Jiuduan sand at Hengsha Isle is the next one.
8.3.2   Other Materials
Braided and nonwoven sacks which are needed for filling the sand can be purchased
and processed in Shanghai and transported into the site by trucks. The riprap rocks for
solidif 'in the main dyke and the south and north side dyke can be transported from
the quarries in the Zhejiang and Jiangsu Provinces near Shanghai Municipalitv to the
construction site by boat.
8.4 Filling Process
['he dvke will be constructed by sand soil filling with hydraulics and then consolidate
it. Two platforms at the elevation of 3.Om and 6.Om will be setup. Braided sack tilling
with sand soil will be constructed as the dyke base and the weir. Braided sack is 7-12
rn wide and 20 rn long.
Since the reclamation project will be implemented in a short period. certain kinds of
84



C hapter 8
hydraulics will be needed. Table 8-2 illustrates the hydraulics needed for the project
and FiL 8-1 shows the filling process.
Table 8-2 List of Hydr.aulics for the Project at Bailonggang
No              Name            Size             Amount
blowing boat     1000 m;_ I
2               dredger         750 m3           X
3               towing boat     900              6
4               mud bar2e       500 m'           8
___________  _   anchor boat                     2
6               motor boat
7                             ___ __
7              mud pump         15 kw          .12
[sanld deposit|
1750 m; dredger|
1500m3 baree trans rtation
10 horsepower tow boat
lbIOW blowing boat         |BIowing   by   mudH
7                       
I'0 m pnsm blom in,  |      wn                       PVC braided sack
[5n flattino l
Fig 8-1 H draulic Blowing Process
.2.t.5   F:nvirnnmental Impact of Filling
M.2.5.1  Impact on WVater Quality in Changjiang-River by Dredging
lHiliongigangu section in Changj'iang River is the outfall for Shanghai Combined
cweraue l'roject. 'here is no dzinking water intake--within 20 km  upstream  of
Iailong!gang and the downstrearn which is near the estuarv of Changjiang river.
either. 1ihough dredging in the C.hanBgiang River for taking out silt for reclamnation by
_   .                   . _               .~8.



Chapter 8
hvdraulics will cause muddy in some river sections and cause the increment of
suspended solid in the water, the larger-sized silt will soon precipitate because of
water vibration. In addition the dredging is taking out silt for filing instead of
discharging pollutants in the Changjiang River. Therefore. dredging silt for
reclamation in the Bailonggang won't cause any adverse impact on the water quality
in the Changjiang River.
8.2.5.2 Impact of Spoil Caused by Box Culvert Construction
Shanghai Second Sewerage Project is the largest sewage outfall project in Shanghai.
The total project outfall capacity is 5 million ton per day and the service area of it
covers 270 km-. According to the project design, spoils. about 1.27 million ton in total.
will be generated during the construction of main trunk and its branches. Most of
these spoil will be used for road filling of Shanghai Outer Ring Road because a
certain amount of trunks of SSPII is laid in the vicinity of the Outer Ring Road: the
spoil generated in Pudong will be used for back filling in Zhangjiang Hi-tech Park:
and the other 400.000 m3 spoil will be used for filling at Bailonggang for reclamation.
thus, it will solve the problem of spoil disposal and provide the silt for reclamation.
However, the transportation of the spoils to Bailonggang, including loading and
unloading of them will cause some impacts on the environment. especially from dust
and noise.
During construction, if excavated spoil is stockpiled for several weeks or even several
months. the spoil will be dried by exposure to sunlight and wind. and when disturbed
willI raise dust clouds resulting in an increase in the fine particulate content of the
ambient air. This will have a serious effect on the citv and surrounding landscape.
Nearbv buildings and vegetation would be covered with a laver of dust. houses in the
vicinity would suffer. Rain or snow would result in construction sites becoming
muddy which may brought trouble to the pedestrians.
Some spoil used for reclamation will solve the problem of the disposal of excavated
spoil. But the transportation of them may cause impacts on the environment.
Spoil dropped on the ground bv overloaded vehicles. and spoil on the vehicle wheels
\%ould uenerate dust clouds on fine days, and would make the road muddy on wet
days. attlecting both people and passing vehicles as well as the local environment.
Fransportation ot spoil needs a large amount of vehicles. During the day. this w-ould
ati'tect traf'tic in the Pudong area and result in traffic congestion. while during the niaht.
this would cause noise impact on the residents living on the roadsides but the tratfic
impacts would be less than that in the day..
According to some information. windborne dust from the road for construction
8-6



L hapter 8
transportation. accounting for 63% of the total. is the main source of the windbome
dust in the construction site. and the dust from other construction activities accounts
t'or the other 38%.
The area affected by the windborne dust from the construction site mainl, is within
[00 m from the boundary of the construction site. The impact is different for different
distance to the site. 0-50 m downwind of the pollution source is the heavv polluted
area. 50-100 m is the median polluted area. 100 -200 m is the light polluted area. and
beyond 200 m the impacts from the construction site will be almost none.
According to a parallel investigationi. under a general meteorological condition. the
area atfected bv the dust from consuuction site is within 150 m downwind of the site
and the average TSP concentration of the affected area is about 0.49 mg/Nm;.
Windborne dust from spoil is an another kind of construction dust. especially the dust
t'rom spoil loading and unloading. However since the loading or unloading site is far
awav trom the residential area. the impact on the residents is little.
8.3    Impact on Traffic during Construction Period
8.3.1   Impact on Navigation in the Changjiang River
rhe Bailonggang section. south branch of Changjiang River. with its wide river
'urt'ace and busv shipping line. is a golden water channel in China. According to the
records from Shanghai Harbor and Navigation Supervision Bureau. evervday more
than 1600 ships are passing through the south channel of the Changjiang River. From
the project layout. main dvke of the reclamation project will be located on the
-horchne of Changjiang River. 'rhe silt deposit for tilling is located on the beach
downstream of the Bailonggang and on the Hengsha Isle. The dredge and blowing
boaLs lor the project belong to small-sized boat and they won't stayv at the main
'hipping route s hen in operation. During the night. when the boats lies an anchor in
the nver. red anchor lamp will be hung up for warning according to the related
national regulation; theretore. almost no impacts will be caused to the navigation in
the C'hangjianu River by the project.
8.3.2  Impact on Traffic on Land
liecausC therc is onlv one road. Xiyang Road. on land connecting the dvke project. the
construction activities such as renovation of Suihe Bridge across the Renmin River
-.ind the expansion ot' the existing 4 m wide levee crown of Changjiang River are in
ontlict %%ith the dyking project on timing. transportation on river will be the main
"%av b0r the project.
8-7



Chapter 8
For the dvking project at Bailonggang, materials such as sand. cement. steel. wood.
diesel, about 5000 ton in total are needed to be transported into Bailonegang
construction site before the completion of dyking. Assuming each lorrv can once carry
materials about 8 ton. thus 625 lorry-time are needed. After dyking. about 400.000 ton
of spoil will be transported into the site for filling. Assuming each lorry can once
carrv materials about 10 ton, thus 40,000 lorry-time are needed.
It can be seen from the above analysis that the amount of materials transported into
the site before the completion of dyking is lower than that of spoil for filling after
dyking. With a great amount of spoil transportation. impacts on traffic will be caused
on some road sections.
8.4    Construction Noise Impact Analysis
8.4.1   Main Noise Sources and Their Features
During project construction period, the main source of noise will be the operation of
construction machines and vehicles transporting building materials. especially the
noise from dredging boat and blowing boat for dyke construction and silt filling and
the noise from conveyors for spoil transportation and bulldozer. The impacts of these
noises on the swrrounding area will be adverse.
If the dredging boat and blowing boat are working on the river. I km away from the
shoreline. then there will be no adverse impact on the surrounding environment.
The noise from the vehicles transporting materials and spoil will be really cause some
impact on the environment. The engine noise and homing of these large vehicles will
affect the surrounding people a lot. Table 8-3 shows the sound power level of some
\Vehicles and machines.
Table 8-3 Sound Power of Main Machines and Vehicles
F Name of Machine   Sound Power level dB(A)
dump truck        106
fork-lift truck   106
bulldozer         116
excavator         108
8.4.2   Noise Impact Analysis during Construction Period
Table 84 illustrates the State Urban RegionralAcou stic Noise Standard (GB3096-93)
for different regions.
8-8



Chapter 8
Table 84 State Urban Regional Ambient Acoustic Standard (GB3096-93)
unit: dB(A)
Categorv    Daytime    Niga'ht   Region
0            50           40       convalescence area. and superb villa
l________  55            45        residential and cultural area
.n 60        0        residential and commercial area
65          55        industrial area
I 4          70         j D         roadside of main traffic lanes
rable 8-5 illustrates the sound attenuating values with distance to the sound source
1'rom the calcu!ation on the basis of sound power level of spoil transportation vehicles
listed in Table 8-3.
Table 8-5 Sound Value for Different Distances to Sound Source
No  Stachine      Sound       Sound Value with Different Distances dM(A)
Namx         Po%er       Sm       1 Om  20m  40m  60m  80m    IO0m    I 50m   2;0m
t~~~~~~~~~c~~~~~~~~~eI~~~~~~~~
- dB( A  I_                                   _    _  _
dj Jumptruck  .1(            84      78   72   66   63   60         58      55     52
j ' irk-lefliick   106    84      78   72   66   63   60         58     55      52
I h.juliJoir    |         94      88   82   76   73   70        68      65      62
ax   'd.a%aIIw0rfl j 1(18    x6      80   74   68   65   62         60      57     54
' ite mtmilonne Juiuc in JuIl l9'11. abstrmcurz trom Environmenwial Alanagennt Principlefor Consurucion
I'he bulldozer will be operated on the reclamation site and fork-lift truck will be used
..n the spoil stockpile site. 'rhe dump truck mainly will be driven on road. for which.
(Cateorv 4 of the ambient noise standard. that is. standard for the roadsides of the
main tratfic lanes will be used. It is illustrated from table 8-5 that beyond 0O0m. no
impact on surrounding residents %%ill be caused by the noise from  bulldozer being
perated on the reclamation site where is far awav from the residential area. Within 40
m trom the operating fork-lift truck and dump truck. there will be a noise impact. if
r,stednts are living within this area. If night working wvas forbidden or strictly
.Lntrolled. the impact ot'noise on the surrounding residents would be minimized.
!{.5     Impact of Construction Wastes
Since this is a reclamnation project. a lot of materials are needed. such as riprap from
8-9



Chapter 8
Zhejiang and Jiangsu Provinces, spoil from box culvert construction site. silt from
Changjiang, cement and sand as well as the construction wastes which can be used for
fillin'g. Therefore. there will be no environmental impact caused by construction
wastes.
8.6    Impacts of Domestic Waste
During construction period. a temporal accommodation area including lodging,
canteen, toilet will be setup fo;-  - construction workers within the construction site.
Therefore. it is very important to have proper facilities for disposal of domestic wastes
such as food residue. night soil, and etc., otherwise. unsanitary conditions in the
construction sites may affect the health of the worker, even may cause flv nuisance
with the possibility of epidemic disease and may affect the project progress. Therefore.
more attention should be paid on the domestic waste disposal.
8-10



Chapter 9
9.    MITIGATION MEASURES FOR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS
9.1   Objectives
Construction of the Bailonggang reclamation project will be of great importance in
early completing the Shanghai Sewerage Project Stage II (SSPII), improving the water
environmnent of the Huangpu River. protecting the water quality of the upper Huangpu
water supply intake and speeding up the development of Pudong New Area. However.
because of the construction of the reclamation project. adverse impacts on natural and
ecological environment will be created. In order to minimise these adverse impacts
caused bv the construction. environmental mitigation  measures during  the
construction periods should be taken, thereby these impacts will be mitigated.
9.2   Mitigation Measures for Imipacts of Filling Spoil
t1) million m3 spoil for filling in the reclamation project are a part of 127.7 million
m3 spoil generated by the SSPII. In consultant with Shanghai and Pudong spoil
management institutes. Shanghai Sewerage Project Construction Company
(SSPCC) has prepared a plan for the disposal of 127.7 million m3 spoil. those
Spoil will be used to built Outer Ring Road. lever the land of the Zhangjiang Hi-
teck Development Park. and fill the Bailonggang embankment. As the
construction routes of the SSP1I is very long and there are many construction
contractors. these spoil should be collected from each construction site and then
transported. to Bailonggang. Construction contractors should contact the local
relevant departments in advance to arrange transportation. prepare transportation
plans and routes. Transportation at peak hours and in the congested road should
be avoided. The drivers undertaking spoil transportation must be trained and
instructed to transporting on schedule and along the specified routes, and random
inspection should be carried out to ensure implementation of this plan.
2) It is proposed to regularly sprinkle water on the spoil stockpiles and keep them
damp. during loading spoil. also need to sprinkle water. In order to prevent
spillage. trucks should not be overload. and covered by tape to reduce raised-dust
impacts.
i 3) It is proposed to select suitable transportation route and regularly keep the road
clcan and damp. thus minimising the impacts of raised-dust from trucks.
t4) In order to prevent spillage along the transportation route. when trucks leaving the
construction sites in rainv days. the wheels should be cleaned to remove the mud.
9).3  'Mitigation Mleasures for Traffic Impacts
I'ircrL arc (000 tlons of construction material and 40 million m3 of spoil to be
transportcd into the construction site by about 46.000 vehicles / times. According to
the construction plan. the reclamation project will be completed by 1998. During this
Penod. transportation of 5000 tons of construction material by more than 600 vehicles
times would not cause obvious influence on traffic. But when the total of 40.000
9-1



Chapter 9
v ehicles / times for spoil transportation pass through Chuannanfong Road and Xiyong
Road which width is 10m and 6-7m, respectively, the impacts caused bv these
vehicles would be obvious. Therefore. Contractors should, in accordance with the
construction progress. prepare a plan for spoil transportation. which include the detail
arrangement of vehicles allocating and dispatching,  transportation route and
schedule determining. Construction contractor should supervised implementation of
this plan.
9.4 Mitigation Measures for Noise Impacts
As known from analysis of project characters and construction machinery, noise from
the vehicles for spoil transportation will affect the surrounding environment. In
order to reduce the impacts of noise to comply with the requirements of
*- Environmental Noise Standard in Urban Area " (3096-93) and " Measures for
Environmental Noise Pollution Control ", the operation period of spoil transportation
should be controlled.
(1) Harnessing and widening Xiyang Road and Suitang River bridge, thus keeping
them lever and unblocked, and accelerating the speed of transportation. reducing
the bump noise and vibration from the vehicles.
(2) In order to minimise the noise impacts on these residents along the transponation
routes, not allowed to operate during the period from 10 pm to 5 am next
moming.
(3) If transporting spoil at night, contractor should notify the residents along the
route. especially in Heqing Town, to gain them understanding; meanwhile.
complying with the standard limits of 55 dB(A) at night specified in
"Environmental Noise Standard in Urban Area". these drivers should resist to no
homing or little homing
9.5   Mitigation Measures for Domestic Waste Impacts
I ) During the construction periods, the wastewater generated bv the toilet on
construction sites must be discharged into septic tank and then carried away
reuuiarlv by local sanitation departments.
(2) Residues from the dining room may take as pig feed to local farmers.
9.6   Mitigation Measures for Odour Impacts
AIter wvastewater treatment plant being into operation. the odour generated from
%sastewvater process will affect the surrounding environment. Therefore. SSPCC
should not only plan to built wastewater pre-treatment plant. roads and to lav sewage
discharge pipe. also to adequately utilise the remaining land to plant trees and conduct
greenery project, so that the odour would be minimised and the environment would be
heauti tied.
9-2



Chapter 9
9.7    Mitigation Measures for lmipacts on Farmland
After the reclamation project being completion. the farm land of several village will
be divided into two parts which one is outside the embankment and the other is inside
the embankment. Owing to the intnrsive flood . the farming of the land outside the
embankment will be aftected. Also the farmland inside the embankment may be
afTfected.
9.8    Mitigation Measures for Fishery Impacts
During project construction. as result of temporary close-up of flood plain along the
coast. tfisherv would have relativeiv great impacts. Meanwhile. there are about 60 mu
of precise fish pond would be removed. therefore SSPCC will. together with local
govemment. compensate the fishermen for economic loss in accordance with the
relevant state policies.
9.9   Summary of Mitigation Measures for Environmental Impacts
Summarv ot mitigation measures for environmental impacts are shown in Table 9-1.
9-3



Chapter 9
Table 9-1 Summary of Mitigation Measures for Environmental Impacts
Potential impacts on                       Ntitigation measures                       Action institution I
environment
Impacts on tarmiand    i. Arranging compensation according to reievant state policies  SSPCC
2. Assisting to build drainage and irrigation facilities
Impacts on tishery     Arranging compensation according to relevant state policies     SSPCC
Impacts ot filline spoil  1. Preparing a plan of spoil transportauon                   Contactor of spoil
transportation
2. Washing the mud of wheels of vehicles
3. Covering the tape or installing barriers on these vehicies
Fratfic impacts       1. Strengthening supervise and guideline                         Contractor of spoil
transportation
2. Specifying the transportation schedule
3. Specifying the transportation route
Noise impacts          1. Hamessing and widening Xivang Road and Suitang River Bridge.  SSPCC
reducing the noise and vibration from vehicles                  and conuractor of
spoil transportation
2. Transporting spoil in daytime . not arranging operation at night
3. Complying with the requirements of" Environmental Noise Standard
in Urban Area" during the transportation at night
Domestic Se%aee       I. the wastewater from the toilet on construction sites should be  SSPCC
impacts                discharged into septic tank, and then carried away regularly by sanitation and contractor of
department                                                      spoil utansportation
2. the food residuals from dining room may takc as the pig feed
)dour impaicts        utilising remaining land to plan trees and conduct greenery proecCL thus  SSIPCC
improving the air quality of surrounding environment
9-4



Chaptcr 10
10.  CONCLUSION AND RECOMMENDATION
10.1    Conclusion
I  Dyking won't cause any impact on the qualitv of water coming from upstrearn or
the flow distribution at the river section of Bailonggang as well as the flow
distribution. flow condition or water quality of the water bodv at the outfall. It
can be concluded that dvking won't change the results concluded from the
previous environmnental impact statement or the environmental status described in
the original statement for the outt'all. Therefore, this project is feasible.
2  Dvking won't atfect the basic requirement for outfall selection. Thus. the project
won t change the principles such as Three Avoidance. Three No. listed in the
previous statement. The environmental impacts caused by main parameters
described in the previous statement will be unchanged.
yl)king will onlv change part of the shorelines. and won't affect the overall
hydrology and silt conditions in the water bodies. Therefore. this project won't
change the analysis on the self-purification capacity with the purification
mechanism mentioned in the previous statement. nor the mechanism for river and
effluent mixing. Therefore. the main environmental status described in the
previous statement won't be changed.
41  Dyking will have no impact on the main flow distribution at the river section of
Bailonggang. but great impact will be caused on the flow distribution near the
shoreline and the detention of the flow at both sides of the dyke will be longer.
and if the etfluent discharpe from the beach continued. greater impacts on the
\%ater bodv near the beach woulcl be caused. Therefore. emergency outfall should
he controlled stnctlv so as to protect the environment and the eco-environment
.ilong the shoreline.
i  It mas discussed in the EIA statement of SSPII that the effluent discharge below
the depth ft* ' m in the river should be strictlv controlled. thus the migration
passage ol' the aquatic animal can be preserved. Since dyking will be carried out
.11on! tht shoreline. a larLe area for fishing migration will still be existed. Though
some tauna and flora with small amount on the wetland will be eliminated
hecause of dvkinc. after a certain period. when new wet land comes into being in
Irtnt of the dyke. the eco-environment will be balanced auain.
.On the %%hole. dvking project won't change the conclusions from the previous
-tatement in term of hvdrolouy. silt. flow condition. flow distribution. pollutant
transporation. rhe program ot'f dking is feasible and is a good project for both
Navine cultivated land and reducitng investment.
10-1



C(hapter 1 0
10.2Recommendation
I ) It is suggest that after the completion of dyking, 2-3 drifting tests be carried out
during flood and dry season so as to identify the water movement. distance of
water up and down the stream, and the water body capacity.
2) After the completion of Phase II of this project, it is expected that water quality
along the shoreline will be better than that at present. It is suggest that some
monitoring and study be taken after the project completion to verify the above
expectations.
3) In order to minimize the adverse environmental impact of the project during
construction period. it is suggest that the Shanghai Sewerage Companv should
include certain requirements in the bid and supervise these items during project
construction.
10-2



-~~~~ w..   .~ .i .
Jii " X_
01 - 
iE%M: .igIE;- 0931 §



N° 0003[129
iiE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ii tA F:  - 
'ffr 4 §: wiwi I E4093 A
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



i142w :t4g
2W          6E Y4' N  Ir
2-    -    #    - 
"S 244 W 0 5' I ,4SI    i 1EW a!&  _ _'4wV.   
isX'+Itw   A¢d',--
g        X  L 



1.31  ± JE
1.4               OS
1 .5 t   f
1 .6 VTffFT,5 -MRV
1.7   VI ;t ffi 9 ,
1.8 iPT*Tf aff
2.1         0, A A,  t
2.2 AiiS
2.3 FMt*
2.4i*iM
2.5 m+  u*tg
3. W -MVtFi
3.1 9A3Tl
3.2 3



4.1 te7_I=7 T
4.2            i* C  fLi- t t
4  3 E tVt, 7k"t I KF rla Kff 5  t - EitS
4.4    t
5.2
5.1 tt tE W
5.2 B4tgtF
5.3      '
5.4     f S-a t*        RPr
6. SfifX$gtn
6.1          INIAnQ
6.2          11PP
7.1
7.1 2
7.2 - F tL ;1E'J88
8. 3iQ .        I
8.1 aTItX.:3r-RAVn3t*
8.2 gIfr
8.43 a   I  rO-
8.4 MT 10#tVupft
8.5 a 7M/ 't~tVnmft



9.1 mA
9.2 A±j6r!M
9.3  -iFFX
9.5 t
9.6              M
9.97            X
9. 8             hl1/ E
10.1 0, BiL
10.2 ti



~ T                      28 *M m I S*°7J(kJtTfu tBXt 
Ea1,115n1 1
1.1~ ~~~~~~~~~~- .1 3,5                   6i 2 8
B,  g fit+t 500~~~~~~~~~~ M3 m3 /d, *97CA  179  '= m3/   im L-
k  ,M. *~ 5 9 % Rt   -i 7 l t   9 A« k  3   A' 7-4 a: jrt 14 "W 44 a RA -f r IL
3' 4, -Pl tt T  f-,il#1`47-g[ 7 10 f  t, j48  6' 7R 'T, ,gg
FX n 4t7 y iA,  fXiE m 7K5t t== e             5t 9:  S 7tF I    11
1KStt7ftS4,~~~~~~~~~4 = =, I 4:7dStfl -Ett%i   1Xe7K1Z14  A 1
3 A    EX 3t -tt9tzfif  3t t77 lt  Lm- f  ±tgiT. 
I1.1.-2 T- m R it- r  IE, 8J -9fm,
t@E~~~~~~~' F5gE   5i1  21 .7 km',  3 - f$ Fx-   Xb!
rx 15 58 km' 4 I    1-f JOgt 9 Ir  A    ,A &IS3    -i4 4t EX 9 2. 1km'
IE5>gFlUg~~ 6 9 6 kM2  9S:Ai 2 75. 7 7T9
1. 1.3 jUt* 1 f5  M
Ifaikit t $iL *§ 1 72 T7 m3 / d . i ,ff 7   M g-3z  7g



t    2 '7s --M  T EsraE fa iilr. ite *flfffl,
PIT{: (mg/])
SS      BODs       COD    At        r.UlMr        T-P
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _  ~~~(14    P     it)
4t        1 30        85       199    22.7         1.0       3.9
95 % iiiEt,!   175         112   f  248    27.7         1.3       42t
* 72 %RiiEtl
1.1.4 Ifietno
r-;
3   t'      > *       49.12km  ([E1-1  )
1. 1.5 t~k,LgTr
1. 1. 6     :--
g, A%4tl ffl - Aid lt  4200mm tEI  W- gA1 t
1.1.7                                    2
1- 2



1 p" 
Li~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~j
liii                    "   113 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,, * wr V ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ffpi W~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.f B!1'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1fl1!~~~~~~~~~~~~~' I ~~~~~~~~~~~
.LJ                                                     C ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~U



F1~  Jt,-: *Z; =ESESN14E ~ m;lvrX-;a ,nl;
xt:  5 vi+ L      127.27 7   h m3 A. 7iJAk£ 124.9    i m3a;
1.1.8E  '9±it
ImBISit 107.7ha; eE ,      h:    70081 T7-Co
1.1.9 I2m
(3) f7, >* E   T 7    4a   IZTt  0 T e   n  - t, *0 1a 374( AT 
170 T  m' /d RIJ4+T, %T     50 R o
1.2~~~~~~~~~~KR F7;TijF  _EjFt:i
0.5 -3.2km2,'J                    T    1 ,v    5 % 
(4) 5(f   ik tE Fa-ttS nI,                              §
'-rT1ff"' Rl9t/; k*'Jffit;'Al 422t/d, IK1X;47t/; "J   td.
(5)                    T
T-iB m- S  -, $IJ RotS    it       -
1-4



Si~~~~~~~~~~'   L                  iW :R-,mXt  HS WaS    wt 9                 O,      t
I  Wl  5 E g M g W 4 e0           * o      L-W  I      a QM k-1              L-     9F N  WZ
IW+1                            H 04  \  Ru V      o:z 4F    41 t[-'k
*~~~~~~~~~~~ IlC 40N 'V-    r- 4F  fJtt tt              i; :v  L nF  
~~a              --H~i
n~~~~~~~~1                    m               !ImCXF        lX;E^ 1  1    w°  ti t   44 t t 
S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1- K  d                   f>Gt C"                     A         4: W..ZNg    
~~~~K    ~ ~~~~,             -   
4_               O                   MN        4-              El, k~  
~~~~~~~~~~ |
H~~                                ~ C                                      - -
flu         I    * I                        H           :~
DII                                                  Ufl~~~~~~~~~~~'K In
-H    HE W                         H4'                          h*4- 'F    "
IV mU]  Dilz q 



EX~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~m                                                    -t           --It
t-4
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~, 0 t                                                   ta  4R 
!~~~~~411 ~ ~     ~      1~-
1 W a g ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~H                                               4M   
St ;K r                                             !S +                  Ls M       1S g         t 4XH
nl             '     ,l +;                                             -                       cg   11 4         L
11   Xh  i              g          .              ge                   Man         MM      t~~~~~~~~~~~~1~~r
iii IE  A                W i             0         tS V
X~~~~-  ZH 4C   41 m4    aW gm                                     k                       .
VW      W    4f  ..          01 W  J' -W  K- 9  ,q -M  -                          cn-
{S~~~~~~~~~~ 4U                                                      - R K E E W m  tw   M11
EC   ij   0    0    K,        ',d-             W  'Q4M          4       I           /-   R-4 St   It   0 0
X U e @ g 1 g W m ~~~~~~~~a-                                    *K        cn                 co 
41 mW Q  ¢i 11* m7            11   9    H   ,  K-                                               Ufi$ 
~~~~  m~~~~~~~ 4w ~~~~             ~      ~       EPi         ,u,            
LO    L
0                                                        0         r-  4         m  At



A It  5 ! aitT t  >~ Ir tE =R  E))      ig 4t f,1 S-4
Xc'~~~ (9 i )SP4a(6  1'=-151    1 9 9 6  7 ,% 3 E
(5) Wati <               7geg=zt7<>:FfiEt
0704   1996 X 8 ,) 26 F
(6)                               t TI :  3- t7Jiw-IEsJ'SiR;X  it IA
e-- )rLF&-) e 0                    PAZ-(1997)% 270 7y
1997 2, 5 F
1.5.2 E tlt
Bt XSGitStthRigb§nZfI¢tgE%))       FffjAmaW
7JtE'aP    1997 * 8 , 6 F
1.5.3    fpt>  t
tt*{kig+-t,  9965, 15F 4E)
(2)                 J <sX7t'9 89 1 21 a9  Z>M    R it re
(3)               i'$A    W1 A17k;3 >t (-1 9 84$   1 1 Ei 9 g  4-- l A
(4) IP A R AW  17Mc5J41tiaSZ903(9 *1rk1989*7,S 12
B a&);
(5j tI-R f  ~, Pglt M  t-I ¢(9 8 6 3 ,8 2 6 El * -3T,  -651
(6)  ±Wh ±                   (1985+4S 19 E LigTgA
f31- 75 tiiiiEX 1990f9) 28E F XW
(7)   ANt11r1ti(961   2Elixll
1- 7



-L ,:;,, -*,  =r;tt>DR-,"~pp,E _ mir-+Isrf'~it* X9-= AEAfI.J
(8)                       L  ntstirix itit,  1994 94A);
(9)  ((S'tgAi$ettk  giJ)) HJ/T2.1i 2.3 - 93.
1.-6 i-Tffr*1;f'   ti" -t R I  tSV-I6a
I.6.1  i$e% Etil
X~~~~? (<-P        51- 4 i7i<  OP aEt    10  M )   MP
*  -#2tImiVT,R   (( ":P --lXP) A     tQ3    7?I  M   OR)   ( GB3838-
88) IIIA;
*  4ikttZ5tI i-( COD ) @3 **A    ,       ( GB3838-88 ) IVA;
*  RMt7j                   ( GB3097-82  ) 9--tQi-9ki*R0,?E
( TJ35-79 )
1.6.2if}-0
SEI - .  !TH-f Rg
1.7 3T4;AfN*eS M
*   W    %As&% ,.1=N* 
1.8 iFt A       1*,ntwietM
1.8.1 iT{fi,t,
It*, 57k-  !#E   a  Tit I tEb§fig ta t I f8v,&.!ftpqsF
-1- 8



(1)              f    F ;
(3)  I79F Pf
1.9 VT*Tflpa*ra1 9
1 - 9 iF*Iftt*WZ~~1- 



fi; 
II                   -  -    -  -  -    -   -  -   -  -  -  -  ---------------  -  -  -  -  -   --  -                                  T-  -  -  -  -  -  -  -   -     
I i i[ I:                        f    jr                                      l  S                    g
II ~ ~~~~~                                                                                                           I 
all~~~~~l
*                            K~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r,
~~L    I        ~         ~ ~               UR
I ~~~~E' ~~~~~Ufln  ~~~                       ~         t
Wm    WE ~         ~          ~         ~               t-           ~          H
I                                                                L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4,! 



2. i gEg
2.1 IE!.
*  a g t      45g'_:I'7R QSs
A 'tk ( 1Z1 2 -1 ),   TIfl gf  2ei   7z 2k m,
TT i EM S;# 1. 5 km, 471EW  03 il'%
* I!a  MR: v;Rafilk
*    tiX9:  Jt 130 T m2
*  Xt$    23{i1'w>  3XWiJ3;/  25%, S   t
iXEs S/JX5MX[w5X!Pt1 0%o
2.2  i ±X
;AbLre  nP#H9# 1040m                    E it4t 1830 f .
2.3 IEf aPR
2.3.1 Tj!)
it *04-- r-3030m, XL¢(:    RtRfDSSgfiAJ 
KSS!'JRt3iSE0!&IT*;It aE  *A1100*v  1!1A
1g§S:'StAKS, ittKt750e. XKI1180*s.    k
ffF,122ha(1830m'M), P,ta:4,RittJF48,107ha(1600 fi),  X
r5 AMI JE"#4f    'iklOha(150f), YR39F)Mt4oha(600
ffi), zi57ha(85     OLfi)5=ffSJChF.
2.3.2 IvPk9
(1) 1gRt>
* ~t::   i;  , ig11lOOm.
2- 1



.1 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
I .                  .              /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~......
* 1 .                             -         .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.. . ..-- -



e 1-* at g, =t a} 99 Tf JA -5F VL E, iz   -:4~r   3!, Cf tEm g 
tJr.;Sa: 8. 70m;  lt'iZt    :10O.00m;  tZEJXT,: 8.00m,i,KE
Ta6.5mg1; t t1:3 - 1:1.5;    F Ij : 1:2 t
.)ff       it 'rE M                                             i):500au,1t5; n):m m
*     !M4tT:  6- 1 80m.
tm6Rm   6.0m    Vtii TT,m   7. 00 m;  t'-'ZT-R       : 5.8m,
pIF 5m'tt'P' ;FAN'; :**t: 1:2;  a:1i: 1:2 tZE                ;
N 9,: 4m.
* i4!J4: +&750m.
AT)RIS :  6.00m;  5MITi TOliR«:  7.0m;   A7M  m    5, 1E: 5.8m,4
I    i;5mL3'PFM        ;  VFH: 1:2;   P           1:2   t I;
v      G : 4m.
(2) 
(3) M* it/'P:
AAA5t+b'DIUM IX11 80m>,
* ~      ~m fiR *S                       E tf&           tt 1OO7,  film% 
*(5) i!7;iChif'  t
(6)                     IjrIMAS
2-3



2.4+iFJ
fw ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~N F3-fit  iM S    5Z    :2000ie
15ha(225 ff), -. =                            . 7ha(775 ED
t 10005 + ± 
2.5 ±75*Jf
2.5.1 I      ±2    i
~~  ~~                          7Wi"ThF ~±?91 27. 
t~4im - .Tg; tl§  t  i$t, ppg'TE m 44!SllMRF7?,,tiM-FlE + t2.2 T
M', * ut 18* Rk J, F., + 9t 1 55.2 7 m3   J-, eff  /it> + 4t, 2 00 T Z f, 
+± 100 7  m3. IE               300 h m3.
2.5.2 ±:* tY6
(1)tY5IE 4it:  pEt04  15km b9l4t>
(2 T IFa'  tri fg>
(3M'S    , I Lit     12km tt>zBbtt>
30'It + + Slt, RUEI 2-2.
* f±e:
(1 )'±;
(2) - +;
2-4



cm~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~w
El'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
j 1J1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~04 1
4       I



3. iWEI)'4R
3.1 ttW
'T' *F<t2letj Fy tI  i;ira-it:  XF   @ Ein iVe  kI
3 1 9 X1f 3  b 2-1e
3.1.2 i
@ 7ggLWA*ttETemET§tE\mhS. tr13ij:14ft f pn1 'It
h tXi$>,tSuXimE3.89m, t           3.0 %0, ~tg;]T t,-.0
AS,¢  1800m, -10.00m  a,Ej    a30   .A Tf>a             iff,m   f 
8.0 - 6.0m   t T1fx 3 - 5m.  kt±        iP;'J, P i
3.1.3 tAfi
3.1.3.1 t
1991 - 1995 $E$itt,@3. 16.0 C, f A 2 ,
4.1 C,         , 8 A* iTA,%   27.5 C; J55;t
T--  1  1 'C,   Lt fR AIR V   Rit 40 'C.
+gtliESERFttEm 3.5 C; +±X*ntX+Ef 5   1Ocm
tfSt, ,5$EStLi}Ftt,&i~M 1.7 -C - 1.9 -C.
++t; I9Lt+gEt 1 ^ 2 ,     5 CAi*, gt,!1@ME 5 C
11; 7, 8         U     28 -30 C.   $5cm         1ifi* 10 'CM%1EJ
3- 1



fQ* 15 *C t     , J             L`4m   0 o P;  .1
3.1.3.2  i8      g
Wg,FX 1991 - 1995 4EHF-IT   , E 2037.9 'PB.
1991 - 1995 *H*Tf-j%-7j<.' 1188.5mm,                    £
411:  tkM, 5 - 9 X            {R 1996                   I-WTff 0: 1
WtptE 6 % 7 , A§#, i)   435.1mm,                -A(t5 84.9%. Jt
1 fi5V, P7kg,   512.2m m, At:7gt53.6%.   FXM Xl rpaftrt-
1991 - 1995 $                    225 i.
3.1.3.3 At
8ik  t            G E  Lll0anOAW  5 )l F 9 #, pt #Iq
uSt{EtW8j;Mg; 10    F      4                            I1,  fF, rL, -: F §
fF 7 A FpkE7    9  
3.1.4 7
3.1.4.1 7c
LA tI!, c7t p bT  14 Y qr-:    -- ft/ r $-iS  2.5   2.8mD
3.1.4.2    7
jp, ,,E,jt 2300m,                                  03*.:iji
3- 2



7j3zIJv\ 20m,                                El H  , % H  <Z iO
5 -  9S7j C Z  J$iQiafl 5r-t-, 7ALI  5 E11r iIJ J
i3|t¢: tgig W) Et 5 4J'Et 02 3, ;TiL . gt  7 /Jt 22 3;
I I: I 0      -7L                           Th 5.69m,  ± MI  E144m
-    ~  FR - -               f~42  1.8,-i' Y-Lf24m
fUimp    2I 4,E-0.52Mn, 7               iI          0.97m-
m   : Ti         2 67m,    t62   4.65m, fR£/J{i 0.02m.
f 8f I %  7 i1£ A   4 .6l8m. t, R  t4.68   et
gtg 8t 19EVIE0,   Al-PT t        0.2m3
*itl3t      PlFlR  i t , 3-kR r;1    NE  rn,. R 9   tEG7K ,r9F fitf,
4: it   ro;e  gfl -j R 01 - R.t    I7JC  Rf  - @> - )$  7 ,i~ 9E  - Wi   tE 0 .9 
l. Om, $A ii;Z 2.0 - 6.2m, ,!fiti!'E,@ 9-    I 
IBX;2.JUX0CME 4.1m ,
t   A RtkM        t =,illA11jlSFe    -1r, SiA f-S3i n,VL -V*R   _ilro    
3.1.5 +



~~±Th~~~±; 4 i½~~~~~:    ~~ ±  ~t4 z± 4- t4 ; 54½'7 CTI v
3.1.5.2   )
8.01.~                  6.92 - 7.991 P1*;
3.1.6     5Z~
3.1.6.1 ittJ
*IEiLT  _fl:ii tN A      ij - e1%t+j jqjR S, -, 1%,.  c   +g-
3.1.6.2                        7J
8 01 . <R<gGEZ!t 6.99 --  7.9A *11,
Wt7tE+gtt45W          ,!%57 3 9        Jft1`Rf .  3i5fRAF
11~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 14- 5ppm           *4tA  ftE tFT 68.4%8  IX A1t  tQ
_1.6 ~ ~ ~~f tr,7     tAW'8 
jj1.6.1 t3
T~4 
3- 4



)t     - 2       1977    9    11 E A       J  ,-=-T
jJe z, L,F7 , x     40m/sc
3.2  3t;;
3 .21 .I   -P
XE:0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E
t t£X L   A~b    :   t ;t,g  a X3 ,  1tE 24tn Fx-    fT rl tE t -J
!Xit 1270.96 -,r i~ 725.66 -,2m  lDJ UCieiMf  5110 -a
3m 1p4 LftRtzj9> 921 3, 7TE  
3.2.2   P,I
3.2.2.1   f
i*, 217JQ -Kt t 
Vk7KTXi7M#tllkr;P%%X F-, k      h II lW ,FS
e~ 1W l J7itX V-; LLBN IF 9  , ri-i A A 7JCM 4 1   ; 9X,79'9 X
FNfi-:   f .- 3i- 1!~       3 7i5



Y     ta e  t                 C W    M                X~~~~~~4  H  @               WW 
,;        'M   111~~~M-            td         M N                                       1  
ei   1l S  l=              ;  $       g            Hq W         W            $; g  t       X¢~~~~~~~~~~~~~"'9  1'2
+.i l S H . @ e m  t $ -  .
Ii~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~if
mi|                                                                          -    Q        lt  f  
-~~   4*-
_01                                                       0~~~~~~~~w  t 
,l lf e    g m  .-  g,   g   g   $         g        t           W -  u 
|    $ r- .       4< rl  ri             PWM * r                      |           -|      t     $ $
I            1Jo)                                                                     :WWiF*mOtnWnt:   1wK
(RI~ ~~~~~~~~~ <                                                                   tk
4-71                              01%~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~tL
i~s 1III
rn19 ~ ~ ~   ~
j          a  ._1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~dz
F7  ~~~" 1t)
~~  iF1~~~~* iiiW 3
%   VK-            4111                                   LXJ~~~~~~~~~(~  -~



1.2.6 -E* T
3.32.6.1
*  ±:  1996a     ±      iS    E 225tk,         18.1tt km2;
3.2.6.2   t- 'w
1283.8ha,t-~4~~  531 4A,Hi  199 WSI 3.7h
3.3. X -tyfl1
-+X.  1 996          ix- 1+,5E   522.75krn, A g18.91lun2;
e  tS:   1996  ,ttfi;Stt:  13761.1hla, It 1995 +0$
1283.8ha,-4a W<gt 631.4ha,t 1995 qi2>T    3.7ha .
3.3.2 A\ p -l:jREttWN 
1996  -  FiX R 41 t    2It 378,360 X, t  133,645 p, g
ShJt 235,240 A,    P          123,944 X; '        1996 RZ4X)
t 22,146 )X \    6,540 P, *#Jj 12,703 A,    P          6,553 A.
3.3.3 ,D     t
1996 FJ iEtt 2891 A                    l=2 n"    1250 A\ni2.
1431\FiT EX:  At  ?--AL58t-(GDP)1996 Ftt869,980  5G   Pt
- =Ak 45,665 hTE  9=71iX 645,714             M t--f=7     178,601 75
3- 7



7G; t*,5 T>   1996 ET1995  1t 112.2°.>o
1996   5.< . p 5 5 <t                     4,8322h1       * E f
62 Tyc    %=,1   50,517 T             3E-t         4,243 3             ,
Tit7 1 995 XFt 1 00.4%.
3.3.5 t7z1W
1996 $ziiC> Pt-5ftf108,201 Tt7, tJ 1995 4Eb?
109.9%,    p  ttAL 53,002 h0 G A                 996      , hL V   49,929 T
Jt,  Sk904,274)TJTG-; =;<E1996 V-V-Rl#/s,5>NT 3,897yc,S
1995 $bt 103.2%,    P                1,675 )5718   #iAk 2 TTc1,   tJ[L
1,699 hy l, SkM j  I113 5h7.
1996 ++z       ,¢tX g  
Kr). 9~3-1.
V 3-1   1996
-E   ;     4MEM(ha)         M1t1t(t)    t tv -fjW    (k- g/ha)
3iR1: 9 EX:  19.263.8         128,895            6.691
1.009.9          6.869            6.802
1996 +8t3g0nE5gl"$§:8rtE   &t3-2e
K 3-2 1996 @3i;cg'f<ltXrW
ozt        tE -t  0           Al         *3M          -r
WESiREEC    588.588         419.345       115,719     169.243     116.333
______      13.847           8,191     =  7.500        5.656       3.697
9-117ir-#71  27 tiA.                                   VT, NVt tEF  t 9  -0
;P  4A   Etj f)M  JtM  ttE6                      ,        5  3-3.
3- 8



az 3-3   A54g*Et,.\         FtLt
{2gtEE 5s{it(7X)    12         24.777        1         89.136
__"/s*,5>fl(,)     25         1.577        1         12073
~t~ti(m2)          19          285         1            678
9jIP (kg)          1 8         310         1           539
4*t,   GLI)        23            0-63       1
t-3 nT:g (kIg)      5           113         1            444
3.3.6 XgAK!J(g
t,s1996 $ttEjj4A%t  6911 t,
fy<  4555 xT, L 1995 +     6419 t/`JUfQ  4148 t/),  T,
-*<A  1996                          A  8931  G/- ftt    4898
J[ /X^<, LL 1995 Xt 8160 t/9Iltt-4675 Tc/A,   FRk  7..KT3FZ
Ip5;IJ9.4%3g 4.7%.
3.3.7 :9M:tftft-NT             3
t   EJ 1 MP    I, Tr   ft _4- JR   - /J, J9gq3  $Xt ka  F)gJ [ ,C  f fi"
;Wttt ittR  WA4EMb"atitill9++tt, tt~~9                i
sg!KteattRE#iJ2*   aR.ft-  J-
-~~~~~~~~~~~* =   b-  F,              fi t- 7K  a      _q P



4                      Ir !_  m  4|--                                         *
0 ->                        ON    I    -              FM S 13W * I-  sj  '      sa  A  ff11 I-r   i
9\ m                       PI ig            A g        d X    D k  A  A    MM "ll $9 F              ZZXw            X
91 mt *       r k4  * a   Fr m                N   -s i   m  ,- * >               M i-
4QE- -  Z 9-d -A Sf ;A -' W\  bt gn Aimi 44 8 KZ X
2;   i$   I4 ss      M tHe 4j    t\             r4 64            H   -   011t S$ 4 t     
m t   s s   X   $   h I1 l M         o$   n   t   2It %: m
EN~~~~~~~ ~ 34 a  a  4  IN  B   5     a    * nt  FTa        *                II
r4~~~~
OR ra     X 3j  -WV                                       ;: I p           -[u    *
W~~~~~TrZ                                                                   a 5yE&O)XM    -41m2  
,O;  _E                                                                       I 1$
* ~ ~   ~ ~ 3 mM                       4    it9    W S         ym           
k ~   ~    r tt   a                                                       J4  -3t    9X$mm3          
_    I gAFx 4DE                                           41 
-    ~~~~~4i                                           NJ1riv-tE4l ~R~i    '



ffi k *~~~~~~~~~~~~t                  K-                       L Ei°  -0 1q-1 05 B tXWSa"   E - ,fl' to.
rT          r                                                      El          -.K  )StrF   d]    W   
ALL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.L
KN /
4~~~~~~~~4                                                               -K bm 4t Y  *   UY;Y $W2           i    
Q  l  a   uN  W  -  4X1I~Th I -         i-      4 w  
-                                    yXX:R  h {IY AthWAl.*  4 etm^ ,   *  
M t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
4M~~~~~~~~~~~
LW                       $g                    K   m                t
I'll  E      Ws  * 4  fi           K H             11  tI   ;  M
t)                 R~4 4Ig
;  dW~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4l                        -0 iK ME$t<    S S   tS¢+    l*W
~~g     1 h   W                                                       i4                   :c4>gmM:   Z     
K-   1U -W ,v-                                                          iA I,:   -



eE*gE_MNtFtE*%thES%Eg SXhtatw*gtSb!x
t h * 8 t <      *       *        X        $       9~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~* \~.  . .  ., .....
F~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. .. ......**      *-Q           o
--------- .......
utt2it   4ktesi*ie  t  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.......
m      i                                                                   .............2
j-|tgiat.  !v8-e             _     =      !3s55siuiigbuiigiii,,' 1i0i55i
_oi                                 555iiiiiii~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~51s                             ..........iLi5,
Iz,ii: i,Wi3B_ _  _ 7 _ !iia5Liig.!!Hi^B r z  aJs d3i_ixi5!i5ti*lii pi \~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~........
i   i=si.-fl--n->z5liaigHi55ii55l5H-i-ii;~~~~~~~~~~~..                       . ..   ..   .......5 z .. ..
.. . . . .. . . .  .. . .   .  .. . .. . .   ............i5ini515@i!--_biiig@iii
<j   -alpl5gii55ii-ii5i5i5iip-as;3 7PiLli5  u3pi_iiiirP5Li
,94L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Mm aii2,,i   m'                                                                  ..........ai95,i!wlrip@5i    .
= =_ o; ioj,~~: = _ __,___ = .= _._
-j   -;  ,.;i i -. s - jE S 1 -- 4- '



m~~:  i[E , :@ Pg *   0^Q*t*Ei 44 1t                    4R   tS          w 
$I M                        I -  :1 4r t        t                       0 $
i *01$FM pa
zR 4ti g  g  W                 q - 1   .t1 i      uH       ' p
w    tW")t srEN~~4:0[           5g 4:                        tE      :El             s
_  LxJ    +i M                       11:$f                                            - =i w  gi
ka;1t t\g                                                                              :f ttL  _  ji:   g;  W  :EgW
t6'     QR 0               -0  W    WaS(                      3k  fir                       El $ahSm
IAX                                                             w, Kfi         0   ,       f      gS St REt*fi\i
i* AtE   i*    4- PA K- 0                     #Q   0       jfi                    o    *]                  f
m  :2   :iE    -" - E       A*                w      K         ,   w  w    1p) -m    Pg P       So  g  x
I*        : H  ;     G I-f-, 'w Su _L*411kXN  $  WW  aH- MSP  0  'W.s
f- V            iC N  -j  !       W    X E -K ll: 11$                1@   4 I.  W   
31xi      q  l K- -H 40       PAK rK RE ff t 6-  W  W  V         1:   W        ti   N    aR mN  X ,W
g mS r~~-,z g A B          -W IC  I ip  - ,u ig      a       M    PA K- PF A t V  V: 0    WK t
I      m                        4     4 
Z p   W I U4E Iw   t  W     x
plE  I t  m  0                  4  M 4       :       a 4$tU    E   W         I P) - m i  t  



2.5       2.0         1.5          1.0        0.5  0.0    -0.5  -1.0 -15   -2.0
fh- $-      :     -'5.                               
H        10   .......  ...-
J~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~d
-                                   F87kl~~~~~~~~~~It *1~ (2.Om)   -.  -
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
.*           .   200              400   . .  .    .    .8.0



C   1   2 kw
-  --
~I4-4(a)                 I     t a-Fn   jLt3t~
-          __      =      =
0   1   2kw
_                   I
m 4-4(b)           ,(t.S
4-6 



L ~ ~ (p- 
* ..              .               
-                   -   ~~ ~~~~~~~~~- - _     _
- 
X50442*m$Wi~~~~                 '2i*w W4W    «*



4.3  t
4.3.1 Ek4t t-7k     Ci tb't
q -J Lg J: 35km, m t 6.5km,  I Z   T;hT cPZt@/>t h 17$q
A b  12 -ffift, I7,      tI2km,
tIA     510   i 5Ocm/s, 7                              8 -t,
4000Em3/ ¶l 600mf3 r                0D. KI  1.7    ,   E
14.4km,     i    t#LtZ 14.7km, Jt  Jt A±3U  1025km, 4'
fitin                             0 .5c/ lOm   afiEfiiB¢SXw t   8 -S
25cm/s,ttgL, FFL7k              A±it-{,   8.7km, ji3'
D t 2tiL~~~~~~~~~~~~f A,*g9t,           F1 ri ititUt.
400 m'/ t tth 600a/ 0t5       r .5 9m*Q 1.75figLIJTr5
tNGtt,M1, X-lB¢t23       At-7gTX,i*-2/sF, OPirw
ttv, tt, ;7N    IL  illNt V1q t;|tJX  Mo'7    F RUEAf
5.8km.  6**Z, -Pj0, ),
;ttttJ5 tt*9tt.Xt*iL,    itt428



0 -K iM
I R2   Iq -d          #0                W-- -K                    V
4v        ij fZ -K- m%p                                              1111111H
z ux
tu                  11 4- W
W                                                                                                         j
4ti
w      se                    :9z    AE      c-
JR
04                                                            gi
JA'
RL                   A                                        flill IR
1MVII
te
WI
LI        Aq
a                      jus1               4D iM 4a -K  R,       +H 0  ig
PA     Ux  w  --d. ;K                                         11                                I  1111
3i HIMMI'll"I'MI"i
UO                           11 11
El
00                       K- WI11111                                    iTiMiMMiTT I",
:fill                                              M i
hK
L-j\
0 K- Tg Q 1; M M W -i- 4KA
U%         'j                                                 ITHIMM11 MIT
4'                                  K- A  4 1 fl    If\                                       1111M
A                                                                                                                       111111.91
4', 30     K                        J ii- K. .....
i* M  M  4< 0  -.E1 H, i* I*                                                           ... ......
clq--4                                                                H                                 Mill;
V,  A  Ux  9  9  41, Z  iT 11- 4< Z  4< 4V  *                                                ligiollillil ;,Mlf;
K- K  H- V   R  -i*       N   W          4  A  hizi
U$                        K 449  ['f -K  -H  d M,      Z



~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-  -                      .
8 S \ \-                      ..
=~~~~~~-                   \-         \ ~   -   - t  
_              .               .            -I \\
,_    -           \          , N                  - - -       
\ t \, . -'
. ~     N                          > ,- _
.~~                -. ,
- - - /X\/'\\-\-
S- -D           w              ) \-.-{ - - 
*-.-  ---                                ....*- e-*e- 
\        ~- -               -.   - *          -            * 
\_   __                 __                __                       N \X QX/
-=a-:sb - \ s \ / 4-10



|~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~f   Millf 
E  H Klliil1llil 1tttt1tttIt1tt1g{  a    f--\   |!  < il             f       m     tilli 1illtIllilt1IIII 1   f fA             \ ,   Mlif
b lllillfpilll{{   111111  IIIIItDRIIIIfffl10 * j fj j filt 4 11 lllif1lillil llIII [lliliFDfXfSlifig ! Mill 



4.3.2 t
*tES++RklX, XF7RZtSt,1961 FE~ 1985 XJA
mE m t3 YT_
tR{LLSIJ   8tA1I                      lOkm, X lOkm r1k,    1958
$11XK, 51973- 1978- lIJ$1iIJtikf,    3RiJ>Z
f   tgp   ,  gFi;i1-lE  ARlF*E.  1973 - 1978 4-1ti3-t
b%iWJo   3000m UPM-IA, Vg 1958 - 1990 $t 32  R7J(S
y , Att3.7m,jiUZ  3500m WtOb ANE, Siie   PlAA           t,  -J:t9m.
4-7 ), 7tg k 1000m UP~t0g, 1000 - 2000m tiff:! MU
t, IEt11% , PIAO 3 91#t, Plp1*2000 *U1V-PJTV97
Vt #,  1f3t,  170 J5 m3 / d    T *TF4           rllFITUU193M`
3000m 1!tt S4S ;t- Z -z;4DFF2E
3 0 0 0 m U F' _         .9*     20 t ,     -EA tZ   F -iIUi)9J
3-4
-0
-12
4"    , .'....'.-... .j.....'.
-6               ...............
-8 * .. - ..~...    . .......            ..................... ............ 
0  _-12 :::::::..................
0      500    1000    1500    2000    2500    3000
1 4-7 e
4-12



t o 8t o m t g 3* g ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N            t     MN y-4 
X tS w Q 3W t W W W S w d ~~~~P,       WNZQ  R                  -K $SS  
4t C'1 OR   ; 31,1 9          W  N  -:K W   N  - 'T^H;N                   W  W  t -e K 
0    Z      9       >s                                  E t  R  rt t t E kl K M t W * W F $t w S   's
,#       4 i  Q    W    O   M fi fi    W E 4t    It- W WW   qW     
S ^ ^ d C M B + t e 4    N       P- W           V&    X            W    HI'F  V  m  Q   
44 t M e    e   I   M   t  d  O  $ g 4S C t W B ffi4< o                          OM
N         ffi E t i W t t 4r  3' W C   4[IL  t  e  I@ ,UI41^ tr  S          CM
t ¢ $! =D 111 w  a              S$ t,  E tw W, 4  W  X )F1;
t   g   t   t   co  o  E  111  N t t t $ :14 W @ 3* ;¢ e @ @ O g 4st 4~~~~4114 ~
X~~~~~~~g             R J ER  :U Q   k W e   t @E 3   1tl   , i
j -1,~~~~~~~-                                                   ~    A
4 {11 ID@I ES ii                 47 $S: - lXn    5   , i-E  - 4e  $- 4 tu
;m                               0P: 10          Li R I1-
an u                                                                            X     fit IN      k       I, SS*- e LLm
*  " 9  4,   H, 4u P -1- ON :g                              t    :K   E  gz Tr     li  ON ""X fi "   
N~~~~- 4.                   4  4           .                       N   IV .NW -q    0             s      
HzI  Ei 10-<iv^  M      1  ,  N E 2
LO  C=     m     P                                                . iP
; ~~~~~~~C 
4ZE4
~~4pJ~~



W:7'tfi
CN: 7 Ji,T, 9;
Co: 7
X: S;
Q: tk;
U: +AIL;
K:               ;
xi: ttF-IMWFJ
qi:
LxIK  dUCK  dVCK  dWCK  L-        xK   69      xK 
x      dY dr+       d(x d=     + dY  r ) dY + dZ (E)dZ iA
(2)
C:%KwwktA7¢tttg(K=l2, 3, 4)
U   V            V #A 5I  (rri) X0 on), Z(   rn) nti'L  3i
Ex , Ey, E.: 35At XX         Y, ZVol UgAR*;
A: it.*   -f -fi#'
NM    4T* , i      lty     170 X  m3/d 01, 3j!- iIMJIRR,W,
BODs  -TAiMIV;EX=6km           Cx=1.89 x 10-3mg/l. ;           Z
4-14



tESt~6km, fEtlN It;ltkt t t   ,X -H
V),jkt, ±A 6km, r Tri- 7kmM,t, 41TM¢t-fWi4t (1z1BOD, %
tr~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
4.4.2 2
%,Ti oT- AJ i, AP Mi F-' ttS1   i57kIst3;i;akS*M  S: t1423 L
~~ F' ~~~~~~~AE~~~L$~~~ P2           3I)4¶f
Jit "iMM" ifiT7tt532 E  ,VJAgM RO,1 3T;tIM 9NAA:   "
0~~~~~~~~~~~1 
FfiWuTigX  X ;E$+JDXT,4*fi#J-VR;fet ffiiwr7kMA  ft
Pi8TMfgtw-,    pJ rlLj:n RR P2tXitg
ttt itwielgitl'aJ$gHJ!Y,ff E; -4
1 70 75m/d Of,        7000 m'3/ s   100  n!s fR 30000 in3! s
4-I          °



( 2jYE^J7t, E  H = 5 ,  7 .  9 m Y2,R         t T,                    %     1. 8
% Tn 1. 4 %. o  .Z,                                   K  5J      5 % rI)T. E
TM tOt75*f F- tLft7ktlPjj b5                 TfA,  t Oitfm   T                Iat
ClT I  I it: b5  Afi
4. 4. 4 i57k         XS.g13   It it
ri; (Jift,   - 2m   i                                          7Jdt) b
PI~ T-    5  % l)F1.   ,  4 - 2 *f T                                      - t ; F   it -A -
bASXi Mg*iE 5 % 0T0
t  4 -1   BStF    tNb p  SFg#F#   d 8D9 l§X   P
_ _     _ _    _ _ A!  i   &iEA¢t    (m31/s)    _ _ __s)
7000m3/s             10000m3/s             30000m3/s
iR   dso (i) dio (m)  P (Y)  dso (m) d.o (m)  P (Y)  dso (m) dio (m) P (X)
lF   #E   351    156      0     387    182      0     423    207       0
tP   253    87-      0     289    113      0      324    137      0
Fi tE  155    18          0     191    44       0      228     70      0
K-    268    98      0      305    124      0     342    150      0
_    180    36       0     217    62        0     254     88      0-
TR )      91    -27    1.35    128    -1    0.05   165         25      0
t    191     44      0      231    72       0     270     99      0
_    112    -12    0.6    146    12         0     190    43       0
Wt AE J    31    -69   3. 45    71    -41   2. 05   111    -13   0.65
t: 1.  §*hktb170 h m3/ i .
2.  dso * d,ee t     WMt50, 100 Ot E    -5-2minWZM                  ,
4-16



fi>g;tfQF,+Ex- ,IPt-2m r), In pilrr7gt
tK 4   2        imI 17             JL*'-A5ffA d i           P
7000m;/s            :.OOOOm3/s           30000m'/s
R  79i diA(m) diom(m) P () d;o (m) dioo (m) P () d. (m) dmo (m) P (%)
0i  t   332    147      0    368   173      0    404    198      0
t   239    82       0    275   107      0    309    131      0
m  Frr3  146    17      0    181    42      0    218    67       0
iW   tt  253    93      0    290   118      0    327    143      0
170    34      0    206    59       0    243    84       0
TKJ-  86    -28   1.42   122    -1   0.05  158    24             0
tt E   180    42        0    219    68      0    258    95       0
tl' 106   -13    0.6   139      11       0    181    41      0
ZL J    29    -73   3.64   67    -43   2.15   106   -14   0.68
s: 1   #th*#Rt§  170 T m3/ a
2. ds5   dioo bt;e.pJ Ft
4. 4. 5    7l%       @,1 ti
tt2tt%l-Att$§i   E3 *24 B\0t 50 f2iE
*  ~~J,  MJP Qi LKJA. 4 4
nj;ij: 3 ti17Mt 92St2gWI
PM- J(t±, -                                 i      n *ff il 71  . l-Al M NO -ANtA
=W74   3.



4 - 3    i H uI5 it lit
t<S&@i)lLW   (mi/s)    6000        10000      30000
EiHnui 3Bt1;J     1. 7       1. 4       .61
BEsu Z71 IM a     1. 7       1.4        . 63
4. 4. 6   ;12:X, f tx
ff 4 - 4  ;          it:              {+Ffi7i(71it  170 7
m3/ d,               2 240m 8  T lJ  So <100       i- iE
ltS;M7kA,~~~~~ % 50 f3p-,J;pi* sjklt    .11t <0t
Fx  :V t3IlJ 21   c i5rA   m Ftn' 3 - t, ( 5 -6 A8 e )      I?i
bMa~~~~~~~~~~~~ tffi 2?  RA*  i-iI 5lJAt$Ai- rU   TtS7
fttg¢B @tgt, tEAlf:g[-l3rj1 S <o nm00X vEXt it.
Et tK 4 -5 7P 3    ff!   511 7f M U  Q F>- af f,3N$ ;1  n m Ono  F- ;  t  3  3    Ei
~T4it'E 3km2 14T.
4 - 4 
ti i- M b, it E  7000        10000         30000
(_m3/S_) 
s         <50  <100  <50   <100   <50   <100
FT1 MP    ;' i;   3.2  5.44  2.93  4.49   1.78   2.42
i%     . %J   1.83  3.03  1.68  2.53   1.38   1.88
i 4A rt 3J ; 1.99  3.38  1.82  2.79   1.13   1.54
1z:   . 3~J iX 1.02  1.69  0.94  1.42   0.72   0.98
kd t~IJ :t  1.78  2.95  1.62  2.48   0.89   1.21
km2     I i;tl:   0. 96  1.59  0.88  1. 33   0. 51   0.69
4.18



4 - 5  J
It ip-i zj AL -Er  7000      1 0000       30000
(mi3/s)
S         <50  <100  <50   <100   <50   <100
Tm  J\   r      3.38  5.74  3.08  4.71   1.86  2.53
'm         1. 1.93  3.20  1.76  2.66   1.44   1.96
MA xJt2.10  3.57  1.91  2.93   1.18   1.61
i §    1.08  1.78  0.99  1.49   0.75   1.02
XE  t    X      1.88  3.11   1.7   2.6   0.93  1.26
km2 '     k7   1.01  1.68  0.92   1.4   0.54   0.72
tt, StrttEStgg 50 - 1 0o0 7  (E    T
PM -8() tl"i- (c)fT*lT±.Yl7elv-lt 3000g/ iV7lal
et514m ), tgEAGlfFfitAt~RCIMN'liff UtePM
E~~~~~pf &j; II T7k EiE4  J0;&k 43 ti 7k t ~AI fit   T-; -54iT I 9it Y11   !
71<t rl a7E;t L       JI*T P t  j &4    1  tI ,  -T 1 fi -1EA%     d  II 3;1 ,-   WV tAi' . I  i
i¢$Sb2S7ktts 3km P2Etjg:RiOs
4 - 8 (a) - (c) 3EM *'b7 T - r-YELt% 30 0 00m3/ s 9fi,t
4- 19



. ~ ~~~~~~~~~      iA iK
_   s_Lf          U ~~~~~~~~1 2 km
500
500               )
0  1  2mIon
50~~~~00
_500 -
m 4-8(a)  1iEA  3OOOOm3/s               f
4-20



-7w~~~~~~~~42



U.    i* i' A4                                                     
o                                  X!fI~~~~~~~~~~~~~



~~~~~~~~~~~~r4~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~4                  r
YA W" 44    w  4m  1gn q   w  a  R. m N 3u   w  'r Q V,   I   t        oe =0 #0 
1t~~~~~~~~~~~ U '* , $8t t                   tt  . 1I                          4 f 1W3v EmML b4Eg11# 
10        K- 4i, 0  iqc   41- M           V   Am"       Wa~~~~~~~ VA"        U~-j)
1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4                  -! )P                           P $           q   _W*E~ LWgWWWe* 0  c,:  Cs  ^*
x)                              e     K  w  t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~:Q  "M !#£  4 tte   e  t|  
Mt~~~~~~ 4E  [A             I  w     m  0      g  z tt- -2   9- 4I +1- q!   tv  U rlM L'  ;t  S
.. g I B11 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~W  R   tsI" r FF  W  gl 4z                       4   @I 
14    t_ -L                                   H C-    fl
4 ~~~~~~Jto M W^       g+   4-- g                                                    V  N,         
W W WW 11< W  N tQ + 2 -KE ! V  X%   M   WA C5                         V
Va,                                                      i* WsgIX                  
tt       :4-  *
t           W  m C  C  t  E  NR  *a   4q- 4g ll                 A   E  g1      4                    t
W W~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~' 1l II t  1:+M<      ('                     3t:      ;$R K- # 4
K-                     iS  p = : W   4 6*S-                4 i -                IE                 m 
F"   x                    l                      o  n  t I                             kgm  S    vx S  
* " E 33 b 1R S -    R    dt   ° 1 W; K+   Lo  i  m 4 Y,,,:k
t  kt )d r F~H-                                           X  Li -4y +      oo  t          WE        4 Y  $,     h *
4H  ~~~ J'4H04i7L
g5~~~~ $,                11F$    XK:*m .~                       t k S
*1     tw^m                                                               IQ+ Dat -  t                  i    CI~ w  K  t 
IQ 41    0         W  t"    I     tF W- Z V, 3 k   iEE   +H   W  :2   4 d     3e615
aN    (   t1X    f  W  m  5 1  $ W  t  at   E"  N  It   E   S°  Pt C        °
t  m  tWtrXBmtEWSt~~~~~'z                         X            WM  I- : ^W,
EiEl  [IIg o 4Aq  ^ S X Ct ^ tt tmI W 4t'W 1 c    Sx                o      u      )
~~~~~~~~~~~I                Lb P 4 m    ux                                  c       S,%Wnto.   



ws~~~~~H           V06 V4                                       [O AL    Q i lAX =0 :t  4        %tSkk3           
V  #F~~M- '14a z44 ill  ir #4 *1   fi                           FFSw K°S!* ux 0 
,:~~~ -I! T VW  t f EW 0              2 -4 Rf ! , t! 4E- E    a,  tR1      4- II    0  ui t X
41j           __                                 IJw
1.'           __                                        1h$te      :SS1D    IX.*  
-K  4*-tIN                                 M L.2QJ
#tul~~ -,!4      iW -,-< ml      t .E ln , ~Q ;g V  0 atf   9,-  .       BfM   m
M~~~~~4% -44',=                     IX Vr WI +1 PI 4  0          HI -C IA 19                        MM V,SF R ^kt   
1 E [R 4AC 9 61 «Pt ~~~~~~g   W, -q  K t         !     i     S      F   il   t1 $_   fi M -1
~~~4i~~~~~~~!  m00                      *            I  
s~~~~l -m Yfl  m Jlin H1g t!  "V   :            H                  .E    _L  i  P)    DM-
_   X )*~EV                                4 <    .$ffil        ;*
Wlil      1         29  4I1 } pFJK 4                                       q            r
4f,W   ;wn[L                                   sgt  SW:W                              \S;z         gS  XX
l~~~~~~~~l                         - K- "" P- -PB  f -g   AN t    K-                        K  Wl   iF K    )aBX 
K                    _X
N~~~~~~~#   L                  AO $0                                de P             w         *t g   a ffi4
,4Ct t :R  St rL   t" qt       H  I1 "W   ff  k~ N^+ W   11-    K) 4K a                                   t       'AN 
t.    q 3S LP ml IX 4 N "V   W  K    E    il W-$, 4   3   am"7  :m  LI w          tc   i 3t;-   q E $  o   PJ
WIYW  4 CW  SW  Eg 11- fW V   HO  IN    t   e   K  WO m    0   H,                                  p   >.d
S   qm  $   ,~~~ tS mm EiN    t    4H 10 m  t   Z1,m J:W 4,    ;tt ux 43 -a   w0m 2
c4 O    2$ -;%                        I W\
tn~~~~~M   4w             V,           If  H  i* 99                        4 N          421 4 <       I     L  
Q-           I M
FF    ~a    a'    u
~~'f~
4K



Fs v W u !, S ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1                              f1 rn  gtSi'i  i } 
ltS ff~~~~~~~~~~i rv% -~ *1 :t Q_ N  W             W  4§ < M' Z                      -HI
t     !t                       4e flg IR  V  11  R  fiMS          t       4                      So,
41 *               iE.                                                                            - i  K
ed}  1t did W 8# $ < !_                                                          F F    *W      
-HI                  Cm  W  _
jW   E*<tH   I ta44~ ij M  t                      I                                                 4_
a,,  C !, 5 i   M;                     o   !tc          uj -m    I                        -1 r  tS  W   r -LW
IV!                                              :R.                 4&-,~~~~~~J ~  
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~K  W                                    fi   W_ I  CM Ir   A  X     -   tB
.  t  vh % 't ! t W 2m W W B $ @ mCa                             E 3fi f
VG f illH                                                       I 4  w  I ..I -                       - _
. i)  $N  *                               j  4-      r-,  .   ..   ' AV, I  -  -  , I 
.14                  !11f                  -K ,      4  !V mA  V m  !P !k IE                    ,
$~ f    t !     ! t miFa     cq    :1 11      k  !1i W  3  t~  W  ti 1,, 394              9  V Ji  c $     ,, i
ACIL                                                      W     t I   El                                    4 W  U    &  111 6   kEi 2  U  I , Z  I*
Iid   1    I  4
J,                                                'ki~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~$



b. rEEB<i9,:             R 49fi3  &IP
c . , ErE)7?<l9,  t:ti 
7J_m F-R*f t1'7  457i j0  !   VA  i[- g @- 1 9 M,3    20 i o 
Jc7«g¢tt 4g   ' tMiN  5                  4iZ-**' M
7Kt4¢sXStit  %   2 AiR   S   3 A 20 BX 4
VJISE2 - 3 A, *Rt 6 - 8 'c; ,0  sli glQUE 3S ) 7r,T i, 7ig
7.5 - 11 C; JKtV  IR   t                     5 ),  7kE
18 - 23 C.        L            f E M        4   I3 , f ,
I:I, 7ME 6 - 12 'c; 710  XAV, i Zi@2   7 gA 8
A,3  zkE 26-27 'C.
2Siffiffi@iLtw"gX   JtIAXD4  30 %0,r
ASS2 tt,l>tt§steg x$$-tiEt28 ° - 31 ° 30
' N, 122° E-1240 30' E*i4tp*, 8-115TriziI'            *Rt
jt4:l9f7KJa*%, t t    t5ffif:-    t
4; 80+m*R   Jtlt  4 - 5 JAtYc W,tfu
ZKl±P7        , 6-9 A:a              -  2t VX.
#t      $", 9 7 0 * ft A,-   Wte  ff l, 9)  I K'S T S S  E ;t
P.   i lOOOm klPsb!Alifft7ictwRE ( COD, BOD5s    0,) 
5-4



~~~H 1 4  .                                                            $  ,                     ,  W  i  PW4t\  N
MTI t t + iR <u g ~~~~~~~~~W K  IL   ;fi LX -11 g                          ff IV    ¢       
111p          PI °A                                                               41 ta          $-, W @t EI 
*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ A              0   gS PiE  mg 'Cor       iaK irt gtW   
fl-i  ;TI         M                                       4- J4¢MM Mt1;C°  s  aW   lSWS   
4=<W             > HN                   E]3**4E +RS -[IV  42
tl l4K MG F  E  S  7[       X  e  $  ;t =5~~~~~~'OO  CI_ Stx    d       nkut1
,lS~~~~~~~ ~ ~      ~~~~~~ 15 lf t     t,    ,    oo   CA Ux  C  -K-  ;A "W I    R  e    w g
At   S       c  1  1                   1t          [>   ,4  f     M    iatSfi_    
iKg g                                               c- rF    g tttt4    E> t 2gW< A-LL  53<ff 
10N ,'.KN 4qi                                   la    W              I  i ,MGFgg tSWt T  WR aXWo 
te~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ :                   IN     M    mFg K-     9  B[ g        P{$t*S 14 iC -f 4
t.a~~~4                          41- 0  ]L .7 -2  -    k   o1~ M         m Rt t!  K    t     !V;,
I K
F~~~~~1                   -R                     w W$, * 3enig   
,'
~~ ~~~     EJ~~~~~2~,k           -ld  . =  .I -                                     IJ-~
N  ~    ~      ~        ~E1-~~~ UMf4*
P                                                            DR
gi               ~~~~~EI
~44II\ _I                 W 
i~~~~~~~~WHJ                                                        I  j8Th4I    uMN



i,J       >  , w              tSCDK            t       tw   t  m
I,  14a    i 'i K  4  ;       K       H |
I~~~~~ ~~~~~k311i~ ~ ~ ~~~~1
1iF                U14                                          . mk k  El g  *  z
n    q      i< t   4   Ji _                       t$
FA ,      1 1 ''I ~ I '                          -8 1 atfEgMEFuux
aT  .|-.e e  gM  W% m K  e             o     E  tl]        
Vff       t   _                        ,     M     *Z t      fl H    t 
K  £  t o t W as e        fi                1V9 H :AO1 1  >   u
I S!0 XD«l;ioilI^      n                                       v  1 
tti -sHi    'q  p u 
UQ1 1 4 w  0   T
~~~K- 4:':                           m5.t- i;wg;CNt co tm  i   -E ff°  
.  |  rT g t1 t 1 ezj3 A'  114  m   - ! !m  % tl . 
-- t Eg  PDt  H  ff ^G : ! ff Bk  +1£
t     1 W tS W R     'WE           V  -; 1ttz I
.~~~~~r W HEg 1 5M M*                         W1gS gq   II-A K
tPCH4'l K-  ff 1-11       4 I;M! i  $, H "f U0        4v"r 4W rat
Ulf~~~ 



6.
+±1t 225      Ef,itIM; S 1830  , 17t=lt  :t-' kt3T;
-T Pt Tg-- j=-ot b! pRC ef
6.1    J
6.1.2 1{l PT±ftW
ISX;it IfE      ti .- fR X+eti 3A T ir-r MIJtE T f     fm
4gt  aA  #T  i ig Tg:fliAt-2wlf %   - E3 T itA E T-riA  tZb El 
6    2;4 t fI T± t it|X-F 9F5,3bg
u6.1l.3 Elb%it
6. 1.4 il SJ §l
itiS,~~ t2SgR  VJ`F    A lMt  ;Z M A, t  3. 11-t, iiiS  1F12 t Tffl
61



7 ,;zF; = =,4t,,S      ;t{    ;'tit  .'-  , 5i'  ,;
J, fF g,;-l Fi iPJt, 5          8 ,    L4 fT,fi,§g2m   t4 /ti4
igt#fiSFf E,      r,~r"   m~ R    0 17&7tE    '.E71  LX lW12t 1L    t7
J9~ ttGL' nt'tziffi§e
6 o1.7 7 t FZ ; tfEP,  fK ai P,Rg
VItt    . 1D,tg                    t     E$ t J a not
aHI id~   3 fm: TNl a
m 1 8ttm1[1           Mf*=mtlA
VVE    XiJ  lXiSEJlStii    :t1    JIt
11kfA7 iAgRw     T apz6r' EA7p *   fm M l,f  ZLTSt5$fiAPCF-,,  ;A tl
6.1-11 XEZ3TWH1/;  IDfPn;o 31J}T    Afi&> t                  4
sf  g5 as  J;i  = t   X3g1;  tt g_   tt t 1 i6-2) 



±t   [             AI            _ [1mm1 
F>'J t~~~~~~~~~~O        ifiE Eiig~                       4:::          0    40 E
*iii  __1 W       Y < 4W       E '''t W o            W          M 1.1             -W
..   tp  \|{1  A| E - @~~~~~~~~~   4, i m        a                     40 <
S w  > W ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t-                        [  mat 3
R  t l eJe   N   C   I  ~~ ~~W I                      42WM      
4[   1,  > f;
4ui:!~~~~~~~~~~i
Hl V1                                                                          l  ia M  H   XWW0 twg;
iq P                                        ,                f 4.7Ht  ; gttt  mR1 -4  I$
I E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
C )            i            4



tSm ;n, ~jlqtt i t31:« ATflp)1 F, 2JLfiMT  rt -k iE4i R Ep J=T-   E  At
I12 - 14tk,7  Xit810;t A,v 5S   4ft  ,
6 2             RR- { '~l  2~(4A)   L
mA7Tfi4O.tlkJR<IXl.CJ
6.2.5 7tS!wll/4MAttenZ ~ 6.
7 0 X It ll F, 1S 7U AM 9A -   itE4;+ , +I If 57VR il Ai X$   I PA
1ff1E T R~At, 9-tg - 2 5/  E   2 -E-2  3 5 / Ii. A  i1lj -MIk 1 )A 17
ilk 12 -WIO 14%Pbk A.   l4RE tft 10  i, i-^h R.t
lgititIiIPXItIE3XM4)mi~pl tf  R IZt 16 Ti 5tiY. K
W;  t;Et@   30VP+ 0 o ff T  , R 9    P2 i   A  k,   b!g; i t5!
W2Sb9F40 T5E ,bJ.iU4A    §tiR tt
i,  =I *lst t&l/  tEJ<BtATlf+Fi5 6 6-4



hE*IRg->FtA -,g4   85, t,, gtz IStt  28f 8g>-* f
7.1 I
7. 1 . 1 eLWUMUW   , f 8*     S e
V,2,1T;  , 9 3  1-t V3q  jj;: AW
-IJ201-X, f4.g*ffi
;it f~t 19 T, 1 ff-tik, RIS ED e    IT31'mA1   t   .1hi V
ij 5 lp, &:A, wSMA MmAtrAJ(5i  iIJ0a.
(2) L*'20104XEjRAtj3;T
PJ201OX, 4eL49fi*39119FT41fiif  iS R,     tL
it e4 v95 0iggt 71- e F/T,9liMM*-,
7.1.2 3t91klj Rt ¢ E E 8
tX  XXt,5>¢IGl6, 21±E
7%56, ;f  : 1t  f1.
AA, PFIVOnoT FtkM*.,  R th& t
7-1



;   X   .- * TF =, = 49 ,; <t   !If  t  -  "  i  r{*=- IF      F  x     ,i
E4, MPSIVPEX,' tt        ,  F8J          41- t T     it)btt    Fr,$
~~~  ~~~~       T      I ,              T±1 ,Aai71 rb   ~jf
F~~ g50_u                           frtt;e  ESmt, 13l55. 8km121R
t±Sr~J{T~ Ft[;tH   e269. 6km2ilit9E 7J,:f        % 1   k1
~~~~ ~~~~2 
*   ~~~~~ 
(GB38a38rz-88):    I 1- 4,JJI 1269 
lBlI it;| A   -         1Ebn -ul IT ,    47-AS- 8    Lkh Q5t
-k F          I I3 ;
iNR 'Zr + it, r13] a    it   fig
d, ffiftstAlDlt#tiB,~~~~T, F XAtES
7.2 Li4r'3T:E*1mPlI :l'
7.2. 1 iF I JR,   cct I IE"   P  ,
1,W j i     T  t ld gtlin E a r±  giI n7-2
e ' F*g5gtREESititES,~~~~~~~l~rpiFE 4-iiX ! t nu i
:9ffI £X  2000 Ek .:~ *1E: t   it WI  M    *t1  ifIT, 'I  R ;20, ?M
A grx7-0$t it F] I                  'E, VT, 9
=xtit ;SJ I I I AM;
7-2



lo_                            w       r 4    W  1w 
I                       1tP1*V                                          v  W
4.0tv                    lff :V                                              wz     w ti             f
a S m N tfs S g m c 4 1 MR m ~~~~~~~~~~~nb                                    *M      -
:    W   W   NX   ^SeY    +    WS     4H     4S   R       St    WM          AtrW AM  -
1w~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-4
I 2113 ~ ~   ~     ~    I   i
e~~~~~~*  W m                                                                       f  uS      lalw tt6 t
H~~~-                                            I
riv -H Jt:          $ 4           -fi 4ff      a*L t_                                 - _ a
111~ ~ fl c1  IWU i4i -4                                                       *                  _     gX X tYe                     
cs  tt  M W E t g   *  g W   +;+  g ff  -Ee ID  +? oK  bK b XK  tm AM a      t' mg   W 9
c0                                              4
a. H
'I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
I-'             -~~~~~~qW  Kt,                                                        t         
I    -4                                      jo 
CI                   W   -f4                                                          l!41  ,1      ,   
~~~~ ~~~,K       -   V4 4=-IK i,! to  i~o



X5*;5 E =E5't/.:'2t=~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~_: _-4 ;e/,  I= t,1 to- =- +t'' J ^ - 5,f
)1g5Xte{*W~~~~~~ 71, Io RI'e ffS DE ~o A7 
maNGttSt,:eSro~~~~~~ .Z2L-   __ _Esw5E
7.2. 3         -L   -J
L 437j(2MX  S tRS    1444   1 72323m  7J(, tte7
lEXtFAttSAXtz,xL,~~~~~~~~~r etq eJ EES7', 7'mT°
7-4



8. tiQ  
8.1  =ItTI't aR
3tJf 11)3 ka X  " [ r2`ft-b  T FIRE a 4,J,'Z, 5>-F ST I
(1) a+±YtAPg
(2) rI T 71, 
(3)               flaRn
(4) MTI1U t.9;at   P
(5) X0J<        j       It XTt'tqIa
aT9#r-n, i.-m no Ag.&p, Evo, M a  TAW3tinnp-tS
8. 2   I     X Xn5
8.2.1 T E 
*g;tj                                   R IR8.70M, tI~MITPRS3lO.0OOm, tUi s),'8.00m, tA
kH1 1:3 -1:1.5,       1:2 tMW , *tiVX 5.OOm, Igl5m,
3',1 3m-4m. 19MMIJ;0; 16.00m, 9TIfV;27.OOm, :aT 
aTMiRIS6.0m, MMlTffiIXl7.m       li15.8m, gbt1:2, p
TIQOm,  ~      0,61P0m  :AT-ifA1
t1: 2 :tt*, IP    ri  4m.
titR + S8a l,)kJAF'&80IIl,    AD,  +tt E    EJ
TIlOOM, +;tVWRFX:J A;Vt,             It I;          ,ti¢
lt!1lJA5.Om.
(2)  I t  +
B-l



i~~ t IT. E  t  U.P. -                 M --I   ~  
kR55mim3#+gt,  itiil6fE;24.05000m
(3) g%It*-1
1uulO Piz;f, i2mmi rnEX $; Wz
8.2.2 i+±v
_   gltPfF487gg"EtRtf  _m3   56250   132217    32200              51415           272082
2       >150kgft;E#f*         m3   28875       4746                 345  4850    38816.
3         1                   m3    3850                                            3850
4                             m_______    m3    8663  1853                          10516
5   ___ ___                   m3    8938       1930 1                150  -___      11018
6      C25___________   m3    1650              600         X                        2250
7      C20Erzxi__tp6&         m3    2420       -                           .         2420
8       *          OX J-4 +   m3  216810              1335280                    1552090
9        1___________   m3                     9823                         490    10313
10        C20oTL.Jff5          M3      4131      724                                 1137
11  __________    m2   55000    28950    16000    46440                            146390
12    M_______                 _    2750        8685    ==                  =       361851
-LrfwIEF'                             1%t4t  FffOfiR 'it +A  E  P i§     t 1 85 T
m3e
8.3 t±*S
8.3.1 +±*
8-2+24ffiTtt. MEALAfJI']Tt 
8-2



-jj jI Af - -1  7?,  -,@ tlt 8g KgL  $  il , E t rr t QFJ 4' 9   E 
t-4 ,t t, * -; iEft2,300m3/s, iFt<'i) -92,600m'1s, IL5+
zi±9240fLSm3.          `Htb>8  Z4,86Dz, $it@ §0r1l
9X6.tk V   8a/t, ffZAJ          E3 41{Zt,          T In,   -:
~~~~~~~
j1 i            O%t/[4, J'3 -' IIm    ;
4it 9 n   i-t1'1    '   A -a A -l'--I    t tl   t''fi1-    i   = ilt &-
3i 0  eK aS ir t91TA V1 S$tJ 6,   S Z; ~i ;j t- w~ .7J k GR ;i A1 4
21s e%gal>  ilt   jT Dt4tRIXP  IJ gX    ,11flf] 'S 1
ffe" it t 0''Wf--, T, II a IL ff 5 6, MI       R5 E 
@@T         ft+ , 0-ttt§ I EX:;              tLEt*-J 
903g k      ,I Si9ff  1 ffii          9t   m o
ttl$g+Rt   iT StLi at t  -I Om
(2) StfA
t', @TGRet, WV1W*VtlS, nr@'t50%,tst0%
88js15%,        t  1t1 - lOn. 
V31*tl15%, ,1E1g;3- 10m. %jfVLJCiTZ*-Tfs:I9N.
(3) tA Latill
8-3



l~~~~~~~~~~-                                                M1[ M
1-  [a                                       H r Av  w  q o  H
A-HH t-H  H tSS  3X                                I k         H
H H  1 8H                                        vm I H
B #BA ~~~~~~~~- 11t "git                ~ 
|t ~~~~~~~~~~Ic l             11                - X5E      r7i V, BM BB<L 
* n H 9 zH
SB  iii~~~M- i  V7:--%1
LA~~33  XW            g   A F)S
-                            S   7 B           n IN
. _ _ _ _ _ _~~~~~ _   _                  i |gM-   XD                            1wl
H H          , m       g  I H
H1fo _H                                   F-i
_  _  _ _ _ _ _ _ t B ~9 m + >+                                 lwmn.
,4 M    \rEU HH                       HW         3: a



VI~~~~~~~~~~
!  50 0m3tJ41 IEi7
8.2. 5   iA2-Etan ft* fiI  IC-f>g 
8.2.5.1 ikUX+~tv7kaz
fiTitt;i3      ;l g=iL574tttt 15CJ iEX  tM20kInr;
fa J'[I .  -a; t,K- t t7kl it *A r- :  a t   R§B -t k  'RP3850I'    I MT4    N& t 7@
n        T t.   IL, XtE t'E                 'AS         T
8.2.5.2 reMS T I    + VnaftV
91t9A1,ffmPTRNP *AOOOt, TU--ES270 km2. IRIgliPiki, AiR£
57gE5eW$ffitXtAeZtIE#+,~~~~~ IE,5 + h127h
8-5



a-     |       1| 4u  3W V  K-                           W 4  It P  4                     O
r t   _[_ >                                 x   0    im s                  +q                    #t |
4gd w 19                                            Mh H I 5k sw  m *  g  4 RI  4      g 4 
Du                                                                                        K    1   ICE ggg    17;$+ow   
eJl~F                          +X4iypF                                     - Ht@tI: W h^ E
h -                                                                                          -        1r H  i I 7 
I-,    4ti VflII            VA" i  ,          ii-Ul  f                                         ."
If lUm w w $ - *         0    10                       sM th t W m             H -l 4v   4
iw-        V g1 m     ICuK   W  lI] W VN                       41 4t               H             "A    fi< FltRHl
41!l  0w'  gE t i                                  t%                   $        e,1   
tlY1 Dv        9@        148    !         w              tw 19      4IJ i% ra  MN   wH t    
i.; U&        MR    ,,,   :Q- w kC    Ex                 OP                   -0 IG  H  B E ikr                           co
li                   s   tC     4 t $ E  -P XJ      ra             -Q KX qw           :2 4 $ 
W~~~~~~UWW  ,- IW -HE WgtMwN   tm g                   e    NM            H0 va H
ffi MW Wkte ImeFffl IL  iMCg <-                                                                 -W LJ tISl!
. tl,0 E7 !E + i'4 W 4~~~~~~~~~~~-                    t- P W 
40            k    4aN   St H  Y M                   4h   - E         I$ q HW H* KR               t   W4
l^3~~~~~~~~g 0                          t-'U WI IN 04  _H LX i!        tgu                     H
-m-I       4[TFl§4 !K IN  1^\V    . WZZ           4F tl q! Xt 0  H   9   14  0) w  t 4 
I ~ ~     ~      ~     ~     W    mlu u 1101    e0 jS _$-j              SY a H      wMil1a
40t                                                                                       r-7   tg S4kn     ^
W  t Z Mj;-       H S  m K R W- W         1      tt k       UQ Qt   V%            11   W
K~~~~~~                             



&          ~~~~~~I  D: z      !
~~U+    ~H   H ~J13      k      I             H 4 -41  Fr       n'~-THH ~
~~~~~        -+                                 R  b M
in oIHM                                                                        9    k
A  rti Z H                                   H       1- 4.1 fiX-  ir!  ¢    m uo 4           
4R   V  go    s                              M    ,          lr %         f         e    Oggr   K tTIN
~H   ~1HH                               44 er                                      rX :m
EG     F@    H3                                                                                            I F   I
13                       rmi                M                            r'IG
Os                    SiTri11rt-. -41
g  g  SH 4 g t w rt D W m34                                                              At
H               >-~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~+H'                              4
.LL ~~>F  -F .3                                      X tM   <tr4Si 
;Ri                       Fm H "           i   i4  0-i aR A         H    -8 a   W\oFWP
JiE~ ~~~~~~~4 .          Pf$>lnEBaO>'M  X! XtF a  -7i n                           r3     
rH~~~~~HH
,   ~      ~~ .,                     4qr
\  II-                       FIR                    i  r
4N                   6    rmf                      rri-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
H s~~~~~



Ff~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- Jt$K AX7'tt  2t0<t   4Ett%gu)
w J<Sid~~it L_W I8-3 US  fst)(                 S cl 9    4PT b4 it _7114   
t8-3 wg iX
_________   t i[dB(A)]
106
106
116
rZE 2 VI108
8.4.2      npJt
93E(tXit,6) (GB3096-93)35TIR ~                                          F4t¢T  
u84                     )    GB    (GB3096-93)
_ _ _t_: dB(A)
0            50           40            nR.  -'iMER
1            55           45                 .  tR
2            60           50            9  -   Akt1
3            65           55                 T- h11,1
4            70            55       _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _  
;t8-5   .nS M^tF
-a ):B X t jntPI[d(A)I
-9-   4g$   [dB(A)l   Sm    I Om   20m   40m   60m   80m  lOOm  150m  200m
I  V 2r-   106        84    78    72    66    63    60    58    55    52
2     itTn    106     84    78    72    66    63    60    58    55    52
3    ±t+Vt   116      94    88 182    76    73    70    68    65    62
4 _   tttV   108      86    80 j74    68    65  1 62    60  F 57    54
* E$44WS <(MtftAkI§Ftt4AtPfit¢^) tcgU            199O07A
8-8



flj  H                iRu  ±        I {     Ql'
~~4I ~ ~ 4 
7tt
ss~ ~~~~~~t W tg zi34i  l      3     
2~~~~~ v$i-M4 Pfit                    4
H ~    ~       ~       ~H
nu 1H        1lIU4W $S  sX EN ' h $ 13E $j !  
_                            H
j4    $      n             g      @    tfiv JnRW  4i #W U A
,~~~~~U_                                         nr)S1tK      \   ¢  
Wz 'H XKS*$gEDUK  _SU m M
,1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- .UX - t 4     iwe  K Ux ^ 
sV   H ^K    H ia  H iQ@
2 10    i- HM                                  [  L  11 4   W,Nt5  2  
H UN0O  -Hf --qJ W k                        4 4 H
PFA    WiWW [   t~  :4       *:I       H 4t 4q 4N V   
arD -41' t cm      g  MM  * 1  K   i V  k H  _   H l:
. - tJt       H      H   W-1   H W    4     tit
,$~~~~~~~                     M k W° w EW !H. X^^>   
_V  1iET    H  Ho8           HQ  



I ~      ~~     ~ ~ ~~ oi '  !-i 2'4Fl Pt
3~~~{ 1_                         m    6 MI 9                                m  Pt a _u
ft~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ iV 4q [   SWi      H AH 21A   °           a w4 o fit g4  a,ff
0~k I= *f~*     II1-~1                                  o r
-K o0m  OM  gt 46 4; R$at!wX BBNr^               t u                     9m>XM
H~~~~~~'s rt                              6i e                t MaBrzX               r         T
itam   Mi@t  i       GZ   BMMiM4l^S! 11                   wA<@m~~W\  1:1-
El   M                    2Blf 3                           3               wttS  -  en1  r   
'SM                                                         Mm H      SMW#X  M - g W
S8XW mS e DigB+mi*
4ft O14 44 *t ,U H1                                                _ _
'CQ             WS       *9        Mg       S69wA+e                      Be">to
>rt H                                4mm      'az 
10z  i -,PLH
rp                                                    R 4i~~~~~Jfm~t
ri                            ~M               T[
4   6i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
~~~~ _ ~~~~~~~~~~~~H                              nVi1i
U                         dr  9          P        ft K I    r
ig 0[  ~~4Hif



'I~~~~~~~~~~~Y
eD~~~~~~~~~~~~~~X   4ff                                               Mi b)f    W rN s¢t3t
"~~~~~~~~~ @  tS ,ym\      Sit          +-    S      A;XS;SA        t
84*    i E                                          tp         I
la m-5 tl %Sj  4     4             !t                                       AlX    w gt  
2~ N                                                       0'                        h u I g  m   -H M  1-
* ''- ~      4>-         r4
hi~ ~~~L                                   Ni                                               dla Mah      +tk     < M          t1   
/ ~  ~ ~       E r- $   ffi>Wfii                                          G >  4
gft \    X  e   ff    B   2 .    '     W    WE V5_,_  4 _
A   $B    sX"Dg >,9 YS  ?$ WBml*



4~*AMI  P Pe  Mrf API "f ,#  i   IJ F24 in t  *t -S, <TF 'P t- RJ Yr 11I
9.8  i
R   jE 1   t Z t C 5nn MP 01, 9R,;4 6 0 -a ~0, rrr-k9
9-3



S                          ~~~~~W 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~4-4E-                                   4E
P- X     Pi  R -,'-I  -H       4              w     - H            e               w
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ W.  vo Bt       X 
~~~~~~XN  _                                             Iw
4                                     -"i jX-1  H f  m  Q   4 ,
4~~~~~~~~~~4K ~ ~   ~      ~      -
%               K- ~       ~    ~ ~  
-                -   eN cb     -   ('4       -~4I-   9  - E;* 3SN    r5 tV'
t-                                                     :9          9               Rc +            it     ! X1 
-!l  F  Z  k    S    !    tt   !   t  B W  ! t # t W k .  w
_   _ 1w   '     4 + 1      fi Y  A_        _it_ In                      I 0   I
N ~~~~~~~~~W-  go                 IF? w          m L               nWE Wt
19W    ff                    ff                    44           -W Q                    2     4
V   Mr  Ug         re  il        43        w            a 9                         wV4,V B
t    $   $  S            $              S                     t             g~~~~~~~~~~4 
$  1   Wt                            f    -S                          _ 
NO~



41q                    :M+EES                        e@H    tW Wt l   W                                       $4 
ot                                                          c o ;   J$ti41;Lae A_ eM     
Et                                             U w    K-  ^  u                        AE Z    1
4-                                                    9jIP
W            $ $ v            ES *    ff * X                - 5 $ v  14 4              IV    1   4N :k    t
4-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
II                                                            4.~~~~~~l            'A E
X            g  92 .r?         e F        ji .t F         ff Ti C iE                  9  IP 40   - l -E  $        
Alu                                                                                              t
B .   w E                                   :2 4 ^      F E * e  t  WW E             _  
il~~~~~~~- ~ ~ ~ ~~L-    L
m     *  W  W             F        t  G  M         M  SS X  '4           X  S  g  S  W    g  N           X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Q lq121 ~,-  -   ,lW#
M  W  %$A W $t E$ H4 Wt; :E                            F]        *              LLL               i3E 
q> N,Wg  , ML  i      'k    R$gW   
g~~~~4                    Q 4 %        i                      Fti         
4IR~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
ffi    a    ;   >4   m  ^ F E ~~~~~~L,                          g $tS:      
I                                                       l 



41g                                  IL-+1 
4-F
IM 4    4R'                  t  t A m*m  
U                         0 4- "V4  4,t
*~~~ 1H W    t      
li~~~~~i tI*WNt      8Ba                                 A   
[D                                                                     :R w         ¢      kq' W S
~~~~~~N                       K             *<W1 t  U<!   
|l           WI MN            11a1    W.          4;          LO     i  XttS W4
di    t    tEF      4    F4Xm                                 ^w 
ML" ,1    41b mn<                               NtL   
4q k' K             91 I-                      lA       4  M*i  SSF E
W~IVv                      -W              t$ X 1:    H    I   ra'   
at +P % E t                                 '    'N M, i' 
,k  sW   K-   X  4F        -K   1X -o zT                    IC       Pe H
~~~~          -           'II__ tPI4r 4
,~~~~~3   ,4i 4                                               *4AAFqb lltt D
4!S g      ~E   H      WWo                   Z    
wi-  im                  Ii
+uH   jjX      44-
W-k-Wt~~ ~~x              It'r



I,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
|-           l  s*   ~~~~~~~~~~th   ;   aA e 9
X  1             ,   rlf .~~~~~~~~MI; .      b111    -        I 
~~~ ~~~~ II  I ~~~~~~~~~~~:  it~~III
%<  >  |1i|11  lil\'  Slj -l- _   JEI <6W  j-r                             2 
gI g  .,   ,   ,  .     . *
fl |~~~~~ Mu §  1-1   .                              ............ .... ..... .
I                                                          ii0"'"  _ W
741 lit                                                          I
.7
zb~1                       ~-
4111i ~       hg~
.-.~~~~~ .2~~~~~                .mm



f/I.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O
fl* ' '/y
.t.4 vn'~~~~~~~~AI        zt  .N                   1P
r                        II  xI ;
:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1                                                         Af.l 
'14~~~~C 1
iiij1 1. d4                         ° .  *018 )t1t < ' - iI|1"  ¢  1r    ^   >$  111t; lltlI,
a*  *', *$';  -- * | t&     1"  MI'   t                             II
i   l ':l hl '1 ii!l                     '1 Illi  l~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~ ~~~~~i iW,  4111  i                   .
0,8    1Iz1   2fl'l   §l   N   s   .4 l\It-    ;r   1It         \ ')1 4    ¢  ti          t
rl                       ,                                     1ftA, \VI , I iol,
1''1> ilMi                          r ig  111 A tl xl"n  t    i- t ; ; "I II-  ^   jt-j  8   1U t1 -
A  §nl    Ssl"f                    ti



