                                      Document of
                                    The World Bank




                                                             Report No: 30467-CHA




                          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                       (SCL-39870)

                                          ON A

                                         LOAN

                            IN THE AMOUNT OF US$250 MILLION

                                         TO THE

                               PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA

                                         FOR A

                          SECOND SHANGHAI SEWERAGE PROJECT




                                    December 29, 2004




Urban Development Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region

                         CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                      (Exchange Rate Effective June 30, 2004)

                           Currency Unit = Yuan
                                    Y1.0 = US$ 0.12
                                  US$ 1 = Y8.3



                               METRIC SYSTEM


                                 FISCAL YEAR

                          January 1 -     December 31

                      ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
APL    Adaptable Lending Program
BOD    Biological Oxygen Demand
BOT    Build-Operate-Transfer
CAS    Country Assistance Strategy
COD    Chemical Oxygen Demand
DRA    Design, Review and Advisory (consultants)
EIA    Environmental Impact Assessment
GDP    Gross Domestic Product
GOC    Government of China
ICB    International Competitive Bidding
NCB    National Competitive Bidding
PCCP   Pre-stressed Cement Concrete Pipe
PMO    Project Management Office
RAP    Resettlement Action Plan
SAR    Staff Appraisal Report
SARS   Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome
SEP    Shanghai Environment Project
SEMC   Shanghai Environmental Monitoring Center
SEPB   Shanghai Environmental Pollution Board
SFB    Shanghai Finance Bureau
SHUEP  Shanghai Urban Environment Program
SM     Shanghai Municipality
SMG    Shanghai Municipal Government
SMSC   Shanghai Municipal Sewerage Company
SSC    Shanghai Sewerage Company
SSP1   Shanghai Sewerage Project
SSP2   Second Shanghai Sewerage Project
SSPCC  Shanghai Sewerage Project Construction Company
SUDIC         Shanghai Urban Construction & Development General Corporation
SWA    Shanghai Water Authority

SWAOD  Shanghai Water Asset Operations Company
SWEC   Shanghai Water Environment Construction Company
YDER   Yangtze Delta Economic Region


                        Vice President:  Mr. Jemal-ud-din Kassum, EAPVP
                      Country Director:  Mr. David Dollar, EACCF
                       Sector Director:  Mr. Keshav Varma, EASUR
                     Task Team Leader:   Mr. Mats Andersson, EASUR

                                            CHINA

                      SECOND SHANGHAI SEWERAGE PROJECT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            10
6. Sustainability                                                                11
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 13
8. Lessons Learned                                                               17
9. Partner Comments                                                              17
10. Additional Information                                                       18
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             19
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             23
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             25
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             26
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             29
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                30
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            31

Project ID: P003648                                                  Project Name: Second Shanghai Sewerage Project
Team Leader: Mats Andersson                                          TL Unit: EASUR
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: December 29, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: Second Shanghai Sewerage Project                         L/C/TF Number: SCL-39870
   Country/Department: CHINA                                                              Region: East Asia and Pacific
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Sewerage (90%); Sanitation (10%)
                  Theme: Pollution management and environmental health (P); Access to
                            urban services and housing (P); Municipal governance and
                            institution building (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 09/29/1994                                     Effective:                           08/09/1996
     Appraisal: 06/21/1995                                         MTR:
      Approval: 03/21/1996                                      Closing: 06/30/2002                 06/30/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          People's Republic of China/Shanghai Municipal Sewerage Company
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Jemal-ud-din Kassum                            Russell Cheetham
Country Director:               David R. Dollar                                Nicholas Hope
Sector Manager:                 Keshav Varma                                   Katherina Sierra
Team Leader at ICR:             Mats Andersson                                 Geoffrey Read
ICR Primary Author:             Terry Hall


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      HL
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: HS                               S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
Background: Shanghai Municipality (SM) is China's most important industrial area and is a
major center of commerce, trade, finance and science. At appraisal, the Yangtze Delta Economic
Region (YDER) comprising SM and three adjoining provinces, with a population of about 200
million people, accounted for about 22 percent of the national domestic product (GDP). Rapid
urban growth was causing increased domestic and industrial wastewater discharges. Recognizing
the significant environmental damage caused by uncontrolled wastewater, the Government of
China (GOC) targeted Shanghai for environmental management improvement. Shanghai
Municipal Government (SMG) recognized that sustained protection of the environment was a
pre-requisite for long-term economic growth and investing in environment protection was a high
priority. Shanghai embarked on a program of infrastructure reforms, and a wastewater
management strategy was formulated, comprising a phased investment program, to be managed
by a financially sustainable utility company.

GOC requested support for Shanghai's long-term environmental protection program. This
project was part of that long-term program which started with Shanghai Sewerage Project (Loan
2794/Credit 1779-CHA), and the Shanghai Environment Project (Loan 3711-CHA).

Objectives. The principal objective was to provide a safe environmental setting for the long-term
growth of Shanghai, enabling sustained economic and industrial growth. Specific objectives were
to: (a) enhance wastewater and storm water management through expanding wastewater
collection, treatment and disposal capacity, and storm water drainage facilities; (b) reduce urban
pollution impact, while facilitating pollution control; (c) improve wastewater utility financial and
operational management; and (d) strengthen sector institutions through training, feasibility studies,
and future investment project preparation in the environment area.

Assessment of Objectives.
This project supported the Bank Group's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) in 1995 which
supported urban environmental management by enhancing environmental protection, and assisting
with infrastructure development at municipal and regional levels. GOC continued to attach high
priority to environmental protection, targeting industrialized cities and regions like Shanghai.

Strengthening the financial and operational management of the sector institution was particularly
important in this project, since the SMSC had only recently established when SSP2 was under
preparation. Capacity building and institutional strengthening were therefore important initiatives
in SSP2. These initiatives also helped Shanghai prepare for its further long-term environmental
development programs, including the Shanghai Urban Environment Project (SHUEP), currently in
progress under the three-phase Adaptable Program Loan (APL) (Ln. 4705-CHA). While the
objectives were realistic and clear, and responsive to Shanghai's needs, they were at the same time
very challenging taking into consideration the size and complexity of facilities to be constructed,
and the limited experience in China at the time of this kind of comprehensive sector improvement
projects.




                                                 - 2 -

3.2 Revised Objective:
N/A.

3.3 Original Components:
The project included the following components:

Sewerage and Sanitation Improvements ($531.2 million). Construction of trunk conveyor,
secondary sewers, and pumping facilities with a supporting program of wastewater flow
management, connections and collection for domestic, industrial and enterprise systems;

Wastewater Treatment and Disposal Systems ($83.2 million). Construction of pretreatment,
effluent pumping facilities, and a marine outfall for a flow capacity of about 1.7 Mm3/d at
Bailonggang, and rehabilitation of existing sewerage systems;

Institutional Development and Training ($18.9 million). Supporting and strengthening project
management, wastewater operations and management systems; wastewater system rehabilitation,
monitoring technology and data management; pollution control; and training, feasibility studies
and future project preparation.

Assessment of Design.
All components were interlinked and clearly addressed the objective of the project. The
components comprised priority investments identified within the Shanghai Sewerage Master Plan
and were consistent with earlier works carried out in SSP1 and SEP.

Lessons learned from SSP1 and SEP were factored into SSP2. These included: (a) the linking of
physical works with early actions to address institutional development and financial soundness of
SMSC (a wastewater tariff of Y0.14/m3 for domestic consumers was introduced prior to
"effectiveness"; (b) extensive use of thrust boring technology for sewer construction to minimize
disruption in congested built-up areas; (c) improved design of joints in trunk conveyors to control
leakage; and (d) careful attention to corrosion control on steelwork items; and (e) the importance
of thorough project preparation.

All components were to be implemented initially by SMSC. Although recently established at that
time through the amalgamation of the former Shanghai Sewage Company (SSC) and Shanghai
Sewerage Project Construction Company (SSPCC), SMSC had experience in implementing and
operating similar investments, and thereby capable of implementing SSP2. SSP1 was successfully
completed by SSPCC and operating as of 1995. The wastewater component of SEP, which
began implementation in 1994, was also executed very successfully by SMSC staff.

3.4 Revised Components:
The following additional investments were implemented using project cost savings identified in
1998. These additional investments were consistent with the project objectives and did not result
in a restructuring. They deepened the achievement of the project objectives.

Puxi Mid Line Sewer ($32.4 million). This covered the Puxi Middle Block area (see p. 58 of the
SAR), and Beicai area of Pudong, with a total catchment area of 10.8 km 2. The additional



                                                 - 3 -

system provided service to some 615,000 people (about 5% of Shanghai population) and
wastewater collection was enhanced by some 300,000 m3/d.

Pudong Link Sewers ($54.2 million). This is located in the service area of SSP2 in Pudong and
extended the collection area of the main conveyor sewer. The works comprised link sewers and
pump stations in 10 locations; rehabilitation of storm water pump stations; interception of
wastewater from about 32 industrial enterprises; and from Yangsi and Chuansha townships
covering about 24 km2.

Bailonggang Wastewater Treatment Plant ($53.1 million). This component comprised the
construction of chemically enhanced primary treatment and sludge disposal works of 1.2 Mm3/d
capacity, located on reclaimed land at Bailonggang next to the outfall pump station and
preliminary treatment facility (which had been completed in the original scope of SSP2).

Assessment of Design.

The designs were prepared by local/foreign municipal design institutes and consultants to provide
least-cost solutions, enhancing the project benefits. Satisfactory Environmental Impact
Assessment (EIA) and Resettlement Action Plans (RAPs) were provided for all additional
components.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
The Quality at Entry is considered highly satisfactory for the following reasons:

Environment-related sector work carried out by the Bank included a number of urban sector
surveys which identified major environmental issues, their causes, and remedies for addressing
them. The resulting program of operations assessed institutional capacity and service delivery.
These strategies were supported in nine urban environment, water supply and sanitation projects,
of which SSP2 was one. SSP2 was consistent with the CAS, which emphasized institutional
development, including organizational strengthening of the Shanghai Municipal Sewerage
Company (SMSC), financial capacity building and investments in the southern part of Shanghai's
wastewater management system. Referring to the specific objectives, the project was designed to
enhance the capacity of the city's wastewater collection, treatment and disposal system by 1.7
Mm3/day covering an area of some 240 km2, with significant reductions in urban pollution (this
would represent a challenging undertaking in any country of the world).

SSP2 was the third environmental intervention in Shanghai supported by the Bank and fully
responded to GOC and SMG sector priorities (see Section 3.1). GOC recognized that industry
was a major source of pollution in China and with its heavy industrial base, Shanghai was targeted
for environmental improvements. SMG also recognized that sustained protection of the
environment was a pre-requisite for long-term economic growth. SSP2 was an interim investment
within Shanghai's long-term program to alleviate environmental degradation, focusing on
wastewater collection, treatment and disposal, and institutional strengthening of SMSC. At the
outset, SMG set up a high level Leading Group and a Project Office, headed up by a senior
manager from the former SSPCC. Experienced technical and management staff was assigned
from SMSC. SMG benefited from the deployment of substantial international and local


                                                 - 4 -

consultant support during preparation. The Bank staff were already working with SMG on SSP1
and the team of senior professionals deployed on project identification were well versed with
Shanghai's sector institutions and issues. Thorough strategic discussions were held to ensure the
most effective long-term solutions for Shanghai. All components were interlinked to support the
GOC and SMG sector objectives of significant environmental improvement. The Bank's
safeguard policies were fully satisfied. By appraisal, all feasibility studies and modeling of the
Yangtze (Changjiang) estuary were complete, and detailed designs for all components were well
advanced. Drafts of tender documents covering some 40 percent of the investment program were
ready at negotiations.

Risks identified at project appraisal were: delays by SMG in implementing wastewater tariffs and
in addressing institutional reform in SMSC; construction difficulties at Bailonggang outfall site;
delays by SMG in implementing institutional development and training; and, the need for
sustained investment to meet the long-term wastewater management strategy. The assumptions
made in the SAR were reasonable, and the risk assessment was largely accurate. Mitigation
included: a wastewater tariff increase in 1996 for domestic consumers (a condition of
effectiveness); an Engineering Review Panel; technical assistance to provide management and
financial strengthening for SMSC (support began before loan effectiveness); and provision of
funds for future project preparation to encourage continued implementation of the long-term
program. These measures proved adequate.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The project objectives were addressed in a very comprehensive way and its outcome is rated
satisfactory. All objectives were achieved and the physical components exceeded expectations.
See Annex 1 for details. Regarding Objective (a), enhance wastewater and storm water
management, chemically enhanced primary treatment (not included in the original project scope)
was provided at Bailonggang, to control the phosphorus load discharged to the Changjiang
estuary. Additional link sewers and storm water pump station rehabilitations were provided, thus
enhancing collection capacity. The additional works were originally planned as a subsequent
project, but construction was brought forward to utilize cost saving in SSP2.

Although studies done during project preparation showed that pretreatment alone would meet
China's Standards for Discharge to Fresh Waters in the short term, it was agreed to move
towards controlling of pollutants on a "total load" basis. The chemically enhanced primary
treatment facility at Bialonggang was designed to contain the phosphorus load to the Changjiang
from Shanghai at less than projected year 2000 levels (18 tonnes/day). This is important in
connection with the control of the nutrient status in Hangzhou Bay. At appraisal, it was estimated
that the first tranche of primary treatment of 0.86Mm3/d capacity would be needed first by year
2005. SMG has now provided a facility of 50 percent greater capacity, and one year ahead of
schedule, responding to increased needs due to higher economic and population growth than
expected at that time.

Regarding Objective (b), urban pollution reduction and control, monitoring was defined in the
SAR although base-line parameter values were not agreed with the Borrower (despite many



                                                 - 5 -

mission discussions). However, based on information provided in the Borrower's "Review
Statement on Environmental Impact" (Annex 7), SSP2 has contributed substantially to reducing
urban pollution. The service area of 289 km2 (including Minhang/Wujing area) serves a
population of 4.1 million (about 25 percent of the population). The average wastewater flow
collection rate has increased from 0.75 Mm3/d in 2000 to 1.04 Mm3/d by 2003 (39 percent
growth). However, comparison of planned and actual intercepted wastewater flow in year 2003
shows that the flow collected in Pudong is only about 35 percent of the projected short-term
figure due to unforeseen changes in land use development plans; the actual wastewater flow rate
is lower than the original design assumptions; the construction of local sewer networks is lagging
behind the main interceptor sewers built in SSP2; and, some enterprises still prefer to discharge
wastewater into surface waterways. This indicates a need for SMG to ensure closer coordination
with local authorities for timely utilization of trunk sewers, possibly including mandatory
regulation. Nevertheless, the number of SMSC customers increased by 37 percent from 1.57
million in 1999 to 2.16 million in 2003.

Monitoring of the water quality at Bailonggang Pre-treatment Works shows that the inlet and
outlet effluent quality is similar. This is expected since preliminary treatment only removes gross
solids and grit. However, pollution loads were reduced substantially on commissioning of the
primary treatment plant in mid-2004. Operating data for August, 2004 showed significant
reduction in Biological & Chemical Oxygen Demand (BOD and COD), suspended solids and
phosphorus; the plant was performing within its design parameters (see Annex 1a).

The impact of SSP2 on surface water quality in the Huangpu River and other waterways in the
project area is difficult to assess when compared with the time bound parameters given in the
SAR (see SAR Annex 11 on page 100). The overall water quality in the Huangpu was projected
to improve from Class IV in 1996 to III by year 1999. General waterway improvements were
projected from Class V to IV over the same period. General comparison with the actual situation
is however not feasible. In order to assess the impact of SSP2, the SMG has compared the value
of critical pollution indicators at a number of stations along the Huangpu river from 1996 to 2002.
(Details are given in Annex 1a.) While some parameters have improved through 2002, others
have varied. Overall the water quality in the Huangpu is reported to be "somewhat
improved". Ammonia remains in the range of Class IV and V (sometimes worse than Class V).
However, the total nitrogen remains worse than Class V at all stations. This situation is
influenced by upstream discharges beyond the control of SMG. The rivers in Pudong were also
monitored from 1996 to 2002 in 16 stations. The Pudong Canal and Chuangyang River are
reported with improved water quality and the pollution in Zhangjia Bang is reduced. Little
change is observed in other rivers, possibly caused by the low wastewater collection rate in
Pudong area (see details in Annex 1a). The project helped significantly to contain the threat
of deterioration of the water quality in this area of rapid growth in population as well as
economic activity.

Water quality at the Bailonggang outfall was monitored from 1996 to 2002. Water quality in the
inter-tidal zone in this area is much improved as a result of the submarine outfall discharge
provided by SSP2. Little overall change in water quality is reported however. Following
commissioning of the primary wastewater treatment plant in mid-2004, further improvement in



                                                   - 6 -

overall water quality is likely. Water quality in the Changjiang is monitored at cross sections
adjacent to the location of the submerged outfall. No deterioration in water quality is reported.

Objective (c). SMSC's financial performance substantially exceeded the targets covenanted in the
Project Agreements through 2002, supported by timely and substantial wastewater tariff
adjustments. (In 2002, the domestic wastewater tariff was Y0.70/m3 compared with Y0.02/m3 at
appraisal in 1996!) However, SMSC did not fully meet its covenanted target in 2003 regarding
return on assets ( -5.2 percent was reported compared with a target of +10 percent). The debt
service ratio of 0.71 for 2003 was also below the targeted minimum of 1.3. This was due to a
lack of tariff adjustment since 2002; and disbursements under SSP2. The wastewater tariffs were
sufficiently raised in August 2004 following extensive public discussions. Recent projection by
SMSC shows satisfactory compliance from 2004 onwards.
Note:     The current domestic tariff is Y0.9/m3 for water usage up to 15 m3/month and Y1.0/m3 above that figure.
The non-domestic tariff has been split into three categories in the range Y1.1, 1.2 and 1.4/m3 for public
institutions, industrial/commercial users, and heavy polluters respectively.

Objective (d). The sector institutions have benefited from extensive training on utility and
infrastructure management, and geographic information system support. In total some 270
personnel benefited under this component. SMG's sector reforms introduced in 1999 have
effected major strengthening of the wastewater sector institutions. Some 120 senior and
mid-level managers attended overseas training in financial and operational management in SSP2
(60 person-months). Improvement of staff skills resulting from in-country training was also an
important output from SSP2. Operational staff was trained at the SMSC Training Center. The
construction management consultant and equipment suppliers also provided important skills
training for SMSC's operatives.

Social Objectives (Safeguards). Resettlement involved both households and enterprises, and
was carried out satisfactorily, in compliance with Chinese and World Bank guidelines. Land
acquisition totaled 3.5 hectares affecting 1400 families and 211 enterprises. Some 634 persons
needed re-employment. These figures were much lower than projections given in the SAR and
resulted in lower implementation costs. Reasons were improved project design, minimizing land
acquisition (e.g. re-alignment of some trunk sewers); SSP2 was planned together with other
engineering works (road re-alignment), and some land costs were included in these other works
built before SSP2; and use of tunneling technology which reduced the impact on farmland. For
details, see Review Statement on Environmental Impact for Shanghai Sewerage Project Phase II
(Annex 7).

4.2 Outputs by components:
This section describes the physical outputs of the investment components. The overall project
rating is satisfactory.

Sewerage and Sanitation Improvements: Satisfactory. Major investments were successfully
completed and operations began in 1998. The trunk sewer system had an initial capacity of 1.7
Mm3/d, collecting wastewater flows from some 240 km2 of Pudong and Puxi areas of the city.
Wastewater flows from the Wujing/Minhang conveyor system, funded in SEP, are also
intercepted into this system, and conveyed to Bailonggang for treatment and disposal to the



                                                        - 7 -

Changjiang through a submarine outfall. The present discharge from the Wujing/Minhang system
is about 0.4 Mm3/d. Full capacity (0.7 Mm3/d) is likely to be reached in 2008 upon completion
of tertiary sewers. Ultimately the Bailonggang system would cater for the long-term flow of
about 3.0 Mm3/d projected for year 2020. Utilization of the system has been increasing annually
since 1999. In 2003 the flow was 0.97 to 1.20 Mm3/d, reflecting improved strong water
management.

Pre-stressed concrete pipes (PCCP) were used very successfully over about 10% of the total 41
km length of the conveyor system, being the first such application on a sewerage project in China.
High quality construction was maintained throughout and SMG received a national level Golden
Award for the quality of construction.

The Puxi Mid Line system and link sewers were added to enhance flow collection in parts of
Pudong. These sub-components were successfully completed and began operation in early 2004.
The outcome further deepens the achievement of the project in addressing the wastewater and
storm water objective defined in the SAR (see indicators in Annex 1).

Wastewater Treatment and Disposal Systems: Satisfactory. The original works were
completed satisfactorily and operations began in 1999 along with the conveyor system outlined
above. Bearing in mind the difficulties encountered in the outfall construction in SSP1, SMG
appointed an Engineering Advisory Panel (funded through Australian grant assistance), to ensure
rigorous quality control of the submarine outfall design and construction. The length of the
submarine outfall was reduced substantially by land reclamation along the shore of the Yangtze
(Changjiang) estuary. Spiral grit removal was adopted in the pre-treatment works, the first such
application of this size in China. This technology was proposed by the contractor and accepted by
SWEC, saving space, reducing energy costs and improving civil works economy.

The original scope of work included rehabilitation of existing wastewater treatment facilities
totaling about 255,000 m3/d capacity at plants in Quyang, Tianshan and Longhua as work was
done in SEP utilizing project cost savings. Plant rehabilitation was completed in Longhua,
Quyang, Sitang and Tianshan catchments, with a total capacity of about 200,000 m3/d. (See ICR
Report #25717-CHA). As mentioned earlier, a chemically enhanced primary treatment facility of
1.2 Mm3/d capacity was added to the project in 2000 and commissioned in 2004.

Institutional Development and Training: Satisfactory. SMG remained fully committed
throughout the project to the program of institutional development. The institutional organization
of the sector was reformed in 2004 by establishing the Shanghai Water Authority (SWA), with
overall responsibility for the planning and coordination of all water sector management policies
and interventions throughout Shanghai Municipality. This was one of the first such initiatives in
China.

The institutional development and training program was largely completed. While the loan
allocation was reduced from $18.9 million to about $6.0 million, this program attracted about
US$6 million of bilateral grant funding from several countries (including Australia, Canada,
France, Norway and Japan), who supported a number of the technical assistance activities



                                                - 8 -

identified in the SAR (see details in Annex 2c). For example, the Government of Japan provided
grant funds ($0.9 million) for preparation of the Bank funded SHUEP, APL1 (currently under
implementation).

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Overall, this was successfully achieved. At appraisal, the SAR strategy focused on establishing
economic least-cost options for each component, and provided rigorous analyses of such options.
An economic rate of return was not calculated because of the difficulty and time-consuming
efforts required to obtain reliable quantified estimates of the benefits from the project. These
included improved quality of surface water in Shanghai, and, as a consequence, enhanced value
for drinking, industrial and agricultural use, whilst minimizing health risks.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
A financial rate of return was not estimated at appraisal.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project's institutional development impact is rated Substantial. Shanghai was one of the first
cities in China to establish a Municipal Water Authority, consolidating within one authority, the
responsibilities for all water related affairs. SMSC was reorganized into three regional operating
companies. The Shanghai Water and Environment Construction Company (SWEC) also reports
to SWA. The Shanghai Water Assets Operation and Development Company (SWAOD) was
established under the Shanghai Urban Construction & Development General Corporation
(SUDIC), and is responsible for sector asset management and financing. The regional operational
companies can respond more readily to customer needs and will support the long-term
sustainability of the sector by managing sewerage operations with greater efficiency. SMSC
remains under SWA to manage and coordinate the sewerage sector. SWEC evolved into a
construction engineering consultancy firm.

SWA has introduced competitive mechanisms for sector operations, including foreign and local
non-government financing, and appropriate tariff levels in conjunction with reduced operating
costs. Domestic and international private sector enterprises are now involved through
concessions or ownership in the wastewater sector in Shanghai. Prior to 2002, the master plans
for water supply and wastewater were separately prepared by different agencies or companies,
based on excessively high water consumption figures. Recent master plan revisions, prepared
under the direction of SWA, have adopted lower consumption figures to more closely reflect
reality. The city is now using digitized networks and related data-bases. All core city utilities and
other agencies now have available a common digitized base map for planning, operations and
maintenance - a major achievement for a mega-city. Senior officials from SMSC have also gained
international exposure in state-of-the-art city and wastewater management techniques, thus
enhancing Shanghai's strategic development planning capacity. Sixty person-months of overseas
management training were provided in SSP2.

During implementation, wastewater tariffs were increased four times, most recently in 2002, and
again in August 2004, securing the financial autonomy of the operating companies. SMSC
maintained satisfactory compliance with its financial covenants through 2002. Projections
prepared by SMSC in 2004 show satisfactory compliance from 2004 onwards (SHUEP has the



                                                  - 9 -

same financial covenants as SSP2). Details are given in Annex 1a. Sector institutions have been
strengthened through broad training activities on utility company, infrastructure, utility accounting
and management information systems, and environmental management. The project included 10
such sub-components, enhancing the capability of the project related government agencies (see
also Section 4.1).

Until recently, environmental monitoring for SSP2 was carried out by the SMSC (under SWA);
and the Shanghai Environmental Monitoring Center (SEMC) under the Shanghai Environmental
Protection Bureau (SEPB), resulting in some duplication of effort. This was rectified by SMG in
mid-2004 when the monitoring responsibilities of SMSC and SEMC were redefined so that
SMSC deals with monitoring of discharges and SEMC is responsible for monitoring the
effluent-receiving water bodies.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Both domestic and foreign inflation rates varied substantially from the values estimated at
appraisal. The annual domestic inflation rate was projected to decline gradually from 10.6 to 6.2
percent from 1996-2001. In fact, the index declined from 8.3 to ­1.4 percent between 1996 and
1999 and remained negative through 2002. Foreign inflation showed a similar trend. An annual
2.6 percent was projected through 2001, whereas substantial negative values (varying between
­7.0 and ­0.2 percent/year) were posted throughout this period. These departures all contributed
to project costs.

The final costs (bid price plus variations) for major civil works and equipment contracts were
consistently much lower than the SAR estimates (averaging 40 percent lower), based on base cost
plus contingency allowances in the SAR. Lower than anticipated inflation figures and the lack of
interest from foreign bidders for civil works contracts contributed to the low prices. Despite the
relatively high International Competitive Bidding (ICB) threshold of US$10 million (compared
with $3 million in SSP1), the ICB for civil works contracts attracted no interest from foreign
bidders; all contracts were awarded to local firms.

Another factor was the Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS) virus in 2003. It caused
delays in commissioning the main contracts for the Bailonggang primary treatment facility, and
resulted in a need for a second extension of the loan closing date.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Government Commitment: SMG maintained strong commitment to the project throughout.
This was a major contributor to the project's success. The Project Office was maintained and
adequately staffed, and management continuity was maintained.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
SMSC Commitment/Performance: SMSC maintained high commitment throughout the project
and provided effective management for the project. Design institutes, consultants and selected
procurement agencies for ICB contracts were engaged in a timely manner and provided
competent professional support. The SMSC team was staffed with senior professional specialists


                                                     - 10 -

and its management remained consistent throughout the project. In 2000 SWEC was established
with a "Project Office" responsible for managing SSP2, and staffed with professionals from
SMSC.

5.4 Costs and financing:
Costs: The final project cost is $594.8 million, including interest during construction. This is
11.1 percent lower than the original cost estimate of $667.9 million (including the three additional
components costing $139.7 million). Based on the original scope of the project, the final cost is
only some 68 percent of the SAR estimate. The project was prepared during a period of high and
volatile inflation with large variations between foreign and local price contingency projections (see
details in Section 5.1 above). It became clear during implementation that the submitted tender
figures for major contracts were substantially lower than the SAR estimates, and that a large
portion of the loan (estimated around $100 million in 1998) would remain unused at the end of
the project. The reasons included: (a) domestic competitiveness and lack of international interest
in bidding for civil works; (b) inflation projections over-estimated in the SAR; and (c) government
unit-rates over-estimating market prices. As a result, the SMG proposed, and the Bank accepted
that, rather than cancel some $100 million of the loan, to: (a) increase the disbursement rate for
civil works from 56 to 75 percent (tentatively agreed to in the minutes of negotiations); and (b)
the inclusion of additional sub-components already defined in the Shanghai Wastewater Master
Plan and consistent with enhancing the project objectives. Three new sub-components were
added. In order to allow adequate time for implementation of the added investments, the project
closing date was extended for a total period of two years. The second extension arose due to the
incidence of Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS) virus in 2003 (see above). Regarding
technical assistance and training see Section 4.5 above.

Finance: The overall project was implemented 11.1 percent below the appraisal estimate. The
final amount of loan disbursed was $240.9 million; with an un-disbursed amount of $9.1 million
which was cancelled in October 2004. The Bank financed 40.5 percent of total project cost, more
or less unchanged from the figure of 39.5 percent estimated at appraisal

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Overall, the project's sustainability is rated highly likely. All the physical components were
successfully completed and are fully operational. SMG remains fully committed to environmental
protection and improvement, with the on-going Bank-funded SHUEP further supporting that
objective. Support for a stronger market orientation for municipal service pricing and innovative
financing of wastewater services is provided in SHUEP. High quality construction was
maintained throughout and operations and maintenance (O&M) is a high priority with ample
budget.

SMSC and the wastewater operating companies have benefited from the institutional changes
introduced in the sector since 2000. The SSP2 assets are held by SMSC and day to day
operations arae contracted by SMSC to the concerned operating companies. Competitive
mechanisms introduced in the sector by SMG have helped in the drive towards operational



                                                  - 11 -

efficiency improvements. SMG and SMSC management teams remain committed to continued
service improvements. A recent tariff change (28 percent increase), effective August, 2004 will
further sustain the financial health of SMSC.

Chinese contractors gained experienced in soft ground tunneling and thrust boring technologies,
and were able to undertake these higher technology contracts very successfully.

Monitoring & Evaluation. Monitoring of the project outcome and impact was raised many
times by the Bank throughout implementation. Although base-line data were not defined in the
SAR or during early implementation, a comprehensive environmental monitoring program was
completed. SMSC (under SWA) has carried out water quality and quantity measurements on the
discharges to the conveying systems of SSP2 (as part of SMSC's overall monitoring program).
The Shanghai Environmental Monitoring Center (SEMC), under Shanghai Environmental
Protection Bureau (SEPB), has monitored the impact of SSP2 on the receiving water bodies. The
Bailonggong area was covered by both agencies. Consequently, the monitoring program was
very effective. Duplication of effort existed though, requiring closer collaboration and
information sharing between agencies. This was addressed by SMG in 2004 when the
responsibilities of SEPB and SWA were redefined. Timely sharing of information and access of
SMSC's environmental data should be closely followed up by SMG.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The original physical components of SSP2 have been successfully operating since 1999. As
mentioned above, following the institutional restructuring of the sector by SMG, SMSC retained
responsibility for O&M of wastewater assets across the city. Currently day-to-day O&M are
contracted by SMSC to the three wastewater operating companies set up in 1999. The
wastewater component of SEP is also operated by SMSC. The operating companies are all
staffed with personnel transferred from SMSC, thus bringing existing operational skills to these
new companies. Staff training is given high priority by SMSC (see Section 4.1). This
arrangement ensures that the transition of the project to regular operations is smooth and that the
staff are equipped with the necessary skills to operate and maintain the new facilities. This is an
important issue in Shanghai where innovative technologies are encouraged. SMSC and the
operating companies are well equipped to meet these challenges.

Financial: In SSP2, SMSC consistently outperformed its covenanted financial targets by
substantial margins, except in 2003. SMSC's satisfactory financial performance depends on
timely and appropriate adjustments to its tariff structure being sanctioned by SMG and the
continued receipt of other operating revenues. Currently the tariffs are: domestic Y0.9/m3 and
non-domestic Y1.1 to 1.4/m3 depending on consumer category. This will be adequate through
2006.

SMG is developing innovative arrangements to effect further economies in wastewater operations,
including service/management contracts and concession arrangements. Care needs to be taken to
ensure that existing operational skills do not erode under such arrangements. The establishment
of an independent mechanism for setting charges for wastewater services is also being considered
by SMG. These initiatives are all supported under the on-going SHUEP.



                                                  - 12 -

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank's performance is rated as highly satisfactory. The Bank fielded a highly experienced
team of senior sector specialists, very familiar with Shanghai and its environmental sector issues.
The team worked closely with the Government Project Office staff and its foreign and local
consultant teams throughout.

Identification:

In 1986 the Bank carried out an optimal wastewater management strategy study comprising a
two-phased investment program, to be managed by a financially sustainable wastewater utility
company. Phase 1 of the program covered the period 1987 ­ 95; and Phase II includes three
stages to accommodate wastewater flows up to year 2020. Supported by the Bank, SMG is
following this strategy with the ultimate objective to raise the quality of water in the network of
city canals and the Huangpu river. The works in SSP2 comprised part of the Phase II program
and the project design conformed with GOC and SMG sector policies and the Bank's CAS. A
strong collaborative relationship already existed between Bank and concerned Borrower staff as a
result of completed and on-going sector projects in Shanghai.

Preparation:

In addition to experiences in China, the Bank team was able to draw on experiences from other
major environmental projects in the East Asia region. Regular interventions by the Bank team
enabled preparation to proceed in accordance with an ambitious program defined by SMG. The
work at this time was expedited through the timely appointment by SMG of foreign/local design
review and advisory consultants (with financial support from governments of Australia, Canada,
Denmark, France and Norway) and municipal engineering design bureaus. These professionals,
working together with the Bank team, enabled this phase of the project to proceed smoothly. The
bilateral support for project preparation totaled US$5 million.

Appraisal:

The project was appraised in mid-1995. At that time, all procurement arrangements were
finalized, contract packages determined, and tender documents completed for about 40 percent
of the program. The preparations for technical assistance (TA) and training activities were well
advanced. Bilateral funding was attracted from a number of sources to support TA initiatives
related to the project (e.g. Technical Review Panel and Pilot Treatment Studies). Although
project monitoring indicators were included in the SAR, the base-line data were not defined by the
Borrower. The project was reviewed thoroughly based on the Bank's safeguard policies at the
time, with EAs and RAPs forming basis for subsequent monitoring.

7.2 Supervision:
The performance of the Bank during project supervision is rated satisfactory. During its life, the
project had only two task managers, so a high degree of institutional memory was maintained. A



                                                 - 13 -

total of 19 supervision missions were undertaken, averaging every five months. Based on the
available information (in files and from Borrower discussions) the issue of low contract prices was
identified in the early stages of the project, although discussions on this subject and how to deal
with it, extended over many months.

In 2000 SMG proposed: (a) an increase in the disbursement percentage for civil works from 56
to 75; and (b) introduction of additional sewerage and wastewater treatment components,
consistent with SMG's sector strategy and the project objectives. This proposal was agreed by
the Bank (see details in Section 5.4). In retrospect, the need for 24 months extension of the loan
closing date to complete the additional works could possibly have been reduced, taking into
account that the additional components were satisfactorily implemented. A Bank supervision
mission in November, 2003 drew to the attention of the Borrower that disbursements were still
very slow, possibly leading to cancellation of substantial undisbursed loan funds at the end of the
project. In the event, $9.1 million remained un-disbursed when the loan closed.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The overall Bank performance is rated satisfactory. Continuity of task management and
professional input was maintained and a high degree of cooperation between SMSC and SWEC
with Bank personnel was apparent throughout the project. The project did not however include
any provision for a formal mid-term review. Performance monitoring needs careful attention
throughout the project. Base-line data need to be determined and agreed with the Borrower
during appraisal to ensure that the Borrower's staff understand and acknowledge the purpose of
the monitoring process.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The performance of the Borrower in prepartion is rated highly satisfactory as described in Section
3.6. From the outset, the SMG commitment was high. It appointed a high level committee to
oversee preparation. SMSC was selected as the implementing agency and the Project Office was
established within this company, staffed by senior sector professionals and supported by teams of
local design consultants. Senior professionals from the former SSPCC organization were
deployed on the project. These personnel provided experience gained from implementing SSP1.
SMG also engaged consultants (funded by the governments of Canada, France and Norway) to
provide Design Review and Advisory Services. The consultancy team was staffed by senior
sector specialists who critically reviewed options to ensure least-cost appropriate designs. The
timely appointment of consultants and municipal design bureaus enabled the very ambitious SMG
project preparation schedule to be maintained, while providing high quality design outputs.

The combination of local and foreign expertise worked well to enable preparation to proceed
smoothly through appraisal. The project was ready for implementation at loan effectiveness,
although delays in implementation occurred while SMG reviewed alternative culvert technologies.
SMG was well justified in selecting a pre-cast pipeline option for parts of the culvert construction.
After a delayed start the construction proceeded quickly.

SMG significantly recognized the sector institutionally as notes in para. 4.5. While a required
review process by the Ministry of Foreign Trade Economic Corporation (MOFTEC) of all ICB



                                                  - 14 -

goods contracts was not included in the implementation program in the SAR, the awarding of
contracts did not seem unduly delayed. The recent introduction of electronic mail communication
helped to control the procurement processing time.
While tender documents for the main conveyor contracts were substantially complete at loan
negotiations, the construction was delayed by some 12 months due to: (a) in Pudong, the
conveyor alignment followed the route of new road construction. Pudong was developing rapidly
at that time and the exact location of the conveyors could not be finalized until the road positions
were determined; and (b) SMG wished to consider the use of pre-stressed concrete pipes (PCCP)
as an alternative to the in-situ box culvert construction traditionally adopted for the trunk
conveyors in Shanghai. After these issues were resolved, construction accelerated the investment
was commissioned and operations began in 1999 (ahead of schedule).

Resettlement Action Plans and Environmental Impact Assessment reports were an integral part of
the preparation process, together with financial and economic considerations. The design strategy
focused on the preparation of least-cost economic and financial options rather than estimating
likely rates of return.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
The Government implementation performance is rated satisfactory. Throughout, the government
has remained fully committed to its sector policies emphasizing importance of environmental
protection. SSP2 was designed to enhance the capacity of the city's wastewater collection and
treatment, and contribute to a reduction in urban pollution, which was done.

In 2000, SMG established the Shanghai Water Authority (SWA) with responsibility for overall
planning and coordination of all water sector policies and interventions in Shanghai. Shanghai
Water Environment Construction Company (SWEC) was established within this reform. SWEC
was staffed with former SSPCC employees and given responsibility for the Project Management
Office (PMO) for SSP2. Thus SMG retained its institutional memory during the remaining
implementation period of SSP2, since the concerned personnel in SWEC had many years
experience of Bank-funded projects dating from SSP1. SMSC retained all operating
responsibility for sewerage assets. Operation and maintenance of the various facilities is now
contracted by SMSC to the Northern, Central and Southern Wastewater Operating Companies.
These regional operational companies are designed to respond more readily to customer needs
and to support the long-term sustainability of the sector through greater efficiency. SWA has
introduced competitive mechanisms for operation in the sector, including foreign and local
non-government financing, and appropriate tariff levels in conjunction with reduction in operating
costs. Domestic and international private sector enterprises are involved through concessions or
ownership in the wastewater sector in Shanghai.

Shanghai was one of the first cities in China to establish a Municipal Water Authority,
consolidating within one authority, the responsibilities for all water related affairs in the
municipality, including water supply, sewerage and water resources. Three different bureaus,
namely the Public Utilities Bureau, the Municipal Engineering Bureau and the Water Resources
Bureau, previously carried out these responsibilities respectively. SMSC was reorganized into
regional operating companies. The three operating companies under the SMSC, were established
to carry out sewerage operations. SMSC retains wastewater assets and remains under SWA for


                                                - 15 -

overall management of the sewerage sector. SWEC had project management responsibilities for
SSP2 and some other Bank-supported projects in Shanghai. (SWEC reports to SWA).

Counterpart funding for the project was made available in a timely manner throughout project
implementation.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
The performance of the implementing agency is rated satisfactory. SMSC managed the project
initially. When SWEC was established in 2000, the Project Office was transferred from SMSC to
SWEC. Continuity of management and staff was maintained with emphasis on construction
activities. SMSC maintained satisfactory compliance with its financial covenants through 2002,
and again in 2004. The financial strength of SMSC was temporarily reduced in 2003 due to heavy
capital expenditures and the fact that tariffs had remained unchanged since 2002. This was
rectified by a 28 percent tariff increase from August 1, 2004. Monitoring data was provided by
the Borrower as part of the ICR information (see Annex 7).

The original project scope was completed and put into operation in 1999, ahead of schedule.
Construction quality was very good and several awards were received for construction
excellence. Timely engagement of consultant teams to assist in implementation also enabled the
work to proceed satisfactorily.

The completed facilities are highly satisfactory and meet the project objectives. All added
investment components are in operation. The technical assistance and staff training loan amount
was reduced from $19 to $6.0 million in 2002. However, this component was still largely
completed (supported in part by bilateral assistance from several countries, see details in Annex
2c). Procurement was carried out efficiently in accordance with Bank guidelines. Resettlement
and environmental monitoring activities were implemented satisfactorily.

Periodic reporting was timely in accordance with the legal requirements, early in the project
focusing mostly on construction progress and concerns. More recently the report scope was
broadened, after Bank mission interventions, to include more reference to institutional and
training activities. While, even at the end of the project, the reports did not include reference to
monitoring indicators (see Aide-memories on file), in March 2004, SWEC initiated the
preparation of the "Review Statement on Environmental Impact for Shanghai Sewerage Project
Phase II". This comprehensive document (attached as Annex 7) provides substantive information
on the environmental impact of SSP2 in response to the project objectives. The predominant
construction management skills in the Project Office seemed to preclude appreciation of the
broader project objectives to some extent. Strong utility/ environmental management skills in the
project office team should be considered in future similar projects.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The project has been completed successfully, due to the continued high level of commitment by
SMG to halt the environmental degradation across the city, and to improve the social conditions
for its people. This commitment is confirmed through the on-going SHUEP project. SMSC has
successfully operated and managed the wastewater facilities across the city for the past ten years,
outperforming its financial targets. Recent institutional changes and the introduction of private



                                                 - 16 -

sector initiatives by SMG have also improved the operational efficiency.

8. Lessons Learned

·       Continuity and quality of key personnel from both Bank and Borrower sides are important
to ensure success.
·       Project Office should include personnel with utility and environmental management skills,
and emphasize construction management expertise.
·       With bold implementation approaches, new technologies can be applied for improved
project effectiveness and efficiency. To avoid undue risks, knowledgeable staff is a pre-requisite.
Various technical innovations important to China were successfully introduced by SMG. These
included: the use of large diameter pre-stressed concrete pipes; spiral grit removal equipment;
fiber reinforced plastic pipes; inverted siphon discharge systems; flexible pump/motor connections;
odor control at pump stations; and extensive use of stainless steel. The experience gained from
these technologies should be disseminated widely by SMG for national benefit.
·       The usefulness of public/private partnerships for wastewater operations, possibly through
BOT or concession arrangements, is acknowledged for system improvements and operational
efficiency; a strategy further supported in SMG's development program, supported by the
SHUEP project.
·       More emphasis on very large ICB turn-key contracts in future similar projects may
encourage foreign/local joint venture firms to participate, with potentially stronger construction
management skills.
·       Civil works contracts in infrastructure projects in Shanghai do not attract any interest
internationally, even when contracts are packaged in amounts exceeding $10.0 million. Local
firms are well skilled to undertake the work at very competitive prices. Appraisal cost estimates
should reflect this reality. In addition, appraisal cost estimates based on Government unit-rate
pricing tend not to reflect the real market cost of infrastructure in Shanghai (or elsewhere in urban
areas of China). In future similar projects, the appraisal costs should be determined based on real
market values. ·        Local area sewer networks and related connections should be included in
project scope, or otherwise legislated by government, to ensure appropriate and timely utilization
of trunk sewer systems.
·       Monitoring indicators are an important means of assessing project achievements. These
were provided in the SAR, but the base line data was not defined at appraisal. As a result the
Borrower experienced difficulty in effectively using the monitoring parameters during
implementation. Monitoring indicators and baseline parameters to assess project outcome should
be established at appraisal and not left to be determined during project execution.
·       Monitoring of project impact should be closely coordinated among involved agencies, and
data shared to avoid duplicated efforts. Operational managers should have timely access to the
environmental impact data.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
See Project Implementation Assessment Report, and Review Statement on Environmental Impact
for Shanghai Sewerage Project Phase II, both provided by the Borrower and attached as Annex 7.

(b) Cofinanciers:



                                                 - 17 -

Not applicable.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Not applicable.

10. Additional Information

Not applicable.




                                             - 18 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Annex 1a:         Key Implementation Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome/Impact Indicators:
Objective           Indicator                       Unit    Year
                                                            Base
                                                            CY96 CY97 CY98 CY99 CY00 CY01 CY02 CY03 CY05
Wastewater
Management

System Utilization  Increase in SSC customers
                    billed
                           Projected in SAR.        %                3      2       2      2                              2

                           Actual.                                                         2.6      2.03 2.14    2.16

                    Increase in number of SSC
                    system connections.
                            Projected in SAR.       1000             30     30       50    50                           100

                            Actual.                                                       404       59    107    21

                    Increase in wastewater flow &   Mm3/d
                    pollution load in SSP2 outfall.
                            Projected in SAR.                                              1.0                          1.1

                            Actual.                                                        0.75 0.83     1.04    1.04

                    Service area of collection.     Km2
                            Projected in SAR.
                            Actual.                                                                              240

                    Population served.                                                                           289

                            Projected in SAR.       Mill.
                            Actual.                         N/A
                                                                                                                 4.14
Urban Pollution
Impact Reduction
& Control
Effectiveness of    Increasing number of            No.
control.            discharges licensed.
                           Projected in SAR.                                                 100                        100

                           Actual.                          The number has increased, but no detail information available.

                    Decreasing number of
                    violations of licence           No.
                    conditions.
                           Projected in SAR.                500    500      400    400       300                        300

                           Actual.                          The number has decreased, but no detail information available.

Water quality       Water quality improvement in    Class.
                    Huangpu and tributaries.
                    General.
                           Projected in SAR.
                           Actual.                          V       V       V      IV        IV                          IV

                    Huangpu River.                          See below for Huangpu.

                           Projected in SAR.
                           Actual.                          IV     IV       IV     III       III                         III

                           Songpu.
                                     DO.
                                     Permanganate           III    III      III      III      III    IV    III

                                     Ammonia                III    III      III      III      III    III   III

                                      TP.                   V      III      III      IV       III    III   IV

                                     Oil                    III    III      III      III      V      III   IV
                                                            III    III      III       III     III     I     I




                                                           - 19 -

Objective           Indicator                     Unit    Year
                                                          Base
                                                          CY96 CY97 CY98 CY99 CY00 CY01 CY02 CY03 CY05
                          Linjiang.               Class
                                    DO.                   IV       IV     IV     III     IV     IV    III
                                    Permanganate          III     III      II     II     III    III   III
                                    Ammonia               V         V     IV      IV     >V     IV     IV
                                    TP.                   III       IV     V      IV     III     IV   IV
                                    Oil.                  IV        IV      IV    IV     IV       I     I
                         Nanchi Water Plant.
                                    DO.                   IV       IV       IV    III     IV     IV     III
                                    Permanganate.         IV       IV       III   III     IV     III    III
                                    Ammonia.              >V       >V       V     IV      >V     >V      V
                                    TP.                   III       III     III    III    III     III   III
                                    Oil.                  IV        IV      IV     IV     IV      IV    IV
                          Yangpu Bridge.
                                    DO.                   >V        >V       V     IV       IV    >V     IV
                                    Permanganate          IV        III     III    III     III     IV    III
                                    Ammonia.              >V         >V     >V     >V       >V      V    >V
                                    TP.                   III        IV      IV     IV      IV     IV   IV
                                     Oil.                 V         IV       IV     IV      IV     IV   IV
                           Wusong Kou.
                                    DO.                   IV        III      IV     IV      IV     IV   IV
                                    Permanganate          III       III      III    III     III    III  III
                                    Ammonia.              >V        >V        >V    >V      >V      V   >V
                                    TP.                   IV        III      III    IV      III    IV   IV
                                     Oil.                 IV        IV       IV      IV      IV     IV  IV
Bailonggang Outfall Water quality within design
Performance.        mixing zone.
                    Projected in SAR DO. Level.   mg/l    8         8        7        7      6                     6
                    Actual.        DO.            mg/l    8.19      7.48     6.78    7.25   8.2 0 7.14 6.45
                                   Permanganate   Class   II        II        II     III    II     II   II
                                   Ammonia.       Class   IV       III        IV     III    III    III  III
                                   BOD.           Class   I          I         I      I      I      I    I
                    Organic pollution indicator
                    crustations.                  Polln.

                    Projected in SAR.             Assmt.  N/A
                    Actual.                       /1      H        H         H        H      H     L     L
                    Inlet/Outlet sewage
                    concentration.                mg/l

                            Projected in SAR.             N/A
                            Actual. Inlet BOD.                                                             104/168
                                    Inlet SS.                                                              133/220
                                    Outlet BOD.                                                            108/208
                                    Outlet SS.                                                             155/265

                    Visibility of wastewater
                    plume from satellite image.   Km2.

                             Projected in SAR.                                        2       2                    2
                            Actual.                       Information not available.

                     /1. H=heavy. L=light.




                                                         - 20 -

Objective       Indicator                 Unit     Year
                                                   Base
                                                   CY96 CY97 CY98 CY99 CY00 CY01 CY02 CY03 CY05
Improved        Wastewater Tariff.        Yuan/
Operational and   Projected in SAR        m3       0.35     0.35    0.38 0.44      0.46    0.69 0.69     0.76
Financial       (average)
Performance.      Actual.
                      Domestic.                    0.02     0.12    0.12 0.24      0.45    0.70   0.70
                      Non-domestic.                0.14     0.34    0.34    0.37   0.45    0.70 0.70
                Revenue generation.
                Operation expenses +
                debt service (or
                depreciation) +
                percentage of capital
                expenditure.
                      Projected in SAR.   %                   5      5       5      5      10 thereafter.
                      Actual.                                               4.4    13.3 44.1      13.9 -5.2
                Debt Service Ratio.
                     Revenue/Debt
                      Projected in SAR.            Not less than 1.3
                      Actual.                                               0.81   1.06 1.28       1.33 0.71
                Operational efficiency    Staff /
                gains over time.          100,000
                      Actual.             consum.  8.7      8.1      7.9     2.4    1.9    1.8     1.7   1.0

Institutional   Physical delivery per     Work
Development,    Plan.                     done.
Project               Projected in SAR.
Management and        Actual.                      All programs completed as planned except planning & regulation
Training.       Achievement of Action              studies.
                Plans.                    % of
                      Projected in SAR.   Plan.          0                                                           100
                      Actual.                      All programs completed satisfactorily by 2003 apart from planning &
                                                   regulation studies. Bilateral support from governments of Australia,
                                                   Canada and Japan.

                Assessment of job skills.
                      Projected in SAR.   --
                      Actual.                      Very positive outcome. Job skills enhanced at all levels through
                                                   training by DRA team and contractors.
                Attitude and work
                performance.
                      Projected in SAR.   --
                      Actual.                      Work attitude and performance of SMSC staff substantially enhanced
                                                   through institutional reform by SMG and various skills training
                                                   programs including: on-job technical training by contractors; formal
                                                   training by SMSC training department; and local/overseas study
                                                   tours/training.




                                                       - 21 -

Output Indicators:

Indicator/Matrix                           Projected in SAR                              Actual/Latest Estimate
Sewerage & Sanitation Improvements.

Puxi Interceptors.                         1200-2800 mm dia. 6.0 km. long                1600-2700 mm dia. 13 km. long.

Puxi Link Sewers.                          Not defined.                                  As required.

Puxi Property connections.                 As required.                                  As required.

Pump Station rehabilitation.               920,000 m3/d.                                 As projected

Huangpu Crossing.                          Twin 2200 mm dia. Pipes by 540 m. long        Twin 2200 mm dia. by 610 m. long.

Pump Station SA.                           1,600,000 m3/d.                               1,600,000 m3/d

Pudong Interceptors.                       Multiple culverts totalling 41.1 km.          As projected.

Pump Station SB.                           2,700,000 m3/d.                               2,700,000 m3/d.

Pump Station M2.                           1,700,000 m3/d.                               1,700,000 m3/d.

Pudong Link Sewers.                        700-1500 mm dia. by 2.9 km long.              As projected.

Pudong Pump Stations constructed by        1,400,000 m3/d.                               As projected at eight stations.
Pudong Dev. Auth. (not funded by SSP2)
                                           As required.                                  As required.
Pudong Property connections.
                                           240 km2 area.                                 289 km2 area.
Puxi/Pudong Sewer Rehabilitation.
                                           System as required.                           System as required.
System telemetry for Puxi & Pudong.
                                           Bucket cleaning & ancillary equipment.        Provided.
Sewer Cleaning Equipment.
                                           Not appraised.                                Catchment of 10.8 km2 to serve 615,000
Puxi Mid-line sewers.                                                                    people.
                                           Not appraised.                                Link sewers & pump stations in ten areas
Pudong Link Sewers.                                                                      Covering 24 km2.

Wastewater Treatment & Disposal Systems.
                                           Screens & grit removal
Bailonggang Wastewater Treatment Plant.    1,700,000 m3/d. capacity.                     Screens & grit removal of 1,700,000 m3/d
                                                                                         capacity.
Outfall pump Station.                      1,700,000 m3/d. capacity.
                                                                                         1,700,000 m3/d capacity.
Outfall.                                   1.6 km. long by 4.2 m dia.                    4.2 m dia. 870 m long, stand-by 120 m.
                                           Capacity 1,700,000 m3/d.
Wastewater systems & treatment plant       255,000 m3/d capacity.                        200,000 m3/d. Carried out in Shanghai
Rehabilitation.                                                                          Environment Project.

Power Supplies.                            Systems as required.                          Systems as required.
Monitoring equipment.                      As required.                                  Provided.

Bailonggang Chemically Enhanced            Not appraised in SAR (Additional investment.) 1,200,000 m3/d provided.
Primary Treatment Plant.

Institutional Development and Training.
                                           Pump Station Model Tests.                     Completed satisfactorily.
Priority                                   Outlet Shaft Model Test.                      Completed satisfactorily.
                                           Pilot WWTP Model study.                       Completed satisfactorily (partly funded by
                                                                                         Govt. of France)
Institutional & Financial.                 Accounting, organizational & MIS systems
                                           support for SMSC.                             Completed satisfactorily.

Technical & Planning.                      Construction Management Services.             Completed satisfactorily.
                                           Review Panel                                  Completed satisfactorily (funded by Govt. of
                                                                                         Australia).
                                           Sewer Condition & Mapping Survey.             Completed satisfactorily (funded by Govt. of
                                                                                         Canada).
                                           Future Project Preparation.                   Completed satisfactorily (preparation of
                                                                                         SHUEP funded by Govt. of Japan).
                                           Planning Studies.                             Not done.
                                           Regulations Study/Drafting.                   Not done.

Training.                                  Senior managers.                              All completed satisfactorily, 60 person months
                                           Training Center & Equipment.                  of overseas training provided.
                                           Technical Training.
                                           Environmental Monitoring Training.
                                           Other Training.




                                                                - 22 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                     Appraisal        Actual/Latest       Percentage of
                                                                      Estimate          Estimate             Appraisal
                         Component                                   US$ million       US$ million
Sewerage and sanitation improvements                                   459.30              384.20                  72.3
Wastewater treatment and disposal                                       69.10              146.50                 176.1
Institutional development and training                                  15.80                 5.30                 28.3

Total Baseline Cost                                                    544.20              536.00
 Physical Contingencies                                                 58.80
 Price Contingencies                                                    30.20
                            Total Project Costs                        633.20              536.00
                               Interest during construction             34.60               58.80               169.90
                    Total Financing Required                           667.80              594.80




Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                1
                                                      Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category                ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                            Other
1. Works                                71.52            132.96              0.00             54.40            258.88
                                       (48.50)           (89.53)            (0.00)            (0.00)          (138.03)
2. Goods                                94.40              2.57              0.00             12.30            109.27
                                       (92.40)            (2.20)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (94.60)
3. Services                             0.00               0.00              5.34             0.00              5.34
                                       (0.00)             (0.00)            (5.34)            (0.00)           (5.34)
4. Miscellaneous                        0.00               0.00              0.00             97.14            97.14
Land Acquisition                       (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous                        0.00               0.00              2.93             0.00              2.93
                                       (0.00)             (0.00)            (2.93)            (0.00)           (2.93)
6. Miscellaneous                        0.00               0.00              0.00             62.44            62.44
                                       (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
    Total                              165.92            135.53              8.27            226.28            536.00
                                      (140.90)           (91.73)            (8.27)            (0.00)          (240.90)
"3. Services" refers to Institutional Development & Training.
"5. Miscellaneous" refers to Construction Management Services.
"6. Miscellaneous" refers to Supervision & Project Management.

 1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

 2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
   of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
   managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.




                                                       - 23 -

Project Financing by Financier (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                               Percentage of Appraisal
        Financier               Appraisal Estimate               Actual/Latest Estimate
                            Bank        Govt.       CoF.       Bank        Govt.       CoF.      Bank  Govt.   CoF.
Shanghai Municipality                   417.80                            353.90                        84.7
World Bank                  250.00                            240.90                             96.4
Co. financing /b                                    0.00                               0.00                     0.0
TOTAL /a                    250.00      417.80      0.00      240.90      353.90       0.00      96.4   84.7    0.0


  /a Includes interest during construction (IDC); $34.6 million at apprasial; $58.8 million actual.

   /b Bilateral assistance was provided by the following countries:
            Country        Amount           Purpose
                           ($ mill. equiv.)
            Australia      0.05             Engineering review panel
            Canada         0.6              Sewer connection studies
            Denmark        0.7              Water quality model studies
            France         1.2              SSP2 preparation and treatment model studies
            Norway         3.2              Preparation of SSP2
            TOTAL          5.75




                                                     - 24 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits


        Least-cost analysis methods were used to justify investment choices at apprasial. I.e.
Economic Rate of Return (ERR) was not calculated. The reasons for this approach are properly
justified in the Staff Appraisal Report (see Annex 15).




                                               - 25 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              02/01/1995                7    MUNICIPAL ENGINEER/TTL
                                             (1); ENVIRONMENTAL
                                             ECONOMIST (1); SANITARY
                                             ENGINEER (1); FINANCIAL
                                             ANALYST (1);
                                             ENVIRONMENTAL
                                             CONSULTANT (1);
                                             INSTITUTIONAL
                                             CONSULTANT (1);
                                             RESETTLEMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (1)


 Appraisal/Negotiation
              June/July 1995            8    MUNICIPAL
                                             ENGINEER/TTL (1);
                                             ENVIRONMENTAL
                                             ECONOMIST (1);
                                             SANITARY ENGINEER
                                             (1); FINANCIAL
                                             ANALYST (1);
                                             ENVIRONMENTAL
                                             CONSULTANT (1);
                                             INSTITUTIONAL
                                             CONSULTANT (1);
                                             RESETTLEMENT
                                             SPECIALIST (1);
                                             PROGRAM ASSISTANT
                                             (1)


 Supervision

              07/10/1996                6    MUNICIPAL ENGINEER/TTL           S               S
                                             (1); FINANCE (CONS.) (1);
                                             DISBURSEMENTS (RMC) (1);
                                             ENGINEER (CONS.) (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT (RMC) (1);
                                             INSTITUTIONS (CONS.) (1)
              11/29/1998                5    MUNICIPAL ENGINEER/TTL           S               S
                                             (1); FINANCE (1);
                                             INSTITUTIONAL SPECIAL.
                                             (1); RESETTLEMENT SPEC.
                                             (1); ENGINEER (1)
              04/05/2000                4    MUNICIPAL ENGINEER/TTL           HS              S
                                             (1); CULTURAL HERITAGE




                                              - 26 -

                          SPECIALIST (1); URBAN
                          CONSULTANT (1);
                          FINANCIAL SPECIALIST (1)
      11/14/2000        7 MUNICIPAL ENGINEER/TTL      HS    HS
                          (1); ECONOMIST (2);
                          FINANCIAL SPECIALIST (1);
                          ENVIRONMENTAL
                          ENGINEER (1); INTERPRETER
                          (1); CULTURAL HERITAGE (1)
      12/07/2001        5 FINANCIAL ANALYST/TTL       HS    HS
                          (1); PROCUREMENT (1);
                          FINANCE, INSTITUTIONAL
                          (1); ENGINEERING (1);
                          RESETTLEMENT (1)
      03/14/2002        4 FINANCIAL ANALYST/TTL        S    S
                          (1); ENGINEERING (1);
                          MUNICIPAL ENGINEER (1);
                          FINANCIAL/INSTITUTIONA
                          (1)
      09/04/2002        7 FINANCIAL ANALYST/TTL        S    S
                          (1); SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT
                          (1); URBAN CONSULTANT
                          (1); MUNICIPAL ENGINEER
                          (1); PROCUREMENT
                          SPECIALIST (1);
                          DISBURSEMENT OFFICER
                          (1); INSTITUTIONAL
                          SPECIALIST (1)
      01/24/2003        4 FINANCIAL ANALYST/TTL       HS    S
                          (1); URBAN CONSULTANT
                          (1); MUNICIPAL ENGINEER
                          (1); INSTITUTIONAL SPEC.
                          (1)
      11/09/2003        5 FINANCIAL ANALYST/TTL       HS    S
                          (1); MUNICIPAL ENGINEER
                          (1); ENVIRONMENTAL
                          SPECIALIST (1);
                          INSTITUTIONAL
                          SPECIALIST(1)


ICR
      September 2004    3 FINANCIAL ANALYST/          HS    S
                          TTL (1); SANITARY
                          ENGINEER (1);
                          INSTITUTIONAL
                          SPECIALIST(1)




                          - 27 -

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                        Actual/Latest Estimate
                                         No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                    59.3                         282.9
  Appraisal/Negotiation                         33.0                         151.1
  Supervision                                   84.9                         486.0
  ICR                                             8.0                          40.0
  Total                                        185.2                         960.0
Regional direct to full cost mark-up is 25% for fiscal years prior to FY00.




                                                    - 28 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 29 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 30 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Staff Appraisal Report No. 14973-CHA
Borrower's Implementation Assessment report dated January 2004.
Borrower's Review Statement on Environmental Impact for Shanghai Sewerage Project Phase II dated
Arpil 2004.
ICR Aide Memoire dated September, 2004.




                                               - 31 -

- 32 -

