Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3987 CHA
Loan Agreement
(Second Shanghai Sewerage Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated May 9, 1996
LOAN NUMBER 3987 CHA
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 9, 1996, between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS:  (A)  the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
the Project will be carried out by Shanghai (as defined in Section 
1.02(g) of this Agreement) with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such 
assistance, the Borrower will make available to Shanghai the proceeds of the Loan as 
provided in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and 
Shanghai;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Page  2
Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"Category" means a category of items to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
(b)
"Environmental Assessment" means Shanghai's environmental assessment of 
the Project dated May 25, 1995, setting out, inter alia, environmental protection and 
mitigation measures and administrative and monitoring arrangements to ensure the 
implementation of the Project in an environmentally sound manner, as said assessment 
may be revised from time to time in accordance with the provisions of  Part B.5 of 
Schedule 3 to the Project Agreement.
(c)
"Institutional Development and Training Action Plan" means the Sewerage 
Company's time-bound action plan dated December 14, 1995, for the implementation of 
Part B of the Project.
(d)
"Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank and Shanghai of 
even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term 
includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement.
(e)
"Resettlement Action Plan" means Shanghai's resettlement action plan for 
the Project dated July 1995 setting out inter alia, the procedures governing land 
acquisition, resettlement and compensation, as well as the reporting and monitoring 
arrangements to ensure compliance with the said plan, all aimed at improving or at 
least restoring the living standards of  affected people, as the same may be revised 
from time to time in accordance with the provisions of Part B.5 of Schedule 3 to the 
Project Agreement.
(f)
"Sewerage Company" means the Shanghai Municipal Sewerage Company Ltd., a 
solely state-owned limited liability company, established and operating pursuant to 
its Charter dated August, 1995 and approved by the Shanghai Municipal Engineering 
Administration Bureau in November 1995, and to Business License No. 010042700 dated 
December 7, 1995, issued by the Shanghai Administration Bureau of Industry and 
Commerce.
(g)
"Shanghai" means the Borrower's Municipality of Shanghai.
 
(h)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02(b) of 
this Agreement.
(i)
"Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into 
between Shanghai and the Sewerage Company pursuant to Part B.1 of Schedule 2 to the 
Project Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term 
includes all schedules to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and "Subsidiary Loan" means 
the loan provided under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
(j)
"Wastewater Connection Action Plan" means the action plan dated December 
14, 1995, providing for the enhanced collection of wastewater flows and the connection 
thereof to Shanghai's wastewater system, as said plan may be revised from time to time 
in accordance with the provisions of Part B.5 of Schedule 3 to the Project Agreement.
(k)
"Yuan" means the currency unit of the Borrower.
 
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to two 
hundred fifty million dollars ($250,000,000).
Page  3
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of  the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in a financial institution and on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2002 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
"Interest Period" means the initial period from and including the 
date of this 
Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest 
Payment Date occurring thereafter, 
and after the initial period, 
each period from and including an Interest Payment 
Date to, but 
excluding the next following Interest Payment Date.
(ii)
"Interest Payment Date" means any date specified in Section 2.06 
of this Agreement.
(iii)
"LIBOR Base Rate" means, for each Interest Period, the London 
Interbank offered 
rate for six-month deposits in dollars for 
value the first day of such Interest 
Period (or, in the case of 
the initial Interest Period, for value the Interest 
Payment Date 
occurring on or next preceding the first day of such Interest Period), 
as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.
(iv)
"LIBOR Total Spread" means, for each Interest Period: (A) one half 
of one percent 
(1/2 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the weighted 
average margin, for such Interest 
Period, below (or above) 
the London Interbank offered rates, or other reference 
rates, 
for six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank's outstanding borrowings or 
portions thereof allocated by the Bank to fund single currency loans or 
portions 
thereof made by it that include the Loan; as 
reasonably determined by the Bank and 
expressed as a percentage per 
annum.
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total 
Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof.
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.05, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest 
rates applicable to amounts of the Loan not yet withdrawn upon not less than six (6) 
months' notice to the Borrower of the new basis. The basis shall become effective upon 
the expiration of the notice period unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said 
period of its objection thereto, in which case said modification shall not apply to 
the Loan.
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semi-annually on April 
15 and October 15 in each year.
Page  4
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without any 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under the Loan Agreement, 
shall cause Shanghai to perform in accordance with the provisions of the Project 
Agreement all the obligations of Shanghai therein set forth, shall take or cause to be 
taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other 
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable Shanghai to perform such obligations, 
and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere 
with such performance.
(b)
The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Loan available to Shanghai on 
the following principal terms: 
(i)
the principal amount so made available to Shanghai shall be 
denominated and 
repayable in dollars;
 
(ii)
the Borrower shall recover such principal amount over a period of 
twenty (20) 
years, inclusive of a grace period of five (5) years; 
and
(iii)
the Borrower shall charge:
 
(A)
interest on such principal amount withdrawn and outstanding 
from time to 
time at a rate equal to the rate of interest 
applicable from time to time to 
the Loan pursuant to Section 2.05 
of the Loan Agreement; and
(B)
a commitment charge on such principal amount not withdrawn 
from time to time 
at a rate equal to three-fourths of one 
percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the 
Project Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and
services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition, 
respectively) in respect of the Project shall be carried out by Shanghai pursuant to 
Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower 
shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance with sound 
accounting practices, 
records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures are 
retained until at least one year after 
the Bank has received the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the 
Page  5
Loan Account was made; and
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records.
 
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) (i) of 
this Section and 
those for the Special Account for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the 
Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six (6) 
months after the end of each such year the 
report of such audit by said auditors, 
of such scope and in such 
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested, 
including a 
separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with the procedures and 
internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied 
upon to support the 
related withdrawals; and
 
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and accounts and 
the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
Shanghai shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
Project Agreement.
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Loan 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that Shanghai will be able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.
(c)
Any of the parties to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement shall have failed to 
perform any of its respective obligations thereunder.
(d)
The charter or business license of the Sewerage Company, both as referred 
to in Section 1.02 (f) of this Agreement, shall have been amended, suspended, 
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of 
the Sewerage Company to perform any of its obligations under the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement.
(e)
The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of the Sewerage Company or for the 
suspension of its operations.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
any event specified in paragraphs (a) or (c) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice 
thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower; and
(b)
the events specified in paragraphs (d) and (e) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
Page  6
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01(c) of the 
General Conditions:
(a)
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on behalf of Shanghai and 
the Sewerage Company; and
(b)
the wastewater tariffs of the Sewerage Company have been increased to at 
least Yuan 0.14 per cubic meter for residential waste-water producers and Yuan 0.34 
per cubic meter for non-residential
wastewater producers and have been reflected in the bills sent by the Sewerage Company 
to such producers.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank:
(a)
that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by 
Shanghai, and is legally binding upon Shanghai in accordance with its terms; and
(b)
that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified 
by Shanghai and the Sewerage Company and is legally binding upon Shanghai and the 
Sewerage Company in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Beijing 100820
People's Republic of China
Cable address:
Telex:
 
FINANMIN
22486 MFPRC CN
Beijing
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI), or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
Page  7
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
By /s/ Li Daoyu
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Nicholas C. Hope
Acting Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                       Amount of the
                      Loan Allocated         % of
                      (Expressed in       Expenditures
     Category       Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
(1)  Civil works        135,000,000      56%
(2)  Goods               80,000,000      100% of foreign
                                         expenditures,
                                         100% of local
                                         expenditures (ex-
                                         factory cost) and
                                         75% of local expen-
                                         ditures for other
                                         items procured locally
(3)  Consultants' services          )
     and training                   )
                                    )
     (a) for construction           )    100%
     management services   6,500,000)
                                    )
     (b) other            16,000,000)
(4)  Unallocated          12,500,000
                          __________
    TOTAL                250,000,000
                         ===========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
Page  8
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of 
$5,000,000, may be made on account of payments made for expenditures before that date 
but after August 1, 1995. 
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures:
(a)
for works under contracts not exceeding $6,000,000 equivalent each;
 
(b)
for goods under contracts not exceeding $500,000 equivalent each;
 
(c)
for consultants' services under contracts not exceeding $100,000 for 
firms, and $50,000 for individual consultants; and
(d)
for training regardless of the cost thereof, all under such terms and 
conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to improve environmental conditions and 
environmental management in Shanghai with a view to providing a safe environmental 
setting enabling long-term sustainable economic growth.
The Project, which constitutes part of Shanghai's long-term environmental 
improvement program, consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Urban Infrastructure Investments
 
1.
Improving sewerage and sanitation conditions in the urban areas of Shanghai, 
through:
(a)
construction of a trunk conveyor sewerage system, including secondary 
conveyor sewers, access shafts, pumping facilities and domestic, industrial and 
enterprise collection and connection systems;
(b)
installation of telemetry and control equipment; 
 
(c)
rehabilitation of existing sewerage systems; and
 
(d)
provision of sewerage system maintenance equipment and management 
facilities.
2.
Improving wastewater treatment and disposal systems at Bailonggang, through 
construction of:
(a)
a wastewater treatment facility with a capacity of about 1.7 million 
cubic meters per day, comprising, inter alia, screens, grit removal facilities and 
pilot scale plant;
(b)
an outfall pump station with a capacity of about 1.7 million cubic meters 
per day; and
(c)
an outfall facility with a capacity of about 1.7 million cubic meters per 
day with deep water diffuser outlet system into the Yangtze River.
Part B:
Institutional Development and Studies
 
Page  9
1.
Strengthening of the institutional capacity of the Sewerage Company, through:
 
(a)
implementation of a comprehensive training program for its staff in the 
areas of finance, environmental monitoring, management information, project management 
and construction supervision and provision of equipment required therefor; and
(b)
provision of technical assistance in accounting and organizational and 
information systems for the Sewerage Company. 
2.
Carrying out of:
 
(a)
studies on wastewater management and wastewater infrastructure planning; 
and
(b)
feasibility and preparation studies for future wastewater infrastructure 
projects.
*            *            *          *            *            *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2001.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due
(Expressed in dollars)
 
October 15, 2001                                       
5,220,000
April 15, 2002                                         
5,380,000
October 15, 2002                                       
5,545,000
April 15, 2003                                         
5,710,000
October 15, 2003                                       
5,885,000
April 15, 2004                                         
6,065,000
October 15, 2004                                       
6,250,000
April 15, 2005                                         
6,440,000
October 15, 2005                                       
6,635,000
April 15, 2006                                         
6,835,000
October 15, 2006                                       
7,045,000
April 15, 2007                                         
7,260,000
October 15, 2007                                       
7,480,000
April 15, 2008                                         
7,705,000
October 15, 2008                                       
7,940,000
April 15, 2009                                         
8,180,000
October 15, 2009                                       
8,430,000
April 15, 2010                                         
8,685,000
October 15, 2010                                       
8,950,000
April 15, 2011                                         
9,225,000
October 15, 2011                                       
9,505,000
April 15, 2012                                         
9,790,000
October 15, 2012                                      
      10,090,000
April 15, 2013                                        
      10,395,000
October 15, 2013                                      
      10,710,000
April 15, 2014                                        
      11,040,000
October 15, 2014                                      
      11,375,000
April 15, 2015                                        
      11,720,000
October 15, 2015                                      
      12,075,000
April 15, 2016                                        
      12,435,000
 
_____________________________________
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in dollars to be repaid, except 
as provided in 
Section 4.04(d) of the General Conditions.
 
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
Page  10
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2) and (3);
 
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated
from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to 
$15,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless 
the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an 
amount equivalent to $10,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the  
Loan Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or 
exceed the equivalent of $100,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested. 
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank 
requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Bank shall 
specify.
 
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this 
Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On 
the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such 
amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said 
documents and other evidence to have been paid out of 
the Special Account for 
eligible expenditures.
 
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and
other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
Page  11
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the
provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such
notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account:
(i)
was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of 
this Schedule; or
 
(ii)
was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the 
Borrower shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Bank:
 
(A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or
 
(B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so 
request, refund 
to the Bank) an amount equal to the 
amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so 
eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, 
no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until 
the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as 
the case may be.
 
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
