Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3987 CHA
Project Agreement
(Second Shanghai Sewerage Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
MUNICIPALITY OF SHANGHAI
Dated May 9, 1996
LOAN NUMBER 3987 CHA
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 9, 1996, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and MUNICIPALITY OF SHANGHAI (Shanghai).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between the People's 
Republic of China (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available 
to the Borrower an amount equal to two hundred fifty million dollars ($250,000,000), 
on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition 
that the Municipality of Shanghai (Shanghai) agree to undertake such obligations 
toward the Bank as are set forth in this Agreement;
WHEREAS Shanghai, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the Loan 
Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
Page  2
in the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General Conditions (as 
so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) Shanghai declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end, shall 
cause the Sewerage Company to carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency 
and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering, urban 
infrastructure and environmental practices, and shall provide, or cause to be 
provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Bank and Shanghai shall otherwise agree, Shanghai shall:
(i)
ensure that the Project shall be carried out in accordance with 
the Implementation 
Program set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement; 
and
(ii)
take or cause to be taken such other actions as are set forth in 
said Schedule.
Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) Shanghai shall cause the Sewerage Company to carry out the 
obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General 
Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, 
records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the 
Project Agreement.
(b)
For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions, and without 
limitation thereto, Shanghai shall cause the Sewerage Company to:
(i)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and 
furnish to the Bank 
not later than six (6) months after the 
Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this 
purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the future 
operation of the Project; and
(ii)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
Shanghai on said 
plan.
 
Section 2.04. (a) Shanghai shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange views 
with the Bank with regard to progress of the Project, the performance of its 
obligations under this Agreement and other
matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b)
Shanghai shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which interferes 
or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the 
purposes of Loan, or the performance by Shanghai of its obligations under this 
Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Financial and Other Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) Shanghai shall maintain or cause to be maintained records and 
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in
respect of the Project of the departments or agencies of Shanghai responsible for 
carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
Page  3
(b)
Shanghai shall:
 
(i)
have its records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each 
fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles 
consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months 
after the end of each such year, the report of 
such audit by said auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail as the 
Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records, accounts and 
the audit thereof, as the Bank shall 
from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 4.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of Shanghai 
thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in 
accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify Shanghai thereof.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI), or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
 
For Shanghai:
Shanghai Municipal Finance Bureau
60 Jiu Jiang Road
Shanghai
People's Republic of China
Telex:
Page  4
33715 SMFB CN
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of Shanghai, or 
by Shanghai on behalf of the Borrower under the Loan Agreement, may be taken or 
executed by the Vice Mayor responsible for urban construction or such other person or 
persons as said Vice Mayor shall designate in writing, and Shanghai shall furnish to 
the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature 
of each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/  Nicholas C. Hope
Acting Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
MUNICIPALITY OF SHANGHAI
By /s/ Li Daoyu
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
General
 
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section, as 
applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Prequalification
 
Page  5
Bidders for works contracts for pump stations and the Bailonggang wastewater 
treatment plant estimated to cost more than $12,000,000 equivalent, and for goods 
contracts for the supply and installation of pumping plant and system telemetry 
equipment estimated to cost more than $4,000,000 equivalent, shall be prequalified in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 2.9 and 2.10 of the Guidelines.
(b)
Grouping of contracts
 
To the extent practicable, contracts for works shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $10,000,000 equivalent or more each, and contracts for goods shall 
be grouped into bid packages  estimated to cost $250,000 equivalent or more each.
(c)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods and domestic contractors
 
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower and works 
to be carried out by domestic contractors.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
National Competitive Bidding
 
Works estimated to cost less than $10,000,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $91,000,000 equivalent, and goods estimated to cost 
less than $250,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$7,800,000 equivalent may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
National Shopping
 
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $800,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping
procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the 
Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Procurement Planning
 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken 
in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and 
with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
 
With respect to each contract for works estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$6,000,000 or more, and each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$500,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply. 
3.
Post Review
 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
1.
Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, 
time-based assignments, such contracts shall be based on the standard form of contract 
for consultants' services issued by the Bank, with such modifications thereto as shall 
Page  6
have been agreed by the Bank. Where no relevant standard contract documents have been 
issued by the Bank, other standard forms acceptable to the  Bank shall be used.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short 
lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and 
contracts, shall not apply to:
(a)
contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to cost less 
than $100,000 equivalent each; or
(b)
contracts for the employment of individual consultants estimated to cost 
less than $50,000 equivalent each. However, said exceptions to prior Bank review shall 
not apply to:
(i)
the terms of reference for such contracts;
 
(ii)
single-source selection of consulting firms;
 
(iii)
assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the 
Bank;
(iv)
amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting firms 
raising the contract 
value to $100,000 equivalent or above; or
 
(v)
amendments to contracts for the employment of individual 
consultants raising the 
contract value to $50,000 equivalent or 
above.
SCHEDULE 2
Implementation Program
A.
Land Acquisition, Resettlement and Environmental Assessment
 
Shanghai shall take all measures necessary to ensure that the Project shall be 
carried out in accordance with the Resettlement Action Plan and the Environmental 
Assessment.
B.
Onlending to the Sewerage  Company
 
1.
For the purpose of carrying out the Project, Shanghai shall relend the proceeds 
of the Loan to the Sewerage Company under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered 
into between Shanghai and the Sewerage Company, under terms and conditions which shall 
have been approved by the Bank, and which shall include, without limitation, those set 
forth in Schedule 3  to this Agreement.
2.
Shanghai shall:
 
(a)
(i)
cause the Sewerage Company to perform, in accordance with the 
provisions of the 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement, all of the 
obligations of the Sewerage Company therein 
set forth;
 
(ii)
take or cause to be taken all action, including the provision of 
funds, facilities, 
services and other resources, necessary or 
appropriate to enable the Sewerage 
Company to perform such 
obligations; and
(iii)
not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or 
interfere with 
such performance; and
 
(b)
exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as 
to protect the interests of the Borrower, the Bank and Shanghai and to accomplish the 
purposes of the Loan, and except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, not assign, amend, 
abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
C.
Wastewater Connection Action Plan
Page  7
In order to improve the collection of wastewater flows in Shanghai and of their 
connection to Shanghai's wastewater system, as extended under this Project, Shanghai 
shall take all measures necessary to ensure that the Wastewater Connection Action Plan 
is implemented with due diligence and efficiency.
SCHEDULE 3
Principal Terms and Conditions
of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement
The principal terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Schedule 
shall apply for the purposes of Part B.1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
A.
Terms
 
1.
The principal amount of the Subsidiary Loan shall be denominated and repayable 
in dollars.
2.
The Sewerage Company shall repay the principal amount of the Subsidiary Loan to 
Shanghai over a period of fifteen (15) years, inclusive of a grace period of five (5) 
years.
3.
Shanghai shall charge interest on the principal amount of the Subsidiary Loan, 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time at a rate equal to the rate of interest 
applicable from time to time to the Loan pursuant to Section 2.05 of the Loan 
Agreement.
4.
Shanghai shall charge a commitment charge on the principal amount of the 
Subsidiary Loan, not withdrawn from time to time at a rate equal to three-fourths of 
one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum.
B.
Conditions
 
1.
Project  Implementation
 
(a)
The Sewerage Company shall undertake to carry out the Project with due 
diligence and efficiency, under the supervision of qualified and experienced 
management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers, and in accordance with 
appropriate technical, financial, engineering and public utility practices, and 
appropriate health, safety and environmental standards acceptable to the Bank, and 
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities and other resources required for 
the purpose. Without limitation on the foregoing, the Sewerage Company shall:
(i)
take all measures necessary to ensure that Part A of the Project 
shall be 
implemented in accordance with the 
Resettlement Action Plan and the Environmental 
Assessment; 
and
(ii)
implement Part B of the Project in accordance with the 
Institutional Development 
and Training Action Plan.
 
(b)
The Sewerage Company shall undertake to:
 
(i)
procure the goods and services to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement, and
(ii)
utilize such goods and services exclusively in the carrying out of 
the Project.
The Sewerage Company shall employ consultants in accordance with the provisions 
of said Schedule 1 in order to assist it in:
(A)
carrying out engineering design review, pilot testing and 
construction 
management and works supervision under Part A 
of the Project; and
Page  8
(B)
carrying out Part B of the Project.
 
(c)
The Sewerage Company shall undertake to enable the Bank and Shanghai to 
inspect the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and the sites and works 
included in the Project, the operation thereof, and any relevant records and 
documents.
2.
Insurance
 
The Sewerage Company shall undertake to take out and maintain with responsible 
insurers such insurance, against such risks and in such amounts, as shall be 
consistent with sound business practice, including, without limitation, such insurance 
to cover hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery of goods 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to the place of use or installation, any 
indemnity thereunder to be made payable in a currency freely usable by the Sewerage 
Company to replace or repair such goods.
3.
Operation and Maintenance
 
The Sewerage Company shall at all times operate and maintain its plant, 
machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, 
make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound 
engineering, financial and public utility practices.
4.
Wastewater Connection and Treatment
 
(a)
The Sewerage Company shall undertake to:
 
(i)
provide wastewater treatment facilities for the wastewater flowing 
through 
Shanghai's system to the Bailonggang outfall, 
adequate to limit the average annual 
phosphorus load discharged from 
Shanghai into any receiving waters to 18 tons per 
day or less; 
and
(ii)
without limitation to the foregoing, design, on the basis of the 
experience with 
the pilot scale plant constructed under Part 
A(2)(a) of the Project and in 
accordance with terms of 
reference acceptable to the Bank, and construct a 
treatment plant at Bailonggang, providing for removal of phosphorous, and ensure 
that said plant shall be fully operational not later than January 
1, 2005 or such 
other date as the Bank and the Sewerage 
Company may agree.
(b)
In order to improve the collection of wastewater flows in Shanghai and of 
their connection to Shanghai's wastewater system, as extended under this Project, the 
Sewerage Company shall take all action on its part to ensure that the Wastewater 
Connection Action Plan is implemented with due diligence and efficiency.
5.
Monitoring and Reporting
 
(a)
The Sewerage Company shall maintain policies and procedures adequate to 
enable it to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators 
acceptable to the Bank:
(i)
the carrying out of the Project, including the Resettlement Action 
Plan, the 
Environmental Assessment and the Institutional 
Development and Training Action 
Plan;
 
(ii)
the implementation of the Wastewater Connection Action Plan; and
 
(iii)
the achievement of the objectives thereof.
 
(b)
The Sewerage Company shall, prepare, under terms of reference acceptable 
to the Bank, and furnish to the Bank and Shanghai, the following reports:
(i)
quarterly reports on or about April 30, July 31, October 31 and 
Page  9
January 31, in each  
year, integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed 
pursuant to 
paragraph (a) of this Section 5, on the progress achieved in the 
carrying out of the Project during the preceding calendar quarter and setting out 
the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of 
the Project and 
the achievement of the objectives thereof 
during the then current calendar quarter; 
and
 
(ii)
annual reports on or about January 31 in each year, integrating 
the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed 
pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section 5, on the progress 
achieved in the carrying out of the Project (including 
the 
Resettlement Action Plan, the Environmental Assessment and the Institutional 
Development and Training Action Plan), and of the Waste-water Connection 
Action 
Plan, during the preceding calendar year and setting 
out the measures recommended 
to ensure the efficient carrying 
out of the Project and the Wastewater Connection 
Action Plan, 
and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the next twelve 
months, including any revisions proposed to be introduced into said plans.
(c)
After furnishing each report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section 
5, the Sewerage Company shall review said report with the Bank and Shanghai, and 
promptly:
(i)
take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of 
the Project and 
the achievement of the objectives thereof, 
based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of said 
report and the Bank's views on the matter; and
(ii)
introduce such revisions to the plans referred to in said 
paragraph (b) as shall 
have been agreed among the Bank, 
Shanghai and the Sewerage Company.
6.
Financial Covenants
 
(a)
The Sewerage  Company shall undertake to:
 
(i)
maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance 
with consistently 
maintained sound accounting practices its 
operations and financial condition;
(ii)
have its financial statements (balance sheets, statements of 
income and expenses 
and related statements) for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank and Shanghai;
(iii)
furnish to the Bank and Shanghai as soon as available, but in any 
case not later 
than six (6) months after the end of each such 
year:
(A)
certified copies of said financial statements and accounts 
for such year as 
so audited; and
 
(B)
the report of such audit by said auditors in such scope and 
detail as the 
Bank and Shanghai shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iv)
prepare and furnish to the Bank and Shanghai all such other 
information concerning 
said records, accounts and financial 
statements, as well as the audit thereof, as 
the Bank or Shanghai 
shall reasonably request.
(b)
The Sewerage Company shall undertake to:
 
(i)
produce, for each of its fiscal years, commencing in fiscal year 
1997, funds from 
internal sources equivalent to not less than 
Page  10
the following percentage of the annual 
average of its capital 
expenditures incurred, or expected to be incurred for such 
year, 
the preceding fiscal year and the next following fiscal year: 5% for each of 
fiscal years 1997, 1998, 1999 and 2000, and 10% for each fiscal year thereafter;
(ii)
review, before September 30 in each fiscal year, and on the basis 
of forecasts 
prepared by it and satisfactory to the Bank, whether 
it would meet the requirements 
set forth in subparagraph (i) of this 
paragraph (b) in respect of such year and the 
next following fiscal year 
and furnish to the Bank the results of such review upon 
its 
completion; and
(iii)
if any such review shows that it would not meet the requirements 
set forth in 
subparagraph (i) of this paragraph (b) for the fiscal 
years covered by such review, 
promptly take all necessary measures 
(including, without limitation, adjustments of 
the structure or 
levels of its tariffs) in order to meet such requirements.
(c)
The Sewerage Company shall undertake not to incur any debt unless a 
reasonable forecast of its revenues and expenditures shows that its estimated net 
revenues for each fiscal year during the term of the debt to be incurred shall be at 
least 1.3 times its estimated debt service requirements in such year on all of its 
debt including the debt to be incurred.
(d)
For purposes of this Section 6:
 
(i)
The term "funds from internal sources" means the difference 
between:
(A)
the sum of revenues from all sources related to operations, 
consumer 
deposits and consumer contributions in aid of 
construction, net 
non-operating income and any 
reduction in working capital other than cash; 
and
 
(B)
the sum of all expenses related to operations, including 
administration, 
adequate maintenance and taxes and 
payments in lieu of taxes (excluding 
provision for 
depreciation and other non-cash operating charges), debt 
service requirements, all cash dividends and other cash distributions of 
surplus, increase in working capital other than cash and other cash 
outflows 
other than capital expenditures.
 
(ii)
The term "net non-operating income" means the difference between:
 
(A)
revenues from all sources other than those related to 
operations; and
(B)
expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, 
incurred in the 
generation of revenues in (A) above.
 
(iii)
The term "working capital other than cash" means the difference 
between current 
assets excluding cash and current liabilities 
at the end of each fiscal year.
(iv)
The term "current assets excluding cash" means all assets other 
than cash which 
could in the ordinary course of business be 
converted into cash within twelve (12) 
months, including accounts 
receivable, marketable securities, inventories and 
pre-paid 
expenses properly chargeable to operating expenses within the next fiscal 
year.
(v)
The term "current liabilities" means all liabilities which will 
become due and 
payable or could under circumstances then 
existing be called for payment within 
twelve (12) months, 
including accounts payable, customer advances, debt service 
requirements, taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, and dividends.
Page  11
(vi)
The term "debt service requirements" means the aggregate amount of 
repayments 
(including sinking fund payments, if any) of, and 
interest and other charges on, 
debt.
 
(vii)
The term "capital expenditures" means all expenditures incurred on 
account of fixed 
assets, including interest charged to construction, 
related to operations.
(viii) The term "debt" means any indebtedness of the Sewerage Company 
maturing by its 
terms more than one (1) year after the date on 
which it is originally incurred.
(ix)
Debt shall be deemed to be incurred:
 
(A)
under a loan contract or agreement or other instrument 
providing for such 
debt or for the modification of its 
terms of payment on the date of such 
contract, agreement 
or instrument; and
(B)
under a guarantee agreement, on the date the agreement 
providing for such 
guarantee has been entered into.
 
(x)
The term "net revenues" means the difference between:
 
(A)
the sum of revenues from all sources related to operations 
and net 
non-operating income; and
 
(B)
the sum of all expenses related to operations including 
administration, 
adequate maintenance, taxes and payments 
in lieu of taxes, but excluding 
provision for 
depreciation, other non-cash operating charges and interest 
and other charges on debt.
(xi)
The term "net non-operating income" means the difference between:
 
(A)
revenues from all sources other than those related to 
operations; and
(B)
expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, 
incurred in the 
generation of revenues in (A) above.
 
(xii)
The term "reasonable forecast" means a forecast prepared by the 
Sewerage Company 
not earlier than twelve (12) months prior to 
the incurrence of the debt in 
question, which both the 
Bank and the Sewerage Company accept as reasonable and as 
to which the 
Bank has notified the Sewerage Company of its acceptability, provided 
that no event has occurred since such notification which has, or may reasonably be 
expected in the future to have, a material adverse effect on the 
financial 
condition or future operating results of the 
Sewerage Company.
(xiii) Whenever it shall be necessary to value in terms of the currency 
of the Borrower, 
debt payable in another currency, such 
valuation shall be made on the basis of the 
prevailing lawful rate of 
exchange at which such other currency is, at the time of 
such 
valuation, obtainable for the purposes of servicing such debt, or, in the 
absence of such rate, on the basis of a rate of exchange acceptable to 
the Bank.
7.
Shanghai shall have the right to suspend or terminate the right of the Sewerage 
Company to the use of the proceeds of the Loan upon failure by the Sewerage Company to 
perform its obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Page  12
