Document of                   FlJ        0py
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.P-3163-DO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
FOR A
SITES AND SERVICES
PROJECT
March 4, 1982
This docmnet ha a resticted distribution and my be used by recipbts ondy In the pexfummfe d
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without Word Bank authoiIzstion.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Accounts are expressed in Dominican Pesos (RD$) and US Dollars (US$).
December 31, 1980
US$1.00 = RD$1.00
RD$1.00 = US$1.00
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
AAyP      -    Savings and Loan Associations
(Asociaciones de Ahorros y Prestamos)
BNV       -    National Housing Bank
(Banco Nacional de la Vivienda)
CAT       -    Certificate of Tax Credit
(Certificado de Abono Tributario)
CDE       -    Dominican Electricity Corporation
(Corporacion Dominicana de Electricidad)
CEA       -    State Sugar Council
(Consejo Estatal del Azucar)
IAD       -    Dominican Agrarian Institute
(Instituto Agrario Dominicano)
IDB       -    Inter-American Development Bank
IERR      -    Internal Economic Rate of Return
IFC       -    International Finance Corporation
INAPA     -    National Potable Water and Sewerage Institute
(Instituto Nacional de Agua Potable y Alcantarillado)
INAVI     -    Welfare and Housing Institute
(Instituto de Beneficiencia y Vivienda)
INESPRE   -    National Price Stabilization Institute
(Instituto Nacional de Establizacion de Precios)
INVI      -    National Housing Institute
(Instituto Nacional de la Vivienda)
LMD       -    Dominican Municipal League
(Liga Municipal Dominicana)
ONAPLAN   -    National Planning Office
(Oficina Nacional de Planificacion)
ONATRATE  -    National Office for Road Transport
(Oficina Nacional de Transporte por Carreteras)
SEDEFIR   -    Ministry of Sports and Recreation)
(Secretaria de Deportes y Recreacion)
SEEBAC    -    Ministry of Education
(Secretaria de Educacion Bellas Artes y Culto)
SESPAS    -    Ministry of Health
(Secretaria de Salud Publica y Asistencia Social)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
SITES AND SERVICES PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:           The Dominican Republic
Beneficiary:         Instituto Nacional de la Vivienda (INVI)
Amount:             US$25.4 million equivalent, (including US$0.4 million
capitalized front-end Fee).
Terms:              Repayable in 17 years, including a grace period of four
years, with interest rate at 11.6 percent per annum.
Relending Terms:    US$22.7 million of the Bank loan would be made avail-
able to INVI on the same terms, under a subsidiary loan
agreement between the Borrower and INVI.
Project
Description:      The purpose of the project is to develop the sites of
Sabana Perdida in Santo Domingo and Haina in the nearby
San Cristobal Province as integrated communities to
accommodate about 8000 low-income families. The project
consists of off-site infrastructure (wells, water mains,
storage tanks, stabilization ponds, electric power sub-
station and transmission lines); on-site infrastructure
(water, sewerage and electricity networks, public lighting,
roads and drainage); construction of shelter units;
provision of loans to beneficiaries; community facilities
(schools, health centers, social centers, fire and police
stations, sportsgrounds, green areas and trash collection
services); consulting and extension services. The project
would include a study of future low-income housing policy
and measures to strengthen INVI's finances. A US$500,000
Bank advance made under the Project Preparation Facility
would be re-financed under the proposed loan.
Risks:              The Government of the Dominican Republic has decided to
implement a new public housing policy to address the
need for urban dwellings for low-income families. The
project under consideration represents the practical
implementation of this new policy and the Executing
Agency--INVI--will have to undergo a continuous and
prolonged process of change, while substantially modifying
its product. The performance of INVI during the past two
years shows evidence that it has the capacity to carry out
its new mandate. The project has been designed in a way
that would require construction of dwellings to be carried
out by contractors and limit INVI's direct involvement in
the construction of dwellings. However, close monitoring
by the Bank would still be required as well as relatively
heavy inputs of technical assistance.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Project Costs:                                               ----US$ Million-
Foreign  Local  Total
Land                                        -       2.5    2.5
Off-Site Infrastructure                   1.3       1.0    2.3
On-Site Infrastructure                    4.1       5.1    9.2
Shelter                                   3.1       5.7    8.8
Community Facilities                      0.7       1.1    1.8
Project Management and
Related Services                        0.7       3.3    4.0
Baseline Cost                             9.9      18.7   28.6
Physical Contingencies                    0.8       1.2    2.0
Price Contingencies                       4.2       7.0   11.2
Total Project Costs                      14.9      26.9   41.8
Financing Plan:
Bank Loan                                15.3 /L  10.1   25.4 /1
Government                                 -       16.8   16.8
Total                                    15.3 /1  26.9   42.2 /1
Estimated
Disbursements:                                   ------------US$ Million-----------
IBRD/FY                    1982  1983  1984  1985  1986  1987
Annual                      0.5   2.0   7.4   7.7   5.8   2.0
Cummulative                 0.5   2.5   9.9  17.6  23.4  25.4/1
Economic Rate
of Return:            15 percent
Staff Appraisal
Report:               Report No. 3679-DO, dated March 1, 1982.
/1   Includes US$0.4 million capitalized front-end Fee.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON
A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
FOR A SITES AND SERVICES PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Dominican Republic for the equivalent of US$25.4 million, including
US$0.4 million capitalized front-end Fee, to help finance a Sites and Services
Project. The loan would have a term of 17 years, including a four-year grace
period, with interest at 11.6 percent per annum. US$22.7 million equiva-
lent of the loan proceeds would be on-lent to Instituto Nacional de la Vivienda
(INVI) through a subsidiary loan agreement on the same terms as the Bank loan.
The balance of the proposed loan (US$2.3 million) would be made available to
INVI by the Government as a contribution. Project beneficiaries would receive
credit on terms of up to twenty years at an interest rate of 12 percent per
annum plus two percent per annum closing and service charges. INVI's onlending
terms and conditions would be reviewed annually by the Borrower, INVI and the
Bank. The foreign exchange risk of the loan would be borne by the Government
of the Dominican Republic.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The last economic report, Report No. 3446-DO, entitled "Economic
Memorandum on the Dominican Republic", was distributed to the Executive
Directors on May 15, 1981. It was prepared for the June 1981 Meeting of
the Caribbean Group for Cooperation in Economic Development, particularly
the Consultative Sub-Group on the Dominican Republic. Relevant social and
economic data are presented in Annex I. This section is based on that
report and on findings of Bank missions to the Dominican Republic in the
last few months.
3.        During 1968-74, the economy enjoyed buoyant growth spurred by high
investment--foreign and domestic--favorable terms of trade, and the rapid
expansion of both export-oriented mining and inward-oriented manufacturing.
During that period, the average GDP growth rate was 11 percent per year. The
rhythm of economic activity diminished after 1974; the average growth rate
between 1974 and 1980 was about 5 percent per year--4.8 percent in 1979, 5.4
percent in 1980 and is expected to be about 3.4 percent in 1981. These growth
rates are comparatively good by Caribbean and most developing country standards,
but the medium term growth prospects may be lower unless adequate measures
are implemented on a timely basis. Open urban unemployment and underemployment
rates are high. Furthermore, the share of exports of goods and non-factor
services in GDP--24 percent in 1960--fell to 19 percent in 1980, while the
share of imports of goods and non-factor services rose from 16 percent in 1960
to 27 percent in 1980. The country has lost reserves consistently since 1976,
and its arrears of external payments have been growing. At the end of 1981,
gross reserves were US$300 million, equivalent to seven weeks of imports. Net
reserves were at a negative level of about US$350 million.



4.        The reasons for these trends are three-fold:  external factors, the
choice of development strategy, and weak public administration and institutions.
The first includes the volatility of sugar prices, sharply rising petroleum
prices, the recent adverse market situation for minerals,and weather condi-
tions--droughts and hurricanes. The second is that the development strategy
chosen since the 1960's, based on industrialization through import substitution,
is now constrained by the small and slow growing domestic market. The measures
adopted during that period, particularly a highly protective foreign trade
regime, with high tariffs, low official foreign exchange and interest rates,
price controls (particularly on agricultural products), export quotas and
prohibitions, have produced a pattern of high average effective protection to
consumer goods industries, with wide differernces among manufacturing sub-sectors
and negative protection to several agricultural sub-sectors. The effect has
been to retard agricultural production and industrial exports, while the use
of imported inputs has been encouraged. These same policies have favored the
use of capital-intensive technology.
5.        Weak public administration and institutions have limited the flow
of government services and the level of public investment, and in some cases,
obstructed the private economy. Low salaries have led to poorly equipped
civil service, and rapid turnover among top managerial personnel remains a
basic institutional weakness. Low priority given to social sectors has
postponed the development of their institutions and their coverage. Unrealistic
pricing policies involving reluctance and delay in passing cost increases to
users, imprudent financial practices, especially excessive reliance on short-
term financing, and inadequate attention to payment of and collection of
overdue bills and accounts, are also sources of weakness.
6.        The authorities are aware of these weaknesses and have come to
realize that the origin of the country's economic problems is not exclusively
exogenous. Since 1978, the Government has (i) passed an Export Promotion Law
which grants certain non-traditional exports partial access to the parallel
market 1/ (ii) prepared an Agroindustry Incentives Law; (iii) shifted more
consumer and capital imports to the parallel market; (iv) established import
quotas for official institutions and, recently, prohibited vehicle imports for
official use for one year; (v) limited the access of the price control agency
(INESPRE) to the official foreign exchange market; (vi) required prior deposits
of 100 percent on a list of merchandise imports; (vii) allowed commercial banks
to add commissions to the interest rates charged to clients; (viii) granted
permission to mortgage banks to borrow overseas; and (ix) recently approved an
increase of two percentage points to the ceilings established on borrowing and
rediscount rates. Perhaps more importantly, the Central Bank has permitted
the development of a non-bank financial sector (i.e. savings and loans associa-
tions, mortgage banks, etc.) which, by circumventing the legal interest rate
ceiling of 12 percent has encouraged the growth of financial savings, (its
liabilities to the private sector grew by 32 percent yearly during the period
1/   The parallel exchange market maintains a premium for the US$ varying
around 25-35 percent above the official exchange rate of RD$ = US$1.



-3-
1974-80), and has been able to attract transfers from Dominican abroad thereby
limiting the impact of inflexible interest rate policy on capital flows.
7.         Inflation has been modest in the Dominican Republic by Latin American
standards--12 percent average per year in the period 1970-79. The Consumer
Price Index rose by 16.7 percent in 1980, the largest increase in the last
decade, due to the impact of Hurricane David and Tropical Storm Frederick
which produced severe shortages in late 1979, but the rate probably dropped
to 10 percent in 1981.
8.        The most acute human resources problem is underemployment and unemploy-
ment. Open urban unemployment has fluctuated around one-fifth and one-quarter
of the work force. Population growth has been high--2.9 percent per annum--but
economic growth has also been biased against the use of labor, and underinvest-
ment in human capital has limited the accessibility of the work force to
skilled jobs.
9.        As late as 1979, a special Bank mission found the social situation
quite poor. Based on a 1976-77 survey, over 2 million people (or 44 percent
of the population), were under the absolute poverty standard. 1/ Moreover,
relative poverty 2/ was one third below the absolute level suggesting that
poverty was more a problem of general deprivation than income distribution.
Adult literacy (67 percent), and students per teacher (50), in the Dominican
Republic compare unfavorably with other Latin American countries. Primary
school retention through the sixth grade is extremely low (18.6 percent),
particularly in rural areas (8.5 percent). Health needs are enormous as
reflected by high infant mortality (over 10 percent), widespread endemic
diseases as a consequence of poor water and sanitation, and malnutrition,
particularly in rural areas. The present Government increased budget alloca-
tions for education and health after 1979 - personnel was expanded and salaries
raised. The Public Health Ministry has lately undertaken a low-cost approach
of rehabilitation, repair and maintenance of existing clinics, has expanded
construction of rural clinics, and improved in general the provision of rural
health services. Nevertheless, it has a long way to go to substantially
reduce the inefficiency, understaffing, and over-crowding of the health
system. Private sector involvement in education and health, although efficient,
has been limited by the market - relatively few people have the ability to pay.
10.       Since 1978, the fiscal situation has been deteriorating; the public
sector deficit, almost nil previously, has grown rapidly. The deterioration
has been due mainly to Congressional refusal to approve proposed new tax
measures, delay in adjusting public utilities tariffs in the face of rising
costs, and rising deficits of public enterprises. Urgent needs created by the
1979 hurricanes raised public expenditures and the overall public sector
deficit rose to 5.2 percent of GDP in 1979. Although higher revenues from the
State-owned gold and silver mining company improved public savings in 1980,
1/   The absolute poverty standard is defined as the sum of the annual per
capita cost of a minimum diet and of a proportional non-food expenditure
component--RD$451 in the urban sector, RD$263 in the rural sector.
2/   Defined as one-third of national average per capita personal income.



- 4 -
the deficit still stood at 5 percent of GDP. The main burden of adjustment
fell on capital expenditures, which were reduced by 15 percent in nominal
terms. This has been exacerbated,by Congressional opposition to commercial
borrowing: in 1980, it refused to approve a Government proposal to refinance
the State Sugar Council's (CEA) short-term indebtedness with a syndicated loan
of US$90 million. Although public investment was curtailed in 1981, the
public sector deficit was again over 5 percent of GDP, due mainly to increasing
losses by CEA.
11.       Although economic growth in 1982 is likely to be seriously constrained
by the inadequacy of foreign exchange to purchase needed foreign inputs, and
the poor growth prospects for this year, coupled with arrears in commercial
payments which may engender a pessimistic perception of Dominican creditworthi-
ness, there are opportunities for enhancing growth, strengthening the balance
of payments and improving creditworthiness within the near future. Export
encouragement through more outward-looking policies, diversification of energy
use away from oil, and reduction of the implicit subsidy to imported inputs
and capital goods could induce structural changes tending to alleviate the
balance of payments problem. Meanwhile, a significant improvement in manage-
ment of CEA, investments in other export crops--coffee, tobacco, cocoa--and a
reduction of controls on exports and agricultural production, all could help
to trim the trade deficit. Furthermore, in the short and medium term, a
greater use of the parallel exchange market could have a salutary effect on
the profitably of exports and the competitiveness of domestic production
against imports.
12.       The likelihood that these policy changes will be made and the
fiscal situation improved through new tax measures should be enhanced if
the new Government to be elected in the forthcoming elections in May will be
able to count on a majority in Congress and on a cooperative relationship
between the President and his Party. In addition, partly as a result of the
Bank's efforts, there is now fairly widespread awareness of the need to take
measures and of the limited options which are available. With a public
external debt amounting to less than 18 percent of GDP in 1980 and a public
debt service ratio projected to remain around 20 percent between 1981 and
1985, and assuming the indicated measures are put in place soon, the Dominican
Republic should remain creditworthy for continued Bank support of its develop-
ment efforts.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
13.       The Bank's role in the Dominican Republic was limited until 1978.
The absence of clear Government investment priorities, inadequate project
preparation capability, and reluctance on the part of the Government to
address sectoral issues in the context of project financing were the major
causes, combined with extremely conservative government policies as regards
external borrowing. A total of US$64 million in Bank loans and US$22 million
in IDA credits were approved during FY1970-77. Bank group lending included
projects in education, population and rural health, agriculture (livestock
and irrigation), industry (ferronickel), tourism and road maintenance.



- 5 -
14.       Bank efforts during the FY1979-81 period concentrated on two main
areas. Through a stepped-up lending program, the primary objective has been
to strengthen a weakening balance of payments with projects designed to
increase productivity of major agricultural products, and thereby maintain
their export volume; and to increase tourism receipts through the development
of a new tourism pole in the North coast. The Nizao Irrigation/Agricultural
Development and Coffee and Cocoa Development Projects have, in addition,
concentrated on assistance to predominantly small farmers. The Second Tourism
Project includes assistance for the development of a rational tourism develop-
ment policy, and the Sugar Rehabilitation Project supports measures to
strengthen the financial and managerial efficiency of CEA. A second area of
Bank support has included projects for highway reconstruction and maintenance,
to strengthen the Government's capability to preserve substantial investments
previously undertaken in the road network, as well as a post-hurricane urgent
import requirements Loan. Bank lending to the Dominican Republic during the
FY1979-81 period amounted to US$196 million, which represents about two-thirds
of total lending to the country to date.
15.       Project execution has been generally disappointing.  In some cases,
delays in Congressional ratification of Bank loans have contributed to start-
ing delays, and a difficult fiscal situation has slowed project implementation.
Administrative weakness of some executing agencies has adversely affected
ongoing projects. Disbursement of Bank loans has, consequently, been slow.
The Government is determined to improve the situation. It programmed adequate
counterpart funds in its 1981 budget for all Bank financed projects. Disburse-
ment of budgeted funds, however, became sluggish towards the end of the year due
to smaller than expected government revenues. The recently approved 1982 budget
contains adequate programming of counterpart funds. Recent improvements in
project management of some projects are expected to result in better execution.
16.       In connection with the Sugar Rehabilitation Project, for which a
US$35 million Bank loan was approved in FY1979, a US$90 million co-financing
package had been arranged with private commercial banks to partially finance
the project (US$20 million), and to improve CEA's financial position (US$70
million). After prolonged deliberation, the co-financing package was finally
rejected by the Senate in November, 1980. Since CEA's financial position has
deteriorated in the absence of the co-financing portion designed to refinance
its short-term debt, the Government has recently: (a) substantially increased
the domestic price of refined sugar; (b) decided to allow CEA to retain part
of its export tax; (c) decided not to withdraw dividends from CEA after 1981
until CEA's financial situation is sufficiently improved; and (d) decided to
provide additional equity funds to CEA as required for CEA's current ratio to
attain certain prescribed minimum levels. On this basis, in October 1981 the
Bank agreed to amend the Loan and Guarantee Agreements. The terminal date for
effectiveness was extended to April 30, 1982 to allow enough time for the
Congress to ratify the amended loan documents.
17.       IFC's only ongoing operation in the Dominican Republic consists of a
US$6.0 million loan, and the provision of US$1.4 million in equity for a cement
plant approved in 1974. This project encountered financial difficulties
after the Government established a ceiling for domestic cement prices. The
loan was refinanced in early 1981 after the Government agreed to remove the



- 6 -
ceiling, and additional equity of the order of US$0.4 million was also provided.
Two other loan and investment activities (US$3.0 million line of credit approved
in 1978 and US$2.0 million for a poultry breeder farm approved in 1980) were
cancelled by the Borrowers due to the availability of more favorable financial
alternatives and/or loss of interest on the part of investors. Operations
under consideration by IFC include a milk sterilization project, and a cotton
production project which would introduce production of cotton to the country.
Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans and IFC investments as of
September 30, 1981 and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
18.       Bank lending to the Dominican Republic will continue to support
those sectors in which a special contribution can be made to strengthen
the balance of payments, and to improve social services to the lower income
groups. The project now under consideration would provide sites, services and
shelter units for the urban poor. Consistent with the Government's efforts
to reduce dependency on imported oil, the Bank is actively considering a
first power project, which would include construction of a hydroelectric plant
and part of the distribution system in Santo Domingo; and a coal handling
facility at the port of Haina to allow for the timely provision of imported
coal to a power generating plant under construction near Haina. Two other
coal generating plants are expected to be constructed at that site. A possible
third education project would continue the Bank's role in rural primary
education.
19.       During the 1970-77 period, external lending to the Dominican Republic,
predominantly from the U.S., IDB and the Bank, was modest, totalling US$335
million. IDB's assistance concentrated on irrigation and multipurpose dams.
U.S. assistance concentrated on agriculture, education, health, and PL480
food assistance. The Government which took office in 1978 has improved
planning and project preparation capability and has sought increased assistance
from development agencies. In the last two years, IDB's lending has expanded
considerably, and has concentrated on agriculture including improvements to
agrarian reform settlements, industry, and multipurpose dams. Future IDB
assistance is expected to include agriculture, potable water, road transport,
power and education. Future U.S. assistance is expected to emphasize non-
traditional energy resource development, agricultural development programs,
and rural health and nutrition.
20.       The Bank Group's share of the Dominican Republic's external public
debt outstanding and disbursed was estimated at 7 percent at the end of 1980,
and the Bank Group's share of public external debt service was estimated at
3.4 percent at the end of 1980. Its share of outstanding public debt would
rise to 18 percent in 1985, while its share of external public sector debt
service would increase to about 6 percent.
PART III - THE SECTOR
Urbanization Trends
2
21.        The Dominican Republic, with a territory of 48,000 km , has a
population which in 1980 was estimated at 5.4 million. The resulting



density of 112 people per square km is very high by Latin American standards.
Spurred by rural poverty, migration to Dominican cities has been accelerating
during the last ten years. The main destination of this movement has been
Santo Domingo and, to a lesser extent, Santiago and a dozen other towns in the
30,000 to 100,000 population range. While overall population growth has been
hovering around 3 percent, urban population has been expanding at nearly 6
percent. Over half the Dominican population or an estimated 2.8 million now
live in urban areas, as opposed to 1.6 million in 1970 and 0.9 million in
1960.
22.       Newcomers generally settle in rapidly growing marginal concentrations,
deprived of elementary urban services, and erect precarious dwellings. Approx-
imate counts of these improvised dwellings in the larger cities put their
number at more than 200,000 possibly involving over 1.2 million residents, over
40 percent of the urban population. Illiteracy is high in these districts,
social problems abound, and the lack of adequate sanitation causes a heavy
incidence of dysentery, typhoid and gastro-enteritis.
Employment and Income Distribution
23.        Open unemployment was estimated in 1980 at about 24 percent of the
labor force nationally, but has a particularly severe incidence in areas of heavy
immigration, such as Santo Domingo, where in 1977-78, unemployment exceeded
40 percent for the 15-25 age group. Over 25 percent of the employed work
less than 40 hours per week, and must be considered under-employed. The mean
family income in Santo Domingo amounts to about RD$360 per month, but income
distribution among households is very uneven. More than half of the families
earn less than RD$200 per month. About 38 percent of urban families, or 45
percent of the population can be classified as living in absolute poverty with
monthly incomes below RD$451.
Housing Credit Institutions
24.       The major sources of housing finance in the Dominican Republic are
the Savings and Loans Associations (AAyP), supported and regulated by the
National Housing Bank (BNV), the mortgage banks, and two public sector insti-
tutions: the National Housing Institute (INVI) and the Welfare and Housing
Institute (INAVI). At the end of 1980, the total portfolio of these institu-
tions came to about RD$440 million.
25.       The mortgage banks began operations in 1973 and are now responsible
for about 20 percent of outstanding loans in the sector. INVI and INAVI, which
were created to finance and implement housing for low-income groups and public
sector employees, account for less than 15 percent of total housing loans and
their portfolios have grown very little since 1975. Housing units financed
by the private sector institutions fall mostly in the RD$10,000 to RD$30,000
range for the Savings and Loan System, and housing loans by the mortgage
banks average RD$25,000. Until recently the AAyP's have been lending at 9.5
percent interest and mortgage banks at 11 percent. In 1981, however, the
interest rate was increased above the legal ceiling of 12 percent per
annum by allowing commercial banks to add commissions to the interest charged
to clients.



- 8 -
26.       Deposits and mortgage guaranteed bonds (cedulas hipotecarias) have
been the major sources of funds for these institutions. Low interest rates
for depositors and investors have resulted in a shortage of available funds.
Competition for funds has been one of the reasons why private sector institu-
tions have not financed low-cost housing, which is perceived as a high risk
operation. Other factors have been the relative scarcity and the high cost of
urbanized land and the public sector's difficulties in providing infrastructure
and services on a piecemeal basis.
Land Reserves and Urban Services
27.       The Dominican Republic still holds large land reserves in public
property. Some of this land is found within or on the fringes of its main
urbanized areas. This resource, uncommon in Latin American cities, affords
an opportunity for rational urban development. However, in the absence of a
comprehensive land use policy, land reserves are being rapidly depleted, as
large estates are sold off to the private sector, allocated to variety of
public uses, or are invaded by squatters. Regularization of tenure
by transferring ownership to the present low-income occupants would have to
be accompanied by an integrated program of urban service provision, which no
government institution seems yet prepared to handle.
28.       Basic utilities are managed by specialized public corporations, such
as the National Institute of Potable Water and Sewerage (INAPA), responsible
for the provision of water supply and sewerage to most of the country and the
Santo Domingo Corporation of Potable Water and Sewerage (CAASD), which provides
the same services in the capital city. The Dominican Electricity Corporation
(CDE) has nationwide authority over design, construction and operation of
power generation, transmission and distribution. Due to weak tariff structures
and inefficient collection systems, the services provided by these agencies
fall short of demand and depend heavily on central government transfers.
Recent estimates show that 68 percent of rural and 20 percent of urban homes
have no access to piped water, and in Santo Domingo more than half the city
population lacks waste disposal facilities.
29.       Education and health services, as well as recreation services, are
mainly provided free of charge, within the limitations imposed by budget
constraints, by agencies of the Central Government, including the Ministry
of Education (SEEBAC), the Ministry of Health (SESPAS) and the Ministry of
Sports and Recreation (SEDEFIR). In spite of the more recent efforts of the
Government to attract more qualified personnel by substantially increasing
public sector salaries, there is still considerable understaffing, weak
management, and much concentration of services in urban areas. Public trans-
port is supplied by private bus companies and by minibuses and jitneys,
operating under the regulation of The National Office for Road Transport.
Sector Policy Approach
30.       For several years, Bank economic reports have emphasized the impor-
tance of addressing social issues within the overall strategy for development
in the Dominican Republic in order to achieve a more equitable sharing of the
fruits of economic growth, and make better use of the country's human resource
base.



- 9 -
31.       As a result of the accelerating migratory movements, the public sector
is confronted by a growing demand for basic services by a mass of low-income urban
residents. In the medium term, the Government wants to concentrate on improv-
ing the efficiency of the existing urban systems, and expanding services in
conjunction with shelter schemes for lower-income families. Therefore, a new
policy and appropriate financial instruments are being developed for the
development of low-cost settlements.
32.       Since the private sector can--within an appropriate institutional and
policy framework--provide housing more efficiently, the Government has decided
to place more emphasis on the preparation of land and the provision of urban
services, while diminishing its participation in the construction of dwellings.
The latter would be intended to demonstrate the feasibility of lowering
standards to make housing affordable without subsidy to people in the
25-70 percent range of the income distribution. The houses would be sold
at various levels of completion, ranging from a start-up sanitary unit to a
three-room house--commensurate with the ability to pay and actual expectations
of the target group considered.
33.       In view of high rates of unemployment and under-employment and to
save foreign exchange traditional, simple building techniques based on domes-
tic inputs would be used. While current construction takes place haphazardly
in unplanned locations, where provision of urban services proves often costly
and sometimes impossible, the new policy would induce settlement on pre-selected
sites, offering guaranteed tenure and basic amenities. As the capacity of the
implementing agencies develop over time and a partly self-financing mechanism
becomes well established, the initial programs could be replicated. This
would result in a more organized and controlled pattern of urban growth,
reduced invasions of hurricane and flood-prone sites, less pressure for
sinking public funds into subsidized schemes, and more effective ways of
reaching the truly needy. To enable INVI and the government to plan the
further stages of this strategy in a systematic way, the proposed project
includes a study of future low income housing policy.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
34.       A Staff Appraisal Report - "Dominican Republic - Sites and Services
Project" (No. 3639-DO) dated March 1, 1982, is being distributed separately
to the Executive Directors. Summary data are given at the beginning of this
report. The project was appraised in May 1981. Negotiations were held on
February 3 and 4, 1982. The Borrower and the Executing Agency were represented
by a delegation led by Mrs. Frida Aybar de Sanabia, Director General of the
National Housing Institute (INVI).
Project Origin
35.       Immediately after hurricanes David and Frederick (September 1979), a
brief reconnaissance mission was sent to the Dominican Republic to review the
extent of housing stock destruction and to assess the possibilities of Bank
assistance in this sector. In discussions with the Government, it was recog-
nized that the country's severe housing shortage did not originate in the



- 10 -
hurricanes, but in the need for a more systematic and sustained approach to
low-income housing. A follow-up mission in November 1979 confirmed these
findings and recommended the preparation by INVI of a Bank-supported project,
conceived as the first step in a longer-term process of upgrading living
conditions and providing better shelter for the urban poor.
Project Objectives and Description
36.       The proposed project's major objectives are a new replicable and cost-
effective approach to low-income shelter and strengthening existing implementation
capacity. The project emphasizes:
(a) concentration of public sector efforts in the provision of land,
infrastructure and urban services (2/3 of total project costs), and
limited direct construction of start-up and demonstration units
(1/3 of total project costs);
(b) considerably lower unit costs (80% of the units are affordable by
beneficiaries below the poverty line);
(c) a high level of cost recovery (85% of total project costs);
(d) marketing part of the prepared site (25%) to the private sector
in order to raise funds for re-investment in similar projects;
and
(e) developing the institutional capacity for eventual replication of
this type of program, with gradually reduced financial support by
the government (50% in this initial project as opposed to 100% in
the past).
37.       Assisted by an advance of US$500,000 from the Bank's Project Prepara-
tion Facility (PPF), INVI has prepared plans for two integrated communities,
which would accommodate about 8,000 low-income households in Sabana Perdida
and in Haina, which lie respectively on the north-eastern and western fringes
of the Santo Domingo metropolitan area. The greatest portion of the first site
has been made available to INVI from state property and expropriation decrees
for the remainder (20 percent) and for the second site have been already enacted.
The two areas would be developed in stages according to integrated site plans,
including construction of basic infrastructure (roads, drainage, sewerage, drink-
ing water and power distribution networks), community facilities (education,
health and population, social services and recreation), including procurement of
relevant equipment. Typical lots would be about 100 square meters and lot front-
ages would be kept at a minimum (6-7 m) according to standards aiming at mini-
mizing infrastructure costs. Lot improvement would be gradual with INVI erecting
basic structures on only part of the prepared areas. The costs of land, siteworks
and internal infrastructure would be included in lot prices. A range of shelter
options would be offered at different price levels to carefully selected bene-
ficiaries (see para. 46). Purchase options would range from serviced lots, to
lots endowed with a start-up sanitary core or with semi-finished dwellings of
one, two or three rooms. Each option would be susceptible to successive
extension, through direct, additional improvements by the beneficiaries. The
Project is expected to be completed by December 30, 1986.



- 11 -
The Executing Agency
38.       The executing agency for the project would be INVI, an autonomous
body, created in 1962 with broad statutory responsibilities for design and
implementation of the Government housing policy. However, due to limited
resources and operational capacity, its activities have been limited to the
implementation of small scale projects inspired by government welfare objec-
tives.
39.       Over the past few years, under new management, INVI has performed
remarkably well in post-hurricane reconstruction, its capital base has been
strengthened, its top and medium-level management has been improved, its
structure has been drastically modified and the staff capacities have been
enhanced through the recruitment of competent professionals, reassignment
of responsibilities, on-the-job training and a generous injection of foreign
technical assistance by multilateral and bilateral agencies, which is expected
to continue throughout the period of project implementation. To prepare the
project, INVI formed an efficient Project Unit of about a dozen professionals,
who, with the assistance of consultants, have produced work of high quality
and thoroughness.
40.       These changes have already made INVI a notable example among
Dominican public sector agencies. In terms of relative efficiency, financial
awareness and motivation, INVI offers a promising indication of the Government's
efforts to strengthen existing institutions.
Organization and Staff
41.       INVI is now organized on three main levels:  Policy, General Manage-
ment, and Operations. At the policy level, the Board of Directors consists of
five members, chaired by the Minister of Public Works. Other members are
INVI's Director General who serves as the Secretary; the Director of the
National Planning Office (ONAPLAN); the Director of the Dominican Agrarian
Institute (IAD); and a fifth member appointed by the President of the Republic.
The Board defines INVI's basic objectives, ratifies its by-laws; proposes
legislation for housing promotion purposes; and approves matters related to
INVI's operations. At the management level, the Director General implements
the agency's policies and programs, and is responsible for everyday operation
of the agency. At the operational level, the Administrative and the Technical
Assistant Directors oversee the work of the Divisions in charge of finance,
data processing, social programs and administrative services; and design,
supervision and consruction of works, sites and services and rural projects.
INVI's staff numbered over 320 in 1980, of which about one-fourth were
professional. In 1981, in accordance with Government guidelines, INVI
reduced its support staff by 10 percent, and kept operational staff at the
same level.
Institutional Development
42.       During 1980, INVI undertook a determined effort to strengthen four
major areas. Its production capacity was substantially increased. INVI
constructed and rehabilitated during that year over 40,000 dwelling units, mostly



- 12 -
for hurricane-affected households. It assumed a major coordinating role for
different public and private agencies involved in the reconstruction effort,
while directly investing RD$6.1 million and guiding private sector and self-help
initiatives in 64 different localities. INVI's design capacity has also been
reinforced with the preparation of a series of new projects, among which are the
two large developments proposed for Bank financing. In terms of technical sound-
ness, degree of completion and reliability of cost estimates, these projects were
found to be well prepared. Finally, INVI has undertaken an intensive training
program for its technical and financial staff.
Financial Position
43.       Up to now, except for two external loans on concessionary terms
from the IDB and USAID, INVI's operations have been mainly dependent on
government contributions. In 1980 these amounted to RD$38.5 million, including
equity transfers, budgetary allocations and emergency funds for hurricane
reconstruction. Although payments from beneficiaries (RD$1.5 million in 1980)
constituted a complementary source of financing, the internal generation of
resources is far too low.   Net income before government contributions has been
increasingly negative since 1977. Starting in 1981, an improving trend is
expected as a result of the transfer to INVI of several government-built
housing projects which are expected to make a positive contribution to
profitability. Over the longer term, INVI's finances should be strengthened
through improved pricing, realistic interest rates, and more vigorous
collection efforts.
44.       INVI expects to restrain the growth of its operating expenses
in order to reduce their proportion to the outstanding mortgage portfolio
from 5 percent in 1981, to less than 2 percent in 1986. Over the same
period, the yield on the portfolio would grow as a result of the new inter-
est rate policy agreed with the Bank (para 48). To further improve profit-
ability, INVI would present to the Bank by December 31, 1982 a satisfactory
program to improve its collection procedures which would include measures
to reduce its bad debt losses to 4 percent of portfolio by 1986, and a
timetable for its implementation (Section 3.04 of the draft Project Agreement).
45.       The future strength of INVI's finances would be strongly influenced
by its success in selling land to private developers (paras. 50 and 62).
If this program generates substantial revenues, future Government contribu-
tions to INVI could be substantially lower than those of the recent past
and the Agency could begin to operate on commercial principles. The study
of future low-income housing policy, would recommend measures to strengthen
INVI finances to prevent incurrence of excessive borrowings. INVI would
limit its indebtedness to a level which would prevent its projected debt
service from exceeding two thirds of its internal cash generation (Section 4.03
of the draft Project Agreement).
Selection of Beneficiaries and On-Lending Policies
46.       Mortgage eligibility criteria and procedures for selection of bene-
ficiaries would be consistent with the cost-recovery objective, while focussing
on attracting families whose monthly income presently ranges from RD$100 to
RD$400, corresponding to the 23rd and 68th percentiles of the income scale.



- 13 -
47.       In Santo Domingo, income distribution and housing demand are such
that the target group would include large numbers of low-echelon regular
income earners as is the case of low-rank civil servants of various institu-
tions. In these cases, collection of monthly charges would be organized at
the source, through payroll withholdings. Another share of beneficiaries, for
which a corporate form of mortgage guarantee could be established, comprises
members of trade associations, such as drivers, artisans, retailers. Only a
minority of the beneficiaries would make payment directly. A tentative dis-
tribution among these three categories suggested by INVI is 40, 40 and 20
percent, respectively.
48.       INVI would onlend to project beneficiaries through 20-year mortgages,
including a 5 percent deposit, at an interest rate of 12 percent per annum,
plus 2 percent in additional charges applied annually. The interest rate
would be in line with interest rates for industry, agriculture and tourism,
and would not be below current domestic inflation rates (para. 7). During the
first quarter of each year, the Government, INVI and the Bank would review the
terms and conditions of project sub-loans, which would be revised as necessary.
INVI has also agreed that they would not offer credit for other low-cost
housing programs undertaken after loan signature in cities with more than
30,000 inhabitants, on more favorable conditions than those applied under the
proposed loan (Section 3.03 of the draft Project Agreement).
Innovative Features in Project Design
49.       The project proposes to make use of the public sector's comparative
advantage in the provision of urban land and services for the benefit of the
community. This implies the conversion of a public housing institution into
an agency for urban land development. The crucial test of this operation lies
in INVI's ability to coordinate participation of the private sector in the
production of housing and to gradually achieve commercial viability, while
remaining faithful to its mandate to meet the shelter needs of the lower-income
groups. The project therefore introduces some novel features compared with
previous site and service projects sponsored by the Bank.
50.       The first innovation is the provision that the executing agency
may sell to developers up to 25 percent of the prepared land sites (Section
2.03(d) of the draft Project Agreement). This should encourage private
sector participation in the supply of low-income housing, while enabling INVI
to increase its activities in the Sector. Annual reviews would make it possible
to revise on-lending terms on new loans, should the changing circumstances of the
economy so require, to modify the initially adopted ceiling on the proportion
of land which can be sold, and to change the annual program of shelter con-
struction in light of experience. The annual review would also be used to
verify the congruency of the sales prices with actual cost recovery, as deter-
mined by the contractor's price quotations for the year. Finally, construction
contracts for shelter improvement would be let on the basis of the expressed
preferences of pre-selected beneficiaries, whose debt carrying capacity would be
tested through the monthly collection of the 5 percent deposit, allowing for the
substitution of those in default and the allocation of the property to other
applicants.



- 14 -
Project Cost and Financing
51.       The base cost of the project in mid-1981 prices is US$29 million.
Allowing for physical and price contingencies averaging 6 and 39 percent
respectively, the total project cost is US$42 million, of which US$15 million
would be in foreign exchange. A detailed breakdown of costs is given in the
Loan and Project Summary. The project includes 200 staff-months of consult-
ing services at an average cost of US$6,000 per month.
52.       The proposed US$25.4 million loan would finance the foreign exchange
cost, plus an estimated 38 percent of local costs. Local cost financing is
recommended in view of the existing pressure on budgetary resources, and
tight balance-of-payments situation described in paras. 3 and 4. US$22.7
million of the proceeds of the loan would be made available by the Govern-
ment to INVI under a subsidiary loan agreement on the same terms and
conditions as the Bank loan mainly for construction of serviced lots and
low-cost housing. A condition of Loan effectiveness would be that the
Government and INVI have signed the above subsidiary Loan Agreement on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank (Sections 3.01(b) and 6.02(b)
of the draft Loan Agreement). The Government would also make available
to INVI about US$2.3 million from the proceeds of the loan for construction
of community facilities and the off-site infrastructure. The Government
would provide US$17 million counterpart to INVI as a capital contribution.
The Government would carry the foreign exchange risk and would finance interest
during construction.
Disbursement and Procurement
53.       The Bank would reimburse documented expenditures as follows:
70 percent of local expenditures and 100 percent of foreign expenditures
for all materials, furniture, equipment, and civil works; and 65 percent
of local expenditures and 100 percent of foreign expenditures for consult-
ing activities and extension services. A condition for disbursement of
Bank funds of shelter-related expenditures would be that INVI and the Bank
have agreed on an annual investment program of the shelter component (para
4(ii) of Schedule I of the draft Loan Agreement and Section 2.11(a) of the
draft Project Agreement).
54.       International competitive bidding would be adopted for all contracts
above RD$750,000. Packages below this ceiling would be awarded through local
competitive bidding, open to international participants. As the country's
construction industry is well developed and active, especially in Santo
Domingo, most of the contracts envisaged under the project for civil works
are expected to be awarded to local firms. This would be congruent with the
nature of the works to be performed and the adoption of locally produced
materials and of labor intensive and traditional construction techniques. All
civil works contracts above US$250,000 as well as equipment purchases above
US$100,000 would be subject to ex-ante review by the Bank; for the shelter
contracts, this would be done only for the first development stage. Equipment
for each site would be procured through limited international tendering based



- 15 -
on at least 3 quotations from suppliers in at least two different countries.
All other items, such as office and school equipment would be acquired through
local shopping based on at least three quotations from suppliers.
Establishment of a Project Account and a Special Account
55.       In order to expedite the disbursement of budgeted government funds
for the project, a Project Account would be established with   an initial
government contribution sufficient to cover cash expenditures for the first
implementation year (RD$1.7 million). The Account would be established at
Banco de Reservas and would be managed by INVI. The Government would continue
replenishing the Project Account established at Banco de Reservas and keep at
all times in such account not less than the equivalent of RD$500,000 (Section
3.02 of the draft Loan Agreement).
56.       To supplement the government contribution, a Special Account in US$
would be established in the Central Bank of the Dominican Republic, with an
initial deposit by the Bank of US$1.0 million equivalent to 60 percent of the
estimated expenditures for civil works, buildings and equipment in the first
implementation year. The proposed fund would be administered by the
International Agreements Department of the Central Bank. Procedures for the
operation of the Special Account have been agreed with the Government and INVI
(Section 2.02(c) through (h) of the draft Loan Agreement).
Accounting and Auditing
57.       INVI's financial department would keep an appropriate system of
accounting, financial and budgetary controls. The system would be consistent
with regular procedures operated by the Government and INVI, and would be
designed to the satisfaction of INVI's external auditors. INVI has agreed
to continue having its financial statements audited by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank. Annual audit reports for the Government's special
account, the project account, and for INVI'S accounts would be submitted to
the Bank no later than four months after the closing of each fiscal year
(Section 4.02 of the draft Loan Agreement and Section 4.02 of the draft
Project Agreement).
Marketing Arrangements
58.       Sales prices of individual lots would recover the proportional costs
of land, earthworks, on-site infrastructure and the full cost of building
improvements erected by INVI on specific plots, including the corresponding
costs of design, supervision, administration, extension services and interest
during construction (Section 2.03(b) of the draft Project Agreement). Besides
selling property to its own beneficiaries, INVI expects to dispose of part of
the land prepared under this project through direct sales to third parties,
such as private developers, savings and loan associations, etc. Such institu-
tions in the past have been reluctant to enter into the low cost housing
market, partly because of the non-availability of serviced land. It is
expected that other housing credit institutions, cooperative building associa-
tions, workers unions, enterprises and private voluntary organizations may
want to acquire from INVI and independently develop defined tracts of land.



- 16 --
59.       Subject to review, the project assumes outright sale of 20 percent
of the prepared land (17.2 ha) or about half the residential areas upon which
INVI would construct no shelter improvement. Another 5 percent of serviced
sites would be earmarked for commercial use and would be sold to private
entrepreneurs, as the demand arose. These transactions would be subject to
Bank approval to ensure that the ultimate use of the property would be consistent
with the main objectives of the project. At the discretion of INVI, prices of
individual lots could reflect variations from the average cost price, depending
on their specific setting (corner lots, lots facing paved or secondary streets,
internal lots, lots facing open spaces). Differential pricing criteria, which
would afford a measure of cross-subsidization on specific shelter alternatives,
would be subject to agreement with the Bank during the yearly reviews. Sales
prices would be based on actual cost information supplied by the implementation
unit backed by definitive plot plans and would be calculated by the financial
department to include the corresponding financial and administrative charges.
Consistent with Government policy, beneficiaries would not be charged for
community facilities and off-site infrastructure costs.
Environmental Impact Analysis
60.       As part of project preparation, INVI contracted a specialized
consultant to analyze the potential ecological impact of the two develop-
ment schemes. His recommendations have been incorporated in the project
design. They cover protective measures for vegetation and water resources
and include comprehensive proposals to mitigate the environmental impact
of the new settlements as well as control of pests and disease vectors.
Economic Rate of Return and Sensitivity Analysis
61.       The economic benefits of the proposed project were estimated on the
basis of the willingness of the beneficiaries to pay for the services provided,
as revealed by existing rents and other charges on dwellings under similar
conditions elsewhere in Santo Domingo. Based on these findings, annual economic
benefits were estimated to range between US$480 and US$1,200 per household,
depending on the type and level of completion of individual dwellings. On the
basis of the cost and benefit streams and assuming an economic life of 30 years
(with no residual value taken into account), the best estimate of the internal
economic rate of return (IERR) for the entire investment program is 15 percent.
In addition, the impact on the economic rate of return under adverse fluctuations
of some of the basic cost and benefit variables was also estimated. Investment
costs include physical contingencies of 10 percent; when for purposes of
sensitivity analysis they are allowed to rise by a further 10 percent, the
viability of the project is not affected (IERR: 13.0 percent). Similarly,
project viability remains substantially unaffected when investments to be
carried out by the individual families and the corresponding benefits are
delayed by one or two years (IERR: 13.5 percent and 12.0 percent respectively).
Project Risks and Proposed Remedies
62.       Continuity of government support is deemed critical for the success-
ful implementation of the project by the executing agency. A reversal of its
housing policy in the future is unlikely, given the general consensus on the
validity of the project and, under the present economic circumstances the
lack of real alternatives to meet widespread popular demands.



- 17 -
63.       Concerns with the future fiscal ability of the Government to meet
allocations to the housing sector justifies the project's emphasis on cost-
effective solutions and on a high level of cost recovery. Availability of
counterpart funds to meet the requirements of the implementation schedule
is sought through the establishment of a Project Account by the Government,
matched by the Bank advance of a Special Account to cover expected expendi-
tures in the first implementation year. To offset possible problems of
inter-agency coordination and delays in the execution of off-site infra-
structure and community facilities, which could affect the marketability of
the project, funds for the implementation of these works would be made avail-
able directly to INVI, which would contract their execution or make contri-
butions to the utility companies to cover the incremental costs.
64.       Another concern is the capacity of the executing agency to sustain
a substantial and prolonged process of change, while establishing a new policy
and gradually achieving commercial viability. Although the significant
improvements achieved by INVI in the past two years represent promising
evidence in this respect, substantial inputs of technical assistance are
planned over the project period for institutional strengthening and develop-
ment, together with careful monitoring of implementation progress.
65.       Other risks are obviously related to the timely marketing of the
project to the target group. The pricing of the planned facilities is in line
with the capacity to pay of the target group even when implementation fees,
contingencies and interest during construction are fully charged to the
beneficiaries. Should their income fail to keep pace with inflation, there is
a risk that the rank of households able to afford the solutions offered might
shift upwards by several percentage points. However, since the project envisages
that the different dwelling units that will be offered for sale will range
from start-up sanitary units to three-room houses, there will still exist the
possibility of an optional dwelling for a family whose income has fallen, albeit
a lesser finished one.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
66.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Dominican Republic and the
Bank, the Project Agreement between the National Housing Institute (INVI) and
the Bank, and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section
4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed separately. Special
conditions of the loan are listed in Annex 3. Conditions of effectiveness are
that (a) a subsidiary loan agreement, acceptable to the Bank, between the
Government and INVI, has been signed, and (b) the Project Account has been
established, and that the Government has deposited the equivalent in Pesos
$1.7 million. A condition of disbursement of shelter-related expenditures
is that INVI and the Bank have agreed on annual investment programs for the
shelter component.



- 18 -
67.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
68.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachment                                         By: M.A. Qureshi
Washington D. C.
March 4, 1982



- 19 -                                        ANEX I
TABLE 3A                                        Page  1  of  6
HAITI - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
HAITI                             REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVEBES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND S0. KM.)                                                         - MOST RECENT ESTINTE) 
TOTAL             27.8                                NDST RECET             MIDDLE INCoME           MIDDLE INCaKE
AGRICULTURAL      14.0              1960  lb   1970 & ESTIMATE  b   LATIN APICA 4 CARIBEAN  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHNA
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                 100.0       120.0    260.0                   1616.2                    794.2
ENERGY CONSUSPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)     36.3        34.5      65.9                   1324.1                    707.5
POPULAIION ANU VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, HID-YEAR (THOUSANDS) 3630.0       4235.0   4920.5
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 15.6        19.9      26.9                    64.2                     27.7
POPULAILON PROJECTlONS
POPULAT1ON IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                       8.1
STATIUNARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                        17.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATlUN IS REACHED                 2090
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KE.                      130.6       152.3     177.0                    34.3                     55.0
PER SQ. Di. AGRICULTURAL LAND    259.0       300.0    345.3                     94.5                    130.7
PUPULAIION AGE SIRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                        40.9        42.9      43.4                    40.7                      46.0
15-64 YRS.                        55.2        53.3      53.1                    55.3                     51.2
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                  3.9         3.8       3.5                     4.0                      2.8
POPULAIION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              1.6         1.5       1.7                     2.4                      2.8
URBAN                              4.1         4.0       5.0                     3.7                      5.1
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    44.7        43.1       40.8                    31.4                     46.9
CRUDE UEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     19.3       16.5       14.0                     8.4                     15.8
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              3.0         3.0       2.8                    2.3                       3.2
FAMILY PLANN ING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)      ..          ..       16.1
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..          ..       5.0
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)         104.0      100.0      92.0                   108.3                     89.9
PER CAPITA SUPPLY oF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
RELUIREMENTS)                   88.0       87.0      93.0                   107.6                     92.3
PROTEINS (GKAMS PER DAY)         47.0        47.0      51.0                    65.8                     52.8
OU WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       17.0        17.0      18.0                    34.0                     16.1
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE     35.7        26.0      20.9                     7.6                     20.2
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   44.4        49.1       53.1                   64.1                     50.8
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                            ..       150.jc                             70.9
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..         ..       14.0                   65.7                     27.4
URBAN                               ..         ..       38.0                   79.7                     74.3
RURAL                              ..          ..        7.0                   43.9                     12.6
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
UF POPULATION)
TUTAL                              ..          ..        ..                    59.9
URBAN                              ..          ..        ..                    75.7
RURAL                                          1.0       ..                    30.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN         9230.5    11569.0   5936.5                    1728.2                  13844.1
PUPULATIUN PER NURSING PERSON    10342.3     7066.7   4230.1                   1288.2                   2898.6
PUPULAIINO PER ROSPITAL BED
TOTAL                          1567.4      1194.6   1219.0                    471.2                   1028.4
URBAN                           298.0          ..     583.4                   558.0                    423.0
KURAL                              ..          ..   3309.9                       ..                   3543.2
AUMISSlUNS PER HOSPITAL BED          ..          ..
80USlNG
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              ..         3.6       4.4
URBAN                              ..          2.2      4.2
RURAL                                         4.3       4.5
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TUTAL                              ..         1.9
URBAN                              ..         2.0
RURAL                               .1. .9
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
UF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                               ..        4.1       2.9
URBAN                              ..          ..
RUKAL                              ..          ..



- 20 -                                       ANNEX I
TAILE 3A                                          Page  2  of  6-
HAITTS bTAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
HAITI                            REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AV5RAGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
MOST RECENT             MIDDLE INCCME          MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                46.0        51.0      58.0                    101.7                     73.7
MALE                 50.0        57.0        ..                    103.0                     96.8
FENALE               42.0        46.0        .,                    101.5                     79.0
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                  4.0         6.0        9.0                    35.3                     16.2
MALE                  5.0         8.0      13.0                     34.9                     25.3
FEMALE                2.0         4.0       6.0                     35.6                     14.8
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (2 OF SECONDARY) 21.0         19.0        8.0                    30.1                      5.3
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                           43.0        52.0      41.0                     29.6                     36.2
SECONDARY                         13.0        18.0        ..                     15.7                     23.6
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)       15.0        23.3         ..                    80.0
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         2.0         2.7       3.5                     42.6                     32.3
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         5.8        19.6      20.6                    215.0                     69.0
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         0.5         2.6       2.9                     89.0                      8.0
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                 11.0        18.7      19.7                     62.8                     20.2
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..          ..        1.2                     3.2                      0.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)     1970.9      2104.4   2345.3
FEMALE (PERCENT)                  47.6        46.4      45.6                     22.6                     36.7
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)             80.0        74.2       73.7                    35.0                     56.6
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 6.4         7.2       7.2                     23.2                     17.5
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               54.3        49.7      47.7                     31.8                     37.2
MALE                                58.4        54.3       52.7                    49.0                     47.1
FEMALE                              50.4        45.2      42.8                     14.6                     27.5
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              0.8         0.9        1.0                     1.4                      1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS     ..          ..
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..          ..
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS     ..          ..
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS     ..          ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..      169.0                      ..                    381.2
RURAL                               ..          ..     144.0                    187.6                    156.2
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..      82.0                    513.9                    334.3
RURAL                               ..          ..      73.0                    362.2                    137.6
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                               ..          ..      55.0
RURAL                               ..          ..      78.0
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means. Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; *nd for Most Recent Estimate, between 1976 and 1979.
/c   1965-70 average.
/d The updated 1980 GNP per capita and population estimates to be showh in
the 1981 World Bank Atlas are $1,140 (at 1978-70 priced) and 5,437.0
thousand.



- 21 -ANf 
Page 3 of 6
0RPI51TIO59 OF SOCIAL ISICATOISS
Xotees  Although the dat. ..e dreW  froa  oorc... ne al  jodad the .e eat theuitative aed fellable. it ehold  lso he poatd that they   , eat ha later-
eati-onlly compar.bl. beono. of the laok of st.odardi.ed definition  end  oonepte u...d b4y diff.aret cotunite  La so11otieg th. data.  The data ae,en-
tha1I..., Maefo  to de-ribe odrof megaitd., tedicet. treed.  . ed oher-t-rI.  -rt.n major diff.renoa  betaceOoa- ie
The rtfer.o  pOrps are (I) the. --  poo.try Soop of the .objeot  -ootry aed (2) a conetry scoop with eom-eht K'gEW  acerag. inco    thee the oootry grop
of che eubjut  omcery (aetpt for "Capital SorylI- Oil feporear." group where 'Viddl. I--o. Worth Afria a-d KiAddi  Ieet" is ob.ae beesee  of eroaps
aooio-eelteral affinities).  In the referece stoo p date the           r..  ero popelatiee wighted *rihtlsii  eeae  for each ledicatof  An  abo   only 
majority of the  oe-toiae La a Stoop ha. data for that ledicator.  Sino. the  -ovrag  of -tootio ..  ...s the iedi-t.to    depend, en th. avaUbilitY of dat.
eed i.e mt uniform, oaotiee ma-t b. exat.Led ie relating  -voega  of one iedicetor to eother.  Trhea.  -.P.ge  are ony nafo1 to ..o .Lacg the  -ale  ef
Sea iudicator at a tim. aong tha  -toory and ofeec   roe
LAW AMIA (tho..eed eq.he.)                                                                        potwlatto  p00 go..pt.I Sa  - total, orb.., en  toral - Ppolatiom  (total.
Total - Total eucf ace area  ompri.ing Iced are  aed inl.ed water..                               orha, aed rorel) divided by thier  -epective nobar of hoapitnl bade
Astiol't.cca  - X.tinat. of  Kc.gr.ltu.. l area .aed teporarily or parm-natty                       railabla ie ptblio aed Vr-v.t  geaMr.1 aed .pecilie.d hrepit.1 aedre
fo   r p..a.tur.a. mache  .ed hitch.. gardno. or to lie fellow; 1970 dat..                hehiateti. ceate..  So.pitala are astabii~mboaat. porrmaneetly eauffad
by at1ileat oi   -Zxia . t.rbltilanat. previdia  prIotipelly o.te-
ME7 P01 CAPITA (0555 - GNP per capIta oatiat. at ourret  arkat Price.... cn-                         dial cer . era not included,  heal haPitale, howevr. inlda health
colatad by .aecovr.omthod a. World leok Atlca (1977-79 boeie); 1960,                              and medical contare act parmmwanatly etaftfd by a phy.liti    (bet bya
1970, and 179 date.                                                                               eadil a...i.tot. eurex  midwife. etc.) which of fe  i-patimat acr
datie, oed Provid. a limited teaSe of medica  fatilitina.  Fet  tatia,
MTSUl   CONU5MPTION PER CAPITA - A--Ia connuptiot of trnatia1 ceary  Ice                             tital perp-oc    rb o ha.bpital.  eclada VW. prleoipea/seearal hoepitale
&ad ligeit.. patrol..., eat-.Ic  g. cod bydo-, endear ad gotherma  .la-                           and Lr.1e bcepit.la% Local or roral heopita.2a nd madiol eaad met-rity,
trtitir) i. kilogrnma  f col-     qtlatper cepit.; 1960. 1970. eed 1979                           oeet.r..  Specilaloed hoapitale are inoluded mely mda- total.
foob-hepteladividd  by eh To m    f  ae
POPULATION ADVTLDTSTITCS
Total P.olaio.  Midtea  feoCL -de  - Ae of Joly 1; 1960. 1970, .od 1979                       5005550
data.                                                                                         Ave... a.tie. of go"-bhld SparoMoPa pr bpea"hmlA   - total. eubm. ead ceam,"-
Urben porltlo  (re -totof  ttF           latin ofob, to total Ppapldtloo                          A hereabld coni.t. of a poop of iediv1-la M. W."r 1ivis qeat..
diffen   dhiti.o  ~a. area. may effect cepoa-bility of dt.t                                     ad their male ma.I..  A boardar or ledge    y er may ne  h  inaleda  Se
emoef ioetriae  1960,1970. aed 1979 data,                                                 the heeaheld for  t.tti.tioal prp--a..
Ftnato   Prlaio                                                                             vre  obe   fero.prra - total. or                   M.ad octal - Aver.age a
Poenintino On Fea  2000 - Correct pupol.tioo projeolte  are..  ba...d .0 1980                   har of- paaono  uo rom   Pin ell orb.. a-d e-re  occpied com tlomal
tetal popuclation by ag  an  a-  eo  their mortality cod fertility ratea.                     dwelling., repecti-ely.  Dwelling. eacld. eaw-p -mamt  trtowtre  -A
Projeotiot peronta. Set -marlity rota, comprise of three loyal. *a.S-                          -..ccPld Part..
ins life  apectnocy at birthb tecaieg with co-try'.Per capito maoo.                         Aocee  to tlnotricitr (rercet of dw1llinaml - tota.  ebn   a   ea 
-levl  and fama. 1if. eopm.ttay  utbilieieg at 77.5 year. ITh. pace                           Coevo Mol deellieg  wth el.cotriity i. line  Roartare expmr-teea
eatere for fertility rate alec here tbrae le-e. eaoei.s dcine in                              of total, urban. .d coral dwelllos.reatll.
fertility .....rdleg to incem  1 1a ae  Pant family PL-cein   prformac..
Each country i. thee -.itged one of the.e ale  coebiutioe  of mortality                   EDCATION
an,d f.rtlliey  reeod. for proJntioe porposee.                                               Aoted RarolleeneRatin.
tatioar  P.ontion-_in   etatloa             popolctloe there ia -r growath gie..               Priarahe   - total, maecd     l   -  r-ce total, male ad f.-I.
th   brth reta ia equal to the death rate,adas  t.aeerotc .                                   encol-ant of ell ngr. at, ha primc=        eeq nM eteea  o   .ptv
_mae coentaet.  Thie I. achieved oaly  ftter fcrtility rate  deollee to                         primar  echeol-ag  popultlone  nomaly inold.e childrn egad 6-01
the repincomet le-e  of enit ace rprodectioe cre., oh.. eah generattot                          year. but edjostd f or differaot 1eeSthe ef primacy edocti*e; fee
of woe  replacec itecIf exatly.  The etoetienr  ppuletioo ... aae                                o-nrtia. with oci-eal educa.ti- onerolimat up   -ac d 195 percet
etictad oe the he.ie of the pro.c.ted thrnoteri.tira of the prpultioei- tar.oma pupila ere holy or above the official soboo  "a.
inthe yea  2000, nod tb. rate of decline of fortility rate to r.pl...-                      Seodr  oel-ttl   aeoffl       ~td an  bove; eecotatar
Tear etetionY Ocruloti.. i rec-hed - The peer whee  tetionery popoletbo                           provide. geara-l, roctionel, or teahrtane=   ftrcim    e   ei
.te. h.. b-n  rechod.                                                                           -oeally of12 to 17 yeaco of eg.; crapa.t   oar.   are gaterIIy
Poorlution Dft.ity                                                                                   ancldad.
Per eO. k. -  id-year popoitioe per eqore kilomter (100 heotar.el of                            vocaiona   nolma   erient of .e drvl - Vocattoa  ntioIo
eotal area  1960 , 1970 and 1979 dat..                                                          bald   ahlo.idere.o   te    rg                        wich oparate Sadapee-
Far eq. ke. esl            I.t.e ad - Computed a. thov  for egicoltor1 land                       antly or .e depertmenat. of secondar  iaetitetine.
al:16.1970 end 1975 date.                                                               fotil-teachar ra.ti  --tImay   n   aondar  - Total atedeta  -aclle  tS
Pooiatoobaastrctrm  eer.nj -Chidro (-lbyer.)  woilg-eo (5-Priamar  ued acoedr  lol  diided by embar. of tea~chre in the4
66 year.), *  d retired (65 year.  ed oe)a  p-ranotg.. of aid-yea  pop.-                           orreopooding level..
lotion; 1960. 1970. sed 197 9 date.                                                             Adalt litercyra .t.  E-.-at  - Litr.ct. edelee fable  a read  a.d nit.)
foretigo  Groth ha~te (estrotl  tota ,- Aceaal  rowth ret.. of total aid-                           aaperceetase of totel edot population  Vage  15 year. andeer
PPoeletloc Growt Dote fenecet) _ orb.. - A-n   coalgoth rate. of orhe  pope-                  1000057T100
latio-a for 1950_60. 19 7. ed 1970-79.                                                        Pe.e.eee  Car,,le  thorenad  eolro)- P:aegeo core oW1rea ntor
Crude grth tar  loer toca9=d  - Annua  lIve birthe per tho..s.od of  Uj-y.nccr   xtn   eathesseproo   aine                                         ,eos   ere
.Popl.tiool 1960. 1970. end 1979 d.tc.                                                          militry  -ehiole..
Crude Death Sate lear tho.-aod  -  eAun1 death, per tho-and. of mid-yea                         'Iado  :eavr  Iee  thoocad "nenlatio) - All type  of r-ci-  for radio
proeio   960. 1970, ud 1979 date.                                                        broarite` to  a-ore  Public Par the`ead of population   xloa   n
Groa  Ierout..o Sate -' Average ouber of dcoghtece a  oa    il bear in                            licened receiv-re in  -cTrire end in yeae e-  reginoratian ef radio
hernoma  -p-odotiv- period if she.x.iae  pree-   ne-pecift 10  re-                              eeew . teffect; data for recet year. my ece he comarabia  Pim
tility rate.; un1all  five-year  -veag. andieg i.,1960. 1970. en  1979.                         mat rcottiee  bho1iehd li-ein.8
f      rtll Plase  - A,cart,r, Anoa   tbooeade) - boAl1  .. bar of a pccpor.                  TV Sacai-ere foar th--aad ovolation) - TVreiar  fer br-adoet t
ofbio-ceo., device. ~e   e.p ica. of tational family pleoniog prop..                        gaaor1 public per tho.eand popolation;. emledee elineeaxd TV re-ceivere
P.ai1 P11~icunieg- Ul.a   loeceet  f4 macrid eos)         - pretag. oc maried                     10 rariecd 10 year. then r-Strntion of TV .et.  -n  in effect.
moma, f chil-heari g g  (15-A  y.r)wh           irth-rottro1 device.o..         ~           pprCroito   e t.thousandeoreia1oc  - Shew  th. a-erag  cir-
all married  -ra  it eam  ego grou P.oueitf 'doily  oerlianet nw                                                                                   . define  aeperiodical
poblicatI.e devted primarily to recoria  Sec-ral  -ae   It L. conidered
F000 AMID 000T710                                                                                    to he"ely   fi   .pp.. at.          atfntItnea  ek.
ledoa of Food PrVdrtiocrtCot   1h-110   -ldn                        e   ciaana                   mac Anneal Atctnec           Cap ita.trTer-eadnthnn    f
prodution oalfndc ditic.  Pootn    alade. ..od end fee  ad                                      tickaee  -Id docics thyer. ioloding emen ato driv-in tin
le or ulodu  your bceie.  Coomoditios rovr prImary gode (e.g.  .pgran                           end mabfle unt..
inated of eugr) which are edible end  ct.in outrioie  (osg. coffee end
ten t areecluded).  Agg-egut  p..doctioc of each countr  ia hueed onIABl FORCE
uoticopl   r.vras  prodo...r price ..ighte; 1961-65, 1970, and 1979 d.ta.                     Total Labor Fort. Ltheuncde) - oootalyailv   a pr-,m inoldiag
Petcaro PkurY -of calrIe  berrat of -reeoiramets) - Computed fcm                          armed f-rt. end oawloyed hot ealedi.g boae-i-e, stodec. etc.,
energy equIvalet of eot food  npylins a-ilable in oootry per capita                           coeigpupuletio. of all age..  Daf iiti-m  in  erOna ooettia  ate
prday.  Available .oyplia. romptiec domeoti. prod.trie..  imprte l...                       not comprable; 1960. 1970 end 1979 date.
export., end chosee io  -.ko.  Ost -ppoliee enolde coim    feed. eeds,                      Pl-e  leerceetl - Fde labor force a. peceaeof total labor forr.
q-ntitlee. ::d ic fond Ptoree... lg  .ed lo..-. it diatrhctioo. R"iaqieAacotr    aoot  -Lbor frce infamig  forerr. bootias end
mato wer  aetimtaOd by PAO ba..d cc phy.i.lcci-I corde foct actual .ti-                         iohlog  nperoentaa of total lebor fr.  1960, 1970 -an  1979 data..
vity end health c...eidero    tvg    oec tolrapetetoe  body weight., cc.                    Inetylco)- Labor f.rrs to ebS. co-etruotion, mafaetnoin
ned en diettibuti.e of populutiot, and .1100100 10 poceet for w .asto ci                      nd electr.icity. fleer eod ge .  'percetage of total labor forte  1960.
hoeod level;.f191-05, 1970, and 1977 dato.                                                1970 end 1979 data.
Prat.ot17 of  r.t.i. (ram Pa pr day)   fotoic coteot of put capita                    Perticiantion Dae  ru atl - total, mal. an      l                  u-Pclipetion c
.et epplyl  of ford per day.  Not copply o0 foodisi defined ta. eboe.  Re-                    ectivty taeaecmpted a. total. mal,Man  0 malabloor fertm  M
:oicmet. focc .11 co  re    eel.a   by UiDA provide too miolac                                porceetaee of tcte1. male end fadle pupelatiom  ef all as.  -eapxctivlyg
llo-not. of 60 gram  of tcto  protoit par duy uod 20 ga-  of etica  .rd                      1960, 1970, and 1979 dare.  Th.ee era baced on 1110's participation rate
pol.eV  prtin, of  hich 10  cEne  hbrold ho aiIma  protein.  Th..e egad-                     caletnP---.  arcor  of tho popoleton. -nd Ions tin  treedt.  A
coe  o  loo  then thoso of 75 gra- of ro-I proteio cod 23 gra- of                          fee teine   are from eatloex  aorm.,
eeixal prrteie .   o   rtg  for th. ncid. pccps...d by lAO in the Third                    tco cDecP-denry  atlo - Rcti0 of popolti- code  IS an  65 en  ovr
rlotd Pood Sucry; 1961-65, 1970 and 1977 dor.                                                cctho talobrfrt..
Far cent. proteic ....Iy fro  eima ed  ol - Protelo e.Pply of for  de-
rived from anul. end pole. it  n  Pot day; 1961-65. 1970 .ed 1977.d.t..                  MoCUMN DITRyIBUTION
Child (can 1-4) Motality Eate (Per tho-ecd) _ oca_1 deutb. Par tboneed 10                       Poreeox  of  Priret-2 bra  (both j  real end kiod  - loetrd by trLhaat
age  roup1-i  ear. tochilrenIc thi:.,ag  group; for net dy-loping coon-                7  uceo. rbut2  peren. poee  20puce.dpoce                                 urn
iris, date derIved from  life tablee; 1960. 1970  Io  1970 data,                                of honeobolda..ra                                          dp- t40p            t
HrALTH                                                                                          POVtRT  TARGET 7 bUPS
Life Saoetanc - et Birth (yea.).  - A-erego osbec of peace of lif    - omicig                   The fol1omlo  eetitmaee  are vry epproimat  na,raof povety lvel.,
Infant Mortality Rate (ar Itho..and) - An-ueI daatha of inft.o  under on  year                  taiatdAeooe  oetd lotom  Lee.                00.-idn.     obead  oe
of age par tbo.and live birth..                                                                 Abeol.t. poverty    -Icnla. "li  te  iocalaa  boSn which e m.is1a
Auc... to late Wfareo foeccet of Pouitio- -totl   r ,adocl   M- t-                                otition-lly  d.dquat  di.tpnae. 1tc  to-food reqeirmeto ie nt
bar of Peni   ttl.       rbn1   o   oe)   ihtncal  a.....e to' eaf0                               frdbo
enter eoPply (acludee tcctd surface eater. oo untrttd hot uoooteainted                        letieated Rlati-e Povty Io.c-  leve  (00 or copita) - urban Sd totl-
water autha. thet'from pruttctd hre.ehc1, epritge, and suitery welle) eRrota  reetir .Poverty icm   oli. ene-bird of eeooprcpt
per-totge. of thatr repciopoPulotion.    It at icbec  re  a public                              pIatl  oc   r   h  recy 1re   ee   adrvdfo   h   ua
foontio or et.dpcet  oreted not mato then 200  atore from a h...o ny ho                         levelrich  djotau  fcc -igbry-rbcc. cSliin it   orb..cf oreae.
creideed  s mos  itin  aa.ache nne. o  thr bcae   i  coal  rea-fei              itod  dotoati t flow Ahiglot Povety (io'  on leve    .1-a)-  r
baionlerre  erthd Imply       .a .... thattetcewioc  hoebece i  theheee1 l               an= d rrl-treto   ouelt(r,edrrl   h   c   ae1t
do to  hero tc *Pdadieprrprcticeta pact fO 1b0 day In f-thieg thObofP...i.(b-.                                                                       .)h..     . It
family'. eacar tends
Ecee .o oreta Dieo..I Ice-cet of rocaio-total, crbao, ..d totl 
Nomb-t:of P-PpIe (total. -               _       __ n   url  ere  by -ortu di.puec1 a.
Pecar tegeof their rep-ctv  popnlstio-e.  Eacrees diepre1 may ioclcde
th. collection end dienoea1, etoborwthu  tete,               of huxa  eac.teOcodn  and tocta1 Satt  Dili
sod wate-wte  by enter-born  ey.te ia 00tCI u.. or pit prvesed .Oio                                                             E-noir Onnlyi. end ftejeotioo   leparteaant
Poooetio  parPhyeoinc - Popletioc dioidad by ember cf prc.titieg phy.i-                                                                        My18
mo    ulified from e medical school at coir--ity lo-a.
Porolatioc pre  Sereioe Pe.... .PoPolotica divided by oub.r of practicing
male end fomel  grod.ateour-., p-oti-e  acres.., and a.. ierctoo..



- 22 -
ANNEX I
DOMINICAN RE;PUBLIC -  ECONOMIC INDICATORS                    pape a   of 6
Population     :   5444   (mid-1980  thousands)
GNP Per Capita: US$  1.140 (1980)
Amount                                     Annual growth rate (1) At constant prices
(m illion     US$    ----------------------------------------------------------        ---- - ------------------------
Indicator                         at current prices)                                 Actual                                   Projected
1979                                      --------------------   - ---   ----    - -   ---   ------
1976    1977    1978    1979    1980   1981(e)              1 1982    1983    1984    1985
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross domestic product (a)                   5496            6.7      5.D     2.2      4.8      5.4     3.4                5.4      5.3      5.2      5.1
Agriculture                                1026           7.3       1.7     4.6      1.1      4.5     5.0                3.5      3.4     3.3       3.3
Industry                                   1503           7.6      7.2      4.3   -16.8       5.6     2.0               6.0      5.8      5.6      5.3
Services                                   2967           6.0      5.5      4.5      4.0      7.6     3. 3               5.6     5.6       5.6     5.5
Consumption                                  4504            5.0     3.8      0.4      1.3      7.6   -1.7                 7.8      6.3      5.9     6.4
Gross investment                             1301          -6.4       8.1     2.7      7.0    19.9      6.1               -1.3      4.0      3.9      2.5
Exports of GNFS                              1129            7.7     0.0    -5.8    22.1   -18.8    15.0                   7.4      3.9      5.0      4.4
Imports of GNFS                              1437          -2.1      5.4    -5.6    13.6        6.6     3.6                6.2      6.3      6.2      6.1
Cross national savings                        843         -15.1    13.5    14.6    16.1    -6.4                    -                 -        -        -
PRICES
GDP deflator                                  200         161.8   177.0   179.3   200.1   232.1
Exchange rate                                   -            1.0      1.0      1.0      -        -
Share of GDP at Market Prices (%)                             Average Annual Increase (Z)
(at current prices) (b)                                    (at constant prices)
1960   1970   1975   1980   1985   1990              1960-70   1970-75   1975-80   1980-85   1985-90
Gross domestic product (a)                      100.0  100.0  lon.0  10O.0  100.0  100.0                  4.5        9.3        4.5        5.3        4.2
Agriculture                                    26.7   23.2   21.5   18.7   15.4   14.6                  2.1        1.4        3.5        3.6        3.1
Industry                                       23.2   26.1   31.6   28.0   31.8   31.8                  6.0       13.9        3.8        5.8        4.2
Services                                       50.1   50.6   46.9   53.3   52.8   53.7                  5.0        9.2        5.3        5.6        4.6
Consumption                                      80.7   88.2   75.5   84.5   75.5   82.2                  5.6        7.8        3.0        5.3        5.9
Gross investment                                  11.7   19.1   24.5   23.4   25.2   18.8                11.4       17.6        5.8        2.8       -1.0
Exports GNFS                                     23.8   17.2   28.0   19.2   15.1   14.9                 -0.1       11.1        7.1        7.1        3.8
Imports CNFS                                     16.2   24.5   28.1   27.1   15.8   16.0                  9.2       12.5        3.3        5.9        4.4
Gross national savings                            18.0   10.1   21.4   12.3        -      -              -0.5       16.0
As % of CDP
1960     1970       1975     1980
PUBLIC FINANCE (f)
Current revenues                                         -        16.3      18.2      12.9
Current expenditures                                     -        11.6       8.0      10.7
Surplus (+) or deficit (-)                               -         4.7      10.2       2.2
Capital expenditure                                      -         6.2       9.1       5.1
Poreign financing                                        -         1.0       0.3       1.6
1960-70   1970-75   1975-80   1980-85   19R5-90
OTHER INDICATORS
GNP growth rate (X)                                        4.5         9.2        5.0        5.2        4.2
GNP per capita growth rate (X)                             1.7        5.8         1.9        2.4        1.4
Energy consumption growth rate (7)                          -           -          -         5.7        5.6
ICOR                                                       2.6        2.5        5.2         5.0        5.0
Marginal savings rate                                     -0.0        n.3       -5.0         1.8         -
Import elasticity                                          2.1         1.3        0.7       1.1         1.0
(a) At market prices; components are expressed at factor cost and will not add due to exclusion of net indirect taxes and subsidies.
(b) Projected years at constant prices.
(e) Estimate.
(f) Central government only



_ 23 -
ANNEX I
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC -  EXTERNAL TRADE           Page S of 6
PopuletioO     :  5444   (aid-19 80 thoulond5)
GNP Per Capita  115$  1,140(1980)
Annual Crnmth Rates (2)
(at constant 1970 prices)
Amount                         ------------ ------------------------
Indicator                   (million I0s$ at                              Actual                                 Projected
current prices)       --_    -                                               _________-_
1979            1976     1977      1978     1979    19R0    1981(e)       19R2     1983      1984     19q5
EXTERNAL TRADE
Merchandise exports                  817.5             13.8      5.8     -2.7     21.0    -15.9   17.6           5.5       2.3      3.6      2.6
Primary                            635.5            13.2       9.4     -2.8     23.4    -20.0   17.8           5.4      2.1       3.4      2.4
Manufactures                       180.1            17.1    -11.2      -2.6     12.2       3.0   17.0          7.2       5.8      6.4      6.0
Merchandise imports                  907.8             4.6      -4.2     10.1      5.6      2.1    2.9           6.6      6.7       6.5      6.5
Food                                62.3              -       23.0     10.0   -22.0       2.6  -5.1           16.2     12.7      12.0     12.9
Petroleum                          196.2              -        6.3     12.3     -1.4     -1.8    4.0           3.8      3.7       3.7      3.6
Macbinery and equipment            517.8              -       -5.2      4.5     10.2       1.8    5.9         -1.3       3.2      3.1      1.9
Others                             113.5              -      -5.0       5.9      2.3      2.R    4.4           6.6      6.1       5.8      5.7
PRICES
Fxport price index                                   243.4    243.4    220.1    240.5    319.2  368.7          389.2    411.3    454.9    517.8
Import price index                                   279.1    292.9    320.5    348.1    420.4  461.8          498.6    539.7    582.8    627.6
Terns of trade index                                  87.2     83.1      88.7     69.1     75.9  79.8           78.1     76.2      78.1     R2.5
Composition of Merchandise Trade (7)                           Average Annual Increase (7)
(at current prices)                                   (at constant 1970 prices)
________________________-- -_-_----         - -------                                       -----------
1960    1970    1975    1980    1985    1990        1960-70    1970-75    1975-80    1980-85    1985-90
Exports                                 -     100.0   100.0   100.0  100.0   100.0            8.0        10.0        0.2         6.0        2.2
Primary                               -      97.2    83.0    80.0    93.7    92.2            -          9.9        0.0         5.9        1.8
Manufactures                          -       2.8    17.0    20.0      6.3     7.8           -         14.3        3.0         8.2        6.8
Imports                                 -     100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0  1n0.0           10.6        10.3        3.0        6.0         4.6
Food                                 -       15.0    16.8    14.5    16.4    20.6            -         11.0        2.6       10.6         9.0
Petroleum                             -       6.5    19.5    31.9    26.5    27.6            -          6.5        5.5         3.7        2.5
Machinery and equipment               -      37.2    28.4    46.0    34.5    32.5            -         12.0        4.0         2.3       -1.2
Others                                -      41.3    35.3     7.6    22.5    19.3            -          9.n        1.1        5.8         4.3
(e) Ertimate.



- 24 -
ANNEX I
Page 6 of 6
DOMIFTICAN REP1UBLIIC  -   BALANCE OF PAYMWNTS, FXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
-----------------------------------------------------------------
(millions US$ at current prices)
Population:   5444   (mid-1980  thousands)
GNP per Capita: U1S$ 1,140 (1Q80)
Actual                                       Projected  l/
Indicator                                   1970   1975   1976   1977   1978   1979         19RO   1981(e)        1982   1983   1984   1985
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Exports of goods and services                    25Q   1015    844    922    829   1139         1242   1617          1934   2112   2422   2R31
Of which: Merchandise f.o.b.                  214    894    716    780    675    869          962   1380           1537   1662   1903   2223
Imports of goods and services                   392   1127   1132   1235   1259   1622         2069   2244           2601   2973   3402   3891
Of which: Merchandise f.o.b.                  278    773    764    848    860   1094          1436   1605          1847   2133   2452   2811
Net transfers                                    31      39      47     50    109    142         106    157           210    231    254    305
Current account balance                        -102    -73   -242   -262   -320   -341          -720   -6471         -457   -631   -725   -755
Private direct investment                         72     64      60     46      40    -13         63      68           74      80     86      92
MLT loans (net                                   31      58      95    105    123    125         259    244           309    423    502    477
Official                                       30      34     53      54      45     72        267    209           118    199    254    281
Private                                         1      24     42      52      78     53         -8     35            91     24      48      96
Other capital                                    -0    -30      96    120    147    338          281      70          210    365    380    335
Change in reserves                               -0    -43      43    -72       95     88        118     89           -36    -37    -43    -49
Gross International reserves                     32    136    165    224    199    339           403    415           451    488    530    580
of which Gold                                           4      4       4     20      48
Reserves as months imports                         1      1       1      2       2      2          2       2            2       2      2       2
EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
Cross Disbursements                              39      90    132    151    213    316         382    486
Official grants                                  I      I       I      1       1      1         -        -
Concessional loans                             24      23     16      20      37     50        97      104
DAC                                          24      20     11       4      8      24        42      21
OPEC                                          -       -      -       -      -       -         -       2
IDA                                           -       3      3       1      6       0         4       2
Other                                         -       1      2      15     24      26        51      79
Non-concessional loans                         14      66    115    130    135    265         285     382
Official exports credits                      1      21     50      57     24      42       106      51
IBRD                                         11       0      3       5      4       6       39       30
Other multilateral                            0       -      -       -      2       -         -       -
Private                                       2      45     61      68    105    217        140     3n1
External Debt
Debt outstanding and
disbursed                                    212    411    505    609    731    863         1186    1430
Official                                    202    286    339    392    436    503          710     812
Private                                      10    125    165    217    295    361          476     618
Undisbursed debt                               64    244    280    265    204    534          564     546
Debt service
Total service payments                         12      49     55      69      89    244       157      381
Interest                                      4      18     18      24     40      55        97     139
Payments as X exports                         4.5    4.8    6.5    7.5   10.7   21.5           -     22.2
Average interest rate on new commitments(%)  2.5    6.1    6.8    6.9   10.7    7.9            10.5      8.5
Official                                      2.5    5.1    6.2    4.9    2.3    6.0          7.2   1-
Private                                        -      9.7    8.0    8.2   12.8   11.9        15.2       -
Average maturity of new commitments(years)  27.8   19.5   11.9   13.8   10.3   20.5            13.3   | 16.0
Official                                     27.8   23.5   14.7   25.5   25.1   26.2         17.5  J  -
Private                                        -      5.9    6.2    6.4    6.7    8.4         7.4       -
1/ Projections assume that no significative policy measures are adopted by the Dominican Authorities.
e/ Estimate.



- 25 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 7
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
A.   STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (As of September 30, 1981)
Loan or                                                          US$ million
Credit No.   Year           Borrower         Purpose    Amount (Less cancellation)
Bank     IDA     Undisb.
Three loans and two credits fully disbursed               55.0      9.1 1/    -
352 DO 3/   1973    Dominican Republic  Irrigation I       -      13.0      0.2
1051 DO      1974    Central Bank         Tourism I       21.0       -       4.7
1142 DO      1975    Dominican Republic  Education II    8.0                 5.4
1325 DO      1976    Dominican Republic  Population        5.0               0.8
1655 DO      1979    Dominican Republic  Irrigation II  27.0                24.4
1699 DO      1979    Central Bank         Tourism II      25.0              24.2
1760 DO 2/   1979    State Sugar Council Sugar Rehab.   35.0                35.0
1783 DO      1980    Dominican Republic  Emergency Rd.  25.0                 9.6
1784 DO      1980    Dominican Republic  Highways II    35.0                24.8
2223 DO 2/   1981    Dominican Republic  Coffee and
Cocoa Rehab.   24.0              24.0
Total                                          260.0    22.1
of which has been repaid                     17.4     0.1
Total now outstanding                          242.6    22.0
Amount sold
of which has been repaid                               -
Total now held by Bank and IDA 1/              242.6    22.0
Total Undisbursed                              152.9     0.2    153.1
1/   With exchange adjustment.
2/   Not yet effective.
3/   Loan now fully disbursed.



_26_
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 7
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (As of September 30, 1981)
Fiscal                                   Type of           Amount in US$ Million
Year            Borrower                 Business         Loan     Equity    Total
1974     Cementos Nacionales S.A.        Construction
Material         6.0        1.7       7.7
1978     Financiera Empresarial S.A.  Industrial
Credit           3.0         -        3.0 1/
Total Gross Commitments                          9.0        1.7      10.7
Less Repayments and
Cancellations                                  3.3         -       3.3
Total Commitments now held
by IFC                                         5.7        1.7      7.4
Total Undisbursed                                 -          .1        .1
1/   Cancelled.



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 7
C. STATUS OF PROJECTS IN EXECUTION AS OF SEPTEMBER 30, 1981 1/
Loan 1051-DO: Tourism I Project; $21.0 Million Loan of November 6, 1974.
Date of Effectiveness November 7, 1975. Closing Date:
December 31, 1982.
The project is designed to provide infrastructure and other facili-
ties for tourism development in Playa Dorada and Playa Grande near Puerto
Plata. The Puerto Plata Airport, one of the major components, was completed
in 1979, and is in full operation with three airlines operating regular and
chartered flights. A 225-room bungalow hotel has been completed and an
apart-hotel is under construction at Playa Dorada.
Overall progress in project implementation is satisfactory. The
major exceptions are the remaining works at Playa Grande, which include
landscaping and beach improvements; golf and beach facilities; stables and
riding school and solid waste disposal facilities. These facilities do not
appear likely to be completed within the present Closing Date of December 31,
1982. The Central Bank (INFRATUR) has indicated that it will submit to the
Bank a proposal to use funds presently allocated to these facilities, to
finance hotels in Playa Dorada, on the understanding that the facilities at
Playa Grande would be completed before December 1984.
Loan 1142-DO: Second Education Project; $8.0 Million Loan of July 17,
1975. Date of Effectiveness: October 8, 1975. Closing
Date: June 30, 1982.
The project was intended to finance the construction, furnishing
and equipping of 204 rural community learning centers, 4 agricultural training
centers, 3 vocational training centers; equipping of 14 secondary schools
and of 4 vocational training centers, a textbook feasibility study, and
training.
The project has suffered execution delays of over three years,
partly because of repeated changes in the past of the Manager and Staff of the
Project Management Unit, and more recently because of inadequate counterpart
funds. There have been important cost overruns that could not be met by
the Government because of fiscal constraints and the Bank agreed to reduce
the project scope to exclude (a) furnishing and equipping of 14 secondary
schools and (b) expansion of four vocational training centers and purchase of
eight mobile vocational training units. In order to ensure the availability
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered and the action being taken
to remedy them. They do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 7
of Government counterpart funds, a Revolving Fund was created by the Government
in April, 1981. A Working Fund has been established at the Central Bank.
Execution of the project schools stand now at about 54 percent of total works,
and satisfactory progress has been made in the last few months in execution of
the educational aspects: several in-service training courses have been carried
out for both teachers and school directors. A total of 900 staff have been
trained.
Loan 1699-DO: Second Puerto Plata Tourism Development Project;
$25 Million Loan of November 12, 1979. Date of
Effectiveness: November 7, 1975. Closing Date:
December 31, 1984.
The Project will provide a line of credit for hotel accomodations and
tourist services in Playa Grande, Playa Dorada and Puerto Plata; urban works
in the low lying area of Puerto Plata near the tourism pier; a handicrafts
center for the training of artisans; technical assistance to INFRATUR, the
Secretariat of Tourism and the handicrafts center.
The loan became effective in September, 1980, following Congressional
ratification almost one year after loan signing. Disbursements are about 10 per-
cent the level predicted at appraisal for June 1981. There are strong indications,
however, that beginning 1982, disbursements will accelerate with the approval by
the Central Bank of four hotel projects that are now under consideration. Two
sub-projects approved by the Bank are under construction. Preparation and
implementation of the remainder of the project components is proceeding well,
and are expected to be under execution by mid-1982.
Loan 1325-DO: Population and Family Health; $5.0 Million Loan of
September 16, 1976. Date of Effectiveness: May 17, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The project provides for the reconstruction of rural health clinics
and one health sub-center in Regions I and II, communications and teaching
equipment, vehicles and operating costs for community based contraception
programs and technical assistance.
Construction of health sub-center and 24 rural clinics has been
completed and they are in service. The remaining two have been completed but
the start of service has been delayed to allow minor finishing reforms. A
governmental regulation on controls of frequency ranges for telecommunications
has hampered the selection and acquisition of the radio-communication system.
After two years, however, the Government has dropped their regulation and
acquisition of a simplified communication system for Regions I and V is
underway. The training component, involving ten different courses for medical
and para-medical staff, is being completed at a satisfactory pace. The special
equipment for malaria control, rural clinics, training centers and maintenance
workshops, has been procured. The National Population and Family Council
Program (CONAPOFA) continues to be satisfactory.



- 29 -                  ANNEX II
Page 5 of 7
Loan 1655-DO: Nizao Irrigation Proiect: $27.0 Nillion Loan of February 16.
Date of Effectiveness: January 16, 1980: Closing Date:
December 31, 1984.
The project is designed to increase agricultural productivity
and exports by rehabilitating and expanding the Marcos A. Cabral/Nizao:Najayo
irrigation system, including construction of 72 km. of roads. The loan
became effective only after four extensions of the Date of Effectiveness,
and the project is more than one year behind schedule, mainly because of
delays in appointing the Regional Coordinating Committee. In addition,
INDRHI is having difficulties in providing funds and staff for project manage-
ment and organization. Construction of Phase A works (Reconstruction of 2 km
of the Cabral Canal damaged by the hurricane) was completed in November
1980. Construction of the main irrigation works under Phase B has been approved
by the Bank and a contract signed with the Spanish firm, AGROMAN, in December
1980. Construction was started in mid-1981. The Bank approved use of loan
funds to pay international consultants to assist INDRHI in the supervision of
works, and consultants have been selected for operation and maintenance of the
project irrigation system.
Loan 1783-DO: Emergency Road Reconstruction Project; $25 Million Loan
of January 8. 1980. Date of Effectiveness: September 19,
1980. Closing Date: September 30, 1982.
The project will permit the reconstruction of two roads, totalling
150 km: the 86 km Cruce de Guayacanes to Santiago, the country's second
largest city, and the 64 km. Azua-Barahona road linking the southwestern
part of the country to the capital city.
Reconstruction works on the two project roads are well under way.
Some sections are being reconstructed by force account and other sections
through contracts awarded through local or international bids. Initial
delays, due to the fact the loan only became effective on September 19, 1980,
or about eight months after signature, and to problems with the design, led
the Ministry of Public Works and Communications (SEOPC) to decide to
re-program the works. The design standards of some sections of the roads are
being revised. All the equipment purchased under the loan is in operation.
Overall project execution is satisfactory, particularly in view of the emergency
nature of the project.
Loan 1784-DO: Second Road Maintenance and Reconstruction Prolect;
$35 Million Loan of January 8, 1980. Date of
Effectiveness: September 9, 1980. Closing Date:
June 30, 1985.
The project will (a) pursue the strengthening and expansion of
maintenance capacity; (b) initiate a high priority reconstruction program
for primary and secondary roads; (c) demonstrate the application of labor-
intensive techniques for rural roads; (d) upgrade personnel through
training; and (e) strengthening SEOPC's planning and programming capacity.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 7
Final engineering designs for the reconstruction works were completed
in mid-1980, but a review of these indicated that design revisions calling for
a reduction in the design standards were necessary. Contracts have been
awarded for these works. The Ministry has reopened negotiations with the
contractor in the light of re-design of these works. Maintenance and training
equipment with a cost of $8.0 million has been purchased and is in operation.
The Reconstruction Planning Unit was established in October 1980, and the
Labor-Intensive Construction Unit started operations early this year.
Loan 1760-DO: Sugar Rehabilitation Project; $35 Million Loan of
October 26, 1979. Date of Effectiveness: April 30, 1982.
Closing Date: June 30, 1987.
The project will rehabilitate six of the 12 sugar factories and
their accompanying transportation systems of the Consejo Estatal del Azucar
(CEA), including irrigation and drainage studies.
This loan has suffered delays in effectiveness of about two years,
principally because of the Dominican Congress' refusal to ratify a US$90
million private bank cofinancing loan which was to enable a restructuring
of the State Sugar Council's (CEA's) short term debt. Execution of the
cofinancing loan was to be a condition of effectiveness. CEA's financial
situation has deteriorated because of the absence of the co-financing loan.
Bank staff have held several discussions with CEA and government officials
on the need to adopt alternative measures to improve CEA's financial structure,
especially its liquidity position, through retention of export taxes and
dividend contributions to the Government and domestic price increases of
sugar and molasses. Revised financial projections, including the proposed
measure (but excluding cofinancing) indicated that CEA would not be able to
abide by a covenant in the Loan Agreement which requires that CEA maintain a
ratio of current assets to current liabilities of no less than 1.3 to until
the end of FY1982, and no less than 1.5 to 1 at all times thereafter.
Because of the project's importance to the country's economy, the
Bank and the Government have agreed to an alternative financial rehabilitation
plan for CEA. The plan provides for the above revenue-generating measures,
as well as an implementation by CEA of a financial management and control
system, and an assurance from the Government that it would inject capital
to the extent that agreed ratios of current assets to current liabilities
may not be met. The Loan and Guarantee Agreements have been amended, including
deletion of the cofinancing provision. These actions should facilitate
ratification of the loan by Congress and thus its effectiveness and the real-
ization of project benefits.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 7
Loan 2023-DO:  Cocoa and Coffee Development Loan; $24 Million Loan of
September 24, 1981. Date of Effectiveness: March 31,
1982. Closing Date: June 30, 1986.
A loan of $24 million was approved on June 23, 1981, for a cocoa
and coffee development project which would support the Government's objectives
of increasing (a) productivity and incomes of small-scale coffee and cocoa
producers, and (b) production and export of these commodities.



- 32 -
ANNEX III
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
I.   Timetable of Key Events
(a) Project Preparation - Appraisal
Project Prepared by: INVI
Initial Request for Bank Financing: September 1979
First Bank Mission to Consider Project: September 1979
(b)  Appraisal Mission Departure:  May 1981
(c) Negotiations Completed: February 4, 1982
(d)  Loan Effectiveness Planned:  September, 1982
II. Special Conditions
A first condition of Loan effectiveness would be that a Subsidiary
Agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, be signed between the Government
and INVI, detailing terms and conditions of project implementation, the
corresponding capital transfers and the repayment of loan proceeds. A
second condition of loan effectiveness would be that a Project Account
be established at Banco de Reserva with an initial Government contri-
bution sufficient to cover cash expenditures for the first implementa-
tion year (RD$1.7 million). Assurances were obtained that:
(a) INVI would not incur any additional debt unless its projected
debt service for any fiscal year during the execution of
the project, does not exceed two-thirds of its internal cash
generation (para. 45);
(b) the Government and INVI would agree that they would not offer credit
for other low-cost housing programs undertaken after loan signature
in cities with more than 30,000 inhabitants, on more favorable
conditions than those applied under the proposed loan (para. 48);
(c) in the first quarter of each year, beginning 1983, the Borrower,
INVI and the Bank would review (i) INVI's investment program for the
project including its marketing experience, pricing procedures, and
mortgage terms for the past year, and (ii) its yearly implementation
program for shelter construction and shall make any changes necessary
to such programs as a consequence of such review (para. 50);
(d) a condition of disbursement of shelter-related expenditures is that
INVI and the Bank would agree on an annual investment program for
the shelter component (para. 53); and
(e) Annual Audit reports by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank
for the Government's special account, the project account, and
INVI's accounts, would be submitted to the Bank no later than
four months after the closing of each fiscal year (para. 57).



rBRD 1c046
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
SITES AND SERVICES PROJECT
Project Area Locations
_   Prapect Areas                                               /'          <)                  ) LA VICTOR A   -\-\LI
Pr-sently Urbanized Areas                                                                               A L V   A
G-trowh D-rect o-
Bilt u-p Area ,<"' .i
Main Rcdr sd Srreers           N
R   Eers ,                     I
~~~  BAJOSDE ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~SB
__,  Sf  <   VILLA  4 0              b              DABANA   PE\DiDA
A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~rfA
<(ttX~~~~~~ - /                                               bNAIN.Al
in  -     / g  PROJECT
- .   -S.               I /-
A      C TONGO AC 
-    vct*rc                      ~~~~~~ ~~HAINA  '  Aaia     -
a.  C                                             P~~~~~~~~~~~~~ROJECT
nr-c A                  aaTcrarreeese      a- e



