Document of            -i
The World Bank                                          .*-  i
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 3639c-DO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
SITES AND SERVICES PROJECT
March 1, 1982
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



OFFICIAL CURRENCY CONVERSION RATE
US$1.00 = RD$ 1.00
ACRONYMS
AAyP or SAAyP       Asociaciones de Ahorros y Prestamos-Sistema-de
(Savings and Loans Associations)
BHD                 Banco Hipotecario Dominicano
(Dominican Mortgage Bank)
BN or DGBN         Direccion General de Bienes Nacionales
(General Directorate of State Property)
BNV                 Banco Nacional de la Vivienda
(National Housing Bank)
CAASD               Corporacion de Acueducto y Alcantarillado de Santo
Domingo
(Santo Domingo Aqueduct and Sewerage Company)
CDE                 Corporacion Dominicana de Electricidad
(Dominican Electricity Corporation)
CEA                 Consejo Estatal del Azucar
(State Sugar Board)
CIVIVIENDA          Comision Inter-Institucional para la Coordinacion de
Programas de Viviendas
(Inter-Institutional Housing Committee)
CODIA               Colegio Dominicano de Ingenieros, Arquitectos y Agrimen-
sores
(Dominican Association of Engineers, Architects and
Quantity Surveyors)
DPU                 Direccion de Planeamiento Urbano del ADN
(Urban Planning Commission of the National District)
IAD                 Instituto Agrario Dominicano
(Dominican Agrarian Institute)
INAPA               Instituto Nacional de Agua Potable y Alcantarillados
(National Institute of Potable Water and Sanitation)
INAVI               Instituto Nacional de Auxilios y Viviendas
(Social Security and Housing Institute)
INDRHI              Instituto Nacional de Recursos Hidraulicos
(National Hydraulic Resources Institute)
INVI                Instituto Nacional de la Vivienda
(National Housing Institute)
LMD                 Liga Municipal Dominicana
(Dominican Municipal League)
OFOE                Oficina Fiscalizadora de Obras del Estado
(Supervisory State Office of Public Works)
ONAPLAN             Oficina Nacional de Planificacion
(National Planning Office
SEDEFIR             Secretaria de Estado de Educacion Fisica y Recreacion
(Secretariat of State of Physical Education and
Recreation)
SEEBAC              Secretaria de Estado de Educacion, Bellas Artes y Cultos
(Secretariat of State for Education, Fine Arts and
Worship)
SEOPC               Secretaria de Estado de Obras Publicas y Communicaciones
(Secretariat of State for Public Works and
Communications)
SESPAS              Secretaria de Estado de Salud Publica y Asistencia
Social
(Secretariat of State for Public Health and Social
Assistance)



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
SITES AND SERVICES PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
INTRODUCTION                                                         Page No.
I. THE PROJECT'S CONTEXT       ................ ... . .......... .    2
1.04 Urbanization Trends; 1.06 City Squatters; 1.07 Employment
and Income Distribution; 1.08 Urban Services; 1.12 Housing
Credit Institutions; 1.15 The Government's Urban Policy.
II.  THE EXECUTING AGENCY ................     ..      ...      .... .   6
2.01 Background; 2.03 Post Hurricane Policy Re-Orientation;
2.05 Organization and Management; 2.06 The Present Structure;
2.08 Staffing; 2.09 Institutional Development Program
(1981-1987); 2.12 Conclusion.
III. THE PROJECT..                     ....                     ...... 11
3.01 Project Design and Objectives; 3.02 Description of the
Project; 3.05 Innovative Features in Project Design;
3.07 Level of Technical Preparation and Firmness of Cost
Estimates; 3.08 Project Costs; 3.09 Project Financing;
3.12 Accounting and Auditing.
IV.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ...................... ............... 15
4.01 The Construction Schedule; 4.02 Yearly Review of
Shelter Construction Programs; 4.05 Inter-Institutional
Agreements; 4.07 Project Management; 4.10 Financial Studies,
Project Monitoring and Supervision Reports; 4.11 Selection of
Beneficiaries; 4.15 Extension Services Organization;
4.19 Savings and Loans System for Small-Scale Home
Improvements; 4.20 Procurement; 4.21 Disbursement;
4.23 Establishment of a Revolving Fund and a Working Fund.
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission, which visited
the Dominican Republic in May 1981. The mission consisted of Messrs. G.C.
Guarda (mission leader); J. Espino (financial analyst); M.Sarris (economic
evaluation); A. Zuniga (design, implementation and procurement); and
Ms. A. Garcia (institutional and social development).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-ii-
Page No.
V.  FINANCIAL ASPECTS .........................................    24
5.01 Recent Financial Position; 5.03 Recent Equity Transfers;
5.05 Proposed Measures to Improve INVI's Profitability;
5.06 INVI Financial Perspective 5.07 Expected Financial
Performance; 5.09 Sales Policy.
VI.  ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL JUSTIFICATION .............................   30
6.01 The Nature of Economic Benefits; 6.03 Quantification of
Economic Costs and Benefits; 6.05 Economic Rate of Return and
Sensitivity Analysis; 6.06 Poverty Impact; 6.07 Direct Cost
Recovery and Affordability.
VII.  PROJECT RISKS AND PROPOSED REMEDIES ...........................   33
7.01 Continuity of Government Support; 7.02 Capacity of the
Executing Agency; 7.03 Marketing Arrangements.
VIII.  AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS ................................   34
8.01 Recommended Conditions for Processing the Loan (prior
to Negotiations); Conditions to be confirmed with the Government
during Negotiatione; 8.02 Special Condition of Effectiveness
TEXT TABLES
TABLE 1.       Rank-size Distribution of Urban Growth (1970-1980)
TABLE 2.       Summary of Project Costs by Component
TABLE 3.       Disbursement Schedule
TABLE 4.       INVI's Summary Balance Sheet (1978-1980)
TABLE 5.       INVI's Summary Income Statements (1977-1980)
TABLE 6.       INVI's Overall Funds Flow (1981-1986)
CHARTS
CHART 1        Present Structure of the Executing Agency
CHART 2        Implementation Schedule
CHART 3        Inter-institutional Responsibilities
CHART 4        Construction Management Team
CHART 5        Monitoring Targets
CHART 6        Extension Services Schedule
Chart 7        Affordability of the Shelter Options Offered by INVI



-iii-
ANNEX 1: DETAILED PROJECT FEATURES
1. Land Acquisition; 2. Land Clearance and Resettlement
Policy; 4. Tenure; 5. General Layout Plans; 6. Land Use
Plans and Residential Densities; 7. Environmental Impact
Analysis; 8. Off-Site Infrastructure - Sabana Perdida; 9.
Off-Site Infrastructure - Haina; 10. On-Site Infrastructure
11. Shelter Options; 12. Community Facilities; 19. Commercial
Areas; 20. Recreational Areas; 21. Trash Collection Services;
22. Professional and Extension Services; 23. Administrative
Services
Annex 1, Table 1: Proposed Land Use and Residential Densities.
ANNEX 2: DETAILED TABLES
TABLE 1        Estimated population of major Dominican cities (1970-1980)
TABLE 2         INVI's staff (budgetary provision)
TABLE 3        Detailed project costs and contingencies calculations
TABLE 4         Summary of project costs by expenditure categories
TABLE 5        Estimated investment schedule by expenditure categories
TABLE 6         Cost estimate for the typical serviced lot
TABLE 7        Estimated cost of shelter options:  Sabana Perdida
TABLE 8        Estimated cost of shelter options:  Haina
TABLE 9         Indicative shelter construction schedule
TABLE 10        Implementation staff schedule
TABLE 11        Civil works procurement packages
TABLE 12       Equipment and furniture procurement packages
TABLE 13       Project's cash flow
TABLE 14        INVI's debt service forecast
TABLE 15        INVI's balance sheet:  actual and projected
TABLE 16        INVI's income statements:  actual and projected
TABLE 17        Sources and applications of INVI's funds
TABLE 18        Sales recuperation projection
TABLE 19       Household income distribution in Santo Domingo
TABLE 20       Household income distribution in urban and rural areas
TABLE 21        Monthly mortgage payments and affordability
ANNEX 3: SELECTED DOCUMENTS AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILE
MAPS AND FIGURES
MAP 1           Population settlement pattern (IBRD 16045)
MAP 2          Location of the project sites (IBRD 16046)
MAP 3           Sabana Perdida site (IBRD 16048)
Map 4           Haina site (IBRD 16061)
MAP 5           Sabana Perdida:  general layout (IBRD 16047)
MAP 6           Haina:  general layout (IBRD 16049)
Fig. A          Shelter options:  Type A
Fig. B          Shelter options:  Type B



I



DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
SITES AND SERVICES PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INTRODUCTION
1.01     Immediately after hurricanes David and Frederick (September 1979),
the Bank sent a reconnaissance mission to the Dominican Republic, to review
the extent of housing stock destructions and to assess the possibilities of
financial assistance in this sector.   In discussions with the Government,
it was recognized that the country's severe housing shortage did not origi-
nate with the hurricanes, but in the need for a more systematic and sus-
tained approach to low-income housing.   A follow-up mission in November
1979 recommended the preparation of a Bank-supported project, conceived as
the first step in a longer-term process of upgrading living conditions and
providing better shelter for the urban poor.
1.02     The proposed project would represent a key social development ini-
tiative of the Dominican Government and a major change from the traditional
pattern of housing sector allocations, which in the past have mainly bene-
fitted the middle-income groups. The Government wants to broaden access to
housing credit and to promote the private sector's participation in produc-
tion of shelter units at costs affordable by lower-income households.   The
first signs of this commitment are the restructuring of the National Hous-
ing Institute, the directive to aim this project at a different target
group, the care taken in preparation of plans, programs and agreements, and
the acquisition of land sites for its implementation.  The Bank's emphasis
on cost recovery, abatement of subsidies, reduced levels of service and
financial planning, supports the executing agency's renewed pledge to
pursue its statutory objectives, to achieve internal financial viability
and greater consistency with national development goals.
1.03       The project, representing more than half of the planned public
housing investment during the next few years, may acquire a pivotal role in
the formulation of a new housing policy for the country.  While securing
tenure, access to credit and adequate sanitary conditions for an estimated
43,000 people, it would also support development of the institutional ca-
pacity to improve and market selected land sites for planned, integrated
communities.   It would emphasize public supply of urban land and services
and the use of domestic materials and labor intensive techniques in the
construction of starter dwellings.   These basic housing solutions and/or
the prepared lots would be purchased by selected, needy households under
deferred payment schemes.   A portion of the land would be sold at market
price by the executing agency for improvement by independent developers.
Substantial   technical   assistance   would   be   granted   from   external
concessionary sources, to support implementation of the project and to
provide extension services.   This first Bank-sponsored operation in the
urban sector would take place on two separate sites at the fringes of the
Santo Domingo metropolitan area, at a total cost of RD$ 42 million.



-2-
I. THE PROJECT'S CONTEXT
Urbanization Trends (See Map 1--IBRD 16045)
1.04            One of the main challenges facing the Dominican economy stems
from  demographic  pressures.    On  a national  territory  of  only  48,400  km2
lives a population,  which in 1980 was estimated at aboAt 5.4 million.   The
resulting devlsity of 112 people per square kilometer is exceptionally high
by  Latin  American  standards.    Spurred  by  rural  poverty,  immigration  to
Dominican c4ties has been accelerating during the last ten years, in con-
trast to most Latin American countries, where it slowed down. While overall
population -rowth has been hovering around 3%, urban population has been
expanding at nearly 6%.   Over half the Dominican population or an estimated
2.8 million now lives in urban areas, as opposed to 1.6 million in 1970 and
.9  million  in  1960.    The  main  destinations  of  this  movement  are  Santo
Domingo, Santiago and a dozen other towns in the 30,000 to 100,000 range.
The following table summarizes the principal features of the shift in the
urban-rural balance.
TABLE 1. DISTRIBUTION OF URBAN GROWTH 1970-1980
Average                                    Percent
Yearly    Total      Percent  Estimated   of Total
Growth    1970-80   of Total 1980          Popu-
Settlements Size (1980)       Rate      Growth    Growth   Population  lation
Santo Domingo (1,240,000)       6.3     +566,000   39.8      1,240,000    22.8
Santiago (265,000)             5.5      +110,000    7.7        265,000      4.9
13 cities 100,000 to 30,000   4.6       +227,000    5.8        623,900    11.5
21 cities 30,000 to 10,000    5.8       +138,000    6.5        320,000      5.9
21 cities 10,000 to 5,000       6.5     + 67,000    4.7         143,000     2.6
57 towns below 5,000           3.6      + 48,000    3.3        161,000      2.9
Rural settlements               1.0     + 26,000   18.7      2,679,000    49.3
TOTAL POPULATION             3.1   +1,422,000  100.0       5,431,000   100.0



-3-
1.05        Most cities and towns, regardless of their size, appear to have
attracted rural migrants.  Reference to Map 1 (IBRD 16045) and Table 1 in
Annex 2 supports this conclusion. The emerging spatial pattern of popula-
tion distribution (related to historical factors, agricultural potential
and  accessibility)  consists  of  two major urban  systems:    one on the
southern coast, centered on the capital, with San Cristobal, Bani, Azua and
Barahona to the west, and San Pedro de Macoris, La Romana and Higuey to the
east, and another on the northern plains of the Cibao, centered on
Santiago, with La Vega, Moca, San Francisco de Macoris, Mao and Puerto
Plata as satel:Lite centers.
City Squatters
1.06      Although the average income in Dominican cities is higher than in
the countryside, this differential may be more apparent than real for new
migrants, many of whom start at the bottom of the income scale. Newcomers
generally settle in rapidly growing marginal concentrations, deprived of
most elementary urban services, erecting precarious dwellings with salvaged
materials, timber, tin and billboards.   Illiteracy is high in these dis-
tricts, social problems abound and the lack of adequate sanitation causes a
heavy incidence of dysentery, typhoid and gastro-enteritis.   In order to
minimize distance from areas of potential employment, squatters have com-
pletely occupied any remotely suitable public land near the city center,
often on flood-prone river banks or marshes, and are now forced to seek
shelter in more remote peripheral zones.  Approximate counts of these im-
provised dwellings in the larger cities put their number at more than
200,000, possibly involving 1.2 million residents, nearly half the urban
population.
Employment and Income Distribution
1.07      Open unemployment was estimated in 1970 at about 24% of the labor
force nationally, but has a severe incidence in areas of heavy in-migra-
tion, such as Santo Domingo, where in 1977-78, it exceeded 40% for the
15-25 age group. The modern sector, particularly manufacturing, has been
unable to provide the jobs necessary to absorb the rapidly increasing urban
labor force.   Thus, more than half of the employed make their living in
services and informal sector activities.   In addition,  over 25% of the
employed work less than 40 hours a week and must, therefore, be considered
under-employed.   About 40% of the fully-employed and 70% of the under-
employed earn less than US$100 per month, and almost 20% and 40% respec-
tively even less than US$50.   The mean family income in Santo Domingo
amounts to about US$360 per month, but income distribution among households
is very uneven.   More than half the families earn less than US$300 per
month. Furthermore, poor households are considerably larger than the urban
average. In 1977, about 38% of urban families (45% of the population) were
classified as living in absolute poverty with incomes below US$250.1
/1 All statistical information in this section is based on a Central Bank
National Survey of Family Income and Expenditure, 1976-1977 (see Chart
7 and Tables 19 and 20 in Annex 2). A more recent survey would
indicate some improvement in the employment rate of Santo Domingo,
attributing it to economic growth, rising construction activities and a
significant, increase in public sector jobs.



-4-
Urban Services
1.08         The Dominican Republic still holds large land reserves in pub-
lic property.2 Some of this land is found within or on the fringes of the
main urbanized areas.   This resource, uncommon in Latin American cities,
affords an opportunity for rational urban development.   However,  in the
absence of a comprehensive land use policy, land reserves are being rapidly
depleted, as large estates are sold off to the private sector or errati-
cally allocated to public uses.   In addition, vast areas in the larger
cities are being invaded by squatters.  Bienes Nacionales (BN), the agency
in charge of administration of state property, would favor transferring
ownership to the present low-income occupants at nominal prices, but such
regularization of tenure should be accompanied by an integrated program of
urban services provision, which no government institution is yet prepared
to handle at the required scale of operation.
1.09        Land developers, both private and public, are required to exe-
cute site works, drainage systems and local streets according to standards
dictated by the municipalities in consultation with the Public Works Secre-
tariat (SEOPC), but not to assume responsibility for their maintenance and
upgrading, nor for construction of utilities and community facilities.
Generally, new urbanization projects come under the control of local
governments, which are supposed to provide a variety of services, such as
drinking water supply, environmental sanitation, public lighting, mainte-
nance of local streets and green spaces, garbage collection, and fire pro-
tection.   Some financial assistance from the central government is chan-
neled for these purposes to the municipalities through the Liga Municipal
Dominicana (LMN), but, compared to the existing needs, the scope of ser-
vices provided through local fiscal resources and operational capacities
remains quite limited as is the level of government support.
1.10         Basic utilities are managed by specialized public corporations
such as the Instituto Nacional de Agua Potable y Alcantarillados (INAPA),
which is responsible for the provision of water supply and sewerage to most
of the country, and the Corporacion de Acueducto y Alcantarillado de Santo
Domingo (CAASD), which provides the same services to the capital city. The
Corporacion Dominicana de Electricidad (CDE) has nationwide authority over
design, construction and operation of power generation, transmission and
distribution facilities, with the exception of multi-purpose hydro-electric
dams which are built by INDRHI. Due to weak tariff structures and ineffi-
cient collection systems, the services provided by these agencies fall
short of demand and depend heavily on central government transfers. Recent
estimates show that 68% of rural and 20% of urban homes have no access to
piped water and in Santo Domingo more than half the city population lacks
/2 This is the historical result of confiscation of the large holdings
assembled by the Trujillo family, which were subsequently entrusted to
Bienes Nacionales and other government institutions, such as the Insti-
tuto Agrario Dominicano (IAD) and the Consejo Estatal del Azucar (CEA).



-5-
waste disposal facilities.   Similar cost recovery and profitability pro-
blems of the electricity corporation, aggravated by fuel price increases
and hurricane damage to the physical plant, account for power rationing and
recurrent black-outs.
1.11             Education and health services, as well as recreation ser-
vices, are mainly provided free of charge, within the limitations imposed
by budget constraints, by central government branches; i.e., the Secretaria
de Estado de Educacion, Bellas Artes y Cultos (SEEBAC), the Secretaria de
Estado de Salud Publica y Asistencia Social (SESPAS) and the Secretaria de
Estado de Deportes, Educacion Fisica y Recreacion (SEDEFIR). Public trans-
port, both within and among the urban centers, is supplied by private bus
companies and by a generalized system of minibuses and jitneys, operating
under the regulation of a government office (ONATRATE, or Oficina Nacional
de Transporte Terrestre).
Housing Credit Institutions
1.12       The major sources of housing finance in the Dominican Republic
are the Savings and Loan Associations (AAyP), supported and regulated by
the National Housing Bank (BNV), the mortgage banks, and two public sector
institutions:   the National Housing Institute (INVI) and the Welfare and
Housing Institute  (INAVI).   At the end of 1980,  the total portfolio of
these institutions came to about RD$ 440 million.   The Savings and Loan
System, comprising BNV and the AAyPs, now accounts for about 45% of housing
finance.  Commlercial banks lend short term, and often complement lending by
the more specialized institutions.
1.13      The mortgage banks began operations in 1973 and are now responsi-
ble for about 20% of outstanding loans in the sector.   INVI and INAVI,
which were created to finance and implement housing for low-income groups
and public sector employees, account for less than 15% of total housing
fiiance and their portfolios have grown very little since 1975.  Housing
units financed by the private sector institutions are in the US$10,000 to
US$30,000 range and above for the Savings and Loan System, and housing
loans by the mortgage banks average US$25,000; the AAyP's have been lending
at 9.5% interest and mortgage banks at 11%.  More recently, however, the
Monetary Boardl has allowed interest rates to be raised above the legal
ceiling of 1% per annum, through additional fees up to 6%, renewable every
three years.
1.14     Deposits and mortgage guaranteed bonds (cedulas hipotecarias) have
been the major sources of funds for these institutions.   Inflation and
low-interest rates for depositors and investors have resulted in a shortage
/3 The August 1981 authorization by the Junta Monetaria allows a 4% margin
over the legal ceiling for banking and a 6% margin for nonbanking
institutions. Effective rates are brought up to the range of 14-15%
through addition of commitment charges, closing fees and other devices.



-6-
of investment capital.  Competition for funds has been one of the reasons
why private sector institutions have not financed low-cost housing, which
is perceived as a high risk operation.  Other factors have been the rela-
tive scarcity and the high cost of urbanized land and the public sector's
difficulties in providing appropriate infrastructure and urban services on
a piecemeal basis.
The Government's Urban Policy
1.15         As a result of rapid urbanization, the public sector is under
pressure to confront the burgeoning demand for employment and basic ser-
vices by a mass of low-income urban residents, which, since 1979, has been
aggravated by the problem of hurricane refugees.   Given the present scar-
city of public sector funds, the commitment of external finance to other
priorities and the emphasis on budgetary allocations to rural areas, new
ways must be found to channel internal savings, to recover costs, to reduce
subsidies and to ensure a wider and more cost-effective distribution of
benefits from public expenditure.   In recent years,  overall investment
policy and a preference for physical improvements have favored but a small
fraction of city dwellers, and has left the large majority basically unaf-
fected. Housing institutions, set up to provide badly needed dwellings to
low-income families, have catered instead to middle- and high-income
classes at   considerable  public  sector cost.   In the medium-term,  the
Government now wants to concentrate on improving   the efficiency of the
existing urban systems, expanding services in conjunction with shelter
schemes for lower-income families. Therefore, a new policy and appropriate
financial instruments must be developed for the production of low-cost set-
tlements.
II. THE EXECUTING AGENCY
Background
2.01         The proposed loan would be made to the Government, which wouLd
onlend part of the proceeds to the project's executing agency, the National
Housing Institute (INVI).   This is an autonomous body created in 1962 to
implement government housing policy for lower-income groups. INVI's basic
functions are stated in its charter (Law No. 5892 of May 10, 1962 and suc-
cessive amendments):   to formulate a national housing plan, to implement
part of this plan and to promote private-sector participation; to provide
technical advice on housing matters to individuals and organizations; to
promote self-help and mutual-aid shelter programs in urban and rural set-
tings; to request the necessary appropriations from the executive branch;
and to coordinate other activities related to the above ends.
2.02          Despite these broad statutory powers, INVI had little say in
the past, over the allocation of resources or the formulation of housing
sector policy, and its activities were limited to the execution of small-
scale programs and estate maintenance.  Except for a few loans on conces-
sionary terms, INVI's resources have come from the government as capital



-7-
transfers or as budgetary allocations. The Institute's independent ability
to generate resources has been negligible over the 19 years of its exis-
tence, largely because of inadequate cost-recovery policies, politically
inspired selection of beneficiaries and relative  inefficiency in collect-
ing payments. Substantial subsidies have been necessary to support price
ceilings complying with government welfare objectives on the shelter units
produced by INVI.   In the absence of a reliable  information system to
support decision making, poor management of the institution was aggravated
by improvisation.  Effective interest rates on mortgage operations (5 to 8
1/2%) proved increasingly inadequate to offset inflation; cursory methods
of estimating construction costs did not fully reflect steep increases in
the price of materials and labor and combined with arrears in payment
collection to produce progressive decapitalization of the agency. To avoid
incurring serious debt, INVI has had to severely curtail its production.
Up to 1979, it had produced a yearly average of only 500 units, including
apartments and detached dwellings, most of which were designed above the
standards affordable by the target group defined in its statutes.
Post Hurricane Policy Re-Orientation
2.03          The year 1979 represented a turning point for INVI.   The
Government, faced with the pressing needs caused by the hurricane disaster
and realizing that the continuation of past housing policies was untenable,
asked the Institute to revise its approach, moving away from subsidized
solutions, re-directing its efforts towards the lower-income groups and
programming its activities over the medium and longer term in a more sys-
tematic fashion.  As part of its own administrative re-shuffling, the Gov-
ernment appointed a new director for INVI, giving her a clear mandate to
restructure the agency to play a modified role aind making a clear distinc-
tion between the emergency relief operations, which required immediate
action, and the development of new housing programs. The Technical Secre-
tariat of the Presidency gave full support to the reorganization of the
agency as a pre-condition for its future assumption of the sector lead, and
for expanding the provision of affordable shelter to the lower-income
groups.
2.04        During 1980, INVI rose to the challenge of the reconstruction
effort, demonstrating the capacity to expand its scope, while modifying
its product,  and the ability to provide guidance to other   institutions
engaged in complementary activities.  The Institute organized and directed
assistance to over 40,000 families in repairing, reconstructing or building
their dwellings after the hurricane.   These actions mobilized more than
30,000 people, and led to the construction of 1,922 dwellings, an unprece-
dented record for INVI.  A consultative group formed in the aftermath of
the disaster (CIVIVIENDA)   gathered under INVI's coordination the activi-
ties of various public institutions and private voluntary organizations.
To follow up on the successful reconstruction experience, INVI has main-
tained a permanent coordinating office for CIVIVIENDA, with the objective
of developing an integrated sector policy for low-cost housing credit and
implementation.
Organization and Management
2.05       INVI's original structure consisted of five operational depart-
ments and four advisory offices, all reporting directly to the general
manager.  By the end of 1979, INVI recognized the need for reorganization



-8-
and requested technical assistance from HABITAT for general structural and
planning aspects, and from the Federal German Government for more special-
ized sectors in 1980.  HABITAT provided an expert to advise on the general
institutional development of INVI, and in 1981 the German government signed
a bilateral agreement with the Dominican Republic Government, under which
its Technical Assistance Agency (GTZ) sent five experts for an initial two-
year program, with possible renewal for 1983-84.  In 1980, after a seminar
for all INVI staff, the Institutional Development Program for 1981-87 was
adopted and is at present under execution.  Considerable strengthening of
the administrative, technical and operational capacity of the agency is now
in progress.
The Present Structure (see Chart 1)
2.06      INVI is now organized on three main levels:  Policy, General Man-
agement and Operations.   The Board of Directors has five members:   tlhe
Minister of Public Works who is the Chairman; the General Director of INVI,
who serves as the Secretary; the Director of the National Planning Office
(ONAPLAN); the General Director of the Dominican Agrarian Institute (IAD);
and a fifth member appointed by the President of the Republic.  The Board
specifies the agency's basic objectives, approves its annual budget and any
amendments to it, sets employees salaries, authorizes the General Director
to carry out INVI's business, adopts INVI's bylaws, approves the direct
execution of specific projects and proposes tax or other legislation for
housing promotion purposes. The functions of the General Management level,
with the General Director as the responsible chief executive and legal rep-
resentative, are:   (a) to hire INVI's staff; (b) to present to the Board
for its approval and to implement the agency's policies, plans, programs,
budget, organization and regulatory statutes and modifications thereof; and
(c) to coordinate and promote solutions to housing issues.
2.07        The operational level is organized in five tiers:   Assistant
Directorships, Divisions, Departments, Sections and Offices. The Institu-
te's operational divisions have been organized by functional categories,
under the responsibility of two assistant directors.   One is in charge of
technical matters,  coordinating the work of five divisions:   three for
design, construction and supervision of works, and two for sites and ser-
vices and rural projects.   The other assistant director is in charge of
finance and administration, supervising the work of four divisions, inclu-
ding finance, administrative services, data processing and social programs.
Staffing
2.08       INVI's staff numbered 175 in 1978 and rose to over 320 in 1980.
Although the agency claims a ratio of one-third professional to total
staff, its current budgetary classification of official positions would
indicate that less than one fourth now have recognized professional status
(see Annex 2, Table 2). The 1981 budget included a 3% overall reduction in
personnel, while increasing the payroll by 31%. This reflects the proposed
expansion of the professional staff (20% in the technical and 40% in the
administrative branches), including staffing of the proposed project, and
the corresponding salary raises in several positions.  Support staff were
cut by 10%, while operational staff were kept at the same level.    The
attrition of redundant support staff corresponds to the scheduled comple-
tion of on-going projects and the increase in professional staff to the
addition of more qualified personnel.   The new executive  staff of the



-9-
Institute has been carefully selected and is demonstrating the necessary
professional competence, entrepreneurial judgement and financial responsi-
bility to carry out the proposed project.  The reassignment of operational
staff and the introduction of new and capable professionals is being
accomplished smoothly.   In general, it can be said that INVI has gained
sufficient awareness of the nature and magnitude of task ahead and is
seriously preparing itself to meet the challenges of project implementa-
tion.
Accounting and Auditing
2.09      INVI's financial department, with the assistance of a specialized
expert provided under a bilateral agreement (see para. 2.05) is designing
an appropriate! system of accounting and financial controls as well as
budgetary controls in accordance with guidelines supplied by Bank staff.
The system would be consistent with regular procedures operated by the
Government and INVI and would be designed to the satisfaction of INVI's
external auditors. Internal auditing is the responsibility of a special
office, headed by an experienced professional who reports directly to the
General Director. Annual financial statements are produced within the
successive quarter of each fiscal year and provide adequate information for
management and outside parties. Since 1977, the financial statements have
been audited by a local firm associated with Touche Ross International, and
the scope and timeliness of their work has been satisfactory. INVI would
agree to continue having its financial statements audited by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank (see para 8.01 (h)). Their reports would
be presented to the Bank not later than four months after the end of INVI's
fiscal year.
Institutional Development Program (1981-1987)
2.10      The Institutional Development Program of INVI, prepared by INVI
witli HABITAT assistance and in consultation with ONAPLAN, proposes a set of
institutional changes over a six-year period leading to the creation in
1983-84, of a Ministry of Human Settlements and Housing, which would assume
most of INVI's policy making functions, while the latter would become
strictly an executing agency.  The Program recommends specific actions to
improve the agency's administrative capacity, rationalize its accounting
methods and financial practices, the use of budgeting as a programming
tool, the training of its personnel and the definition of operational and
management procedures. On the technical side, it recommends development of
greater capability for in-house design, execution and procurement for
large-scale projects, and for programming and monitoring their execution.
The managerial changes include establishing a reliable information system
as a basis for decision-making, managing the portfolio according to realis-
tic policies for cost-recovery, rationalizing expenses and, to the extent
possible, contributing to the Institute's needs from internally generated
resources.
2.11     INVI envisages the following sequence of organizational changes:



-10-
(a)  During 1982, the Technical Directorate would be expanded and the
social division placed in the Administrative Directorate.   INrI
would  also  start  decentralizing  by  strengthening  its regionil
office in Santiago.
(b)   During 1983, coordination with other sector agencies would be for-
malized through the creation of a National Housing Council, to
support the formulation of sector policies, procedures and
normative instruments.   The main operational guidelines concern:
(i) the creation of a savings and loans system (see para. 4.19);
and (ii) the organization of technical units to handle large-scaLe
developments (see   para. 4.07).
(c)  During 1984,  a Housing and Human Settlements Ministry would be
created, assuming policy, planning and housing promotion functions,
and coordinating, regulatory and control responsibilities for the
sector.   INVI would:   (i) maintain its programming, design, con-
struction, administration/ and research functions; (ii) modify the
composition of its Board through appropriate legislation; (iii)
implement further regional decentralization; and (iv) maintain fi-
nancial control over its projects and portfolio.
(d)  Finally, after 1987, beyond the period encompassed by this project,
the human settlement and housing sector, headed by the new Minis-
try, would include other existing and specialized agencies in
charge of: the provision of financial resources, the contribution
of land reserves for housing development, the rehabilitation of
dilapidated urban districts, research and experimentation with
building techniques, and the administration of housing services.
Conclusion
2.12     During the past two years, important changes have taken place in
the general orientation of the Government towards housing policy. Signifi-
cant first steps have been made towards identifying a clear focus for the
National Housing Institute, strengthening its operational capacity,
ensuring its capitalization and financial viability, and outlining cost-
recovery  policies.    INVI  has  been preparing  itself  to meet  ambitious
targets, while carefully programming its future development.   A consid-
erable investment of human resources has been made in this operation.
Implementation of the proposed project would represent the decisive test of
the newly acquired strength of the Institution.  There is every indication
that this first venture will succeed.   However,  the more ambitious goals
set by the Institutional Development Program may have to be analyzed aLnd
revised in light of:  (a) careful monitoring of the results of the proposed
sites and services project; (b) the future fiscal position of the govern-
ment and its policies towards urban land, infrastructure, services and
shelter provision; (c) changing political circumstances; (d) INVI's capaci-
ty to sustain a continuous and prolonged process of change, while achieving
financial viability. The significant improvements achieved to date by the
agency, its proven flexibility to adapt quickly and efficiently, and the
dedication and drive of its personnel nonetheless represent a set of promi-
sing circumstances. The project includes a study of low-income housing
policy, which would assist the government and INVI in future sector
development (see para. 4.10).



III. THE PROJECT
Project Design and Objectives
3.01      The proposed project has been conceived in the context of the
following sectoral objectives:
(a) assisting the government in the formulation of a national housing
policy;
(b developing the institutional capacity to plan and implement
projects;
(c) increasing the production of dwellings at affordable costs;
(d) channeling savings through new housing credit and land tenure
schemes;
(e) reducing foreign inputs and adopting labor intensive methods in
housing construction; and
(f) gradually improving selected sites as planned, integrated communi-
ties.
Description of the Project
3.02     Assisted by a US$.5 million advance from the Bank Project Prepara-
tion Facility, the Dominican Housing Institute (INVI) has prepared imple-
mentation plans for two integrated communities, which will accomodate about
8,000 low-income households in Sabana Perdida and in Haina, which lie res-
pectively on the north-eastern and western fringes of the Santo Domingo
metropolitan area.   The largest portion of the first site has been made
available to INVI from state property, and expropriation decrees for the
remainder (20%) and for the second site have been enacted and the relevant
documentation has been delivered to the Bank. The two areas will be
developed in stages according to integrated site plans, including
construction of basic infrastructure (roads, drainage, sewerage, drinking
water and power distribution networks), community facilities (education,
health, social services and recreation) and procurement of relevant
equipment and furniture.   Typical lots would be contained in size (about
100 square meters) and lot frontages would be kept at a minimum (6-7 m)
according to Bank recommended standards, so as to minimize infrastructure
costs.    Lot  improvement  would  be  gradual  with  INVI  erecting  basic
structures on only part of the prepared areas.   The costs of land, site
works and internal infrastructure costs would be pro-rated in the purchase
mortgages.   A variety of shelter options would be offered at different
price levels to carefully selected beneficiaries.   Purchase options would
range from serviced lots, to lots endowed with a start-up sanitary core or
with semi-finished dwellings of one, two or three rooms. Each option would
be susceptible to successive extension, through direct, additional improve-
ments as individual household budgets permit (see Figures A and B).
3.03       Compared to existing needs, the scale of the proposed project is
modest. The supply of 8,000 housing units over four years would meet no
more than one-fifth the expected incremental demand of the target group in
Santo Domingo, barely matches the number of dwellings lost during the 1979



-12-
hurricanes, and represents no more than a small fraction of the existing
backlog of inadequate housing.   The original request by the Government
pointed to a project of 30,000 units. This target was considered to be out
of proportion with the existing financial and implementation capacity of
INVI. However, the project should be viewed as an important first step Ln
developing  a  modified  housing  policy,  and  is  as  large  as  can  lbe
realistically implemented, given the present institutional frameworlk.
Initial concentration in the Santo Domingo metropolitan area, where shelter
problems are most acute, is justified by current operational constraints.
Branching off to other cities, expanding to rural areas and undertaking
upgrading programs, are more ambitious medium-term objectives, which must
await the gradual build-up of experience and implementation capability.
3.04      The project, to be implemented over a four-year period, with in-
vestment beginning in July 1982, has been included in the Government's
1981-1983 three-year public investment plan, and a first budgetary alloca-
tion was made in 1981 for the acquisition of the two sites.  Construction
contracts of major importance will be awarded through international compe-
titive bidding, according to Bank-approved procedures (see Table 12 in
Annex 2).
Innovative Features in the Project's Design
3.05     This project proposes to make use of the public sector's comparat-
ive advantage in the provision of urban land and services for the benefit
of the community. This implies the gradual conversion of a public housing
institution into an agency for urban land development. The crucial test of
this operation lies in INVI's ability to coordinate the participation of
the private sector in housing production and to gradually achieve commer-
cial viability, while remaining faithful to its mandate to meet the shelter
needs of the lower-income groups. Therefore, the project would introduce
some novel features with respect to previous site and service projects
sponsored by the Bank. These innovations have been designed to overcome
rigidities in project formulation of the kind which have sometimes caused
implementation delays.
3.06         The first innovation is the freedom allowed to the executing
agency to market to other parties (under appropriate covenants) up to 25%
of the prepared land sites.  This should make it possible to solve tempo-
rary liquidity problems, allow for the participation of the private sector
in site improvement, and generate resources for re-investment in the proj-
ect (see para. 8.01 (k) and (1)).   The second is the establishment of a
close relation between the Bank and the borrower during the implementation
period, through a joint yearly review of implementation programs.   These
reviews would make it possible to revise on-lending terms on new mortgages,
should the changing circumstances of the economy so require; to modify the
initially adopted ceiling on the proportion of land which can be sold; and
to change the annual program of shelter construction in light of the mar-
keting experience of the previous year as explained in para. 4.03.   The
third innovation is that this annual review could be used to verify the
congruency of the sales prices with actual cost recovery, as determined by
the contractor's price quotations for the year (see para. 8.01 (d)).
Finally, construction contracts for shelter improvements would be let on
the basis of the expressed preferences of pre-selected beneficiaries, whose
debt carrying capacity would be tested through the monthly collection of
the 5% deposit, allowing for the substitution of those in default and the



-13-
allocation of the property to another applicant on the waiting list (see
para. 8.01 (j)).
Level of Technical Preparation and Firmness of Cost Estimates
3.07        The technical definition of the project has been brought to a
satisfactory level by INVI's project preparation unit,4 with final site
plans of 1/1000 scale for both sites, based on aero-photogrammetric surveys
and accurate field controls,  soil investigations and up-to-date cadastral
evaluation of land parcels and existing improvements. Definitive architec-
tural and engineering designs are ready for all components and cost estima-
tes have been confirmed on the basis of detailed calculations of quanti-
ties, revised specifications and current unit prices (May 1981), taking
into account the latest escalation of building material costs.  Estimates
of contingencies  during the implementation period have been based on a
reasoned assessment of the accuracy of project design, and on information
available loca:Lly on price trends in the construction sector.  The cost of
each  component  includes  the  relevant  professional  fees  for design  and
supervision, and a 3.5% allowance for project administration charges. The
cost of extension services relative to beneficiary selection, plot alloca-
tion, community organization and technical assistance on self-help con-
struction has been pro-rated to the serviced land cost (see Annex 2,
Table 6).
Project Costs
3.08         Assuming an infrastructure cost per lot of RD$ 1,500 and an
average cost of RD$ 1,900 for building improvements on 4,700 lots (60% of
the  total),  basic  project  costs  amount  to RD$  21 million.   When  the
concomitant costs of land and community facilities are added (RD$ 4.2
million),  as well as those of professional fees,  extension services and
project administration (RD$ 4.0 million), the baseline cost of the project
in 1981 prices is RD$ 29 million. Allowing for physical and price contin-
gencies (45%) the total project cost is RD$ 42 million. Table 2 shows the
cost of individual project components.   A 10% physical increase allowance
was made for all components, except for land already owned by INVI and for
the shelter costs, on which a 5% margin was deemed appropriate, given the
repetitive nature of this component.  Base costs exclude import duties and
taxes. Price escalation on individual components, varying with the timing
of their implementation, resulted in an overall average of 39%, with an
annual rate of increase for total costs of 15% in 1981, tapering off by 1%
yearly during the project construction period (see Table 3 in Annex 2).
The estimated foreign component amounts to 36% of total costs or approxi-
mately US$15 million.   Further cost details are given separately for the
two sites in Annex 2, Tables 3 to 8.  The project includes 200 man-months
of consultant and extension services, at an average cost of US$6,000 per
manmonth, including travel, subsistence and overheads. The corresponding
professional taLsks are specified in Annex I, para. 22.
/4  A special task force was established for this purpose by INVI in early
1980, sufficiently independent of other INVI functions to ensure its
dedication to the task of project preparation. Santo Domingo
University produced useful surveys of existing conditions in the
project areas and some technical advice to INVI was provided by
individual experts of the Fundacion Salvadorena de Vivienda Minima
under a contract financed by the Bank Project Preparation Facility.



-14-
TABLE 2. SUMMARY OF PROJECT COST BY COMPONENT
Percent
US$ thousand/a           Percent   of Base
Project Components                       Local    Foreign  Total    Foreign   Cost
A.  LAND
State property                        891          -      891          -       3.1
Private property                      640          -      640          -       2.2
Indemnifications                      509          -      509          -       1.8
Subdivision fees                      418          -      418          -       1.5
Subtotal A                      2,458          -    2,458           -       8.6
B.  OFF-SITE INFRASTRUCTURE
Waterwells, trunk lines, tanks        881        680    1,561         44       5.5
Stabilization ponds                   171        338      509         66       1.8
Power transformers & lines             52        273      325         84       1.1
Subtotal B                      1,104      1,291    2,395          52       8.4
C.  ON-SITE INFRASTRUCTURE
Earthworks                          1,690      1,830    3,520          52     12.3
Drainage                              653        280      933          30      3.3
Water distribution                    508        399       907        44       3.2
Sewerage system                     1,191        510    1,701         30       5.9
Power & public lighting               741        803    1,544          52      5.4
Roads formation & pavement            302        302       604        50       2.1
Subtotal C                      5,085      4,124    9,209          45      32.2
D.  SHELTER
Start-up sanitary units            2,183      1,175    3,358          35      11.8
Dwelling units                      3,561      1,918    5,479          35     19.1
Subtotal D                      5,744      3,093    8,837          35      30.9
E.  COMMUNITY FACILITIES
Schools                               385        207      592         35       2.1
Health centers                         64         35        99         35       .3
Social centers                         60         32       92         35        .3
Collection offices                     51         27        78        35        .3
Fire stations                          26         14        40        35        .1
Police stations                        29         15        44        35        .2
Sportsgrounds                          62         42      104         40        .3
Furniture and equipment               149        143      292         49       1.0
Trash collection equipment            214        205      419         49       1.5
Subtotal E                      1,040        720    1,760          41       6.1
F.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Project preparation                   699         89      788         11       2.8
Construction supervision            1,417          -    1,417          -       5.0
Extension services                    300        559       859        65       3.0
Project administration                903          -       903         -       3.0
Subtotal F                      3,319        648    3,967          16      13.8
BASE COST                              18,750      9,876   28,626          34    100.0
Physical increase                   1,167        768    1,935         39       6.8
Price escalation                    7,017     4,162   11,179          38      39.0
Subtotal G                      8,184      4,930   13,114          39      45.8
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                    26,934    14,886   41,740           36    145.8
/a  The official rate of exchange between US$ and the Domixican peso is 1 to 1.



-15-
Project Financing
3.09      The project has been designed to maximize the use of locally pro-
duced materials and labor at standards which would permit the recovery of
most (85%) of the investment costs from its beneficiaries.  Consequently,
the foreign exchange component is comparatively small.   Because of its
tight fiscal situation and given the social development focus of the proj-
ect, the Government seeks a 60% participation from the Bank.   This high
level of Bank financing, substantially in excess of the strict foreign ex-
change requirements of the project (36%), is recommended in view of the
existing pressure on budgetary resources and the difficulties of managing
the economy with inadequate international reserves.
3.10       It is proposed therefore that a Bank loan of US$25.4 million be
made to the Dominican Government, which would grant the executing agency
the remaining US$17 million from its own resources.   The Government would
assume the foreign exchange risk and would pass on the loan proceeds on the
same terms as those of the Bank loan to INVI, which would be responsible
for its repayment, except for the portions financing community facilities
and off-site infrastructure (US$2.3 million). In addition, the Government
would finance interest during construction, which would be repaid by INVI
together with the principal (see para. 8.01 (a)).
3.11       The executing agency would on-lend the proceeds of the loan to
project beneficiaries through 20 year mortgages including a 5% deposit, at
a nominal rate set by the prevailing legal ceiling, but would apply special
additional charges (closing and other service charges) to achieve an effec-
tive annual rate consistent with the financial viability of the project and
subject to joint annual review with the Bank (see para. 8.01 (c) and (k)).
Environmental Impact Analysis
3.12      As part of project preparation, INVI contracted a specialized
consultant to analyze the potential ecological impact of the two develo-
pment schemes. His recommendations have been incorporated in the project
design. They cover protective measures for vegetation and water resources
and include comprehensive proposals to mitigate the environmental impact of
the new settlements as well as control of pests and disease vectors.
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
The Construction Schedule (see Chart 2)
4.01       Execution of the site works and of off-site and on-site infra-
structure (two thirds of total investment cost) would be governed by a firm
construction schedule.   Overall project  implementation would  take  four
years, from mid 1982 to mid 1986. Works would start first in Sabana Perdi-
da and six months  later in Haina.   However,  since  the second site  is
smaller, infrastructure would be completed on both sites by mid-1985.
Residential settlement of the areas would begin in mid-1983, as the first
tracts of prepared land became available.   Given the progressive develop-
ment of the shelter component, self-help construction activities would ex-
tend beyond the Bank-supported implementation period, with extension ser-
vices supplied by INVI on a continuing basis for a few more years.   INVI
has prepared a critical path diagram for the first stage construction
activities on both sites, and periodic review of implementation progress
and communication of results to the Bank would be required on a quarterly



-16-
basis after loan signature  (see para. 8.01  (g)).   Prequalification of
contractors and suppliers, bid evaluations and contract awards for this
first stage would be so scheduled, that works could be undertaken in Sabana
Perdida  by  the  expected  date  of  loan  effectiveness.    No  retroactive
financing is therefore proposed.
Yearly Review of Shelter Construction Programs
4.02        The first contracts for shelter construction would be let Tio
sooner than early 1983 in Sabana Perdida and six months later in Haina, cls
levelled tracts of land and the correspondent infrastructure became pro-
gressively available, and as commitment fees were underwritten by the
eventual users.  Forty percent of the serviced lots would be sold without
any building improvement. For the remaining sixty percent, two basic house
models have been adopted, and would be offered at four different levels of
completion (a start-up sanitary core plus one, two or three rooms).  Most
beneficiaries would make additions over time.   Since both sites would be
developed in stages, the precise number of dwellings to be built of each
model and the phase of completion to which they would be brought by the
contractor would be determined by market demand as demonstrated by loan
applications.    Thus,  shelter  construction  contracts  would  reflect  the
choices of the selected applicants and would be executed while they were
progressively fulfilling their downpayments.
4.03         The project was appraised on the basis of an annual shelter
construction program reflecting preliminary demand indications and the
income distribution of the target group (see Annex 2, Tables 9 and 21).
Overall annual amounts allocated for shelter construction have been pre-de-
termined accordingly.   The following assumptions were made:   (i) of thne
7,880 serviced lots, 40% or 3,150 would be sold unimproved, with the possi-
bility that INVI could sell 1,660 of these to other organizations (see
para. 5.10); (ii) sanitary cores would be built on 4,730 lots; and (iii)
additional shelter improvements would be added on 2,365 lots.  A possibLe
mix could be:   50% one room dwellings, 35% two room dwellings, and 15%
three bedroom dwellings.   However,  it  is expected  that,  within  these
allocations, the actual construction programs as well as the extent of
block sales of the prepared land might be revised in consultation with Bank
staff at the beginning of each year of implementation (para. 8.01(d)).
Decisions on the precise spatial distribution of different house models and
their level of completion would be influenced also by physical development
considerations, the logical clustering of construction activities, t]he
stated preferences of the purchasers and the possible participation of
complementary developers.
4.04       For the shelter component, INVI would detail the implementation
schedule proposed for the first stage and would establish a monitoring pro-
gram satisfactory to the Bank, including studies of particular aspects of
project progress.  However, no disbursements on account of shelter-related
expenditures for any successive year would be made, until a yearly project
implementation program for the respective areas had been approved (see
para. 8.01 (d)). This would be accompanied by definitive plot plans,
indicating the number, type and programmed level of completion of the
shelter units included in each implementation year.



-17-
Inter-Institutional Agreements (see Chart 3)
4.05        To simplify project implementation, INVI would receive from the
government all necessary financing to construct and to procure the equip-
ment for the project-related community facilities and the on-site and off-
site infrastructure, according to designs and specifications previously
agreed upon with the concerned authorities.5 INVI would subsequently
transfer the facilities, equipment and corresponding land areas to the re-
spective sector agencies, which would assume responsibility for their oper-
ation and maintenance. The appraisal mission reviewed ten draft agreements
between INVI and the participating agencies.   These agreements have been
finalized in a form satisfactory to the Bank and cover mutual obligations,
scheduling of commitments, and other terms and conditions conducive to the
required coordinated effort, including suitable financial arrangements;
cost recovery, maintenance and operation provisions.
4.06      Each of the participating agencies would make the necessary orga-
nizational arrangements to ensure that appropriate services were provided
on the project sites, according to an agreed implementation schedule.  The
proposed land-use plans, layout designs, construction and engineering
standards and specifications would be ratified by the relevant authorities
and suitable variations from the current norms formally accepted, to imple-
ment infrastructure and urban service levels appropriate to this type of
development.     Chart  3  summarizes  the  operations  and  administrative
activities to be carried out by INVI and by the various participating
agencies.
Project Management (see Chart 4)
4.07        INVI's general structure and evolution was reviewed in Chapter
II, where the recent creation of a Sites and Services Division (DLS) to
manage the execution of the project was noted.  This division has been es-
tablished to ensure the necessary linkages with other operating units,
which would participate in project implementation, and to develop the
internal capacity required by the new policy orientation of the institu-
tion.  The head of the Project Preparation Unit, a qualified civil engi-
neer, has been appointed as director of the Sites and Services Division.
He would be in charge of the project's physical implementation, including
engineering, supervision, coordination of construction contracts and of
some administrative functions. With appropriate backing from senior manage-
ment, he would also guide and monitor the participation of other agencies
in the project.
4.08      Two technical teams, one for each site, would be headed by resi-
dent engineers, reporting to the director, who would be responsible for the
preparation of bidding documents, supervision and the monitoring of the
works performed by contractors.  INVI would maintain a temporary office on
each site during the project implementation period for the resident
supervisory team, which, in addition to its regular tasks, would provide
/5   The only notable exceptions to this general pattern would be the works
for electric power supply to the two sites and for water supply to
Haina, which would be implemented by CDE and INAPA respectively, with
INVI contributing their incremental costs (see details in Annex A).



-18-
support to the extension service staff regarding the progressive
improvement of individual units (see para. 8.01 (f)).
4.09       The anticipated staffing of the Sites and Services Division is
summarized in Annex 2, Table 10, which reflects the schedule of tasks
during the implementation period.   The supervision of physical works and
extension services follow different paths, with both activities reaching a
peak of 91 staff years in the third implementation year, and with decreas-
ing technical inputs thereafter.  Given the progressive development nature
of the project, and the need for prolonged guidance in community develop-
ment and in the organization of self-help maintenance services, these ac-
tivities would require INVI's staff to be involved beyond the period of
Bank-supported implementation.   Throughout the stage of project develop-
ment, INVI's staff would be complemented by external technical assistance
from bilateral and multilateral sources (see paras. 2.05, 2.09, 4.10, 4.12,
4.19). Annex 1, para. 22.
Studies, Project Monitoring and Supervision Reports (see Chart 5)
4.10      With the assistance of consultants, INVI would undertake a study
of alternative policies for addressing low-income housing needs in the
country and of the means to achieve long-term financial viability and would
adopt a five-year financial program acceptable to the Bank, taking into
account the conclusions of the study (see para. 8.01 (m).  The study would
be started by September 1982 and concluded no later than March 1"83. Its
recommendations would be discussed with the Bank. The project implementa-
tion schedule and the indicators to be used for monitoring project execu-
tion were agreed during negotiations; monitoring reports would be provided
on a quarterly basis after loan signature (see para. 8.01 (d)). The
implementation team would prepare quarterly reports on the project's
progress, which would conform in standard and coverage to regular Bank
practices. The general content of these reports has already been reviewed
with INVI's staff and detailed guidelines on their expected format would be
supplied  by  Bank  supervision  staff.        The  periodic  and  systematic
supervision briefs by the field offices to the central office would be
designed      to      simplify      production      of      these      reports.
Similarly, in order to monitor progress on project components not financed
with the Bank loan and/or not constructed under INVI's direct responsibili-
ty, the implementation team would obtain progress reports from the execu-
ting agencies in a coordinated format.
Selection of Beneficiaries
4.11        In Santo Domingo, the patterns of income distribution and the
demand for low-cost housing solution are such that the project target group
would include large numbers of regular income earners, such as low-rank
civil servants in various institutions.  In these cases, the collection of
monthly charges would be undertaken at the source, through payroll deduc-
tions. Another group of beneficiaries, for whom a corporate form of mort-
gage guarantee could be established comprises members of trade associations
(such as: drivers, artesans and retailers). Only a minority of the benefi-
ciaries would be directly responsible for mortgage payment.   A tentative
distribution among these three categories has been suggested by INVI of 40,
40 and 20% respectively.



-19-
4.12        INVI already holds a substantial backlog of applications.   The
practical knowledge and available information of the social programs and
legal counsel's units have been instrumental in developing selection crite-
ria, innovative methods of title granting and title holding and appropriate
contractual arrangements.   These would be refined as more experience is
acquired in the allocation process, with the participation of the technical
assistance  experts.    Mortgage  eligibility  criteria  and  procedures  for
selection of beneficiaries would be consistent with the cost-recovery
objective, while focusing on attracting families whose monthly income
presently  ranges  from  RD$110  to  RD$400.    Within  this  range,  those
households would be selected, whose age and characteristics indicate:  (a)
a stable or improvable  financial  condition,  that  can satisfy mortgage
requirements;  and  (b)  a  cooperative,  responsible  attitude  that  meets
community development objectives (see para. 8.01 (i)).
4.13      The Working Committee for the selection and evaluation of benefi-
ciaries would include representatives of the financial and social programs
divisions and of the legal counsel's office.  The financial division would
verify and approve their creditworthiness, organize and manage the downpay-
ment process, and determine specific sale conditions on the basis of cost
information  provided  by  the  sites  and  services  division.    The  legal
counsel's office would be involved at the end of the process, when the
selected applicant would sign a contract with INVI to purchase a specific
shelter solution.
4.14         Two handbooks have been prepared for the guidance of INVI's
staff, containing criteria and procedures for public promotion of the proj-
ect and for the evaluation of beneficiaries.   Three other handbooks are
being developed to assist beneficiaries.   One explains the nature of the
sale contract to be entered into with INVI, the second is a guide to the
settlement process and to the progressive improvement of the dwelling solu-
tions, and the third contains general guidelines for community organization
and development.
Extension Services Organization (see Chart 6)
4.15        INVI would establish an extension services program to offer the
technical and social support required by the project's progressive develop-
ment  pattern.    Three  sequential  operations  would  be  involved:    (i)
selection of beneficiaries; (ii) settlement in the project; and (iii)
community organization.   Different,  simultaneous actions would take place
on each site, in accordance with the staged development of its land tracts,
allowing  rotation of  the extension  services  staff as needed.   Planned
personnel requirements for extension services and administrative staff are
shown in Table 11 of Annex 2, which indicates an average of 21 people per
year, five of whom would be at professional level.
4.16        During the first period, while site preparations were taking
place,  social workers would:    (a)  organize and structure  their action
plans; (b) publicize through appropriate media which shelter types would be
put on sale; (c) gather and select purchase applications, forwarding them
to INVI's financial division, which would evaluate them and organize the
downpayment process; and (d) initiate training for selected beneficiaries.



-20-
4.17      The second period, corresponding to the settlement process, would
begin with the allocation of individual plots.   Community participation
efforts would be geared at solving the most immediate practical needs: up-
keep,  provision of services  and  internal  organization on the basis  of
neighborhoods of about 60 families.  Each stage of implementation works on
the two project sites would involve development of approximately 17 such
neighborhoods.   These would be grouped in districts,  centered on small
communal buildings where the basic social work would be performed, includl-
ing social promotion and education, family planning, childcare, self-help
and technical assistance.6 The social centers (4 in Sabana Perdida and 3
in Haina) would also serve as neighborhood meeting places.  Larger commu-
nity events would take place in the local school facilities.
4.18        The consolidation of the community would be achieved during a
third period, when the extension services staff would basically supply ad-
vice on self-help home improvement, overall maintenance, and activities and
would evaluate the communities' capacity to function on their own. INVI's
continued presence and direct assistance would then phase out gradually,
providing only intermittent services through its social programs division,
as part of its established routine for all INVI projects.
Savings and Loans System for Small-Scale Home Improvements
4.19      At present, the lower-income groups have no access to the exist-
ing Savings and Loans System (SAAyP), and must resort to informal sources
which extort rates as high as 10  per month on short-term loans.  Experi-
ences in other Latin American countries would indicate that the creation of
a well-managed savings and loans system for small-scale house improvement
could become an important source of revenue for INVI, lessening its finan-
cial dependence on the government and channelling the savings of poor
households in a productive direction.   INVI has initiated discussions on
this topic with trade unions, voluntary organizations and with the existing
savings and loans associations.   One of the foreign experts (see para.
2.05) is presently analyzing the possibility of setting up such a scheme in
connection with the sites and services project.   Since this possibility
ought to be more carefully analyzed, six man-months have been included in
the consulting and extension service component for an evaluation of the
results of the on-going study and the possible integration of such scheme
into the project. The study is expected to be completed by mid 1983.
Procurement
4.20       The works and purchases envisaged by the project can be grouped
in about 50 contract packages of different sizes between RD$ 0.4 and 2.9
million. The physical separation of the two sites, their different imple-
mentation schedules, the execution by successive stages (depending on year-
ly implementation programs) and the variety of project components, all pre-
clude the clustering of procurement into fewer and larger packages than
those recommended for each site in Annex 2, Table 11. International compe-
titive bidding would be adopted for all contracts above RD$ 750,000 (six
packages for a total amount of RD$ 11.4 million or 38% of the total value
16   For the physical description of these facilities, see para. 1.13 in
Annex 1.



-21-
of all contracts).   Packages below this ceiling would be awarded through
local competitive bidding, open to international participants (46 contracts
for a total amount of RD$ 18.7 million or 62% of the total value of all
contracts).  As the country's construction industry is both developed and
active, especially in Santo Domingo, most of the contracts envisaged under
the project are expected to be awarded to local firms.  This would be con-
gruent with the nature of the works to be performed and with the use of
locally produced materials and of labor intensive and traditional construc-
tion techniques. Table 12 in Annex 2 presents the equipment and furniture
procurement items for each site. Radio communication exchanges, dental and
medical equipment, fire engines and trash collection trucks would be
procured through limited international tendering and involving a total of
RD$ 0.6 million, while all other items, such as office and school furniture
and equipment (RD$ 0.2 million) would be acquired through local procedures
acceptable to the Bank.   All civil works contracts above US$250,000, as
well as equipment purchases above US$100,000 would be subject to ex-ante
review by the Bank; for the shelter contracts, this would be done only for
the first development stage (see para. 8.01 (g)).
Disbursement
4.21     The government would allocate the funds needed for project imple-
mentation in its yearly budgets, from which the funds would be transferred
to INVI, according to a disbursement pattern corresponding to the antici-
pated investment schedule for the year. This would include the financing of
the nonallocable components of the project (educational, health, recrea-
tional facilities (see para. 8.01 (b)) and of INVI's contributions to the
utility companies for the implementation of off-site infrastructure.  Dis-
bursements under the proposed Bank loan categories (see Annex 2, Table 4)
would be fully documented.   The loan proceeds would finance the following
items on all components, except for land acquisition and corresponding
indemnifications, and the off-site infrastructure not directly contracted
by INVI:
(a)   seventy percent of local expenditures and 100% of foreign expen-
ditures for all materials, furniture, equipment, and civil works;
and
(b)   sixty-five percent of local expenditures and 100% of foreign ex-
penditures for project preparation, consultants activities, and
extension services.
The schedule of estimated disbursement, allowing for a six months time lag,
to accommodate time consumed in preparing and processing withdrawal
applications, is shown in Table 3 below. The proposed closing date is June
30, 1987.



-22-
TABLE 3. DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE/a
(In RD$ million)
Calendar Year          Government                    Bank              Bank's Fiscal
Semesters         Semester    Cumulative   Semester   Cumulative   Year Semester
June 1981            1.1           1.1         -            -          Second FY 81
December 1981        1.5           2.6         .3a/         .3         First FY 82
June 1982             .4           3.0         .2           .5         Second FY 82
December 1982         .6           3.6         .7          1.2         First FY 83
June 1983            1.6           5.2        1.3          2.5         Second FY 83
December 1983        2.8           8.0        3.2          5.7         First FY 84
June 1984            2.8          10.8        4.2          9.9         Second FY 84
December 84          2.1          12.9        4.3         14.2         First FY 85
June 1985            1.6          14.5        3.4         17.6         Second FY 85
December 1985        1.6          16.1        4.2         21.8         First FY 86
June 1986             .3          16.4        1.6         23.4         Second FY 86
December 1986         .3          16.7        2.0         25.4         First FY 87
June 1987            -            16.7         -          25.4         Second FY 87
a/ Disbursed from the Project Preparation Advance.
4.22     The six years disbursement schedule shown above compares favorably
with the 8 1/2 year average profile of urban projects in the LAC region,
and with the typical seven-year span of projects in other sectors in the
Dominican Republic.   This shorter than average profile  is considered  to be
feasible in this project in light of:
(a)  the relative  simplicity of the project's  components,  which will be
mostly executed under contracting arrangements;
(b)  the proposed working fund advance from the loan proceeds, complementing
a revolving fund to be established by the Government to expedite
project spending (see para. 4.24 below); and
(c)  the  advanced  level  of  technical  and  institutional  preparation  of
the project.



-23-
Establishment of a Revolving Fund and a Working Fund
4.23        The need to ensure the availability of government counterpart
funds according to the anticipated annual investment schedule of the proj-
ect, has already been mentioned in para. 4.21.   Since the proceeds of the
Bank loan would only reimburse expenditures made for the project (except in
cases where letters of credit were used), it is expected that the govern-
ment would make available to INVI the total funds needed to pay for expen-
ses.   This is particularly crucial in the first year of implementation,
given INVI's present shortage of working capital.  In order to expedite the
disbursement of budgeted government funds for the project, a revolving fund
(Project Account) would be established with an initial government
contribution sufficient to cover cash expenditures during the first six
months of execution of the project (RD$ 1.7 million). The Project Account
would be established at the Banco de Reservas with the agreed government
contribution and would be managed by INVI (see para. 8.01 (b)).
4.24        In order to supplement the Government contribution, it is pro-
posed that the Bank agrees to establish a working fund (Special Account) in
US$ in the Central Bank of the Dominican Republic, with an initial deposit
of US$1.0 million, equivalent to 60% of the estimated expenditures for
civil works, buildings equipment and extension services during 1982. This
Special Account would be administered by the International Agreements
Department  of the Central Bank.   Procedures  for  the  operation of  the
working fund would be as follows:
(a)   INVI, upon incurring an expenditure, would pay the contractor/
supplier by check drawn on the government's Project Account at
the Banco de Reservas.
(b)   INVI would prepare a withdrawal application, to be forwarded to
the Central Bank's International Agreements Department;
(c)   The Central Bank would debit the Special Account with the US$
equivalent and credit the government's Project Account at the
Banco de Reservas with the requested amount (the Bank's share) in
Dominican pesos.
(d)   The Central Bank would promptly forward withdrawal applications
to the Bank along with a certification of the US$ amount debited
to the Special Account at value date.
(e)   Upon receipt of withdrawal applications certified by the Central
Bank, the Bank would replenish the Special Account and advise the
Borrower accordingly.
(f)   Both the Project Account and the Special Account would be subject
to a detailed audit on a regular basis (see para. 2.09 on
Auditing, and para. 8.01 (h).



-24-
As a condition for the establishment of the Special Account, the Bank would
request a Government commitment to continue replenishing the Project
Account established at the Banco de Reservas, each month, on the basis of a
portion of the amount allocated for the project in the yearly budget (see
para. 8.01 (b).
V.  FINANCIAL ASPECTS
Recent Financial Position
5.01        As shown in Table 4 below, INVI's operations during 1978-1980
were mainly dependent on Government contributions.   Although advance pay-
ments by beneficiaries provided a complementary source of financing,
earnings during this period were very limited.  While substantial capita-
lization was taking place (see para. 5.03), INVI incurred a net loss of RD$
470,000 due to inflation, unrealistic interest rates, arrears on collec-
tion, and hurricane reconstruction expenditures. During 1976-1980, infla-
tion rose from 10% to 15% per year. Although the cost of borrowed money to
INVI was only 2% during this period, annual rates on its mortgages varied
between 5 and 8 1/2%.  Payment arrears on INVI's urban projects stood in
1980 at 10% of total outstanding mortgages.  The agency received RD$ 4.9
million for emergency programs but actual expenditures reached *RD$ 5.2
million.   In 1980, INVI's current ratio was 0.57 and its working capital
decreased by RD$ 1.4 million. The debt/capital ratio went down to 4:96.
TABLE 4. INVI's SUMMARY BALANCE SHEET (see details in Table 16 of Annex 2)
(December 1978 through December 1980 (in RD$ million))
1978            1979             1980
Current assets                    3.2             1.7              2.2
Mortgages and other assets       26.5            38.1             47.1
TOTAL                  29.7            39.8             49.3
Current liabilities               1.9             1.5              3.6
Long-term debt                    2.1             1.9              1.7
Beneficiaries downpayments        3.8             3.4              4.0
Government contributions         19.9            30.8             38.5
Earnings                          2.0             2.2              1.5
TOTAL                  3s^                              WI_ T
Current ratio                     1.7             1.1              0.6
Debt/capital ratio                9:91            5:95             4:96



-25-
5.02      At present, an overwelming proportion of INVI's capital financing
and about half of its annual revenue is provided by the Government. Thus,
when analyzed according to conventional criteria, INVI appears to present
no insurmountable problems.   However,  conventional analysis  is not very
meaningful in this situation. The Institute's income statements, certified
by qualified external auditors, are presented in Table 16 of Annex 2.  As
shown below in Table 5, despite Government transfers and donations, fiscal
year 1980 closed with a net loss.  The present financial position of INVI
is therefore characterized by profitability problems which can only be cur-
ed by a substantial departure from its traditional investment management
practices.   This involves taking full account of the financial effect of
new investment decisions and setting realistic and remunerative prices for
future sales.
TABLE 5. SUMMARY INCOME STATEMENTS (1978-1980)
(in thousand RD$: see detail in Table 17 of Annex 2)
1978          1979           1980
Revenues                                   702           614            690
Government transfers for operations        300           530          5,235
TOTAL                         1,002         1,144          6,185
Interest on debt                            41            45             40
Other expenditures                         812           944          6,617/a
TOTAL                           853         1,039          6,657
A. Net income after
transfers and donations               149           105           (472)/b
B. Net income before
transfers and donations              (151)         (425)        (1,043)
RATIO ANALYSIS
Net income A as % of revenues             21.1          17.0          -68.3
Net income B as % of revenues            -21.7         -69.3        -151.1
/a  Includes expenditures for hurricane housing reconstruction program
/b Includes Government transfers and expenditures for the hurricane
reconstruction program.



-26-
Recent Equity Transfers
5.03      At the end of 1978, INVI assumed responsibility for a number of
projects under construction (including advance payments to contractors,
materials, land and other assets), which had been initiated in various
cities by the former Oficina Fiscalizadora de Obras del Estado (OFOE), an
ad hoc executing agency, phased out by the present administration.   The
physical and accounting transfers were made under a presidential instruc-
tion to Bienes Nacionales (the State Property Agency), which administers
the former OFOE assets.  From 1978 to 1980, they were presented in INVI's
financial statements and audits as transfers from the government, pending
the completion of formalities.   Contracts  involving some of the above
assets for a book value of RD$ 6.5 million were signed between Bienes
Nacionales and INVI at the end of January 1981 and the transactions were
officially registered on February 3, 1981.   INVI's management has been
justifiably selective in accepting only that part of the authorized tran-
sfers, which would not entail financial liabilities or excessive opera-
tional commitments in collection of receivables or maintenance of facili-
ties.
5.04    In addition, the Instituto de Auxilio y Vivienda (INAVI) had tran-
sferred to INVI during 1979, the Juan Pablo Duarte project with 1,092
housing units under construction in Santo Domingo.   This other property,
book-valued at RD$ 4.1 million, consisted of works in progress, stocks of
materials, advance payments to contractors and a debt of RD$ 2.4 million
with the Banco de Reservas, which in turn is repaying it to the City Bank
of Bahamas N.A. (see details in Annex 2, Table 14). The operation is being
formalized among INVI, INAVI and the Banco de Reservas.  During 1978, 1979
and 1980,  INVI also received RD$  11.1 million from the government for
completion of these projects, together with RD$ 10.4 million for INVI's own
projects.   These transfers, made as capital contributions plus retained
earnings for the period, have increased INVI's capital to about RD$ 40.0
million.
Proposed Measures to Improve INVI's Profitability
5.05       In light of the debt service obligations, which would arise from
the proposed loan, a series of measures have been discussed with INVI's
management and with ONAPLAN, the Goverrment Central Planning Office. They
would include the following:
(a)   INVI would limit its housing investment to the construction of
starter and demonstration dwellings, (one-third of total project
cost), and concentrate its efforts on the production and marke-
ting of prepared sites;
(b)   INVI would encourage  the participation  in the project of the
private sector (savings and loans associations, association of
entrepreneurs, trade unions) through block acquisition of part of
the prepared sites and direct investment in their housing improv-
ement (see para 8.01 (k));



-27-
(c)   INVI would adopt,  in its new programs, design and construction
standards commensurate with the ability to pay of its target
group, and would apply realistic prices for its sales (see para
8.01 (e));
(d)   INVI would  raise  the effective  charge  on new mortgages  to a
sufficient level to offset the cost of borrowed money, to bear
operational expenses and to start contributing towards capital
needs. An effective yearly interest rate of 14% would be applied
in mortgaging lots and dwellings produced in the project's first
development stage.   This would be achieved through closing and
service charges of 2% per annum above the current legal ceiling
of 12% per annum.   The  effective interest  rate on mortgages
pertinent to the project's successive stages or to other urban
projects initiated after loan signature would be adjusted by INVI
on the basis of the joint yearly reviews held with the Bank and
the Government (see para. 8.01 (c);
(e)   INVI would present to the Bank, by December 31, 1982, a satisfac-
tory program to improve its procedures for the collection of
mortgage payments, which would include measures to reduce its bad
debt expense to 2% of its mortgage portfolio by 1986 and a time-
table for implementation starting in 1983 (see para. 8.01 (j));
(f)   INVI would coordinate the pace of works with sales to avoid main-
tenance of idle assets and accelerate transfers into the
portfolio;
(g)   The  Government  would  support  INVI's  capital  needs  over  the
project implementation period, to provide a basis for its gradual
adjustment to commercial operation; and
(h)   The Government would finance interest during construction for the
proposed project (see para. 8.01 (a)).
INVI's Financial Perspective
5.06        The financial position of INVI and the recommended measures to
solve its current profitability problems have been discussed in the
previous paragraphs.  Details on the Institute's balance sheet and income
statements are presented in Annex 2, Tables 15 and 16. Since the proposed
project would constitute more than a third of INVI's capital expenditures
during 1981-86, the proposed financing plan is presented below within the
context of the agency's overall funds flow.  INVI is expected to meet its
debt service obligations during this period and to contribute 27% of
requirements from internal sources (including payments from
beneficiaries). Borrowing should be confined to that required for
financing the proposed project (22% of total capital requirements). While
INVI's capital   structure is not expected to present problems during the
period of project implementation, given the relatively low indebtedness of
the   agency   and   the   recent   equity   transfers   it  has   received,



-28-
its working capital should be guaranteed by the proposed financial
arrangements discussed in para. 5.05 and by the careful planning of its
annual investments. As shown in Table 6 below, working capital
requirements are expected to be about 5% of INVI's total capital
expenditures over the project period.
TABLE 6. INVI'S OVERALL FUNDS FLOW
(see details in Table 17 of Annex 2)
(1981-1986)/a
IN RD$ MILLION                     %
Fund Requirements
Proposed project                         41.8                    36
Other capital expenditures               69.5                    59
Working capital                           6.2                      5
Total requirements                   117.5                    100
Fund Sources
Net internal funds                        8.1                      7
INVI's land                               0.5                     -
Beneficiaries' downpayment                7.8                     7
Beneficiaries repayments                 16.7                    14
IBRD Loan                               25.4                     22
Government contribution                  59.5                    51
Total sources                        117.5                    100
/a Excluding hurricane-related sources and requirements of funds.
Expected Financial Performance
5.07         The proposed financial measures discussed in para. 5.05 are
intended to promote the internal generation of funds and to support INVI's
transition from a government subsidized welfare institution to a commer-
cially viable urban development enterprise. An increasing share of INVI's
internal funds would come from the proposed project's revenues as well as
from retained income from the transferred housing projects.   Incremental
revenues would be obtained also by improved collection procedures and
introduction of realistic mortgage rates on all new operations of INVI.
Borrowing funds could represent an additional source; to ensure that iLt
does not exceed substainable levels, INVI would agree not to incur addiL-
tional borrowings without the Bank consent if its maximum debt service iLn
any future year is not covered at least 1.5 times by the funds generated
internally in the most recent year (see para. 8.01 (n)).   In any event,
before the end of the project implementation period, the government should
review its policy on support to the low-cost housing sector and on INVI's
capitalization. Additional borrowing by INVI might be possible by 1986,
but given the uncertainties about local and international conditions at



-29-
that time, this prospect is not discussed in this report and should be the
object of review at a later date. Details on the expected future financial
performance of INVI are shown in the detailed funds flow and balance sheet
attached to this report (see Annex 2, Tables 15, 16 and 17).
5.08       Given the assumptions about the level of Government support and
of Bank loan repayment, presented in paras. 3.10 and 5.05, the cash flow
for the project would show an increasing surplus beginning in 1985.   Two
years later, in 1988, the accumulated net surplus would be of the order of
RD$ 13.2 million.  This projection does not include substantial additional
cash revenues which, beginning in 1983, would accrue to INVI from outright
block sales of land for commercial and residential uses.   As previously
stated and as explained further in the following paragraph, the project en-
visages that 25% of the prepared land would be sold by INVI to the private
sector and to other housing institutions before 1986 (see para 8.01 (k)).
This sale could yield up to RD$ 6.0 million depending on the timing of the
transactions, and would considerably improve INVI's liquidity position over
the implementation period.   However, the project's cash flow projections
conservatively account for this portion of the land as repayable by INVI's
beneficiaries on a 20-year schedule.
Sales Policy
5.09        Sales prices of individual lots would recover the proportional
costs of land, earthworks and on-site infrastructure and the full cost of
building improvements erected by INVI on specific plots, including the
corresponding costs of design, supervision, administration, extension serv-
ices and interest during construction.  Besides mortgaging property to its
own beneficiaries, the executing agency would also be authorized to dispose
of part of the land prepared under the project, through direct sales to
third parties.   INVI  is already  negotiating with  other housing credit
institutions, cooperative building associations, trade unions, enterprises
and private voluntary organizations, which would be interested in acquiring
and independently developing defined tracts of land.   The proceeds from
such transactions would be retained by INVI in a fund to finance further
investment on the two sites or in other shelter programs with similar
objectives and characteristics (see para. 8.01 (1)).
5.10      As mentioned in para. 5.08, subject to annual review, the project
assumes the sale of 25% of the prepared land.  This corresponds to about
half the residential areas upon which INVI would construct no shelter im-
provement, plus the serviced sites earmarked for commercial use which would
be sold to private entrepreneurs (see para. 8.01 (k)). The quantities in-
volved are 18.2 ha of net residential land and 4.4 ha of net commercial
land for both sites  (see Land Use Summary Table 1 in Annex 1).   The
corresponding development costs  (at the assumed average rates of price
escalation) would be RD$ 5.3 and RD$ 1.3 million respectively, by 1986.
Since sales would be made at the market price, expected recuperation by
INVI should allow for a margin of profit and would be well over these
amounts.  The transactions would be subject to Bank approval and appropri-
ate covenants would ensure that the ultimate use of the property would not
be inconsistent with the main objectives of the project.   Sales agreements
would  cover  conditions  pertaining  to:    (a) maintenance,  operation and
upgrading of the areas involved;  (b) land use and density provisions; and
(c) the maximum time limit for settlement of occupants.



-30-
5.11      At the discretion of INVI, prices of individual lots could re-
flect variations from the average cost, depending on their specific setting
(corner lots, lots facing paved or secondary streets, internal lots, lots
facing open spaces). Differential pricing criteria, which could afford a
measure of cross-subsidization on specific options, would be subject to
agreement with the Bank during the yearly review (see para 8.01 (g). Sales
prices would be based on actual cost information supplied by the implemen-
tation unit, backed by definitive plot plans and would be calculated by the
financial division, applying corresponding financial and administrative
surcharges. Table 18 in Annex 2 represents a projection of sale revenues
to INVI in the case of mortgage sales. Table 22 in Annex 2 is a simulation
of mortgage payments by beneficiaries over time.
VI. ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL JUSTIFICATION
The Nature of Economic Benefits
6.01         For several years, Bank economic reports have emphasized the
importance of addressing social issues within the overall strategy for dev-
elopment in the Dominican Republic.7 A more equitable sharing of the
fruits of economic growth has been argued not only for reasons of social
justice but also on economic grounds:  to make better use of the country's
human resource base which, for historical reasons, has been relatively weak
and is considered a major constraint to longer-term economic development;
and to provide the development process with a broader base and, therefore,
help to maintain its momentum in the longer run.   As measured by such
indicators as infant mortality, life expectancy and the incidence of in-
fectious and parasitic diseases, the Dominican Republic ranks very poorly
among Latin American countries. The losses from these diseases in terms of
labor output and productivity are substantial and cannot be avoided through
intermittent care and the return of the patient to an environment to which
they are endemic.
6.02      Land, basic infrastructure and urban services can generally be
provided as public goods more efficiently than shelter. 8 Therefore, the
proposed project lays major emphasis on the provision of urban sites with
safe water and sanitation and less on building structures. The effect of
improved basic living conditions on productivity has been analyzed by sev-
eral studies, but, although the direction is clear, its quantification has
not been possible.9 However, as an indication of the possible impact of
the project in this regard, an average saving of two sick days per month by
the project beneficiaries in the labor force (assuming that their output
can be approximated by the minimum wage) would produce enough incremental
output, discounted at the opportunity cost of capital, to equal the initial
investment.
/7   Economic Memoranda, 1979, 1980 and 1981; Major Social Concerns and
Policy Recommendations, January 31, 1980.
/8   See A. Churchill, Shelter, Poverty and Basic Needs Series, World Bank,
September 1980.
/9   See L.S. Burns and L. Grebler, Housing the Nations, 1977.  Many of the
cases  in this study refer to "company towns" often involving sick
leave with pay, and its results on the effects of better housing
should be treated with caution.



-31-
Quantification of Economic Costs and Benefits
6.03        The project design calls for the installation of basic infra-
structure and initial construction on about two-thirds of the serviced
lots, of dwelling units at various levels of completion, ranging from a
start-up sanitary unit to a three-room house.   Individual families would
then complete their units according to their own plans and timetable using
materials and laror of varying quality and skill, including self-help. The
total project investment costs and their annual distribution would, there-
fore, depend on the level of expectations of families within the various
income groups as to the minimum level of housing they consider habitable
and their financial capability first to attain this level and then to im-
prove on it.  In quantifying the costs and benefits of the project, it was
assumed that all families would have constructed at least a sanitary unit
and one room within five years from inception of the project.   The cost
stream, then, consists of the market value of all land used for the proj-
ect, all off- and on-site infrastructure costs and the complete cost of
building and equipping the community facilities as well as of labor and
materials used in shelter construction, both by INVI and by the benefici-
aries. Physic:al contingencies and appropriate maintenance costs (averaging
2.5% of  construction  costs) were  also included.   The project has been
designed to maximize the use of locally produced materials and labor. As a
result, the use of foreign exchange (which is at a premium) is limited,
while the employment of labor (whose opportunity cost is low) is expected
to be relatively high.   The net result of these two factors reduces the
economic cost of investment by 7%.
6.04      The benefits from the proposed investments were estimated on the
basis of the willingness of beneficiaries to pay for the services provided,
as revealed by existing rents and other charges on dwellings under similar
conditions elsewhere in the city.   Based on this analysis, annual economic
benefits were estimated to average between US$480- and US$1,200, depending
on the type and level of completion of individual dwellings.
Economic Rate of Return and Sensitivity Analysis
6.05        On the basis of these cost and benefit streams and an economic
life of 30 years (with no residual value taken into account) the internal
economic rate of return (IERR) for the entire investment program is esti-
mated at 15%. In addition, the impact on the economic rate of return under
adverse fluctuations of some of the basic cost and benefit variables was
also estimated. Investment costs already include physical contingencies of
10%; when for purposes of sensitivity analysis they are allowed to rise by
a further 10%, the viability of the project is not affected (IERR: 13.0%).
Similarly, project viability remains unaffected when investments to be
carried out by the individual families and the corresponding benefits are
delayed by one or two years (IERR: 13.5% and 12.0%, respectively).



-32-
Poverty Impact
6.06      As explained in paras. 4.02 to 4.04 above,  the precise mix of
housing solutions to be implemented on the project sites by INVI is not
pre-determined, but would depend on the annual pattern of demand.  Based,
however, on the final cost estimates for the various types of initial solu-
tions and an analysis of the available income distribution data (see affor-
dability discussion below), at least 80% of the beneficiaries would earn
incomes below the absolute poverty line.  According to INVI's eligibility
criteria, the large majority of the lots would be assigned to this group of
beneficiaries.   In practice, it is expected that the more expensive solu-
tions, which might be outside the financial capability of this group, would
be considerably less than 25% of the initial solutions offered by INVI; the
poverty target group would instead purchase serviced lots, and intermediate
housing solutions and gradually upgrade them to reach this higher stand-
ards.
Direct Cost Recovery and Affordability (see Chart 7)
6.07      About 85% of the total project costs would be charged directly to
the beneficiaries.  This is a weighted average aimed at recovering 100% of
housing costs and 75% of the costs of land, infrastructure and community
facilities, including interest during construction.  The costs of off-site
infrastructure (8.4% of total project cost) would be recoverable by CDE,
INAPA and CAASD. The cost of building and equipping the community
facilities (6.1%) would not be charged to the beneficiaries.  These costs
would be covered by the Government which would provide the corresponding
funds for implementation of the facilities in line with usual practice in
the Dominican Republic.   In the financial analysis, projected revenues are
net of a provision for defaults of 10% of the yearly amounts charged to
beneficiaries (para. 8.01(m)).
6.08       Affordability analysis is intended to relate the monthly housing
cost to the proportion of monthly income that a family is able to spend on
housing. Progressive improvement implies that the majority of families, in
addition to the initial mortgage, would have to make payments for materials
and labor.  These were estimated to average about 25% of the total monthly
housing cost. Income is defined to include earnings by all members of the
household and transfers from nonfamily members, which are estimated to be
quite substantial, especially in support of investment in housing.  In the
Dominican Republic, as in many other countries on which there is informa-
tion, there is a tendency for the proportion of income spent on housing to
decline as income rises. The poorest families, with a reported monthly in-
come of up to US$150, often spend 30% of their income on housing and in
some cases as much as 40%.  Further, there is evidence that families are
willing to pay a higher proportion of their income to buy rather than
rent.
6.09        Based on these considerations, families whose reported monthly
income (earned by all household members but excluding transfers) was up to
about US$250 (1977 survey;  see Annex 2, Tables 19 and 20) were assumed to
devote 20% of this income to mortgage payments to purchase solutions re-
quiring  additional  investments.    These  investments  would  be  financed
through a combination of transitory or unreported income, transfers from
the extended family group or allocation of up to an additional 10% of
income for completing the house.  Households earning more than US$250 per



-33-
month are assumed to spend 25% of their income on mortgage payments. The
project is affordable down to the 23rd percentile of the 1977 income dis-
tribution ranging up to 68th, which provides the upper eligibility limit
for at least 80% of the solutions provided by INVI (see Annex 2, Table
9 and Chart 7).
6.10        The affordability calculations presented in Annex 2, Table 22
were made at June 1983 prices, on the assumption that incomes and sales
prices of the housing solutions offered by the project would vary together
over the project implementation period.  This may not, of course, turn out
to be the case.  Incomes of the beneficiaries could, in fact, fail to keep
up with inflation. This would be most likely, if the economy were to con-
tinue for a prolonged period in a recession accompanied by high inflation
and unemployment rates.  In this case, the income range of families that
could afford to participate in the project would slide up considerably.
However, it should be noted that in the Dominican Republic, the poverty
line was estimated in 1977 at the 44th percentile, while public housing was
affordable only by families above the 80th percentile.
VII. PROJECT RISKS AND PROPOSED REMEDIES
Continuity of Government Support
7.01      Any new program involving a decisive turn in public housing poli-
cy carries certain risks.  Some of the risks inherent in the introduction
of the proposed approach in the Dominican context have already been men-
tioned along with the proposed remedies.  First, continuity of government
support is deemed critical for the successful implementation of the project
by the executing agency.  The present administration is soon coming to the
end of its term (in August 1982), but a reversal of its housing policy by a
new administration is unlikely, given the strong political appeal of the
project, the general consensus on its validity, and, under the present
economic circumstances of the country, the lack of real alternatives to
meet widespread popular demands.   Concerns with the future fiscal ability
of the Government to meet allocations to the housing sector justify the
project's emphasis on cost-effective solutions and on a high level of cost
recovery.   Availability of counterpart funds to meet the requirements of
the implementation schedule is sought through the establishment of a revol-
ving fund by the Government, matched by the Bank's advance of a working
fund. To offset possible problems of inter-agency coordination and delays
in the execution of off-site infrastructure and community facilities, which
could affect the marketability of the project solutions, funds for the
implementation of these works would be made available directly to INVI,
which would contract their execution or make contributions to the utility
companies for the incremental costs.
Capacity of the Executing Agency
7.02       Another possible concern is the capacity of the executing agency
to sustain a continuous and prolonged process of change, while substan-
tially  modifying  its  product.    Although  the  significant  improvements
achieved by INVI in the past two years represent promising evidence in this
respect, substantial inputs of technical assistance are planned over the
project period for institutional strengthening and development, together
with careful monitoring of progress with implementation. The scope of the



-34-
project is as large as the present institutional base and the feasible ex-
tent of government support can afford.   This was considered important to
achieve  the desired sectoral  impact.   However,  implementation of 8,000
shelter units over a four-year period represents an unprecedented organiza-
tional effort for INVI.   Special care has been taken, therefore, to limit
the extent of direct involvement of the agency in the construction of
dwellings, and to achieve thorough technical preparation, reliable cost
estimates and a clear identification of the implementation process. The
financial viability of the agency greatly depends on the rational manage-
ment of its resources and the careful programming of other investments con-
comitant with those made under the project.
Marketing Arrangements
7.03       Other risks are obviously related to the timely marketing of the
project to the target group.  The pricing of the majority of the planned
facilities is in line with the capacity to pay of the target group, even
when implementation fees, contingencies and interests during construction
are charged to the beneficiaries.    Should their incomes fail to keep pace
with inflation, there is a risk that the rank of households able to afford
the solutions offered might shift upwards by several percentage points.
Sensitivity analysis shows that the large majority of solutions could still
be afforded by income groups considerably below the reach of existing
housing programs.
7.04         A degree of flexibility has also been built-in the project
design, offering a variety of purchase options at different price levels,
establishing the possibility of revising shelter construction programs,
based on the marketing experience of the previous year and allowing the
executing agency the discretion to sell a portion of the prepared land to
other interested organizations.  Realistic margins have been introduced in
the construction schedule to account for the volume of individual contracts
completed and the possible slippage of particular operations.  The staging
of the implementation program by functionally self-contained, completely
serviced areas, aims to guarantee independent marketing of different por-
tions of each project site.   Furthermore,  an alternative system of title
holding (conditional sale contract) has been identified to overcome possi-
ble delays in title registration procedures on specific land parcels.
7.05        Since arrears in the collection of mortgage payments would ad-
versely affect the projected cash flow of the executing agency, the credit-
worthiness of beneficiaries should be pre-tested with rather exacting cri-
teria.  Emphasis has been put therefore on the collection of monthly con-
tributions towards the downpayment during the year preceding lot assign-
ment, establishing schemes of payroll withholdings for salaried workers,
and organizing on-site collection of payments and some form of corporate
guarantee for other beneficiaries.
VIII. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS (see Chart 8)
8.01            At  negotiations  agreement  was  reached  on  the  following
matters:10
/10 References in parentheses are to relevant paragraphs of the Staff Appraisal
Report (SAR); the Loan Agreement (LA); or the Project Agreement (PA).



-35-
(a)   The Government would assume the foreign exchange risk and would
transfer the loan proceeds on the same terms as those of the Bank
loan to INVI' which would be responsible for their repayment
except for the portion financing community facilities and
off-site infrastructure (US$3.7 million). (SAR 3.10; LA 3.01
(b-i). The Government would finance interest during construction
(SAR 3.10, 5.05 (h); LA 3.01 (b-iii).
(b)   The Government would establish and replenish monthly a Project
Account (revolving fund) with an initial contribution sufficient
to meet investment needs for the first six months of project
implementation (SAR 4.23, 4.24; LA 3.02(b), 6.01(b)).
(c)   INVI would onlend to beneficiaries in the proposed project,  as
well as in other urban housing projects initiated after Bank
approval of the loan, at a nominal interest rate equal to the
prevailing legal ceiling, but would achieve an effective rate
consistent with the financial viability of the project (SAR 3.11,
5.05 (d); PA 2.02, 3.03). During the joint review referred to in
(e) below, the effective charges on new loans would be revised at
the beginning of each implementation year, if so required, in the
light of changing economic circumstances (SAR 5.05 (d); LA 3.03).
(d)   INVI's investment programs would be the object of an annual joint
review with the Government and the Bank, including an assessement
of marketing experience, pricing procedures and mortgaging terms
during the previous year (SAR 3.06, 4.03; PA 2.11). Bank approv-
al of the annual investment program would be a condition for dis-
bursement on account of shelter-related expenditures (SAR 4.04;
LA Schedule 1, 4 (ii)).  Periodic monitoring  of implementation
progress and communication of results to the Bank would be re-
quired on a quarterly basis after loan signature (SAR 4.01, 4.10;
PA 2.09 (b)).
(e)   INVI would maintain modest and affordable standards of construc-
tion and adopt realistic pricing policies (SAR 5.05 (c); PA 2.03
(a)).
(f)   INV[ would establish a temporary office on each site during the
project implementation period, with adequate supervision and ex-
tension service staff (SAR 4.08; PA 2.03 (e).
(g)   INVI would follow procurement procedures according to Bank guide-
lines (LA 2.03; PA 2.07); International competitive bidding would
be followed for all contract packages above RD$750,000.   Local
competitive bidding open to foreign participation would be adopt-
ed for packages below this threshold.   Comparative shopping and
negotiations would be allowed for minor purchase orders (SAR
4.20); PA, Procurement Schedule).
(h)   INVI would maintain consolidated and separate project accounts,
audited in a manner satisfactory to the Bank (SAR 2.09, 4.24 (f);
LA 4.02; PA 4.02).



-36-
(i)   INVI would choose project beneficiaries according to agreed
criteria of selection and mortgage eligibility focussing on
households with monthly incomes between RD$100 and RD$400 (SAR
4.12; LA 1.01 (g); PA 2.03 (c).
(j)   INVI would improve its procedure for collection of mortgage pay-
ments (SAR 5.05 (e), PA 3.04); ensuring recovery of all allocabLe
costs (SAR 5.09, 6.07; PA 2.03 (b)). Beneficiaries would be
expected to repay their mortgages through monthly payments exten-
ding over a twenty-year period, including a 5% downpayment (SAR
3.11; PA 2.02).
(k)   INVI would promote private sector participation in the project
and would, subject to the approval of the Bank, sell to third
parties part of the prepared land under appropriate use cove-
nants. The proportion of 25% of the net allocable area would be
adopted for the loan agreement, subject to change during the
joint reviews referred to under (d) above (SAR 3.06, 4.03, 5.05
(b), 5.08, 5.10; PA 2.03 (d)).
(1)   INVI would be required to use the net income derived from the
project to finance further investment in the two sites or other
shelter programs of similar objectives and characteristics (SAR
3.06, 5.09; PA 2.04).
(m)   INVI would undertake a study of the policy options for addressing
low-income housing needs and of the available means to gradually
achieve commercial viability, including evaluation of the fiscal
impact of expected government contributions to its overall
capital needs over the project implementation period. Based on
the conclusions of this study, which would be prepared on the
basis of Bank approved terms of reference and within the first
year of the project, INVI would adopt a five-year financial
program satisfactory to the Bank and the Government by January
31, 1984 (SAR 4.10; LA Schedule 2, Part E;PA 2.06)).
(n)   INVI would not incur any additional debt during the project
implementation period, unless the Bank should agree otherwise, if
after the occurrence thereof, its maximum debt service for any
succeeding fiscal year would result more than two-thirds of its
internal cash generation (SAR 5.02, 5.06, 5.07; LA 3.01 (a); PA
4.03).
8.02      Special Conditions of Effectiveness:
(a)   A Subsidiary Agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, would be
assigned between the Government and INVI, detailing terms and
conditions of project implementation, the corresponding capital



-37-
transfers and the repayment of loan proceeds. Approval by the
Bank of such agreement would be a condition of effectiveness of
the Bank loan (LA 3.01 (b) - (c), 6.02 (b); PA 2.10).
(b)   A further condition of effectiveness is that che Project Account
shall have been established and that the Government shall have
deposited the equivalent of Pesos 1,700,000 in the account (LA
3.02).
8.03      Subject to the above assurances and conditions, the project is
suitable for a Bank loan of US$25.4 million to the Dominican Government,
for a period of 17 years, including a grace period of four years.



DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
SITES AND SERVICES PROJECT
Present Structure of the Executing Agency (INVI)
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
m
GENERAL DIRECTOR
zO
O                                                   PLANNING OFFICE          INTERNAL            LEGAL COUNSEL         INFORMATION         DATA PROCESSING
- I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ADMINITAiV|
ASSISTANT                                                                              ASSISAN
DIRECTOR                                                                               DIRiEIO
mD
O                             { NORTHERN
'A             r- - - - - -                                                               J                                                        r                      --
o  r -                                                          ~~~~~~~r -   1                                                   7I.,r
z 0            RURAL                                   GENERAL           CONTROL AND      SITES AND         SOCIAL                                    ADMINISTRATIVE       DATA
4D   I             I                                                                                                                                                          IoN    0 FNNCA
PROJECTS              DESIGN          CONSTRUCTION          EXECUTION   I  SERVICES  I      PROGRAMS               FINANCIAL               SERVICES  I I PROCESSING
O. 0   L   -_                           L -                                                                                              L
0
U-I- .i..tr.1.,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I-
I    I~~~~~~~~~~~~~CI0
z    _r  cc 0 D-                                                                                                                                            z-
Y~~~~~~~                              ~ S                       2      0                                         'P                                            z I   I ` *ott< <             >      
L)                           C)0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
0                                       z~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~U           M
'~~~~0    -  :~~~~~~~           o     x0o                                       MD                                                    TU
MD                  4~~~~~~~(              wt*wOiU                                                                      U             0 0w
cc a:                  0                                                                                          -D  4                              ,
NOTE: Ti a C                                                                                                                  0 te uhcr
Z-                                                                               5 -    2 t  -
indicate plannad, but not Vl tImplemented unite. ArnwVj Indicate varIatIon, In th, rank of exIstIngi unlts.*
WodId Bank-23491



-39-
C11=T 2
Par&. 4.01
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
SITES AND SERVICES PROJECT
WI IITIOi tSCiIDULE
Implementatlon Years (July 1982 through June 1986)
Proiect Sites                                           First                             Second                     Third                      Fourth
Components                                       Sabana Perdida       Baoa 3oth                                    Spring 82   Fall 82        Sprlng 83   Fail 83        Spring 84   Fall 84       Spring 85   Fall 85        Spring 86
Land Acquisition
State property                                73.67 + 2.08 ha        -                   75.75 ha                100%         -               -
Private property                              17.65 ha             55.45 + 3.00 ha       76.10 ha
Indemnifications                              RD$ 335,531          RD$ 173, 052          RD$ 508,583              33%         66%            100%         -              -          ..-                        -
Surveyors work (subdivisions)                 93.40 ha            58.45 ha               151.85 ha                -           -               15%         30%           45%         60%           75%          90%          100%
Off-site Infrastructure
Water wells                                   4 new wells          3 new wells           7 new wells              -         1004              -            -             -          -              -           -
Abduction lines                               6.0 km 0 12          1.5S km 0 12"         2 abduction lines        -         100%              -            _             -          _              -           -              -
Storage tanks                                 1,605 m3             1,120 m3              2 storage tanks          -         100%                    -                    -          -              -           -
Stabilization ponds                           1.06 ha              1.20 ha               2.26 ha                  _          25%              50%                       80%         80%           80%         100%
Transformer stations                          one                  one                   two                                 20%              50%         75%           100%                       -           -
Transmission lines                            4 km 12.5 kv          -                   4 km 12.5 kv              -          20%              50%         75%           100%        -
On-SIte Infrastructure
Earthworks                                    850,000 m3          390,000 m3             1,240,000 m3             -          10%              30%         55%            75%       100%            -           -
Drainage                                        S,460 m              2,300 m                 7,780 m              _          10%              20%         45%           65%         90%          100%          -
Sewerage                                       25,500 m             14,850 m              40,350 m                _          10%              20%         45b           65%         90%          100%          -
Water distribution                             25,o60 m             15,480 m              40,540 m                _          10%              20%         45%            65R        90%           100b         -
Roeads base course                             13,080 m3             3,870 m3             16,950 m3               -          -                10%         30%            50%        65%           75%         100%            -
Concrete curbs                                 10,370 m             3,300  m              13,670 m                .          _               10%          30Y/          50%         65%           75%         100%            -
Power distribution                            670 concrete        412 concrete           1,082 concrete           -          -                10%         30%           50%         65%           75%         100%            -
poles               poles                  poles
Street lighting                              410 sodium lamps   234 sodium lamps    644 sodium lamps              -          -                10%         30%           50%         65%           75%         100%            -
Street paving                                 35,920 m2            16,040 m2             51,960 m2                _          _                -           30%           45%         60%           75%          90%          100%
Shelter indicattve)
Total prepared lots                           4,656                3,227                 7,833                    _          _                15%         30%           45%         60%           75%          95%          100%
Sheer serviced lots                           1,862                1,291                 3,153                    _          _                15%         30%           45%         60%           75%          90%          100%
Sanitary units                                1,398                  968                 2,366                    _          _                -           15%           35%         50%           65%          80%          100%
One-room dwellings                              698                  484                 1,182                               _                -           15%            35%        50%           65%          80%          100%
Two-room dwellings                              489                  339                   828                    -          -                -           15%            35%        50%           65%          80%          100%
Three-room dwellings                            209                  145                   354                    _          _                -           15%            35%        50%           65%          80%          100%
Commnunttv Facilities
School buildIngs                              one (28 class-       one (20 class-        two (48 class-                                                   -             -           -             -            -
rooms)                rooms               rooms
Health centers                                one  375 m2          one 375 m2           two                       -          -                -           25%           50%         75%          100%          -
Social centers                                four 100 m2          three 100 m2          seven                    -          -                -           25b            50%        75%          100%          -
Collection offices                            one 230 m2           one 230 m2           two                       -          -                -           25%           50%         75%          100%          -
Fire stations                                 one ISO m2           one 150 m2            two                      -          -                -           25%           50%         75%          100%          -
Police stations                               one 125 m2           one 125 m2            two                      -          -                -           25%/           50%        75%          100%          -
Recreational areas                            11.44 ha             9.45 ha               20.89 ha                 _-                          -           20%           40%         60%           80%         100%           -
Commercial areas                               3.i4 ha              1.25 ha               4.39 ha                 -          -                -           50%           100%
Trash collection                              one truck +          one truck +           two trucks +
containers          containers            containers                _    -             -                    -             -          -             100%         -
InplnmentatIon Staff                            2 245  man months   17    amonths    4.008 man months
Construction supervision                      1,284 + 1,252        1           2008 n+198  2,742 man months      3.5%       7.5/%             20%         35%           50%         70%           80%         95%           100%
Extension services                            man months           man months
Extension services                            286 man months       224 man months        510 man months            5%        10%              20%         30%           40%         50%           65%         80%            90%
Administrative staff                          423 man months       333 man months        756 man months            5%         10%             18%         25b          40%         50%           65%          80%           90%
Sales                                              .49 ha                ooha               90,49 ha-                                                        -              -          -             -            -
Serviced lots sales                           10.0                 6.15 ha               16.21 ha                 _          _                -           15%           30%         45%           60%         85%           100%
Proposed lots sales                           30.81 ha             20.85 ha              51.66 ha                 -          _                _           15%           30%         45%           60%         85%           100%
Residential land sales                        10.48 ha              7.75 ha              18.23 ha                 __         _                _           15Y            30%        45b          60%         85%           100%
Commercial land sales                          3.14 ha              1.25 ha               4.39 ha                                                         -              -          -             25%          50%          100%
TOTAL EXPENOITURES                          RD$  25,752,000    RD$  15,986,000         RD$ 41,740,000                 3%          8%             12%         15%            50%        75%           85%          98%          100%



DDMDIIC411 U1C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-1-1Y6
SITU AND SVICs PD110JRCT
S.                                         EETrDSTIIWTETEEONAL nNSTONTIEIILITEU
\5                                                                                                                 OPATMIN             SALE5
COMPFONIENf5                         I t                                                                                                                   MAtNTltUICS        M0TG5U
LAND CLARANCE              SITE            _EIC51N      _0CUREC         DONSTRUCTION   SUPVIRV151N     ADMINISTEATVEN    hDNITORIMN       ADVWI50N        L                  T     F1n3      .jaMj        1rw
- Acquiition                        INVI                                                                ENVI/t/ITT        INVI                                            IEVWf/f/P                      EMVI/DF/p
rde-iatiw                         ENVI                                                                EWEI/DIF                        IVI/IOL/TT
-                                   IEseAnltrnID                                                        IAD               INVI IEIE/OL/DW
- Registry                          TT                                                                 TT/INVI/DIL        IVI                                             IEVI/LtT/P          TT
OFF-SITE INFYASTRUCTURE
- Off Site water supply    SP      INVI    CMSD          INVI/DLS/DF    PCC            INVI/DLS         CAASD/lNVI      INVI/DLS/PAASD  INVI/L/CAASD       CAASD                                         INEI/DF
O       INAPA    INAFA      1YAP            ONUS.          INAUA            IYA?A/EWI         IENW/ILI      ONVEI/E1.UAPA      EWSA SNVI./DP
- Off cite electricity              CDE      CDE         CDE            CDE            CDE             CDEWIVI            INVIWDlU      INI/OL            CDE                                            INVE /F
- Sewage tre-tte-          SP      INVI    PCC           EWE/ID.IIF    PEC             INVI/DLS        CAASD/INVI                       CAASD             CAASD                               CAASD
R       INVI    PCC         IEI/DLS/IDF    PCC             INAPA/INVI      IEVI/DLS           INVI/DL9     IEAPA             IEAPA                                INAPA
ON SICE INFRASTRUCTURE
Earth  orUk                 SP      INVI    INVIW/CC   IEVI/DLS/DF    PCC              INVI/DLS        ADN/IWVI          IEVI/DLS       ADN
O       INVI    INVI/PCC    IEVI/DLS/DF    FCC             INVI/DLS                           INVI/DLS
Reeds  ..s. Course          SP      ENVI    ENVI         INVI/DLS/DF    PCC            INVI/DLS        ADN/IEVI           IVI/IDLS      ADN               ADN
O       IEVI    INVI         INVW/DLS/D}    PCC            INVI/DLS        SalPC /INVI        INEI/DLS      SS0WC Esr
W.lIkvys                    SP      ENVW    INVI        IEVI/DLS/DF    FCC              INEI/DLS        ADN/INVI           INVI/DLS     ADN                ADN
H       ENVW    INVI         IEVI/DLS/DF    PCC            INW/DLS          sueR /WINI        IEWI/DLS      sEec              Isc
NinOpwrcs                   SP      INEI     IENI       IENI/DL9IDF    PCC             IY/Li            ADNUI/VI         IEN/DLS        ADUN               INVI/IS
H       INEI    IENI        IENI/DLS/DF    PCC             INE/DLS          ssot  /INIW       IRNI/DINS     SSW              IEEIFDpS
Dre.iteq                    iP     IENI    FCC           ENWI/DLS/DF    PCC             INVI/DLS        ADN/INEI          INEI/DLS      ADN                ADN
O       INVI    PCC          INEW/LS/DF    PCC             INVI/DLS         SnC /iNEi         IENI/DLS      alec              SlUC
Rater supply                SP      INEI    FCC          INW/DLS/DF    PCC             INEI/DLS         INVI/CASED        INWI/DLS      CAASD              CASD                               CAASD
O       INEI    FCC          INVI/DLS/DF    PCC            INWI/DLS         ENVI/IOA.         INEI/DLS       INAPA            INAPA                              IENAPA
SeVerage                    SP     IENI    FCC           INIW/DLS/DF    PCC            INWI/DLS        IEI/CAASD          IWVI/DLS      CAASD            CEASE                                CASND
H       INEI    PCC         IENI/DLS/DF    FCC             INVI/ULS        INWI/INAFA         INEW/LS       INAPA             INAPA                               INAFA
Electricity                sI       INI      FCC        IENI/DLS/DF    PCC             INWI/DLS        CD0/INEI           IENW/ELS      CDE               CD                                  C
EWNI    PCC                IENI/DLS/DF    PCC             INEI/DLS        CDr/IYVI          IENI/DLS       CDE               CDE                                 CDR
St-Ent lihting              SP      INEI    ENWI         IWVI/DLS/DF    PCC            INNI/DLS        ADN/IYI            INI/DLS       CDE               CDE/ADN
H       IENI    IENW        IEWI/DLS/DF    PCC             INEI/DLS        ESC/INEI          IEWEI/DLS      CDI               CDE/MsC
street P-aig                SP     IENI      INEI        EIE/ELs/F    PCI             IENW/LS           ADN/IWNI         IEELS          ADN               ADN
O       INI      INVI        INWI/OLS/DF    ?CC            INVI/DLS        shUc /INEI        IYNI/DLS       eE0C              sIec
Streetn  Sii                SP      ADN       INVI       ADN            ADN            ADN             ADN/IYNI                         ENWELS/DPS EC
H       SCH      INVI        SCY            SCIm           SoC              MSC/IWVI                        INI/DLSI/OPS      MCVADN
COUNIEI   FACILITIES
OWE /O1
Eduation                            INVE    INI          INVI/DLS/DY    PCC            INVI/DLS        SEBAC/INVI        IEVI/DL       SEdAC             SEEIAC          SEEIAC/TT
EWE /OL
HeaIth                              INVI    INEI         IWVI/DLS/DF    PCC            INEI/DLS         SESPAS/hVI        INEIDLS       SBEPAS            SBPAS          SNUrAS/lT
Seciu1 Ceetern                      INEI    IENI        IENI/DL/DF    PCC               WINLS                            IWNVELu                         INVI
Clentc   ffe/icer                   INEI    INEI         INEI/DLE/DF    FCC            ENVI/DLS                          IEWI/ELS                          INEI                                WINVI
PFin  Fyihiin               sP OF     Vl    lNEVI        ENVl/DLSyP   PCC               IWLD          AUN/IEWVI          IEVI/DLu        CC               ADN             ADN/IWVI/OL/T
INEI    INI                 INEI/DLS/DF    PCC            INEI/DLS        WESC/IVI         IEWI/DLl       PCC                MSC             WSC/ENI/OL/TT
Sunity                             IEI    IENI           INWI/DLS/DF    FCC            INEW/DLS        SEIP/INVI          INEI/DLS      SEIP              SEIP           FEIW/T
we-reatiwn F-ciliei                IEWE      IEW         EWVI/ELS/DF   PFCC            INEI/LS         SEOEFIR/IENW      /I IhN/LS      SEEPIR            SEOEIR          SEDEIIR/T
Carhsge CeDlwenice          OF      INVI    FCc         IENI/DLS/DF                    IENW/DLl        UC/IEVI           IENI/DLS                          NUsc         MUN/E      /f         CIA
EIW/OL
Posc Offic                          IWI       WNI        INEI/DLi/DF    FCC            IEIW/DLS         Snec/EENI         INWI/DLS       SioCE            suet             halC/fl
EWE,/IF              ADN
CorciUW  Are                        INEI    INVI         IENI/DLS/F    ?CC             IEWE/DLS         ISC/ADN           INI/DLS                          INEI           LI/                 MSc
FOGRESSIVE SHELTER      VEMENTEh
- Lets with deEllig                IENI    IENI         IENI/DLS/DF    FCC           IENI/LS          INEI/fT           IEW/DLl        INWI/OL            B              T/I
- Foci-wale odditieo.              B        INVI/d      B              PCC/B         SICEC            sIec               EWI           IEVI E
zrmui srcrs
_ SEectirn ef Ie..firiaien        IENI    INVIlDPS                                   IEVI             INEI/DPS/DF                                        INVI/DpS
- Plo  Alle.atio/ECe. Der.p.   IENI         INEI/DPS                                 IENI             INEI/DES                         IIVI/DLS          EEIFDS
- TeehuieEl Aasista..e            IEWI    IONI/DLS                                    INVI/DLS        IMVI/DLS
- FinaeLel AtAist.ece            EINI       INEIlDF                                                   INVI/DF          mn/E
ADN     Ytzniyipality of Donto Deeiigw                            TNAPA    - Natitnel Wtair end Snwewel Coevorani.  n                  l5E0-PC   Ninletny ef Plrblic Werke
D .      . a ficisniec-                                           IYN1     - Negtieal HewLg Inetitta                                  SESPAS  -  Kioienrt  of Fitlth
bN    a Nieces Nacie-I.es                                         WSC         S.D Caw isthbl KuUcii-lity                             TI      . Lend Tribel
CAASD    Saet-  DeaRegc Water wad Se-wrsge CwrFportiee            DL       -  .1L  E Offi/e
CDE!   D-.iwiew DZlentricity Cor-p-itien                          P        . FrteFaty  srN
DF    a Fiiatnisl DiCisien                                        FCE      - Priv-te CEnsltcns/Cw ttrant..O
nLs     lSitns ad Services Divi.iwn                               SEDRFIR  - Miwitry of R reatiEw
DPS      S Necial PFo-racs Divisi..                              SNERAC   - Miinry of Edw.a.tiw
IAE     Dowinicest Agr..iew Eesti-tte                             S0IP     - Miciewny wf Intenior



-41-
CHART 4
Para. 4.07
CONSTRUCTION MANAGEMENT TEAM
S. & S. DIRECTOR|
ADMINISTRATION
AND BACK-STOP
RESIDENT ENGINEER                               RESIDENT ENGINEER
SABANA PERDIDA(1)                                HAINA SITE (1)
Topography.                   Drafting (1)        TprahyDra
Brigade(5)                                        Brigade(5)
04                                   0 >      0    4                         $4En 4J  '4 I  . 0  *  I
0                              1-4Z        0 ~~~4i       .~4.a
w oo  c ;i  o3i00                      .0            0 0             .
X X  ::-S       Q~~~~~~~~r a 'a        X X=-                          Q" 
cUcU a.v.4               C.) i.,.4  u > =        i                                        >
CU        COCU           7-4                    C4             CU4            -4 v   sI I
_CI                                                          s_ _ _



-42-
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC                                                                 CHART S
SITES AND SERVICES PROJECT                                                              Para 4.10
MONITORING TARGETS
CALENDAR YEAR                   1981                          1992                          1993                          1984                           1988                          1996                          1981
QUARITERS       I      If~    III     IV       I~   1        'I III[V        I      !I    til          ~    I            I.,             I      If        ll                          III    IV       IIIII    IV
DISBURSEMENT OF                       Proi... P--Sat.tO                                                                                                                                                                   Dw.SilClsn      1987 3
L.OAN PROCEEDS                             Adkan-                               ANSoA8            8 4%          21 2%          39.8%           SS%            6889%2%                                      10                              97
PRESENTATION OF
INVESTMENT AND                                    Sstga 1          ESrIk                       S9g.92           S.I,k          Stage 3        B.rIk          Stag 4          13sno
CONSTRUCTION SCHIEDUJLES                          nI.As           Aw-rou                        S.h.d.l.      App-s.I         Schd,l.        Agpro-a         Sth.dula      AFpprosl
PROGRqESS REPORTS                                                                                AoW                           Audit                          Ausit.6                                                       I.,        EZ-Zr
AND AUDITS                                                                      1      2         3    4       6       8      1       9      9       S      11     12      12     14      19     5                         Adi,i         R.p-r
JOINT REVIEWS OF                                                   I.. _______ -                                                                                                                        I        -        -          
MARKETING ESPERIENCE                              Istag. I       """          P.1100 Stdsy
-rost-art      SiEt,            BVs             Fit                           Saon                          ThIrd                         ForhCRmplltlt
INVESTMENT PROGRAMS                                               ubId.         4I1lPan         Rulu                           Rak.I,d                        .eaoRa,
PRICING-ON LENDING                                P.-           Agl=aernarra.-R.-RV..R.
INVI'SANNUAL-
DEBT SERVICE
COVERADE RATIO laP                                   ES5                            2                             2.S                          5                              B                              9                              2
SAD DEST E SPUNSE
AS % OF INUIS
PORTFOLiO AVERAGE                                   15191                                                                       13             12                             I                              5                              2
INVUS OPERATING
EXPENSES ASS OF
AVERAGE PORTFOLIO bl                                IG                              8                             4                             3                              2                             2                             4
INVI'S TOTAL STAFF 
305            205             325            230            375            376            355            SORE            38             395            795            345           39!,           395
PROJECT SUPERVISION[-
STAFF
1 5            20             90             45             90             90             90              so             60             10
PROJECT'S EXTENS,ON
SERVICE STAFF                                                                                                                                                                                 00
5              5              7              7             I       10             1       0 1            ID             15
SE LECTION OF                                                                                       Stags I Se ...tion            Stag 2 5ale-i-n                Stag 3 Ssaci-,                Sts9 A SaIs-i-P
aENEFIC!ARIES                                                                                        Doo-P.M..n.Ova,amar                                         D-pnEaR-nt                    Oowop.y-St
DOWNPAYMSNTS                                                                                           Morgages                      McrgeatMo"rtggsMSte
SETTLEMENT                                                                                                        Stag 1 S-rtl.."r              Stag  2                       ImtpmrtStg 2 S-ttlma-         DIS. A Sattlm-n
PROCESS OF THE
BENEFICI ARIES                                                                                                  900            B0oDOo5                                       0             900            8I0O
OFF SITU
INFRASTRUCTURE                                                  rgattr Eelto                     Works         Worr:          Work.
CONTRtACTS                                                    Trts               A-ard           Wo.-           Works       CotEIst-
ON-SITE                                       .                rqii~ss           vsir        Stags 1 Worka  Stag  2 Work.  Stags 3 W.tk, Stag  4 WSrks
CONTRACTS                                                         Throat         Aw.,r!      Stag W   Work. St.g  2 Work.  Stag 2 Work.  Stag 4 Works
COMMUNITYI
FA CLITIES                                                                   PFrlS~ifaic.tio    EVAi- o,     Works           W.rk          Works
CONTRACTS                                                                   ITerd,rt          Aicord         Works           Wo'rk          C-rplat-
SHELTER CONSTRUCTION                          ISt.I. Works    Sn.l. Coopi.   St2. Works    SN.3 Works
CONSTRtUCTION                                                                Pteq-Itic.stor  S'I  E,sI.     StO2. TenSors   S,2 A-dr   St.3. Evo.1        S,t4 Ta-d-r  Sr.4. A-dsr      SA4  Works
CONTRkACTS                                                                   T-ndon          So,  A-Iod   St.. Work         S,O Wok        S12. CorE      So.3. CoREI    SNH4. Woro,    Srd. C ptsp.
S0.2. Eks.L    St.3. TrIrdor    Sr.3. Aord    StA. Eke.I
Olitit IntrttruOort  AR. Corniron  Lao9         44h.4    C- -runa Lnd          hASCommuna Lar
7 WaIlI, 2 W.ta, NNin,           28.7. Rssid-ntiaIa            57.4 h. Rsdnta  Lod            981ha Rasidtsia1 Lrd           W.-I W8300
EXPECTED                                                                      2 Watan Sooraga TAn.k          108         aoia  Lt          2100       SaroIsad Ist        31840     S-ri-dr Lb           n,tg.by INVI
PHYSICAl.                                  2 SteBilisatior PonO.           750       Senitaro UriS      ~~~~~     ~~~~~~1580  S.rIitar  Un,it  2379  S.,nitar  UIt.M
,"V SICAL                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~2 EStr Un-i- and, 7useto  95  0 rsUnt              790      On--o  Unit         1170        Gn.rs  UJl.)         .  b.  G
OTPUTS                                                                        sst  nrtut                      7        w-omUi    I  90              Tw-rn-  UnIits       95        Ttno    Rs           hwHlei  ns
lournuletikal                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E-rh-ik.      120       Thra-tos Ui          240      Th-ae.tSti UnIit    360        Thra--on  Units    .stl 7989 dwellig.
80.4. ond Orsirage      15       Motae               4200       Montgeg,           8299       Mortgega
WaterIad SeItag                   6 h.   B lo   OI Selas        12 ha.Bl`k Land Gal.          tn        lc.Lr  ae
EI.ieonli  Natcoks2                                                     S50h551 Othan          2      S.-eI. 0trar
2      H1-.56, C.R..n         2      Haaltt Cantar
__________   _______ ___   ______________ __________   ______ _________________                uildingsiBoilding
IMPLEMENTATION   YEARS                                                                 FIRST                       SECOND                           THIRD)                      FOURT.                           FIFTH                   _
101l,ridn   soiirsnson                                                                                                                                                                                                          World  8ark-23498
15  :Iroudi.g inta..... o.debt. in r1987 iNVI Willsr to  y sta.- or ha Bark Loar



-.43--
CHART 6
Para. 4.15
DCMNCAN REPUC
SITES AND SERVICES PRaECr
EXIENSTON SERVECES SCEDULE
SMEALYEARS                        ERICDS                            ACrION
SITE:                                 1st Period                 1. Organization of the Team
2. Public Information.
Evaluation and Selection          3. Opening of Inscriptions.
of Bereficiaries                 4. Evaluation of Applicants.
5. Work Program.
6. Downpayment.
7. Education.
F RST AE:
2nd Period                  1. Assignment of Purchase Options.
Settlemeant and C mdinity        2. Settlmernt of Bereficiaries.
Developmnt                       3. Comminity Organization.
A. Number of Solutions:                                           4. Ccmnmity Development.
5. Community Consolidation.
B. Year(s):                           3rd Period                  1. Evaluation of Progress.
Comrunity Self-Organization     2. Gradual withdrawal of INVI
staff.



-44-
CHART 7
Para 6.07
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
SITES AND SERVICES PROJECT
AFFORDABILITY OF THE SHELTER OPTIONS OFFERED BY INVI
RD$
1'400                                                                                                           _
1 300 -     RD$ ranges of shelter option charges                                                            |      i
correspond to 20-25% of monthly income
and to different dwelling types on either project site,                                   I  
varying from the cheapest to the dearest.                                                      :
1,200  _         (See also Table B-22)                                                                     |
1,100 _                                                                                                      i 
1-600 _  -                                                                                 5       2               9
goo _                                                  o;5co i                            6r                          .%o
51. 1"'-C "                                 I    4a
,f~~~~~ I6,    72t2Ro
400 _E. /                                                               +.'         /                       2
800                       2      _                                                     O
5~~~
800                  14; __9jV-23
o ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~ .4
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                ,.+   _*  4%o
! I                                                                        I        ILI
w
c  700           1
Z)                                                                                                 a 
600                                                                 75~~~~~~~~~~~~6   82'1
00                                                                                                                592
3-Roorn
Dwell inq s
58 O  U4.5% of
68W    B6
53.            *       749k/
6           __~72429             2-Room
400 -*                                                                                                       Dwellings
40   ~ ~ ~ a.10.5% of
4052*                64                    1-Room      Ootions
38                            3WW 48              - Dwellings
50 o6                    Sanitary   15% of    340
300                                                a..Units    Options
30% of
34 *~~~~~~  48 ~~~Options
21         _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _2 64
42                 ~~~~~230J
~180   Se rvi ced
Lots
5  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~f40% of
100                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~114) Options
0         10          20         30          40          s0         60          70          80         90         100
% OF URBAN HOUSEHOLDS
World Bank-23499



-45-
ANNEX 1
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
SITES AND SERVICES PROJECT
TECHNICAL ANNEX:   DETAILED PROJECT FEATURES
Land Acquisition (Maps 2, 3, 4; IBRD 16046, 16048, 16061)
1.        The project would comprise development of two sites, located at
opposite fringes of the Santo Domingo Metropolitan area.   The sites have
been selected in locations where land was available, relatively accessible
and in proximity to employment concentrations.  They are situated in areas
of urban growth and their improvement would be consistent with the
guidelines of the Development Plan for the metropolitan area. Topography,
drainage and soil conditions are considered adequate for the purpose.
Trunk line infrastructure and public transport are not likely to entail
exceptional  costs.    Most  of  the  first  site  (Sabana Perdida) was  the
property of a state agency (Instituto Agrario Dominicano), and has already
been conveyed to INVI, while public acquisition of the remaining 20% and of
the second site (Haina) will be secured through eminent domain.  Since all
project land is registered, the Land Tribunal must rule on the amount of
compensation due. This decision can be appealed only for failure to comply
with the eminent domain law.l
2.        Sabana Perdida (approximately 91 ha) lies to the northeast of the
city center, to which it is connected by two bridges and a 25-minute ride
by jitney.   The site borders with Sabana Perdida Sur, an existing low-
income settlement of 6,200 inhabitants and with El Milloncito, a subdivi-
sion created to relocate another 2,300 people, displaced by INAVI to clear
the site of a middle-income development (El Millon).   Potential areas of
employment for future residents are the industrial zone of Los Mina in the
immediate vicinity, that of Avenida Maximo Gomez and a planned agro-
industrial estate in Sabana Perdida itself.  The Haina site (about 55 ha)
is located southwest of the city about 3 km from Bajos de Haina (21,000
inhabitants) and can be reached via the Sanchez Highway up to the Haina
junction and thereafter through the old route to San Cristobal, which is
lined on both sides by a belt of modest quality dwellings.   The area,
including 31 parcels of private rural property, lies behind the small
settlement of Nigua (2,300 people) which has a school, a church and some
retail stores.  Important concentrations of employment exist in the vici-
nity, like the Haina industrial estate (partially occupied), the state
sugar plant, the country's largest commercial port (presently under expan-
sion), the drydocks, the oil refinery and, a little further away, the
Herrera industrial zone. Public transport is available by bus and jitneys.
/1   Presidential decrees for expropriation of the privately held portions
of the project sites were signed on July 23, 1981 (Nos. 2606 and
2608) cadastral evaluations amount to RD$ 1.2 million including
improvements.



-46- 
-46-                  ~~~~~ANNEX 1
Page 2
Land Clearance and Resettlement Policy
3.          Although the two project sites are still predominantly rural,
their relative proximity to Santo Domingo explains the spontaneous
settlement process taking place in their vicinity.  Each site is close to
fairly  important  roads  and  to  growing,  semi-urban  agglomerations.    A
complete census of the areas and a cadastral evaluation were made in 19,80,
but adjustments in project design required subsequent cadastral surveys,
which have shown an acceleration of the settlement pattern.2 INVI plans to
pay full indemnification, but it will deal in different ways with the
various households  that need  to be relocated.   The Dominican Agrarian
Institute (IAD) would provide bona fide rural settlers with relocation
options in similar areas through an agreement with INVI to this effect.  At
their choice, INVI would also offer an option to relocate within the proj-
ect to eligible existing settlers.
Tenure
4.          Two forms of land tenure would be available to the project's
beneficiaries:
(i)   Private freehold titles,  subject to mortgages held by INVI for
twenty years, to be conveyed to the purchaser at the time of each
individual sale by INVI, who would register them with the Land
Tribunal, simultaneously with the title transfers.
(ii)   Conditional sale contracts, which provide beneficiaries with a
certificate of ownership, pending finalization of, or compliance
with, full ownership title registration in INVI's name, in the
event that certain lots or portions of the project sites are held
by  INVI  under  forms  of  tenure  which  preclude  immediate
registration.3
/2  The rate of settlement is documented for Sabana Perdida by the consecu-
tive cadastral operations:   in April 1980, there were 63 dwellings of
various categories.   By April 1981, there were 18 more dwellings, all
illegal, one-half of them with unknown owners. One month later, in May
1981, 20 additional illegal dwellings were reported. As a consequence
in May 1981, INVI obtained surveillance of the two sites by the Armed
Forces, since regular police control had proven insufficient.
/3  Although this second solution is not expected to be applied extensive-
ly, it has been identified to prevent delays in the disposition of
prepared lots in particular circumstances.   The certificate of owner-
ship would be exchangeable for the private freehold title described in
(i) above immediately after the title registration procedure is
completed by INVI.



-47-
ANNEX 1
Page 3
INVI reserves the right to reassign the property, or to approve its
transfer, if the original beneficiary decides to dispose of it, or if the
property is not used for its intended purposes. Through the sale
contracts, INVI's beneficiaries would agree to conditions regarding:
(i)   general maintenance, operation, and upkeep provisions of lots,
walkways, miniparks and landscaped areas;
(ii)   use of the property for shelter purposes, (which do not exclude
some minor retailing, cottage industry or service activities
within the premises; and
(iii)   participation of beneficiaries in community development programs.
General Layout Plans (Maps 5 and 6: IBRD 16047 and 16049)
5.           Site plans of the two developments have been based on a very
limited network of vehicular access4 and a predominantly pedestrian
pattern of internal movement.   This allows a maximum of marketable areas
a greater number of residential lots and a larger serviced population.
Since the two communities will be sufficiently large to justify their own
urban    service facilities,  these have been clustered in two nuclei for
each site.  The first, corresponding to the main commercial activities, is
located on the principal vehicular access junction, at the entrance of each
project site.  It is expected to be developed by private enterprise and to
draw customers from a wider service radius, including existing settlements
in the vicinity.       The second nucleus  of activity is located at the
geographical center of each site, grouping community facilities, such as
schools, health and social centers, and other services. Sports grounds and
green commons would be adjacent.   Each community has been organized in
districts (four in Sabana Perdida and three in Haina) of 1,000 to 1,200
families each.   Residential districts consist of a number of superblocks
ranging from 100 to 150 lots.  These are bounded by streets and clustered
around two inner courts (miniparques) which give access to the internal
units and allow for local recreational activities.  The typical lot has a
width of 6.20 m and a depth of 16.40 m (101.68 m2).
A4 ONATRATE plans to extend existing bus routes in order to connect the
two new communities with the public transport systems. Buses will make
an internal loop within the project sites with intermediate stops along
major paved streets.



ANNEX IL
Page 4
C-r    P' lans and Residential Densities
6.        Land use planning of the selected sites has aimed at maximum
exploitation of the project sites for residential use. Implementation of two
stabilization ponds and elevated water storage tanks requires acquisition of some
5 ha of land in off-site locations of suitable topography. This brings tot'al land
acquisitions to 152 ha approximately, 94 in Sabana Perdida and 58 in Haina.. About
10% of the first site has topographical characteristics which render its
utilization uneconomical: these marginal lands would be left as vegetated buffer
zones, and would be used for recreational purposes. Rights of way, including
pedestrian paths, add up to little more than 14% in both schemes, and the total
urbanized areas amount to 69.1 and 47.3 ha respectively in Sabana Perdida and in
Haina.5 From these, one must deduct the allowances made for public uses, schools,
other community buildings, sportsgrounds and parks, to obtain the net allocable
areas of 54.5 ha in Sabana Perdida (59.7%) and 36 ha in Haina (64.9%). Some 3 ha
in the first site and a little more than i ha in the second would be sold or
leased for commercial uses, leaving a net residential area of 51.3 ha irL Sabana
Perdida and 34.75 ha in Haina.   The resulting values of overall residential
density, assuming the reference module of about l00 m2 for the individual lot can
be considered adequate for this type of development with values of about 55
households  per  gross hectare and over 90 per net hectare.   Since  the modal
household composition is 5.5 persons, at full development, Sabana Perdida would
accommodate 25,600 residents and Haina another 17,750. The land use breakdown of
both sites is given in Table 1 below.
/5  Rights of way widths are as follows:  main street 16.00 m of which 10
in paved carriage way; secondary street (unpaved, compacted surface)
12.50 m; tertiary street (unpaved footway) 9.00 m. Curbs and sidewalks
are included.



-49-                            ANNEX 1
Page 5
TABLE 1. LAND USE SUMMARY AND RESIDENTIAL DENSITIES
Both Sites          Sabana Perdida             Haina
Uses                          Ha                    Ha          %         Ha          %
LAND USE
Total Land Acquisitions   151.85                   93.40                 58.45
Off-Site Areas                5.08                  2.08                  3.00
Water storage tanks          .18                   .08                   .10
Stabilization ponds         4.90                  2.00                 2.90
Project Sites               146.77      100.0      91.32    100.00      55.45      100.0
Marginal land
(recreational)            9.25        6.3       9.25       10.1       -           -
Usable Land                 137.52       93.7      82.07       89.9      55.45     100.-0
Circulation areas          21.06       14.3     12.94       14.2      8.12        14.6
Urbanized Land              116.46       79.3      69.13       75.7     47.33       85.4
Community facilities        5.08        3.5       3.20       3.5       1.88        3.4
Recreational areas         20.89       14.2      11.44      12.5       9.45       17.0
Allocable Land               90.49       61.6      54.49       59.7     36.00       64.9
Commercial areas            4.39        3.0     3.14         3.4       1.25        2.2
Serviced lots (unbuilt)  34.44         23.5     20.54       22.5      13.90       25.1
Improved lots (built up) 51.66         35.2     30.81       33.7      20,85       37.6
Net Residential              86.10       58.7      51.35       56.2     34.75       62.7
DENSITIES
Number of lots              7,833                 4,656                3,227
People (5.5 x household) 43,350                  25,600               17,750
Households x hectare
Gross density                  54                    51                    58
Net density                    92                    91                    93
People x hectare
Gross density                 297                   282                  320
Net density                   503                   498                  511



-50-
ANNEX 1
Page 6
Off-Site Infrastructure - Sabana Perdida
7.          Given their peripheral location, both sites need to be served
with basic utilities.   Water supply for Sabana Perdida would be derived
from a fully studied well-field, to be developed by CAASD, at approximately
4 km northeast of the site.   Under the project, four new wells would be
drilled and lined and an adduction line of about 6 km would be built with a
diameter of 12 inches.  Water quality requires simple chlorination, which
would take place at the well field. The project also includes an elevated
storage tank, with a usable capacity of 1,605 cubic meters, which would be
located just outside the site, on the adjacent 'El Milloncito' district.
Sewerage effluent would be treated in a stabilization pond of 1.06 ha, to
be constructed on the site's eastern border, adjacent to a lagoon formed by
the Yuca river, which would be used as a maturation lagoon.  Due to area
limitations, and depending on the final sewage load, the stabilization pond
might require mechanical aeration after the third stage of project develop-
ment.   A sum of RD$ 165,000 would be budgeted for this purpose.   The
system's final discharge would be in the Ozama river.  Storm drainage has
been designed so as to minimize pipe usage, by discharging the channeled
rain water into natural drains to the extent possible, and by the use of
seepage pits, in order to avoid piped outfalls.   An existing electrical
substation at 'Cruce de Dajao', would have to be enlarged by CDE, with INVI
paying for the incremental capacity needed to provide power to the proj-
ect.   A 4 km 12.5 KV transmission line from the substation would also be
constructed.   An existing paved road (Santo Domingo - La Victoria) gives
direct access to the site, which will be brought to within 8 km of the city
center, as soon as the Ozama river bridge, now at an advanced stage of
construction, is open to traffic.  The cost of off-site infrastructure has
been estimated at RD$ 2.1 million.6
0ff-Site Infrastructure - Haina
8.         The Haina site would derive its water supply from a well field
presently being developed by INAPA a short distance to the east.   Three
wells would feed the system through a 1.5 km adduction line, 12 inches in
diameter.   Chlorination would take place on the field, and a 1,120 cubic
meter ground level water tank would be constructed on the site.   INAPA
would execute these works under an ongoing contract, receiving the
corresponding government contribution through INVI. A stabilization pond
of 1.20 ha would instead be executed by INVI directly, some 400 m southeast
of the site, across the access road, with final discharge into the Arroyo
Itabo. The storm drainage system, has been designed with the same criteria
adopted in Sabana Perdida, avoiding the need for piped outfalls. The site
would be supplied with electric power by CDE, which would build the
necessary substation within the site, along the access road. The project
area is already accessible through the old Santo Domingo - San Cristobal
road. The total cost of the off-site works for Haina in the project is RD$
1.3 million.
/6   All costs figures quoted in this chapter include physical increase,
price escalation and the corresponding quota of preparationn and
implementation fees (see Table 4 in Annex 2).



-51-
ANNEX 1
Page 7
On-Site Infrastructure
9.            Extensive earth movements would be required on both sites,
because of the topography and their present use as farming areas. Geologi-
cal investigations have determined the need for removal of the highly
organic top soil and, in Sabana Perdida, of the pockets of expansive clay
underlying it.   Terracing would be slightly graded to allow the flow of
water to collection points, and would involve the movement of .8 million
cubic meters of earth in Sabana Perdida and .6 in Haina.   Land would be
levelled in successive land tracts (four in the first site and 3 in the
second) to coincide with the programmed development stages, which have been
designed to achieve functional integrity and separate utility services,
independent of the subsequent stages.   Bidding documents for earthworks
would include provision for site disposal of excavated soils, both the
organic top soil and the residual soils of embankment quality, and, where
possible, for the conservation and transplanting of valuable vegetation,
primarily in Sabana Perdida. For each stage of development, as soon as the
basic terracing is made, a general contractor for each site would lay out
the water,  sanitation and  drainage  networks:    (a)  the  drinking water
distribution system, consisting of PVC pipes varying betwen 2" to 12"
diameter; (b) the sewerage system with concrete pipes of 6" to 12" in
diameter; and (c) the drainage system with concrete pipes of 12" to 36" in
diameter, curve type inlets,  and 12" seepage  pits.   Finally,  selected
materials for the main roads base course would be brought in from nearby
pits, concrete curbs would be constructed, and an electricity distribution
network would be constructed, using 10.5 m concrete poles, spaced 30-40 m
apart, with attached brackets and 100 w sodium lamps and pole-mounted
transformers.   The electric meters would be installed by CDE at the time
individual connection contracts were signed by users.   The total cost of
on-site infrastructure would be RD$ 10.5 million in Sabana Perdida and RD$
5.9 in Haina.
Shelter Options (Figures A and B)
10.       Two basic dwelling types have been selected for implementation by
INVI' which can be expanded progressively, according to family needs and
financial capacity.   Both models would be constructed in pairs, with one
common wall, so as to minimize costs and to allow for side alleys, which
give  direct  access  to  the  backyard.    This  is  a  popular,  traditional
characteristic of local low-cost housing, which improves ventilation and
permits independent access to and eventual rental of a room (or rooms)
situated in the interior of the lot.  The purchase options offered range
from the basic sanitary core unit (7-11 square meters depending on the
model selected) to a complete 3 bedroom house of some 40 square meters.
Even this more complete unit, can be further expanded with the addition of
a multipurpose room or rental facility. Building materials and construction
techniques are very elementary, consisting of light foundations with a
concrete floor slab, hollow cinder block walls, and a roof in reinforced
concrete.7 The sanitary unit fixtures consist of a toilet, a shower, a
/7 Although the reinforced concrete roof structure increases the cost of a
finished unit by some 11% as compared to the more conventional asbestos
or tin roof, the experience of the last hurricane has persuaded INVI to
adopt this more permanent solution for the units it will construct
directly. However, the cheaper options will be most likely adopted by
the majority of self-help beneficiaries.



-52-
ANNEX I
Page 8
sink and an external laundry sink.  Plumbing and electrical installations
are at a bare minimum.   Doors and window louvers are in pine wood.  The
construction costs in May 1981 prices, including contractor's overhead and
profit have been estimated to range between RD$ 86.30 and RD$ 90.00 per
square meter for the finished dwelling unit of the two models, substan-
tially lower than the current level in conventional residential construc-
tion. As a whole, RD$ 9.0 million would be spent on shelter improvemerLts
in Sabana Perdida and RD$ 6.1 million in Haina.   Cost details for the
various solutions are given in Tables 8 and 9 in Annex 2.  Typical plans
are illustrated in Figures A and B.   The first stage program calls for
construction in Sabana Perdida and in Haina of about 800 sanitary core
units and about 800 dwelling units at different phases of completion.
Subject to yearly review to reflect market demands and preferences, about
the same amount is programmed for the successive stages.   In both sites,
the remainder of the serviced lots (40%) would be offered for sale unim-
proved.
Community Facilities
11.        Land has been designated for community facilities on both sites.
These include elementary schools, health centers, social centers, payment
collection offices, fire and police stations and recreational areas like
sportgrounds,  public parks and playgrounds.   The  project  also includes
provision  of  equipment  for  trash  collection.    The  following  public
buildings will be constructed under the project:
12.       Two elementary schools, with a capacity of 28 classrooms in Saba-
na Perdida and 20 classrooms in Haina. The two buildings have been design-
ed for the expected school population at the end of the project implemen-
tation period, on the assumption, consistent with the general practice in
Santo Domingo,  of a two-shift operation.   However,  two areas have been
reserved on the larger site, for construction of additional buildings at a
later date. Procurement of furniture and equipment for the two schools to
be constructed under the project has been included in the total cost of
this subcomponent, which amounts to RD$ 1.2 million.
14.       Four social centers would be built in Sabana Perdida and three in
Haina, each serving a neighborhood of 1,000 to 1,200 families. They would
consist of simple buildings of about 100 square meters each, including a
multi-purpose meeting room, an office for the social workers, a storage
room and sanitary facilities. The total cost is estimated at RD$ 172,000.
15.        Two small payment collection offices of 230 square meters each
would be erected on the sites to host collection of monthly payments by
residents.   Besides serving INVI's needs,  the buildings  provide space,
which could be rented or leased to other agencies (INAPA, CAASD, CDE,
Municipalities) for collecting utilities and urban services charges.   The
structures are organized in four equal modules, including a common area, a
working space with counters, a small office and sanitary facilities.   The
cost of the subcomponent would be RD$ 200,000.



-53-
ANNEX 1
Page 9
16.       In addition, both project sites would be endowed with fire
stations, involving two buildings of about 150 square meters each, includ-
ing garage, radio-communication room, an office for the marshall, living
room, mess hall, staff quarters and sanitary facilities. Procurement of
the relevant equipment, furniture and two fire engines has been included in
the total cost of the subcomponent of RD$ 345,000.
17.        Two police stations, one in Sabana Perdida and one in Haina com-
plete the inventory of community buildings. These would be one-story con-
structions  of  125  square  meters  each,  including  two  offices,  staff
quarters, detention rooms, sanitary facilities. The cost, including furni-
ture  and  equipment,  amounts  to RD$  111,000.    Construction  of  on-site
headquarters would ensure the continued presence of municipal policemen
during the formative stages of the two settlements.
Commercial Areas
18.         Two areas have been reserved in the project sites for eventual
development of commercial facilities by private enterprise. These consist
of a 3.14 ha lot in Sabana Perdida and another of 1.25 ha in Haina.  Both
would be highly accessible from both within and without the project sites
and would be leased or sold outright by INVI. Given development costs8 on
the order of RD$ .9 million in Sabana Perdida and RD$ .3 in Haina, it is
expected that INVI should be able to sell them at a profit for some RD$ 1.5
million or more.   As an example,  re-investment  of this income in the
project could finance the construction of another 530 sanitary units on the
empty lots or the addition of one room on 1,400 lots endowed with only a
sanitary unit.
Recreational Areas
19.       In each development, a centrally located area has been designated
as  sportsground  for  games,  such  as  baseball  and  basketball.    The
project includes also some green commons and a number of miniparks
interspersed in the urban fabric.   The  latter combine  the function of
neighborhood playgrounds with that of giving access to the interior of
residential superblocks, and repeat a formula, which has proved successful
in other Bank-supported projects.  Landscaping and other works required by
these facilities are estimated at RD$ 201,000.   The overall  ratios  of
recreational areas per inhabitant result in 8.20 square meters in Sabana
Perdida (due to the marginal buffer zones) and 5.30 square meters in Haina,
which are quite acceptable values.
Trash Collection Equipment
20.       Solid waste disposal would be organized on the two sites by the
corresponding municipal authorities, according to formal agreements with
INVI. Refuse would be gathered in metal containers located at specific
collection points and picked up for disposal by trucks moving along the
paved routes. Since the extent of the vehicular circulation is limited, a
/8 The corresponding costs of land acquisition, clearance, infrastructure
service and relevant overhead charges.



ANNEX 1
Page 10
specialized consultant retained for this purpose has recommended two altier-
native systems for carrying wastes to the main containers. In the first,
the residents would empty their garbage into bins at a given location for
each block, from which specialized personnel would move them to the main
containers with push carts.  In the   second, this service (and the bins)
would be eliminated, with individual households assuming responsibility Eor
delivering the garbage directly to the collection point. The exact loca--
tions of the large metal containers and the possibility of coordinating
self-help efforts would be determined at a later date by the extension
service workers.   For the purpose of project costing, the most expensLve
alternative has been considered, resulting in the procurement of trash
compactor and dump trucks, metal containers, bins and push carts for a
total cost of RD$ 757,000.
Professional and Extension Services
21.      During 1980, a loan of US$500,000 was provided by the Bank's Proj-
ect Preparation Facility, to cover immediate needs for mapping and techni-
cal investigations of the project sites, architectural and engineering
services provided by consultants, other topographical surveys, and possible
erection of demonstration units to support project promotion. This advance
would be refinanced under the proposed loan. While INVI's preparation ulnit
(UPP) did most of the site planning and architectural design, the final
engineering and detailed specifications for the infrastructure works were
contracted out to local consulting firms. A consultancy agreement was also
signed with the Fundacion Salvadorena de Vivienda Minima, which provided
some intermittent advice. Other external expenses were related to
cartography, soil investigations, cadastral evaluations of the land and
existing improvements of the project sites.
22.       The sum of RD$ 1.2 million has been allocated in the project for
consultant services, equivalent to an expected input of some 200 man-months
over a four-year period and inclusive of travel, subsistence and overhead
costs for foreign consultants. A variety of technical assistance
activities would be provided to the project implementation unit under this
component, which, inter-alia, would consist in the following:
(a)   the study of INVI's policy options in addressing low-income
housing needs and of its alternative means to gradually achieve
financial viability (paras. 4.10, 8.01(m));
(b)   the formulation of a five-year financial program for INVI
(paras. 4.10, 8.01(m));
(c)   the evaluation of the feasibility and opportunity to set up a
savings and loan scheme for small-scale housing improvements and
the formulation of related operational recommendations (para.
4.19);
(d)   the definition of an action program to improve INVI's payment
collection procedures (paras. 5.05(e); 8.01(k));



ANNEX 1
Page 11
(e)   specialized advice on accounting and administrative procedures
and on computer processing of related information (para. 2.09,
8.01(h));
(f)   monitoring studies on project implementation progress and results
(paras. 4.04, 4.10, 8.01(d));
(g)   specialized technical advice on self-help home improvement
activities by allottees (para. 4.08);
(h)   additional topographical surveys needed to record as built lot
subdivisions prior to title registration (Annex I, para. 4);
(i)   formulation of yearly implementation programs and construction
schedules for specific development stages, backed by definitive
plot plans (para. 4.03, 8.01(d));
(j)   occasional advice on preparation of international tender
documents, bid evaluation and contract award procedures,
documentation of variation orders, measurement of quantities and
acceptance of finished works (paras. 4.20, 8.01(g)).
23.       Some of the above activities would be partially supported by the
UNDP grant now under processing (the project's proposal and terms of
reference have been recently reviewed by Bank staff and are quite congruent
with the project objectives) and/or by the on-going cooperation program
with Federal Germany's Technical Assistance Agency (GTZ). However,
counterpart funds and complementary financing are considered necessary to
the extent indicated above, in order to fulfill specific gaps and to ensure
satisfactory performance of particular tasks. Terms and conditions of
employment of foreign and local consultants financed with loan proceeds
would be subject to Bank approval and would comply with the Bank Guidelines
on the uses of consultants.
Administrative Services
24.       Finally, the project includes a sum of RD$ 1.3 million for
project administration costs. Based on INVI's practice, this was
established at 3.5% of the base costs (about 3% of total project costs), to
cover INVI's overhead operations for project accounting and auditing, legal
services, procurement, preparation of disbursement applications, sale
promotion, mortgaging, and maintenance during construction. Both the costs
of the professional and extension services mentioned above and those of
project administration have been prorated and included in the specific
costs of components and sub-components quoted in this chapter.



-56-                            ANE  2
Table I
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
SITES AND SERVICES PROJECT
Estimated Population of Major Dominican Cities (1980-1970) (Para 1.05)
Yearly,
Size       Rank    Locality                      1970 Population 1980 Population Growth Rate
Over        1       Santo Domingo (ADN)             673,470          1,240,000        6.3
100,000     2      Santiago de los Caballeros    155.000               265.000        5.5
(2)                Subtotal                      828,470          1,505,000        (6.15)
3      San Pedro de Maconla             43,010             84,200         7.0
4      Barahona                         37,260             66,100         5.9
5      San Francisco de Macorfs         44,620             64,000         3.6
6      La Romana                        36,720             58,600         4.8
7      La Vega                          31,720             49,300         4.5
100,000     8      Puerto Plata                      31,060             43,700        3.4
to        9      San Juan de la Maguana            32,105             42,100        2.8
30,000    10      Moca                              24,195             38,300        4.7
11      Monaenor Noel                    22,020             37,700         5.5
12      Mao                              25,650             37,500         3.9
13      Bani                             23,530             37,500         4.8
14.     San Cristobal                    26,930             34,300         2.4
15      Higuey                           17,995             30.600         5.4
(13)                Subtotal                      396,815            623,900        (4.65)
16      Villa Altagracia                 11,900             28,700         9.2
17      Nagua                            13,740             26,800         7.0
18      Bajos de Haina                   11,180             20,800         6.3
19      Las Matas de Farfan               8,125             18,800         888
20      Esperanza                        10,530             17,400         5.2
21      El Seybo                          8,960             15,700         5.8
22      Hato Mayor                       10,135             15,100         4.2
23      San Ignacio de Sabaneta           7,420             14,600         7.0
30,000     24      Neyba                              9,215             14,500        4.6
to        25      Villa Bisono                       6,100             14,500        9.1
10,000     26      Sabana Grande de Boya              6,720             14,000        7.6
27      Azua                             13,880             14,000          .5
28      Vicente Noble                     8,145             13,800         5.4
29      San Jose de Ocoa                  8,785             12,900         3.9
30      Jarabacoa                         6,445             12,500         6.9
31     Cotui                              7,185             12,000         4.8
32      Saicedo                           8,515             11,600         2.7
33      Sabana de la Mar                  6,545             11,200         5.6
34      Pedernales                        5,340             10,800         7.2
35      Villa Vasquez                     7,920             10,300         2.7
36      Sosua                             4.365             10,100         8.8
(21)                Subtotal                      181,760            320,100        (5.85)
Population in cities
(36)                over 10,000                 1,407,0^5          2,449,000        (5.7)
TOTAL URBAN POPULATU1N        1,59C2bO           2,752,000        (5.6)



-37-
ANNEX 2
Table 2
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
SITES AND SERVICES PROJECT
INVI'S STAFF (Budgetary Provision) (Para. 2.08)
1980                                          1981
Budgetary Classification       Prof.    Tech.    Support       Total        Prof.    Tech.    Support    Total
1.  General directorate         14         9         7           30          13        10          9          32
2.  Administrative Dept.        12        17        57            86         17        12         56          85
3.  Technical Department        32        26       120           178         39        29        100         168
4.  Soc-ial Programs Dept.       6         6          9           21           6        5          9          20
TOTAL                     67       58        193          315          75        56        174          305
Budgetary Provision             1980                % of increase                      1981
1 plus 2 above                  439,948                  42                            626,447
3 above                         478,270                  21                            581,219
4 above                          60,308                  27                             76,440
TOTAL                         978,526                  31                          1,248,106/a
/a Includes a provision for the Project Preparation Unit personnel which would be refunded under the project.



ANlN 2
-58-                                                            Table 3
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
SITES AND SERVICES PROJECT
DETAILED PROJECT COSTS AND CONTINGENCIES CALCULATIONS (Parn. 3.08)
(In RD$ thousands)
Both Sites                         Sabana Perdida                               Haina
Base       Contingencies         Total    Base                         Total      Base                         Total
Project Components                           Costs    Physical   Price        Costs    Costs    Physical  Price  Costs         Costs    Contingencies       Costs
A.  LAND
State property                          891         -           -         891      891           -        -    891          -                   -         -
Private property                        640        64          24         728       221        22         8    251        419        42        16       477
Indemnifications                        509        51          20         580       336        34        13    383         173       17         7       197
Su'-division fees                       418        42         214         674       248         25      128    401         170        17       86       273
Subtotal A                          2,458       157         258       2,873    1,96          81 X     149  1,926        762        76       109       947
B.  OFF-SITE INFRASTRUCTURE
Water wells, pipes, tanks             1,561       156         364       2,081     1,013        101      194  1,308         548        55      170       773
Stabilization ponds                     509        51         171         731       288        29       103    420        221        22        68       311
Power transformers & lines              325        32          8          443       175         17       47    239         150        15       40       205
Subtotal B                          2,395       239         622       3,256    1,4      7             3    1,           919        92       278    1,289
C.  ON-SITE INFRASTRUCTURE
Earthworks                            3,520       352       1,277       5,149    2,432         243      851  3,526      1,088       109       425    1,622
Drainage                                933        93         384       1,410       553         55      219    827        380        38       165       583
Water distribution                      907        91         357       1,355       567         57      210    834         340        34      147       521
Sewerage system                       1,701       170         660       2.531     1,050       105       385  1,540        651        65       275       991
Power and public lighting             1,544       154         693       2,391      930         93       403  1,426        614        61       290       965
Road formation and pavement             604        60        J34          0fi      462         46       252    760         142        14       83       239
Subtotal C                          9,209       921       3,705      13,835    5,994        599    2,320  8,913       3,215       322    1,385    4,922
D.  SHELTER
Start-up sanitary units               3,358       168       1,646       5,172    2,002         100      996  3,098       1,356       68       650    2,070,
Dwelling units                        5.479         4       2 686       8,439    3.6           16       6               2 214       111    1.061         86
Subtotal D                          8,837       442      4,332       13,61     5,267        2      2 2    i SISI      3,570       179    1,711          0
E.  COMMUNITY FACILITIES
Schools                                 592        59         333         984      342         34       193    569        250        25       140       415
Health centers                           99        10          47         156        52          5       25      82        47          5       22        74
Social centers                           92         9          52         153        54          5       30      89         38        4        22        64
Collection offices                        78        8          36         123        41         4        19      64         37         4       17        58
Fire stations                            40         4          25          69        21          2       13      36         19         2       12        33
Police stations                          44         4          21          69        23          2        11     36         21         2       10        33
Sportsgrounds                           104        10          66         18B        53          5       34      92         51         5       32        88
Furniture S. equipment                  292        29         171         492       150         15       88    253         142        14       83       239
Trash collection equipment              419        42         223         684       250         25      13    408          I69        1                 276
Subtotal E                          1,760       176         574       2,910      986         99       546  1,631         7         77       428    1,279
F. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Project preparation                     788         -          28         816      466           -       16    482         322         -       12       334
Construction supervision              1,417         -         544       1,961      865           -      329  1,194        552         -       215       767
Extension services                      859         -         369       1,228       508          -      218    726        351          -      151       502
Project administration                  a u                    4        1,250        52          -      209    761           I                137       488
Subtotal F                          3,967         -       1,288       5,255    2,391           -      773  3,164      1,576         -       515    2,091
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                       28,626    1,935      11,179      41,740   17,810       1,189    6,753 25,752    10,186         746    4,426   15,988
Physical contingencies have been assumed at 10% of base costs on all items, except acquisitlon of public property and implementation costs which Include
already a correspondent allowance. Housing costs bear only on expected physical increase of 5% over base costs.
Price escalation calculations on all components except public property acquisition were based on the following assumptions:
Years                            1981         1982          1983          9           198          1986
Expected inflation               15%          14%           13%          12%          11%          10%
Escalation factors               x1.035       x1.174        x1.282       x1.429      X11578        :1.691



-59-
ANNEX 2
Table 4
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
SITES AND SERVICES PROJECT
Summary of Project Costs by Expenditures Categories (Paras 3.08, 4,21)
Local             Foreign              Total        Govt. Financed       Bank Financed
Categories of Expenditures                     RD$'OO0     %      ED$'000    %        RD$'000   %        RD$'000    %       RD$'000    f
A.  NONLOAN FINANCED
State property acquisitions                 891      100          -        -        891    100        891      100          -       -
Private property acquisitions               640      100          -        -        640    100        640      100          -       -
Improvements indemnifications               509      100          -        -        509    100        509      100          -       -
Subdivision survey fees                     418      100                            418    100        418      100          -       -
Total Land                             2,458      TU:          -        -     2,14      100      2,-        10           -      -
INAPA water supply works                 306       56        242       44       548    100         548      100          -      -
CDE power supply works                    52       16        273      84        325    100         325     100           -      -
Infrastructure other agencies            358       41        515      59        873    100         873      100          -      -
Construction supervision               1,417      100          -        -     1,417    100       1,417      100          -      -
Project administration                   903      100          -        -       903    100         903      100          -      -
BASE COSTS A                              5,136       91        515        9     5,651    100       7,301      100          -       -
Physical increase                            193      79         52       21        245    100        244      100          -       -
Price escalation                          1,257       89        148       11      1,405    100      1,406      100          -       -
Contingencies                          8,450       -8                 1 2       650    100  12 6 50        100           -      -
SUBTOTAL A                             6,586       90        715       10     7,301    100       7,301      100          -      -
B.  LOAN FINANCED
Off-site infrastructure (INVI)               746      49        776       51     1,522    100         372       25      1,150       75
On-site infrastructure                    5,066       55      4,143       45     9,209    100       2,309       25     6,900        75
(1)      Infrastructure by INVI                            34      4,9         46    I17-3    100        2,681       25      8,050      -7
Shelter improvements                      5,744       65      3,093       35     8,837    100       2,237       25     6,600        75
Community facilities                        682       65        367       35     1,049    100         249       25        800       75
Buildings                             6,          65     3,60        35        8 86             2,          25     7,ZWO       75
Furniture                                  214       51        205       49       419    100         119       25        300     75
Equipment                                   149      51        143       49        292    100         92       25        200     75
(1)     Furniture and equipment                  363       51       348       49        711    100        211       25        500      75
(2)     Consultant and extension
services                                300       35        559      65        859    100         309       35       550      65
(3)     Refinancing project preparation loan 699          89         89       11        788    100        288       35        500      63
BASE COSTS B                            13,600       59      9,375       41    22,975    100       5,975       26    17,000       74
Physical increase                          974       58        716       42      1,690    100        510       30      1,180      70
Price escalation                         5,760       59      4,014       41     9,774    100       2,954       30      6,820     70
(5)  Contingencies (unallocated)               6,734 59           4,730       41    11,464    100       3,464       30      8,000      70
SUBTOTAL B                              20,334       59    14,105        41    34,439    100       9,439      27.5   25,000    72.5
C.   TOTAL PROJECT COST
BASE COST A + B                          18,736       66      9,890       34    28,626    100    11,626         41    17,000       59
Physical increase                        1,167       60        768       40      1,935    100        754       39      1,180      61
Price escalation                         7,017       63      4,162       37      1,179    100      4,360       39      6,820      61
Contingencies                         8,184 6             4,930       38    13,114    100       5,114             8
TOTAL COST A + B                              26,920       65    14,820        35    41,740    100    16,740         40    25,000      60
References in brackets refer to proposed Bank disbursement categories of Schedule 1 of the Loan Agreement).



-60_                                   ANNEX 2
Table 5
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
SITES AND SERVICES PROJECT
Estimated Investment Schedule by Expenditure Categories:  Both Sites  (Para 3.08)
Categories of expenditures              total    1981    1982    1983        1984     1985    1986
A. NONLOAN FINANCED
State property acquisitions          891      891        -       -         -         -        -
Private property acquisitions        640      640        -       -         -         -        -
Improvements indemnifications        509      509        -       -         -         -        -
Subdivision surveys fees             418        -        -     104       138       138       38
Total Land                       2,458   2,040         -     104       138       138       38
INAPA water supply works          548        -        -     548         -         -        -
CDE power supply works            325        -     123      202         -         -       -
Infrastructure other agencies   873          -      123     750         -         -        -
Construction supervision        1,417       73      113     407       498       282      44
Project administration            903       47       72     259       317       180      28
BASE COSTS A                       5,651   2,160       308   1,520       953       600      110
Physical increase                    245      115       12      85        14        14        4
Price escalation                   1,405       48       56     453       415       355       79
Contingencies on A              1,650      163      68      538       4+29      369      83
SUBTOTAL A                      7,301   2,323      376   2,058    1,382        969      193
B.  LOAN FINANCED
Off-site infrastructure (INVI)   1,522          -   1,013      466         -        43        -
On-site infrastructure             9,209        -      730   3,638    4,001        725      115
(1)     Infrastructure by INVI        10,731        -    1,743   4,104    4,001        768      115
Shelter improvements               8,837        -        -   1,852    3,369    3,011       605
Community facilities               1,049        -        -       -       524       525       -
(1)     Buildings                      9,886        -        -   1,852    3,893    3,536        605
Furniture                           419        -       -       -        264       155        -
Equipment                           292        -       -       -         91      201        -
(1)     Furniture and equipment           711       -       -       -        355       356        -
(2)     Consultant and extension
services                         859        -     172      149       191      215      132
(3)     Refinancing prolect
preparation loan                 788      788       -        -         -         -       -
BASE COSTS B                       22,975      788   1,915   6,105    8,440    4,875         852
Physical increase                  1,690        -      174     503       657       315      42
Price escalation                   9,774       28      363   1,863    3,902    3,000       617
(5)   Contingencies (unallocated)   11,464         28      537   2,366    4,559    3,315       659
SUBTOTAL B                      34,439      816   2,452   8,471   12,999    8,190   1,511
C.  TOTAL PROJECT COST
BASE COST A + B                   28,626   2,948   2,223   7,625    9,393    5,475         962
Physical increase                  1,935      115      186     588       671       329      46
Price escalation                   1,179       75      419   2,316    4,317    3,355       696
Contingencies (unallocated)       13,114      190      605   2,904    4,988    3 684       742
TOTAL COST A + B                      41,740   3,138   2,828  10,529   14,381    9,100   1,704
References in brackets relate to proposed Bank disbursement categories.
(Schedule 1 of the Loan Agreement).



ANNEX 2
-61-
Table 6
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
SITES AND SERVICES PROJECT
Cost Estimate for the Typical Serviced Lot   (Para 3.08)
(without interest during construction)
(m2 104,3749)            (m2 101.68)
Lot Dimensions                        Sabana Perdida                 Haina
Cost Components                    RD$ x m2    RD$ x lot    RD$ x m2        RD$ x lot
Land acquisition, clearance
and subdivision fees               3.11         324.60         2.12         215.56
On-site infrastructure/a            11.00       1,148.12         8.93         908.00
Subtotal A                        14.11       1,472.73        11.05       1,123.56
Project preparation/b                 .56          58.45          .52          52.87
Construction supervision/b           1.04         108.55          .89          90.50
Project administration/b              .66          68.89          .57          57.96
Extension services/c                  .93          97.07          .97          98.63
Subtotal B                        3.19         332.96         2.95         299.96
BASE COSTS (A + B)                  17.30        1,805.69       14.00       1,423.52
Physical increase /d                 1.25          130.47
UNESCALATED COST                    18.55        1,936.15       15.10       1,535.37
Price escalation:
1983 x 1.282                      23.78      2,482.14         19.36       1,968.34
1984 x 1.429                      26.51       2,766.76        21.58       2,194.04
1985 x 1.578                      29.27       3,055.24        23.83       2,422.81
1986 x 1.691                      31.37       3,274.03        25.53      2,596.31
/a The costs of off-site infrastructure, which will be covered by government
contributions, have been excluded from this calculation, which carries only
INVI's direct costs. For comparison purposes, if those costs were also
included, the resulting costs, before price escalation would be as follows:
UNESCALATED COST
with off-site infrastructure 21.53          2,247.13        17.81       1,820.89
/b  Design, supervision and administration fees applicable to land, on site
infrastructure and INVI's executed off-site infrastructure and community
facilities. Corresponding fees for shelter improvements are charged to this
component. Implementation fees on works designed and executed by agencies other
than INVI are not included.
/c Extension services are fully charged to the cost of the lot.
/d Physical increase has been assumed to be 10% on infrastructure and all land
costs except for state property already transferred to INVI.



-62-
ANNEX 2
Table 7
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
SITES AND SERVICES PROJECT
ESTIMATED COST OF SHELTER OPTIONS BY DEVELOPMENT PHASE (Para 3.08)
SABANA PERDIDA
(without interest during construction)
Type  A Dwellings                                 Type B Dwellings
Sanitary    One Room   Two Room   Three Room   Sanitary   One Room   Two Room   Three Room
Cost Components                   Unit         Dwelling   Dwelling   Dwelling       Unit        Dwelling   Dwelling   Dwelling
Site works and staking out          7.75         7.75        8.84       11.94          7.75       8.84       10.94       11.92
Excavations                        10.97        17.83       34.02       52.14         13.49      21.20       30.14       48.58
Reinforced concrete               309.90       527.03      990.60   1,390.33        430.19      720.70      902.12   1,307.76
Walls                             323.95       373.50      549.30      800.72        390.30     461.90      535.73      690.52
Concrete finish                    59.98       132.11      237.67     354.43        101.00      172.03      229.78      353.23
Electrical installation           206.70       242.16      286.38     383.22        206.70      242.16      287.58      355.98
Sanitary installation             352.39       352.39      352.39     352.39        342.61      342.61      342.61      342.61
Doors and window louvers           51.23        51.23      310.66     427.22         56.41      310.20      367.92      376.25
Subtotal A                  1,322.87    1,704.00   2,769.86   3,772.39         1,548.45   2,279.64   2,706.82   3,486.85
Project preparation (3.06%)        40.44        52.09       84.67     115.32          47.34      69.69       82.35      106.59
Construction supervision (         75.10        96.74      157.24     214.16         87.90      129.41      153.66      197.95
(5.68%)
Project administration (3.63%))  47.97          61.78      100.44      136.79         56.15       82.66      98.15      126.43
Subtotal BLa (12.36Z)          163.51       210.61     342.35      466.27        191.39      281.76      334.56      430.97
Base Cost A plus B              1,486.38    1,914.61   3,112.21   4,238.66        1,739.84   2,561.40   3,041.38   3,917.82
Physical increase (5% of A)        66.14        85.20      138.49     188.62          77.42     113.98      135.34      174.34
UHESCALhED COST                 1,552.52    1,999.81   3,250.70   4,427.26        1,817.26   2,675.38   3,176.72   4,092.1S
Cost of typical lot (m2 104.37)1,936.15    1,936.15   1.936.15   1,936.13         1.OL6.15   1,Y36.1S   1.936.1S   1.936.15
TOTAL COST                   3,488.67    3,935.96   5,186.85   6.363.43        3.753.41   4,611.53   5,112.87   6,028.31
lot cost
Incremental cost 1,936.15   (+1,552.52)   (+447.29)(+1,250.89)(+1,176.58)   (+1,817.26)  (+858.12)  (+501.341  (+915.44)
Price escalation
1983 (x 1.282)                  4,472.47    5,045.90   6,649.54   8,157.91        4,811.87   5,911.98   6,554.70   7,728.29
1984 (x 1.429)                  4,985.31    5,624.49   7,412.01   9,093.34        5,106.40   6,589.88   7,306.29   8,614.45
1985 (x 1.578)                  5,505.12    6,210.94   8,184.85  10,041.49        5,638.84   7,276.99   8,068.11   9,512.67
1986 (x 1.691)                  5,899.34    6,655.71   8,770.96  10,760.56        6,042.64   7,798.10   8,645.86  10,193.87
La Design supervision and administration fees have been pro-rated to the base costs of shelter improvements.



- 63 -
AM. 2
Table 8
DOHINICAE REPUBLIC
SITES AND SERVICES PROJECT
ESTIMATED COST OF SHELTER OPTIONS BY DEVELOPMNT PEASE (Para 3.08)
HAIKA
(without interest during construction)
Type A Dwellings                                 Type B Dwrnllineu
Sanitary    One Room   Two Roaom   Three Room   Sanitary   One Rom    Two Room   Thre  Roca
Cost Components                   Unit         Dwelling   Dwellings  Dwellings    Unit          Dwelling   DwellimJ   Dr1llfos
Site works and staking out          7.75         7.75        8.84       11.94          7.75        8.84      10.94       11.92
Excavations                        10.97        17.83       34.02       51.28         13.49       21.17      32.72       42.53
Reinforced concrete               294.68       505.24      953.76   1,394.58         411.84     651.48      866.18   1,260.41
Walls                             319.21       368.03      541.25      789.00        384.70     410.21      528.00      680.51
Concrete finish                    55.84       138.64      221.57      330.49         94.07     160.42      214.18      329.16
Electrical installation           206.70       242.16      286.38      383.22        206.70     242.16      286.38      335.98
Sanitary installation             352.39       352.39      352,39      352.39        352.39     342.61      352.39      325.39
Doors and window lourvers          51.23        51.23      310.66      427.22         56.41      310.20     367.92      376.25
Subtotal ALa                 1,298.77    1,683.27   2,708.87   3,740.10        1,517.57   2,147.09   2,651.53   3,399.37
Project preparation                49.09        63.68      102.39      141.38         57.36       81.16     100.23      128.50
Construction supervision           84.03       108.90      175.26      241.98         98.19     138.92      171.55      219.94
Project administration             53.51        63.95      111.60      154.09         62.52       88.46     109.24      140.05
Subtotal B                     186.63       241.88     389.26      537.45        218.07      308.54      381.02      488.49
Base Cost A plus B              1,485.40    1,925.15   3,098.13   4,277.55        1,735.64   2,455.63   3,032.55   3,687.86
Physical increase (5% of A)        64.94        84.16      135.44      187.00         75.88     107.35      132.58      169.97
UNESCALATED COSTS               1,550.34    2,009.31   3,233.57   4,464.55        1,811.52   2,562.98   3,165.13   4,057.63
Cost of typical size lot
(i2 101.68)                  1,535.37    1,535.37   1,535.37   1,535.37         1,535.37   1,535.37   1,535.37   1,535.37
TOTAL CQSTS                     3,085.71    3,544.68   4,768.94   5,999.92        3,346.89   4,098.35   4,700.50   5.593.20
(lot cost)
Incremental costa:(1,535.37)  (+1,550.34) (+  458.79)(+1,224.26)(+1,230.98) (+ 1,811.52) (+ 751.46) (+ 892.70)(+  892.70)
Price Escalation
1983 (x 1,282)                  3,955.88    4,544.28   6,113.78   7,691.90        4,290.71   5,254.08   6,026.04   7,170.48
1984 (x 1,429)                  4,409.48    5,065.35   6,814.82   8,573.88        4,782.70   5,856.54   6,717.01   7,992.68
1985 ( x 1,578)                 4,869.25    5,593.50   7,525.39   9,467.87        5,281.39   6,467.20   7,417.39   8,826.07
198b (x 1,691)                  5,217.94    5,994.05   8,064.28  10,145.86        5,659.59   6,930.31   7,948.54   9,458.10
/a  Design, supervision and administration fees have been pro-rated to the base cost of shelter improvements.



-64-                            A       2
Table 9
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
SITES AND SERVICES PROJECT
Indicative Shelter Construction Schedule- - (Para 4.03)
Implementation Years
First     Second      Third      Fourth     Total      Percent
SABANA PERDIDA
Serviced lots            -            621        621       620        1,862       40.0
Sanitary units           -            466        465       466        1,397       30.0
One room dwelling        -            232        233       233          698       15.0
Two room dwellings       -            163        163       163          489       10.5
Three room dwellings    -              70         70        70          210        4.5
Total lots             -          1,552     1,552      1,552        4,656      100.0
HAINA
Serviced lots            -            431       430        430        1,291       40.0
Sanitary units           -            322        323       323          968       30.0
One room dwelling        -            162        161       161          484       15.0
Two room dwellings       -            113        113       113          339       10.5
Three room dwellings    -              48         48        49          145        4.5
Total lots             -          1,076     1,075      1,076        3,227     100.0
BOTH SITES
Serviced lots            -          1,052     1,051      1,050        3,153      40.0
Sanitary units           -            788        788       789        2,365       30.0
One room 'dwelling       -            394        394       394        1,182      15.0
Two room dwellings       -            276       276        276          828      10.5
Three room dwellings    -             118       118        119          355        4.5
Total lots             -          2,628     2,627      2,628        7,883     100.0
Cumulative             0.0%         33.3%     66.6%      100.0%       -        -
/a This construction schedule has been adopted for budgeting purposes. However several
trade-offs exist within each year's budgeted funds, as explained in para. 4.02, given
the cost differentials existing between Type A and Type B   dwellings and among the
different phasesof completion of each model.



DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
SITES AND SERVICES PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION STAFF SCHEDULE
(Paras 4.09, 4.15)
DIPLEMENTATION YEARS                   FIRST               SECOND                THIRD              FOURTH                     TOTAL
CALENDAR YEARS              1982                1983                 1984                 1985                 1986        PROJECT
_  _                 .                    .              _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ PERTOD
SEMESTERS         SPRING    FALL    SPRING   FALL         SPRING   FALL        SPRING   FALL        SPRING    FALL
P  12        18        18         18        18        18         18        18        12          _           150
Central               (2)        (3)       (3)       (3)       (3)        (3)       (3)       (3)        (2)
Office             T        42        48        54         54        54        54         54        48        42                450
(7)       (8)       (9)       (9)       (9)        (9)       (9)        (8)       (7) _           (7-9)
P  12        18        66         72        90        90         60        60         30         _           498
Sabana                (2)        (3)      (11)      (12)       (15)      (15)      (10)       (10)       (5)
Perdida                     48        60       180        186       222       222        150       144         78              1284
T        (8)      (10)      (20)      (21)       (37)      (37)       (25)      (24)      (13) _           (8-37)
-         _        42        48        84         84        72         66                               396
.aa                                     (7)        (8)      (14)       (14)      (12)      (11)
Haina                                  -       132        138       210       210        156       156                         1008
T         _                 (22)      (23)       (35)      (35)       (26)      (26)         _         _  (22-35)
24        36        126       138        192       192       150        144       42                    1044
Subtotal           P  ()         (9)       (21)      (23)      (32)       (32)      (25)      (24)       (7)_
Technical                   90       108       366        378       486       486        360       348        120              2742
Staff              T       (15)      (18)      (61)       (63)      (81)      (81)       (60)      (58)       (20)         _ (15-81)
Subtotal           P  12         12        12        12        12         12        12        12         12        12           120
Extension             (2)        (2)       (2)       (2)       (2)        (2)       (2)        (2)       (2)       (2)
ServicesStaff   T24            30        42         42        60        60         72        72        54         54     510
Services Staff   T          (4)       (5)        (7)       (7)      (10)      (10)       (12)      (12)        (9)       (9)  (4-12)
Subtotal           P  18        48         18        18        24         24        24        24         12        12           192
Administrative                   (3)       (3)       (3)       (4)        (4)  (4)             (4)       (2)        (2)
Staff       T       ~~36       42        60         60        90        90        108       108        84         78     756
Staff              T        (6)       (7)      (10)       (10)      (15)      (15)       (18)      (18)       (14)      (13)   (6-18)
54        66        156       168        228       228       186        180       66        24          1368
IMPLEMENTATION             150  (11) 180  (26) 469  (28)048   (38)636  (38)636  (31)534  (30)528  (11) 258  (4) 138   4008              g
STAFF              T       (25)      (30)      (78)       (80)     (106)     (106)       (89)      (88)       (43)      (23) (25-106) v
M >c
P = Professional Staff man months   T = Total Staff man months
Figures in brackets indicate the number of staff employed in each period



DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
SITES AND SERVICES PROJECT
CIVIL WORKS PROCUREMENT PACKAGES (Para 4.20)
Type of Procurement                                          Bank Review Procedure
(Ceiling:  US$750.000)                                      (Ceiling:  US$250.000)
ICB (us$OO0)                      LCB (US$1000)                        Ex Ante (USS'000)                    Ex Post (US$,OOO)-
Sabana                  Both        Sabana                   Both        Sabana                   Both         Sabana
Contract Item/a                               Both Sites Perdida    Haina   -  Sites           Perdida    Halna        Sites        Perdida    Haina         Sites       Perdida    Haina.
Water wells                                        -           -           -       376 (1)    376 (1)           -       376 (1)    376 (1)          -          -            _
Water adduction line                              -            -           -       657 (1)    657 (1)           -      657 (1)    657 (1)           -          -            -           _
Stabilization pond                                                                 328 (2)    122 (1)    206 (1)                                             328 (2)    122 (1)    206 (1)
Mechanical aeration                                                                164 (1)    164 (1)                                                        164 (1)    164 (1)
Earthworks                                    4,723 (2)  3,170 (1)  1,553 (1)    -               -           -       4,723 (2)  3,170 (1)    1,553 (1)         -           -
Water born utilities networks                 4,787 (2)  3,002 (1)  1,785 (1)    -               -           -       4,787 (2)  3.002 (1)   1,785 (1)          -            -
Power distribution                            1,936 (2)  1,166 (1)    770 (1)    -               -           -       1.936 (2)  1,166 (1)        770 (1)       -           -            -
Road formation and paving
Stage I                                         -           -            -      387 (2)    238 (1)    149 (1)          -            -             -        387 (2)    238 (1)    149 (1)  on
Stage 2                                         -           -           -       395 (2)    312 (1)        83 (1)       -            -            -         395 (2)    312 (1)        83 (1)  '
Stage 3                                         -           -           -       119 (1)    119 (1)         -           -            -            -         119 (1)     119 (1)        -
Stage 4                                         -           -            -       65 (1)       65 (1)       -           -            -            -          65 (1)      65 (1)        -
Shelter improvement:
Stage I                                         -           -           -    2,614 (6)  1,708 (4)    906 (2)  2,614 (6)  1,708 (4)             906 (2)       -           -            -
Stage 2                                         -           -            -    5,295 (10) 2,710 (5)  2,585 (5)          -            -             -     5.295 (10) 2,710 (5)  2,585 (5)
Stage 3                                         -           -           -    5,232 (9)  3,000 (5)  2,232 (4)           -            -             -     5,232 (9)  3,000 (5)  2,232 (4)
Stage 4                                         -           -           -    1,126 (2)  1,126 (2)          -           -            -            -      1,126 (2)  1,126 (2)          -
Community facilities:
Schools                                         -           -            -    1,092 (2)    631 (1)    461 (1)  1,092 (2)    631 (1)            461 (1)       -           -            -
Health and social centers                       -           -            -      353 (2)    196 (1) -  157 (1)          -            -             -        353 (2)    196 (1)       157 (1)
Fire and police stations, collection            -           -           -       299 (2)    157 (1)    142 (1)          -            -            -         299 (2)     157 (1)    142 (1)
Sports centers                                              -           -       213 (2)      108 (1)     105 (1)                    _                      213 (2)     108 (1)      105 (1)
TOTAL                                    11,446       7,338         4,108 18,715       11,689        7,026      16,185      10,710         5,475    13,976         8,317       5.659
Percent of contracts value                  38%         39%         37%       62%         61%         63%          54%         56%           49%        46%          44%         51%
Number of contracts                         (6)         (3)         (3)       (46)        (28)         (18)        (16)        (10)          (6)         (36)        (21)         (15)
/a  Amounts shown Include physical contingencies and price escalation at the expected contracting date.
/b  Ex ante Bank review of shelter improvement contracts is recommended only for development Stage 1.



-67-
ANNEX 2
Table 12
EQUIPMENT AND FURNITURE PROCUREMENT (para. 4.20)
Sabana
Perdida     Raina        Total
Item                         US$Ia        US$|a       US$/a        Facilities
Eadio communication
equipment                  25,000       25,000      50,000      Firehouse, police
station, and collection
office
Fire engine                  99,000       100,000     199,000      Fire house
Furniture and office                       -
equipment                  81,000       77,000     158,000      Fire house, police
station, health center
and collection  offices
Dental equipment             17,000       17,000      34,000       Health center
School desks                 26,000       18,000      44,000       Sc!ools
Trash compactor truck        91,000         -         91,000       Solid waste disposal
system
Dump truck                     -          55,000      55,000       Solid waste disposal
system
Trash containers and
push carts                324,000      227,000     551,000      Solid waste disposal
system
TOTAL                       663,000      519,000   1,182.000
La Base cost plus contingencies



-68-                                                       ANNEX 2
Table 13
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
SITES AND SERVICES PROJECT (Para 5.07)
PROJECT CASH FLOW
(in thousands RD$)
SOURCES OF FUNDS                           1981           1982           1983           1984           1985          1986           1987          1988
Government Counterpart a/                2,110          1,030          4,360          4,900          3,150         600            ---           ---
INVI's Land                                500          ---            ---           ---             ---           ---            ---           ---
IBRD Funds  b/                             300            981          4,400         8,500           7,600       3,600           ---           ---
Beneficiaries' Down Payments c/          ---              276             553         1,095            311         ---
Mortgage Payments  d/                    ---            ---            ---              706          2,118       4,913           5,707          5,707
Partial Government Contribution
towards Servicing IBRD debt a/        ---                50            170           270             370         579             571           563
Government Financing of Interest
during Construction  f/                   35            233            454         1,226          1.942       2.435            ---            ---
TOTAL SOURCES                              2,945          2,570          9,937        16,697          15,4j1      1.,127            6,278         6,270
USES OF FUNDS g/
Land                                     2,040          ---               104           138            138          38           ---            ---
Off-Site Infrastructure                  ---            1,136          1,216         ---                43         ---           ---           ---
On-Site Infrastructure                   ---              730          3,638         4,001             725         115           ---           ---
Housing Construction                     ---            ---            1,852         3,369           3,011         605           ---           ---
Community Facilities                     ---            ---            ---              879            881         ---           ---
Project Isplementation Fees                910            359            816         1,005             677         200           ---            ---
Physical Contingencies                     115            186            588            671            329          46           ---           ---
Price Escalation                            75            419           2,316         4,317          3,355         696           ---            ---
SUB-TOTAL                                3,140          2,830         10,530        14,380           9,160       1,700           ---
DEBT SERVICE OF BANK LOAN h/
Principal                                ---            --'-                           -              -             7             ,5           27 5n
Interest                                    35            103            476         1.404           2.285       2,830           2,774         2.536
Fees                                     ---              561             148            92              27        ---            _             ---
REPAYMENT OF GOVERNMENT LOAN i/
Principal                                ---            ---            ----          ---             ---           ---             616            616
TOTAL USES                                 3,175          3,494         11,154        15.876          11.472      5950             5..A4n         5.202
Annual Surplus  (Deficit)                  (230)           (924)        (1,217)           821          4,019       6,622             838          1,068
Accumulated                                (230)         (1,154)        (2,371)        (1,550)         2,469       9,091           9,929        10.997
a/ 40% of total project cost will be borne by the Central Government.
b/ IBRD will finance 60% of total project cost.
c/ It ie estimated that 5% of saleable housing costs are covered by beneficiaries' down payments.
/  Beneficiaries will repay (95% of saleable housing) during a mortgage period of 20 years at an effective
charge of 14% per annum. See details in Tables 19 and 22 in Annex 2.
e/  Central Government will repay the part of IBRD loan corresponding to community facilities and off-site
infrastructure.
f/  Central Government will cover interest during construction and INVI will repay it to the Government together
with the principal.
g/ Total project cost is estimated at RDS41.8 millions. This cost includes the project preparation facility
loan made in January 1981. For details of project cost and implementation schedule See Tables 2 to 9 in Annex 2.
of this report.
h/  Debt service is estimated as follows: repayment period of 17 years with 4 years of grace, interestat a notiecal rate of  11.6%
annually on the disbursed IBRD funds and 3/4 of 1% commitment charge on the undisbursed Bank funds.
il  INVI will repay the Government loan which will cover interest during construction (see footnote f) together with the
principal of the IBRD loan.  Details in Table B.15.



DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
SITES AND SERVICES PROJECT
DEBT SERVICE FORECAST FOR INVI (Para 5.04, 5.07)
(in thousands RD$)
1981         1982         1983         1984         1985          1986            1987           1988
Bank Loan
Interest                      35          103          476        1,404        2,285          2,830             2,774          2,536
Fees                          ---          561          148          92            27            ---
Principal                     ---           ---          ---         ---           ---           975            2,050           2,050
Repayment of IDC              ---           ---          ---         ---          ---            ---              616             616
Less: paid by Government-/ (35)           (283)        (624)     (1,496)      (2,312)         (3,014)             (571)          (563)
Sub-Total                       ---         381            ---          ---          ---           791            4,869           4,639
IDB Loan  -
Interest                      20.5          18.4        16.4         14.2         12.1             9.9               7.6            5.3
Service Fee                   12.3          11.1          9.8          8.6          7.2            5.9               4.6            3.1
Principal                    162.3         165.6       168.9        172.3        175.8           179.3            182.9           186.7
Sub-Total                      195.1         195.1       195.1        195.1        195.1           195.1            195.1           195.1
Banco de Reservas  c/
Interest                      ---         324.0        216.0        108.0         ---
Principal                                  600.0        600.0       600.0        600.0
Sub-Total                       ---          924.0       816.0         708.0       600.0
Consejo Estatal del Azucar
Repayment of loan at 0%
interest                       15.3         15.3         15.3        15.3         15.3            15.3           15.3              15.3
TOTAL DEBT SERVICE              210.4      1,515.4     1,026.4         918.4        810.4        1,001.4        5,079.4           4,849.4        |
>z
" m
a/  IDC for the proposed project would be assumed by the Government.  INVI will repay this amount of IDC together with the principal
of the Bank loan. The Government would also assume the portion of Bank loan which finances community facilities and infrastructure.
b/  IDB loan 52 TF/DR (US$3.5 million) is being repaid since 1964 at 1.5% interest and 0.75% service charge.
c/  The arrangements on the debt obligation will be for INVI to pay back Banco de Reservas RD$600,000 annually, starting in 1982, plus
the yearly interest estimated at about 18%. Banco de Reservas will assume the foreign exchange risk and will continue paying back
City Bank of Bahamas RD$600,000 annually at an interest estimated to be 1-3/4% over LIBOR over the next years.



DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
NATIONAL HOUSING INSTITUTE (INVI)
Balance Sheet.  Actual and Projected  (paras. 5.01, 5.06, 5.07)
(Jn thousands 80$)
A U  D  I  T  E  D                                                                 F  O  R  E  C  A  S  T
ASSETS                           1977          1978            1979           1980          1981           1982        1983          1984          1985         1986             1987            1988
Current Assets
Cash and Banks  a/               182         1.814              68             272          858            710           731          932         1,409        1,730           1,443          1,466
Accounts Receivable  b/        1,161          1,301          1,423           1,742        1,266          4,955         7,083        9,898        14,998       22,971           Z8,427         29,579
Prepaid Expenses c/                6              7             12              16           17             20            20           20            20           20               20             20
Invento-y d/                      37            98             245             230          221           -             294           294           323          356             391            430
Sub-Total               1,385          3,220           1,748          2,260        2,362          5,928         8,101        11,144        16,750       25,077          30,281         31,495
Pixed Assets
Land  /                        1,298          1,151          1,151           1,129          629            629          629           629           629          629              629            629
Building and Equipment            79            83             186             304          315            346          378           403           428          453              479            504
(net of depreciation)         ___2_                         4___ 33-                                                                1033107                    1082            1,108          1,133
Sub Total               1.77           1.234          1337            1,433          944            9           1,007         1,032        1057
Other    Assets
Mortgage Receivable E/         7,730         8,630           8,569          10,386       21,394         32,790       52,790        67,790        82,790       97,790         107, 790        115,790
Finished Noosen for                2              9             13           1,104          674            600          600           600           600          600              600            600
Ca,m,ssiining g/
Works in Progress h/           3,010        13,518          25,346          29,794       27,523         25,173        16,029       17,196        15,497       11,690           6,779           7,910
Advance  Payments to             671         3,096           1,755             952          751          1.700         1.900           500          500          550              500            500
Contractors i/
Rented Nouses  J/                177            82              82              74           74             74            74           74             74           74              74             74
Others  k/                       --            --                9             819          390             50            50            30            30           30              30             30
Sub-Total             11,590         2335            35,774         43,128       50,806         59,826        72,685       88,637        102,541      110,684         115,773        124,904
Hurricane
Reconstruction  Assets 1/    --               --             966           3,056        3,521            -- J/                      --            --         --               --              _-
TOTAL ASSETS           14,352        29,789          39,825          49,877      57,633         67,299        80,551       98,366        117,298      136,843         147,162         157,532                o
LIABILITIES AND CAPITAL
Current Liabilities
Accounts Payable  !1            1,042         1,694          1,305            3,805         579            500           400          200            200          200             200            200
Short Term Portion of             271           240            237             242          181            784           788          791            986        2,558           2,562          2,566
Debt n/                         27131      1  4240           2         7            24                              ___ 784_ 788_ 791_ 986_ 258,6,6
8ub-Total              1.313 1                       1,342           4.047          760         1,284         1,188          991          1,186        2,758            2,762 2z76
Other Liabilities
Insurance Provision                73           81             106              99          103            113           115           118           120          125             126            128
Downpayments in Advance         2,618        3,684           3,245           3,884        1,200          1,612         1,577         1,120         1,136        1,105             800            500
Sub-Total              2,691         3,765           3,351           3,983        1,303         1,725         1,692         1,238         1,256        1. 230            926             628
Long Ter Debt /                2,273        2,062           1,861           1,715        1,825          4,509         7,921        15,590        22,377       25,934          23,986         22,036
TDB                             1,996        1,840           1,681           1;518        1.353          1,184         1,012           835           656          474              286             96
Banco de Reservas                  67            27            --             --           __             1,800        1,200           600           --           --                               --
C.E.A.                            210           195            180             164          149            134           119          '104            89           74              59             44
Proposed Frojact                  ---            --            --               33          323          1,391         5,590        14,051        21,632       25,386          23,641          21,896
Transfers for Hurricane
Reconstruction                  --           --             --             4,924        3,529            --            --           --           --           --
Capital
Goveratent Contribution         6,142       19,902          30,792          33,156       47,715         56,704        65,715        74,729       83,744       92.762          101 782        110,805
Retained Earnings               1,927        2,127           2,278           2,053        2,501          3,068         4,035         5,818         8,735       14,159          17,706         21,297
Sub-Total             8,074        22,029          33,071          35,209       50,216        59,772        69,750        80,547        92,479      1lITV1t         119,488        1 3TI,2f
TOTAL LIABILITIES A!?D
CAPITAL                 14,351        29,790          39,825          49,878       57,633         67,90           ,51        98.366       117,298      136,843          147,162        1i
NOTE: Footnotes continued next page.



ANNEX 2
- 71 -                                  Table 15
Page 2
EXPLANATORY NOTES ON TABLE 15
a/ Cash and Banks: The level of this account is expected to be equivalent to or
exceed approximately two weeks of construction and operating expenses, which
should be adequate.
b/ Accounts Receivable: mortgage accounts receivable within one year. The rapid
growth in the period 1981-85 derives from the combination of substantial increases
in mortgages from the transferred projects, and the raising of the annual effective
charge on new mortgages in the second half of 1982.
c/ Prepaid ExSpenses:  do not include advance payments to contractors. See note h/.
d/ Inventories: assumed to grow at 10% yearly. They do not include acquisition of
construction materials for the project; these are included in Works in Progress
as part of contracted packages.
e/ Land: INVI would dispose a portion of its land for the proposed project before
the end of 1981. This is included in the Balance Sheet as Works in Progress and
in the funds flow as a part of total project cost.
f/ Mortgage Receivable: audited up to 1980. During 1981 and 1982, an estimated
RD$22 million of sales will be incorporated into INVI's portfolio due to comple-
tion and sale of transferred projects. From 1983 onwards mortgage receivables
would increase further, assuming an accelerated pace in the transfer of completed
assets into the portfolio. In 1983 the increase would reach about RD20 million,
then gradually slow down to a level commensurate with the annual investment program
(about RD$9 million).
| Finished Housing for Commissioning: a maximum annual level of RD$600,000 has been
assumed as congruent with the above.
h/ Works in Progress:  depending on the investment program and its corresponding
construction schedule. The projections imply minimum maintenance of idle resources,
according to INVI's new policy.
iI Advance Payments to Contractors: expected to increase during 1982-1983 due to
contracting of the proposed project's works. INVI's practice is to make a 5-10%
advance payment to contractors. From 1984 onwards this will slow down, as most
of the works would be already contracted.
i/ Rented Houses: assumed to remain constant.
k/ Others: includes other accounts receivable from the Government or other public
agencies for rendered services.
1/ Hurricaine Related Assets: Government grants for hurricaine relief in which INVI
acted only as an intermediary.
m/ Accounts Payable: minimum liabilities required to sustain purchases of goods and
services.  During 1981 INVI has been paying off outstanding obligations from
previous years. The 1982-83 increase reflects contract down payments. After 1984
it corresponds to 1.5 months of expenses, except staff.
n/ Short-term Portion of Debt: repayments due to lenders within the year. See Table
14 of Annex 2.
/ Long-term Portion of Debt: outstanding amounts due to lenders after payment of the
annual portions included in n/ above. See details on Table 14, Debt Service Forecast.
j Transfers for Hurricaine Reconstruction: asset transfers from the Government to
households affected by hurricaine damage. Se note 1/ above.



DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
NATIONAL HOUSING INSTITUTE
INCOME STATEMENTS - ACTUAL AND FORECAST  (Paras 5.02, 5.06, 5.07)
(in thousands RD$)
AUDITED                                                                                 FORECAST
INCOME                                  1977         1978           1979           1980           19S1         1982          1983          1984          1985          1986           1987        1938
Interest on Portfolio  a/               463.3         503.4         547.8          537.3          1,221.6       1,990.9       2,358.6      3,137.5       4,201.0       6,581.0      7,295.6    7,200.0
Rent  b/                                  7.8           3.9           3.1            4.9              5.4           5.7           5.9           6.3           6.6           6.9          7.3        7.6
Income on resales  c/                    50.9          64.2           0.8           78.7             86.6          95.2        104.7         115.2          126.7         139.4       153.4       168.7
Other Income  d/                        366.3         130.5          62.3           69.3            155.1         194.0         198.0         234.0         290.0         516.0        540.0      565.0
SUB-TOTAL                               888.3         702.0         614.0          690.2          1,468.7       2,285.8      2,667.2       3,493.0       4.624.3        7,243.3     7,996.3    7,941.3
EXPENSES
Interest on Debt  e/                     44.2         41.3           44.8           39.7             20.5         353.5         242.2         130.8          19.3          15.8     2,521.1    2,287.2
Depreciation  f/                         11.4          14.2          26.4           46.1             50.0          55.2          60.2          64.0          68.0          72.0         76.0       80.0
Personnel Expenses  /                   546.4         568.4         623.9          717.0            825.0         866.2         909.6        955.0       1,002.8       1,052.9      1,105.6    1,160.9
Other Operational Expenses h/           306.2         229.3         217.6          367.0            404.0         444.0         488.0        560.0          617.0         679.0        747.0      822.0
Hurricane Related Expenses  i/          ---           ---           126.7          317.0            292.0       ---          ---            --           ---           ---             ---        ---
SUB-TOTAL                               908.3        853.2        1,039.4        1,486.9          1,591.5       1,718.9       1,700.0      1,709.8       1,707.1       1,819.7      4,449.7    4,350.1
NET INCOME BEFORE SUBSIDY               (20.0)       (151.2)        (425.4)       (796.6)          (122.8)        566.9         967.2       1,783.2       2,917,2       5,423.6      3,546.6    3,591,2
GOVERNMENT SUBSIDY FOR
OPERATIONS  J/                        300.0        300.0          530.0          571.2            571.2      ---           ---           ---           ---           ---            ---         ---
NET INCOME AFTER SUBSIDY                280.0         148.8         104.6         (225.4)           448.4         566.9         967.2      1,283.2        2,917.2      5.423.6       3.546.6    3.591,2
a/ Interest on Portfolio - interest is projected: for existing morgages at 5, 5 1/2, 6, 6 1/2, and 71 for the new projects (Los
maestros, Juan Pablo Duarte, Msalecn, Puerto Plata and Villa Olimpica) entering into commissioning this year: for projects
(Pelix Maria Ruiz, Los Llanos, 30 de Marzo, etc.) under construction at effective rates of around 111; planned projects and
the Bank (proposed) project have been calculated to be repaid at an effective annual charge of 142 (121 interest plus closing
and service charges). These revenues are not of 10% default coats for urban projects (80% of INVI's projects) and 60% for rural
projects (20% of INVI's projects). It also includes the collection of past due interest on previous years' DOrtgages under a
were efficient collection implemented by INVI since early 1981.
h/ Rents - some housing units are rented as commercial premises for a while, and then they are normally sold.  The tenants also
establish a reserve in INVI until they complete the down payment to buy the unit. INVI is planning to increase rents by 5% per
year. See footnote j on Table 15)
c/ Income on Rosales - when a housing unit is transferred from one beneficiary to another due to default, a special charge is paid
by the now beneficiary to INVI.
d/ Other Income - includes insurance payments, extension services charged to beneficiaries and others.
e/ Interest on Debt - The interest and fees on the proposed Bank loan are not included during the project implementation period
because the front-end fee is assumed to be capitalized and the Government will finance IDC. INVI will repay it to the Government
together with the principal of the Bank loan after the implementation period. See details in Table 14 of Annex 2.
f/ Depreciation - the depreciation method followed by INVI is the straight line method and the useful life varies from 5 years for
light equipmnt and furniture to 20 years for buildings. Although the useful life of some equipment vill be finished in the next
few years, new *quipmnt acquisition under the project will smoothly increase depreciation.
jI/ Personnel Expensas - a substantial emount of additional staff was inherited from the hurricaine related operations. INVI is
planning to terminate some contracts of this additional staff but some will be retained for INVI's traditional operations. Also,
additional staff has been planned for investment related activities. The annual cost of this staff has been included in invest-
ment cost becaume it will be recovered through mortgage payments. For these reasons the personnel expenses for INVI's operations
has been projectad at 5% increase per year, following practice for salary increases and the number of staff have been kept ot its
present level of 238.
h/ Other Operational Expenaes - include general expenses, portfolio and work management expenses, etc. It is assumed to grow at about
10% annully except in 1984 (15%) due to sdditional operational expenses for the project's sales.
i/ Hurricaine Related Expenses - include operational as well as personnel expenses incurred by INVI for the hurricaine reconstruction
progress. The portion of personnel expenses wa cut down in 1980 and further cuts are planned for 1981 since these expenses were
due to temporarily hired labor.
Government Subside for Oserations - the Dominican Government contributed these amounts to cover INVI operating costs.  No
ubidy has been assumed from 1982.



DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
SITES AND SERVICES PROJECT
SUMMARY SOURCES AND APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS STATEMENT (Para 5.06)
(in thousands of RD$)
1981          1982         1983        1984         1985           1986           1987           1988
Internal Sources                             518.9         975.4        1,269.4      1,978.0      3,004,        55511.4         6-143.7        5 958.4
-Net Income after Interest              (448.4)        (566.9)        (967.2)   (1,783.2)   (2,917.2)       (5,423.6)      (3,546.6)      (3,591.2)
-Plus - Interest                         (20.5)        (353.5)        (242.2)      (130.8)       (19.3)         (15.0)     (2,521.1)      (2,287.2)
-Plus - Depreciation                     (50.0)         (55.0)        (60.0)       (64.0)       (68.0)         (72.0)         (76.0)         (80.0)
IbVI's Land for IBRD Proiect                 500.0                      --- ---                   --       -    ---
Beneficiaries' Downpayments                1,200.0       1,612.0        1,577.0      1,120.0      1,136.0        1,105.0          800.0          500.0
Beneficiaries' Repayments                    860.0        1,430.0       2,300.0      2,982.0      3,977.0        5,138.0        5,801.0         6,563.0
Borrowing a/                                 300.0         981.0        4,400.0      8,500.0      7,600.0        3,600.0        ---            ---
Government Contribution                   14,559.0        9,000.0       9,000.0      9,000.0      9,000.0        9,000.0        9,000.0        9,000.0
-For the Proposed Project a/         2,110.0        1,030.0       4,360.0      4,900.0      3,150.0          600.0        ---            ---
-For Other Projects                 12,449.0        7,970.0       4,640.0      4,100.0      5,850.0        8,400.0        9,000.0        9,odo.0
Donations for Hurricane Reconstruction   3,529.0            ---         ---          ---          --- 
TOTAL SOURCES                             21,466.9      13,998.4       18,546.4    23,580.0    24,717.5        24,354.4        21,744.7       22,021.4     W
IBRD Project                               3,140.0       2,830.0       10,530.0    14.380.0       9,160.0        1,700.0        ---            ---
Other Capital Expenditures                10,750.0        9,885.0       6,459.4      7,513.0    13.984.5       20,947.4        19,862.7       17.599.3
Increase (Decrease) in
Working Capital                       3,837.5        (232.0)          529.0       769.0        763.0         535.0        (3,410.0)        (427.3)
Hurricane Reconstruction                                    ---         ---          ---          ---            ---            ---            ---
Debt Service b/                              210.4        1,515.4       1,026.0        918.0        810.0        1,001.4        5,079.4        4,849.4
TOTAL APPLICATIONS                       21,466.0       13,998.4       18,546.4    23,580.0    24,717.5        24,354.4       21,744.7        22,021.4
Debt Service Coverage (not including           2.5            0.6           1.2          2.2          3.7            5-5            1.2            1.2
Beneticiaries' repayment)
Debt Service Coverage                          6.6            1.6           3.5          5.4          8.6           10,6            2,4            2,6
(including Beneficiaries'
repayment)
a/ Excludes loans to cover IDC                 35           233            454         1,226        1,942        2,435                                   a
b/ Excluding IDC financed by Government loan (see Tables 13 and 14) and portion of IBRD
loan assumed by Government.



DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
SITES AND SERVICES PROJECT
SALES PROJECTION
(in thousands RD$)
(Para 5.11)
Shelter Options               1982           1983          1984            1985           1986            1987           1988
SABANA PERDIDA
Serviced Sites                ---            1,076         1,716           1,902          696
Sanitary Units                ---            1,409         2,248           2,492          894
House A2                      ---              383            613            678          251
House A3                      ---              498            797            884          327
House B2                      ---              446            714            791          292
House B3                      ---              490            784            869          321
HAINA
Serviced Sites                ---            ---              516          2,611          ---
Sanitary Units                ---                             732          3,703          ---
House A2                      ---            ---              209          1,041          ---
House A3                      ---            ---              276          1,377          ---
House B2                      ---            ---              240          1,194          ---
House B3                      ---            ---              273          1,363          ---                                        I
4J
SUB-TOTAL COST                ---            4,302         9,118          18,906        2,781
Interest 'during
Construction                ---            1,225         1,949          3,007         3,442
TOTAL COST                     ---           5,527        11,067          21,913        6,223             ---            ---
5% Down Payment               276              553         1,095             311          ---            ---             ---
95% Balance  I/               ---            5,251        10,514         20,818         5,912             ---            ---
Recovery at 14% annual -
20 years                    ---            ---             784             784          784            784             784
---            ---           ---            1,569        1,569           1,569           1,569
___            ---           ---            -_-          3,106           3,106           3,106
---   ---   ---  ---          ---             882            882
TOTAL RECOVERY                ---            ---              784          2,353        5,459          6,341           6,341
Less: 10% bad debt cost       ---            ---               78            235          546             634            634     t
NET RECOVERY                  ---            ---              706          2,118        4,913          5,707           5,707         X
1/ Total annual sales less the previous year's 5% down payment.



-75-                      ANN   2
Table 19
DOMINICA'," 1I:l'B]LIC
SITES AND SERVICES PROJECT
Household Ircore Distribution in Urban and Rural Arc-as La
(Paras 1.07, 6.09)
Household
Monthly             All hlouseholds             Urban Households                Rural ]Thuseholds
Income (US$)      Z        Cumulative                   Cumulative           Z           Cumulative
0 -   50      10.5          10.5            7.3            7.3           12.8            12.8
50 -  100      21.0          31.5           12.5          19.8            27.1            39.9
100 -  200      34.4          65.9           30.5           50.3'          37.3            77D2
200 -  300      14.7          80.6           19.9           70.2           11.0            88.2
300 -  400       6.8          87.4            9.0           79.2       ,    5.2            93.4
400 -  600        6.2         93.6            9.0           88,2             4.2           97.6
400-  800         2.7         96.3            4.5           92.7             1.3           98.9
300 - 1000       1.3          97.6            2.6           95.3            0.4            99.3
:000 - 1500       1.5          99.1            3.0           98.3            0.4            99.7
;500 and up       0.9         100.0            1.7         100.0             0.3           100.0
/a Urban areas defined not by size but by the hierarehy of the sattlenmt  ystes:  all
"capitals" of municipalities or municipal districts are counted as urban areas.
SOURCE: Central Bank, First National Survey of Family Income and Expenditure, 1976/77
(April-May 1977 sample).



-76-                               ANNEX 2
Table 20
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
SITES AND SERVTCES PROJECT
Household Income Distribution in Santo Domingo
(Paras 1.07, 6.09)
Household Monthly           Households                            Income
Income/a (US$)            X      Cumulative               X          Cumulative
0 -  100              10.2        10.2                 1.5            1.5
100 -  200              25.1        35.3                 9.7            11.2
200 -  400              34.5        69.8                24.6            35.8
400 -  600              12.1        81.7                15.3            51.1
600 -  800               6.5        88.4                11.6            62.7
800 - 1200               7.3        95.7                18.2            80.9
1200 and up               4.3       100.0                19.1           100.0
La  Reported incone.excluding transfers; 1976/77 prices
SOUTCES:  Central Bank, First National Survey of Family Income and Expenditure, 1976/,1



-77-
ANNEX 2
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC                                                                            Table 21
SITES AND SERVICES PROJECT
Mortgage Monthly Payment and Affordability
(paras. 5.11. 6.10)
1981             1983             Current Cost    Monthly Mortgage    Closing and            Monthly Mortgage    Corresponding           1976/1977              1983 National
Shelter Options               Base Cost/a       Current Cost    +IDC              Payment at 12%       Service Charges    Payment at 14X          Household Income    Income Percentile    Income Percentile
RD$               RD$               D$                RRD$                                     RDS                RDS x month
Sabana Perdida                     (a)               (b)              (c)                  (d)                  (e)                   (f)              (g)                    (h)                   (i)
Serviced lot                 1,839              2,358            2,900               31.93                  4.13                36,06             144 - 180               23 - 31                8 - 14
with sanitary unit A       3,314              4,248            5,225               57.53                  7.44                64.97             260 - 325               48 - 60               26 - 35
with sanitary unit B       3,566              4,572            5,623               61.91                  8.01                69.62             278 - 348               52 - 64               28 - 40
with I-room dwelling A    3,739               4,793            5,895               64.91                  8.40                73.31             293 - 367               55 - 66               31 - 42
with 1-room dwelling B    4,381               5,616            6,907               76.05                  9.84                85.89             343 - 429               63 - 73               38 - 51
with 2-room dwelling B    4,857               6,227            7,659               84.33                 10.91                95.24             380 - 476               68 - 77              44 - 56
with 2-room dwelling A    4,928               6,318            7,771               85.57                 11.06                96.63             386 - 483               69 - 78              45 - 58
with 3-room dwelling B    5,727               7,342            9,030               99.43                 12.86               112.29             449 - 561               74 - 80               53 - 64
with 3-room dwelling A    6,045               7,749            9,531              104.94                 13.58               118.52             474 - 592              76 - 82               56 - 67
Haina
Serviced lot                 1,839              1,870            2,300               25.32                  3.28                28.60             114 - 143              15 - 23                5 - 8
with sanitary unit A       2,931              3,578            4,622               50.89                  6.59                57.48             230 - 287             42 - 54               21 -30
with sanitary unit B       3,180              4,077            5,014               55.21                  7.14                62.35             249 - 312             46 - 58               24 - 34
with 1-room dwelling A    3,367               4,316            5,308               58.45                  7.56                66.01             264 - 330             49 - 61               26 - 36
with 1-room dwelling B    3,893               4,991            6,138               67.58                  8.75                76.33             305 - 382             57 - 68               33 - 44
with 2-room dwelling A    4,340               5,564            6,843               75.35                  9.74                85.09             340 - 425             63 - 72               38 - 50
with 2-room dwelling B    4,465               5,724            7,040               77.52                 10.02                87.54             350 - 438             64 - 74               40 - 52
with 3-room dwelling B    5,314               6,812            8,378               92.25                 11.93               104.18            417 - 521              72 - 78               49 - 61
with 3-room dwelling A    5,700               7,307            8,986               98.94                 12.80               111.74             447 - 559             74 - 80               53 - 64
(a) Ninety-five percent of the May 1981 cost of shelter options including implementation charges and physical contingencies,
less pro-rata costs of community facilities and off-site infrastructure.
(b) Price escalation of 28.2% has been applied to achieve 1983 current costs.
(c) Interest during construction of 23% has been calculated on loan financed portion of all physical works executed up to 1983.
(d) Payments corresponding to the nominal interest rate (prevailing legal ceiling). Column (e) shows the level of surcharge
to be applied to achieve an effective rate of 14% (column f).
(g) Income range corresponding to monthly mortgage payments of 20 to 25% of the household budget.
(h) Corresponding percentile ranges of the 1976/77 income distribution survey. Column (i) shows percentiles adjusted by a
factor of 60% (inflation over the 1978-83 period).  The possible effect on household income of estimated GNP growth over the same period (33%) has not been taken into account,



-78-
Annex 3
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
SITES AND SERVICES PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A.     Selected reports and studies on the sector and subsector:
A.1.   Banco Central de la Republica Dominicana - Estudio sobre la
Construccion en la Republica Dominicana, Santo Domingo, Octubre
1980.
A.2.   INVI - Vivienda - Memoria de Labores INVI 1980, Santo Domingo' 1981.
A.3.   INVI - Plan Operativo - Produccion de Vivienda 1981, Santo Domingo,
1981.
A.5.   Agency for International Development - Office of Housing -
Dominican Republic, Shelter Sector Assessment, Washington D.C.,
1980.
A.6.   Agency for International Development - Office of Housing -
Improvement of Rural Housing in the Dominican Republic to withstand
Hurricanes and Earthquakes, Washington D.C., 1981.
A.7.   Borrell-Padco Asociados - Estudio sobre el Desarrollo Urbano ell
Santo Domingo, Santo Domingo, 1978.
A.4.   INVI - Seminario Internacional sobre Tecnologia Aproppiada, Santo
Domingo, Marzo 1981.
B.     Selected report and Studies relating to the project
B.1.   INVI - Proyecto Urbano de Lotes y Servicios:  Sabana Perdida - Haina
- Informe Preliminar de la Unidad de Preparacion de Proyectos, Santo
Domingo, April 1980.
B.2.   - Primer Informe de Anteproyecto - Santo Domingo, Agosto 1980.
B.3.   - Informe de Anteproyecto - Santo Domingo, Diciembre 1980.
B.4.   INVI - Propuestas para la Estructuracion Institucional del INVI en
Funcion de los Nuevos Lineamientos de Politica habitacional, Santo
Domingo, Febrero 1981.
B.5.   INVI - Terminos de Referencia para la Contratacion de Consultores en
Diferentes Disciplinas para el Diseno de Proyectos Urbanos, Santo
Domingo, Abril 1980.



-79-
ANNEX 3
Page 2
B.6.   INVI - Caracteristicas mas Relevantes del Poblado de Nigua, Santo
Domingo, Septiembre 1980.
B.7.   INVI - Algunas Caracteristicas Socio-Economicas de Sabana Perdida,
Santo Domingo, Marzo 1980.
B.8.   INVI - GTZ - Propuestas sobre la Organizacion Funcional y los
Procedimientos de Divulgacion y Seleccion, Santo Domingo, Septiembre
1981.
B.9.   INVI - GTZ - La Division de Programas Sociales del INVI, Analysis y
Propuestas, Santo Domingo, Junio 1981.
B.10.  INVI - GTZ - Reorganizacion de la Administracion y de los
Procedimientos del INVI, Santo Domingo, Septiembre 1981.
B.11.  Gomez, Santos y Asociados/Touche Ross Internacional, Informes sobre
el Examen de los Estados Financieros (y Informacion Financiera
Completaria) del INVI para los anos que terminaron el 31 Diciembre
de 1978, 1979, 1980.
B.12.  Deveaux y Brea S.A. Ingenieria Ambiental - Sabana Perdida y Haina,
Santo Domingo, Abril 1981.
B.13.  Contratistas Electricos, C. por A., Proyectos Sabana Perdida y
Haina, Informes Finales, Abril 1981.
B.14.  Priamo Urbaez y Asociados, S.A. - Proyecto Sabana Perdida y Haina,
Informes Finales, Abril 1981.
B.15.  Batista y Asociados - Informe de Anteproyecto - Geologia y
Geotecnia, Santo Domingo, Noviembre 1980.
B.16.  Ricard and Maluf, S.A. - Informe de Consultoria: Topografia y
Mensuras, Santo Domingo, Octubre 1980.
B.17.  Universidad Nacional Pedro Enriquez Urena - Estudio Socioeconomico
de Sabana Perdida, Facultad de Arquitectura y Artes, Santo Domingo,
1980.



:



IBRD 16045
'2                              7100                                                                                               7o9'                                       CCTOBER 1981
7 I'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7
ATLA A  T                                                                                                                                                                                                   20'
i - - Anternational boundaries              POPULATION
M o n t e C rp  e r ' An                                                     -  -  'i.'  --- Pr ov    nc al   boundaries        1200,090  persons
v   s   "   Y       >              1  wn       -'< ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Puert Plota                                     Provincial capitals
't                                                 T~~~~~~~~~~~~~- oi   oas                       200   esn
050,000 pesns-
ploy.             '-  Railways                                      30,000 p-rs-,
posua                     ,                      \One dot equo n 2,000 persons
alobon  A.9 .eY R  ,>-<  M a o  X *  rt J rS    f   A7/A /  Cultivable Sails
iyrboil >    '    (   <W (IN /DAD                      |jIP    Sugar Cone
--                                   V     s                                                                 Jd    2                    1980 ESTIMATED POPULATION
- Restr.U;8conr%^                                   5 .4 Z      A G                                           an   tv9  Fr  scosco eM coiris           54MANA                     .Uro 2, 200
A/vT/A GO   '-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~...                                                                                             Urban 2,752,000
5 A IV A /V A                             ~~~Rural  2,679,000
t   },,   /   __t  j r  t L a V < >:  /  <Ve                  +        j       _           Xmonog{J'                                  Totol   5,431 ,000
T!/*2r Z-, ) 'Z Zf ET                                                A                                                                            j    r\1
Noel~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
_</V .                                                       i:4!'   nstanza (   r<\~  EB   
IfSAHtoMayElMca SN  r                                                                                                                                                                           ao
\     ' .       .               7                                                                                                                                                           9
/ an IoNiTO 5VTEs-.-  
BAR jND/vA,                                                      b CR
-Pojote rnalns   ,'                 /jj  o                                                            DOM\AINICAN   REPUBLIC                                                    15_ DOM IG O,                   RfA'
VD FF            _ A//                                                         SITES AND SERVICES PROJECT                                                                       kj - /f * il.:SITES AND SERVIES PROJECT  rv
<     Tn,smAPuonnar,isar& op                                   Population  Settlement  Pattern                                    L                             /            U--<--'G-''y
% r I ~~~~~~~~~Woold Sarksstan' onsranise/nb fs wLr:
L    Oviedo  /t           rhedenOtntn?.Onsus,esd,fL^f,                            Cultivable  Soils and  Sugar Cane                                    [-                 MEOs nowO.C 05 o555, ,a0ero r  Cultivabl  andICane  T
~s S   j            bnum s/rn m boan 5wan  lse mAPtto,                                      Sol             Suga 40m                                                         r30  _500              eua\u
UNTE   5TATE
Aj  /            dtpdou,roar,S noor00 Oe Os ,>n                        10        ,0      MILES5,                         60                 H1                    r'ATM;A\bss2           -orOL-vr5si
\  2            itLdgmeOoosrnt/ on rhn na.st onltf son                                                                                                              E isVbO   N CARAGUA
\     h o  -r,sororresonrdset               a    in      a    30   40    00    60    70 P0    90   100 Pattern
<   or acceosnmneofo'o omOes 8,                                                                                                                  -I       C' 31-                      -VEE
70                                                                                                                00~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0Ih--~
Owed                             MiEXInOM  nnBELIZE-






! ___ ________ _____                                                                                                                           IBRD 16046
O,-TC EER I 981
LOA)/C)NICAN  REPUBLIC
SITES AN," SFRRVICES PROJECT
Psp/j. Area LocatIanis
.  -.j t Ar--
Pre--n V lrba z-d Areo.                                                                                                      vi  81                         8 
r        - towh D-o'
!   -   Mo Rn (ods aid t-res's                                       ''
- --~ _- R P-| s                                                                                      .,'os         ~- ~
*I Do ( 
- Dt                                    -                                                    -1                           x     i r    '    ' -t  
_   7
~~AN CR ET0pi                                                i'6                                 mc> &   2
SM  0 jA|e*L
I   ---                                               HAI-A  /i  t-AIT   t .%   .    =                          ';' '- "L"
SAN CE IC    ~~~~~~~~'  EA ,                                                                                                        I  C
t ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
Li'  ~~C  o*b                           adr'- 'S                                                                                         sr   rfd emr,s!(t9 V  -N o/ - 
~ i: t-. i-.- '81  's _- _
KA
I.-                      V~~~~~~~-                                                   k
111,      ~         56






r-              ._________________________________________                   _              .1 RR              16048
DOMINICAN  REPUBLIC
SITES AND SERVICES PROJECT
Sabona Perdida Site
1/=    ,    ,4 l!   i-
*-                             41      -    c    B:-- , ,  r, s
i ~~~~~X                              165 t!* ,,, , , ,q,,
B. i'-p A-,,'3
V  I          ~~1732   
'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ /                                                              SOW\\ 41
//~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~8 \, '  '"'    '\ 
0  S     /  ,  ;\                                   P t I YAt E  ;                                  H 
1          173 ,: :'.   iD . .S, 1  \   .'
t   \s  X            1 b 5     . ~~~~~~~~~ 7
I . ! .&'S ' y \ . i - - Purcel Bournduries~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ --  --  --  --






I IBRD .606'
, 7_ E .ITe 
DOMINICAN  REPUBLIC
SITES AND SERVICES PROJECT
Haina Site
7'~~~~                                                        ~~~~~ 7, ,- 
.urn 0.'''''  -   ,Q 't .'".y' S  "  ' /0                   '             S       ,       ,' ' "' E'      '.    -
',,,   '',   C.S's  ' :   0.-'~~~~~~~ <',"   '                 ;:-nD'                      '   '  ' ''t  't"'~P- B.-,,
vi~~~~~~~~~~~                                       i
' ~  ~        ~      ~       L    _ '    -"   ';   '''   i_        _''-'"   '   '      "   '           _ _ _  _    _ _ __;'   _  _, _,  ,j
' ' ;'"''S ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,','<0'r:;gM  t0, ;{00   ;''    
'SN ',';-,s   "'I'\''1B"                     ' '                  \         ,,.1              -4g,,'-"T,  ",U'.
a whS                                                        f                                                 Xii~~~"






. r 0 - r jlL3Sl 0 I S_3j>jf3SITES AND SERVICES PROJECT
\o rw -nlnr-<)<l  itr [11  t  ~~~~~~~~~~~Sabana Perdida -General Layout
5to~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t geX,   '
z  \          Stage 2   '.9   Resident clStage 
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ER, I Ins7 tutonG
r=,, 1} t ffff < -< _ SaGe Bount rles
(X SXS-X X X  ;iX~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L
~~~-' '6 i  I
N       AtU  l.A   H  ra   ato TT
METERS  S   230   300l  .   ACl lE&Z Inn






____-                                                                                                                                                                                 lRWD 16049
-7 rci I Layout             ~            I<hE
4           -t   ,.....0zo  
{-AP1  ' A                                     PUERTII ,r..                                                                                                                                                      DtD          H(  AN i,'t                 K:
f~ - p  h-    ,,, b    -     by, ,   &!J    R- k   ,  Wf  - -1, Tti.,  ''Gt?et 1k,f 
.h    t--t                                              '-   Id"
f ,OI~~~~~~~a
t:, e s         e            -FnIB  PjetI
Stag    Boundariesp/
.aJ _.    Exstn   IRoads)  lCb                                                                              
Built-upt-ST Are                                                                          ''                                                      /.   N.               ;
NIGU
I 11                                30(AtT IS                                                                           5  .t
_ . ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/                                                                          v,.t,-NS/>kr  -s''--'-'    
Ph,s dfaP has hecon prepa' ed Pp tte Worpt B3arks staft eetceeip ivl tar the escen,ep et -,.,j','...f........'.-..",. -.,,',..,.  
tof the sad,t ter the reper' to eyn,ct h     at  dta, hed rhh denemrn,caeocs aced dnd the                                              , oJ                        ," ','z        ~' '.'       .                                    .'       - 
a't,t ates aec;ladgtrert an the legal Steta/ oati at,ztr   rtytttrteaseapn eeeti!ter'                                                                   t       a.     ,     ,,/           ,      
accepta nce ot seczl lnsX    -/Nt , t;,, s,drt
I ~         ~            ~           tae; .5iUinJ                                                                                                                                                                                                 N            ;-  
Buelt-up Area                      N                                                     lwi <    >-et                                /    \/                   8- e < |                -/    -                                   i
- ~ ~    ~         ~       ~        ~      ~       S .l'2   ;                                                                                                                 ., |*lvA     1..   t/l a 
esdenIO                                                              00G , rl  -  -1
fAt ItF.s                 t      ~       -J                                                           a  -                ~       u_ I  */
CommerctL, 'N;s N                                                                                                                                                     'N
L _ "Itstutono                                                                                                                / ':i






DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
SITES AND SERVICES PROJECT                                                         FIGURE  A
SHELTER OPTIONS TYPE A
SECaON  1-1                        SECCION 2-2                         SECCION 3-3                         SECCION 4-4                        SECCION 5-5
ELEVACION FRONTAL I               ELEVACION FRONTAL 2                 ELEVACION FRONTAL 3                ELEVACION  FRONTAL 4                  ELEVACION FRONTAL 5
1    s   t-  L  _+>              ms  n   u-- r .    -  !- 1  - - --
------ -- -- -
ETAPA  I                            ETAPA  2                            ETAPA  3                          ETAPA 4                     ETAPA 5
SANITARY UNIT                    ONE ROOM DWELLING                  TWO ROOM DWELLING                THREE ROOM DWELLING          FOUR ROOM DWELLING






DOMINICP" REPUBLIC                                                                    FIGURE B
SITES AND S iAVICES PROJECT
SHELTER OPTIONS: TYPE B
l.~~~~   -. PT srs4   -t 
SECCION 4-4            ~~~SECCION 5-0
SECCION 1-1                    SECCION 2-r                     SECCION  -3SE
.. .liEr---                               S                                                                                rIr~~=
ELEVACION FRONTAL I             ELEVACION FRONTAL 2'            ELEVACION FRONTAL 3r           ELEVACION FRONTAL 4               ELEVCION FRONTAL 5
+_ $ [t _ r ~~~~141 - 1 
-  IF-  r-  -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~F-------
*                                            --* --- t   ' 9 i  -g[-L =                            ;           Lt             f     r               v            I -
l 1 1 ! * i I , -L;- ~~~~'                                                       t
t  .~     ~~~~__          __!    _     I_______            ___  .        --          --!_                    ___                        __1
ETAPA I                 ETAPA 2'                        ETAPA 3'                        ETAPA 4                          ETAPA 5
SANITARY UNIT        ONE ROOM DWELLING              TWO ROOM DWELLING               THREE ROOM DWELLING               FOUR ROOM DWELLING



