pICAAL       LOAN NUMBER 2104 DO
Project Agreement
(Sites and Services Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
INSTITUTO NACIONAL DE LA VIVIENDA
Dated               C     4-       , 1982


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2104 DO
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated ,                "C           , 1982, between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter
called the Bank) and INSTITUTO NACIONAL DE LA VIVIENDA (herein-
after called INVI).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith
between Dominican Republic (hereinafter c-'lled the Borrower) and
the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the Borrower an
amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty-five million
four hundred thousand dollars ($25,400,000), on the terms and
conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition
that INVI agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as
are hereinafter set forth;
(B) by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and INVI, the proceeds of the loan provided
for under the Loan Agreement will be made available to INVI on the
terms and conditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS INVI, in consideration of the Bank' s entering into
the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. INVI shall carry out the Project, described
in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, with due diligence and


﻿-2-
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial and engineering practices.
Section 2.02. In carrying out Part B of the Project,
INVI shall make loans to beneficiaries under terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 2.03. In carrying out Part B of the Project,
INVI shall:
(a) maintain modest and affordable construction standards
comensurate with the ability to pay of prospective beneficiaries;
(b) set the sales price of individual lots at levels permit-
ting the recovery of all costs allocable to beneficiaries, includ-
ing, inter alia, the cost of land, earthworks, on-site infra-
structure, shelter unit and corresponding costs of design, super-
vision, administration, extension services and interest during
construction;
(c) maintain mortgage eligibility criteria and procedures
for selection of beneficiaries which are consistent with the
objectives of recovering il costs allocable to beneficiaries and
attracting low-income families; such criteria and procedures to
include, inter alia, the requirement that beneficiaries have (i)
stable or improvable financial conditions that can satisfy
mortgage requirements and (ii) a cooperative, responsible attitude
that meets community development objectives;
(d) except as the Bank and INVI shall otherwise agree, sell
no more than twenty-five per cent (25%) of the land developed
under the Project to other than beneficiaries, including private
entrepreneurs, all such sales to be made at market price and be
subject to Bank approval; and
(e) maintain, during the execution of the Project, in
Sabana Perdida and Haina, an office adequately staffed with
construction supervision and extension services experts.
Section 2.04. INVI shall utilize any funds accruing to INVI
from the carrying out of the Project exclusively for financing
further investment in Sabana Perdida and Hains or in projects
similar to those included in the Project.
Section 2.05. In order to assist INVI in the preparation of
bidding documents for the Project, in the supervision of the


﻿-3-
construction of the Project, in the study of its policy options
for low income housing and its long-term financial viability, and
in the monitoring of the carrying out of the Project, INVI shall,
if required, employ consultants whose selection, qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satis-
factory to the Bank in accordance with the principles and proced-
ures described in the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency"
published by the Bank in August 1981.
Section 2.06. In carrying out Part E of the Project, INVI
shall:
(a) by June 30, 1982, furnish to the Bank for review and
comment the draft terms of reference for the studies included
therein;
(b) by January 31, 1983, carry out such studies;
(c) by March 1, 1983, furnish to the Bank for review and
comment a draft five-year financial.program; and
(d) by January 31, 1984, adopt a five-year financial
program.
Section 2.07. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and civt works required for the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
governed by the provisions of the Schedule to this Agreement.
Section 2.08. (a) INVI undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan relent to it by the Borrower
against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and
delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such
insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely
usable by INVI to replace or repair such goods.
(b) INVI shall cause all goods and services financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan relent to it by the Borrower to be used
exclusively for the purposes of the Project.
Section 2.09. (a) INVI shall furnish to the Bank, promptly
upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports,
contract documents and work and procurement schedules for the


﻿-4-
Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) INVI shall: (i) maintain records and procedures adequate
to record and monitor the progress of the Project (including its
cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to identify the
goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, and
to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) enable the Bank's
representatives to visit the facilities and construction sites
included in the Project and to examine the goods financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan and any relevant records and documents;
and (iii) furnish to the Bank at regular intervals all such
information as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning the
Project, it, cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be
derived from it, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan and
the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Upon the award by INVI of any contract for goods, works
or services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the
Bank may publish a description thereof, the name and nationality
of the party to whom the contract was awarded and the contract
price.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between INVI and the
Bank, INVI shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, of such
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on
the execution and initial operation of the Project, its cost and
the benefits derived and to be derived from it, the performance by
INVI and the Bank of their respective obligations under the
Project Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Loan.
(e) INVI shall enable the Bank's representatives to examine
all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings, property and
equipment of INVI and any relevant records and documents.
Section 2.10. INVI shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, INVI shall not take or concur in any action which
would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or
waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.


﻿-5-
Section 2.11. (a) INVI shall: (i) before March 31 of each
year, starting in 1983, review with the Borrower and the Bank the
progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project in the
preceding calendar year, including its sales of land and shelter
units, its pricing procedures and policies and its mortgage terms,
and (ii) before September 30 of each year, starting in 1983,
furnish to the Bank for approval, its proposed Project execution
schedule for Parts B(2) and B(3) of the Project for the following
calendar year, including, inter alia, its targets for sales of
land, for construction and sales of shelter units, and required
changes in its pricing procedures and mortgage terms.
(b) INVI shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange views
with the Bank with regard to the progress of the Project, the
performance of its obligations under this Agreement and under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other matters relating to the
purposes of the Loan.
(c) INVI shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition
which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of
the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, or
the performance by INVI of its obligations under this Agreement
and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 2.12. INVI shall enter into contractual arrangements,
satisfactory to the Bank, with:
(a) Corporaci6n Dominicana de Electricidad (CDE) for the
carrying out of the works for the electrical power supply to
Sabana Perdida and Haina under Part A of the Project; and
(b) Instituto Nacional de Agu Potable y Alcantarillados
(INAPA) for the carrying out of the works for water supply to
Haina under Part A (2) of the Project.
Section 2.13. INVI shall enter into contractual arrangements,
satisfactory to the Bank, with appropriate entities, for the
transfer, after construction, of the community facilities and
on-site and off-site infrastructure for Sabana Perdida and Haina,
for the purpose of their operation and maintenance.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of IMYI
Section 3.01. INVI shall carry on its operations and conduct
its affairs in accordance with sound administrative, financial and


﻿-6-
engineering practices under the supervision of experienced and
qualified management assisted by competent staff in adequate
numbers.
Section 3.02. INVI shall take out and maintain with respon-
sible insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory to the
Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as
shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 3.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
until all loans under the Project shall have been made, INVI
shall not make loans to residents of housing projects in cities
with more than 30,000 inhabitants started after the date of this
Agreement on terms and conditions that are more favorable than
those for the beneficiaries under the Project.
Section 3.04. INVI shall: (a) before December 31, 1982, fur-
nish to the Bank a plan, including a timetable for its execution,
satisfactory to the Bank, to improve its collection of mortgage
payments, including inter alia, (i) staffing of payment collection
offices in the Project sites, (ii) establishment of a corporate
form of mortgage guarantee for beneficiaries belonging to special
trade associations, and (iii) establishment of payroll witholding
procedures for beneficiaries with regular income; and (b) carry
out such plan in accordance with such timetable.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. INVI shall maintain records adequate to
reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
Section 4.02. INVI shall: (i) have its accounts and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and
related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the
Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than four
months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of
its financial statements for such year as so audited and (B) the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (iii)


﻿-7-
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the accounts
and financial statements of INVI and the audit thereof as the Bank
shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, INVI
shall not incur any debt if after the incurrence thereof its
maximum debt service for any succeeding fiscal year would exceed
two-thirds of its internal cash generation in the last preceding
fiscal year.
For purposes of this Section:
(a) "debt" means any debt incurred by INVI, including the
debt to be incurred, and maturing more than one year after the
date on which it is originally incurred;
(b) debt shall be deemed to be incurred under a loan con-
tract or agreement and under a guarantee agreement on the date
such contract or agreement is entered into;
(c) "debt service" means the aggregate amount of amor-
tization (including sinking fund payments, if any) of, and
interest and other charges on, debt; and
(d) "internal cash generation" means gross revenues of
INVI from all sources plus mortgage repayments actually collected
less all operating and administrative expenses, excluding depre-
ciation of assets and interest and other charges on debt.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the
Bank and of INVI thereunder shall terminate on the date on which
the Loan Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its terms,
and the Bank shall promptly so notify INVI thereof.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.


﻿-8-
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For INVI:
Instituto Nacional de la Vivienda
Avenida Mexico, Esquina Leopoldo Navarro
Santo Domingo
Dominican Republic
Cable address:
INVI
Santo Domingo
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of INVI, or by INVI on behalf of the
Borrower under the Loan Agreement, may be taken or executed by


﻿-9-
the Director General del INVI or such other person or persons as
the Director General del INVI shall designate in writing, and
the Bank shall be. furnished sufficient evidence of the authority
and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
INSTITUTO NACIONAL DE LA VIVIENDA
By
Authorized Representative


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and civil works
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in the current edition
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called
the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive bidding
as described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of
paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, INVI shall prepare and forward to
the Bank as soon as possible, and in any event not later than 60
days prior to the date of availability to the public of the first
tender or prequalification documents relating thereto, as the case
may be, a general procurement notice, in such form and detail and
containing such information as the Bank shall reasonably request;
the Bank will arrange for the publication of such notice in order
to provide timely notification to prospective bidders of the
opportunity to bid for the goods and works in question. INVI shall
provide the necessary information to update such notice annually
so long as any goods or works remain to be procured on the basis
of international competitive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported
goods, or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other
goods, offered in such bid; (ii) customs duties and other import
taxes levied in connection with the importation, or the sales and
similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or delivery,
pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken into account
in the evaluation of the bids; and (iii) the cost of inland
freight and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods
to the place of their use or installation shall be included.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in


﻿- 11 -
the Dominican Republic may be granted a margin of preference in
accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
the Dominican Republic if the bidder shall have
established to the satisfaction of INVI and the
Bank that the manufacturing cost of such goods
includes a value added in the Dominican Republic
equal to at least 20% of the ex-factory bid price
of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest evalu-
ated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a
result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph
3 above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C,, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it


﻿- 12 -
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for civil works estimated to cost the equiva-
lent of $750,000 or less may be awarded in accordance with local
competitive bidding procedures, satisfactory to the Bank.
2.   Radio communication equipment, dental and medical
equipment, fire engines, and trash collection trucks estimated to
cost less than the equivalent of $100,000, may be procured through
international shopping based on at least three quotations from
suppliers in two different countries.
3.   Contracts for the purchase of office and school furni-
ture and equipment and trash collection equipment may be procured
through local shopping based on at least three quotations from
suppliers.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
With respect to all contracts for civil works estimated to
cost the equivalent of $250,000 or more and all equipment esti-
mated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, INVI shall furnish to the Bank,
for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the
specifications and other bidding documents, together with a
description of the advertising procedures to be followed for
the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request.
Any further modification to the bidding documents shall require
the Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, INVI
shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time


﻿- 13 -
f or its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and compari-
son of the bids received, together with the recommendations for
award of the said consultants and such other information as the
Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines
that the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform INVI and state the reasons
for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those
on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the sub-
mission to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal
of funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
(e) This paragraph shall only apply to contracts for goods
and civil works related to the construction of shelter units
during the first year of execution of Part B (2) of the Project.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, INVI shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after its
execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the first
application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in
respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract,
together with the analysis of the respective bids, recommendations
for award and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably
request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the award of the
contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule,
promptly inform INVI and state the reasons for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver
of the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an exten-
sion of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 20% of the original price, INVI shall inform the Bank of
the proposed modification, waiver, extension or change order and
the reasons therefor. The Bank, if it determines that the proposal
would be inconsistent with the provisions of this Agreement, shall
promptly inform INVI and state the reasons for its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this  /       day of4A., 198       .
FOR SECRETARY


