Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 15085-ES
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
EL SALVADOR
LAND ADMINISTRATION PROJECT
JANUARY 31, 1996
Natural Resources and Rural Poverty Division
Country Department II
Latin America and the Caribbean Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of November 1, 1995)
Currency Unit= Colones
US$1.00= Col 8.75
Col 1.00= US$0.11
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
January 1- December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
The metric system is used
throughout this report



GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
CNR          National Registry Center (Centro Nacional de Registros)
GDP          Gross Domestic Product
GOES         Government of El Salvador
GPS          Global Positioning System
IBRD         International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB          International Competitive Bidding
IDB          Interamerican Development Bank
IGN          National Geographic Institute (Instituto Geogrdfico Naciona!)
ILD          Liberty and Democracy Institute (Instituto Libertady Democracia)
ILP          Liberty and Progress Institute (Instituto Libertady Progreso)
IMF          International Monetary Fund
LIS          Land Information System
NCB          National Competitive Bidding
NGO          Nongovemment Organization
NRP          National Reconstruction Plan (Plan Nacional de Reconstruccion)
PPF          Project Preparation Facility
PRISA        Agricultural Sector Reform and Investment Project (Proyecto de Reforma
e Inversi6n Sectorial Agropecuario - Loan 3576-ES)
RPRH         Land and Mortgage Registry (Registro de la Propiedad RaIz e Hipotecas)
RSI          Social Land Registry (Registro Social de Inmuebles)
SAL          Structural Adjustment Loan
TORs         Terms of Reference
UE           Executing Unit (Unidad Ejecutora)
UNDP         United Nations Development Programme



EL SALVADOR
LAND ADMINISTRATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
1. BACKGROUND .............................................1
A. COUNTRY OVERVIEW AND MACROECONOMIC BACKGROUND .                                                              .............................................I
B. AGRICULTURE, RURAL POVERTY, AND NATURAL RESouRCES .............................................2
C. LAND REFORM ..............................................2
D. THE NEW AGRARIAN POLICY ..............................................3
E. LAND REGISTRY AND CADASTRAL INST TIONS ............................................5
F. CONSTRAINTS IN LAND REGISTRY AND CADASTRAL SERVICES .............................................6
G. LESSONS FROM PAST OPERATIONS ..............................................7
2. THE PROJECT ..............................................9
A. ORIGINS OF THE PROJECT .............................................9
B. RATIONALE FOR BANK INVOLVEMENT .............................................9
C. PROJECT OBJECTIVES ............................................                                                                                                      10
D. PROJECT  DESCRIPTION ......................................................................................................................... 10
E. PROGRAM OBJECTIVES CATEGORIES .......................... 15
F. SUSTAINABILITY ...................................................................15
G. ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES ........... 15
H. PARTICIPATION APPROACH .........................                                                                                                                      16
3. PROJECT COST, FINANCING PLAN AND FINANCIAL ANALYSIS ....................................... 16
A. PROJECT COST .........................................................                                                                                               16
B. FINANCING PLAN ........................................................                                                                                              17
C. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS ........................................................                                                                                           17
4. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION, PROCUREMENT, DISBURSEMENT AND REPORTING ... 18
A. IMPLEMENTING AGENCY ........................................................                                                                                         18
B. IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE ........................................................                                                                                     20
C. PROCUREMENT .........................................................                                                                                                20
D. DISBURSEMENT ........................................................                                                                                                23
E. ACCOUNTS AND AUDITING ........................................................                                                                                       24
F. PROJECT REPORTING, MONITORINO AND EVALUATION .........................................................                                                               24
G. SUPERVISION BY THE BANK .........................................................                                                                                    25
H. EXPECTED BENEFITS AND RISKS ........................................................                                                                                 25
5. SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION ..................................................... 27
A. AGREEMENTS ........................................................                                                                                                 27
B. RECOMMENDATION .........................................................                                                                                             27
This report is based on the findings of preappraisal and appraisal missions which visited El Salvador in
March and June of 1995 respectively, comprising Messrs./Mmes. Cora Shaw (Task Manager), Jacques
Gastaldi, Roger Pipe, Bernard Samoullier (Consultants) and Eugene Versluysen (LA1NR). Edilberto
Segura is the Department Director and Michael Baxter is the Division Chief.



-ii-
TABLES:
TABLE   1: PROJEC CosT    .......................................................           .  16
TABLE  2: FINANCINO  PLAN  ........................................................              17
T.ABLE  3: PROCUREMENT METHODS                               ........................................................ 22
TABLE 4: LIMITS ON TYPES OF PROCUREMENT AND PRIOR REVIEW THRESHOLDS ........................................ 23
ANNEXES:
Annex A:                Institutional Analysis of the National Registry Center
Al              Registry Division Map
A2              Registry Staff Table
A3              Organigram for National Registry Center
Annex B:                Institutional Strengthening and Decentralization Component
B I             Plan of Action to Consolidate CNR
B2              Timetable for National Project
B3              Training Plan
B4              Proposal for CNR Document Standardization
B5              CNR Financial Sustainability
B6              Tariff Review - TOR
Annex C:                The Pilot Project
C1              Data from Experimental Phase
C2              Timetable for Pilot Project
C3              Pilot vs. National Projects
C4              Pilot Implementation and Impact Indicators
Annex D:                Land Data Acquisition Component
DI              Mapping - TOR
D2              Field Work - TOR
D3              Registry Teams - TOR
Annex E:                Project Administration Component
El              Quality Control Team - TOR
E2              Supervision Milestones
E3              Procurement Plan
E4              Organigram for Executing Unit (UE)
E5              Summary of Design Alternatives Considered
Annex F:                Cost Tables, Financing Plan and Disbursement Schedule
Annex G:                Project Implementation, Indicators and Reporting
GI              Impact Indicators
G2              Implementation Indicators - Inputs
G3              Implementation Indicators - Outputs
G4              Status of Legal Covenants
G5              Baseline Field Survey - TOR
Annex H:                Documents in Project File
HI              Project Implementation Plan (PIP) Contents
MAP:                    IBRD No. 26940R



EL SALVADOR
LAND ADMINISTRATION PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                The Republic of El Salvador
Implementing Agency:    National Registry Center under the Ministry of Justice
Beneficiary:             Not applicable.
Poverty:                 Program of Targeted Interventions against poverty because,
although all land will be regularized and benefits will accrue
to all, of the currently unregistered parcels, more than three
quarters are sinall.
Amount:                  US$50 million equivalent
Terms:                   Seventeen years, including four years of grace, at the
standard variable rate for currency pool loans.
Commitment Fee:          0.75 percent on undisbursed loan balances, beginning 60
days after signing, less any waiver
Financing Plan:          See para. 3.2
Net Present Value:       Not applicable. See para. 3.5
Staff Appraisal Report:   15085-ES
Map:                     IBRD No. 26940R



EL SALVADOR
LAND ADMINISTRATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
1. BACKGROUND
A. Country Overview and Macroeconomic Background
1.1   Peace was restored to El Salvador in 1989, and the 1992 Peace Accords formally
ended the 12-year civil war. The effort to consolidate the peace centers on the National
Reconstruction Plan (NRP) and the Peace Accords. The NRP is designed to lay the
foundation for national unity while creating the conditions for economic and social
recovery in the 115 municipalities most affected by the conflict. The plan's first
completed phase was designed to meet urgent needs in health, education, environment,
and democratic initiatives. The ongoing second five-year phase includes investments in
education and training, social services for low-income groups, infrastructure and
environmental management, and actions to strengthen democratic institutions, in
particular the judiciary and civilian police force. The Peace Accords also mandated
specific programs to support the economic and social reintegration of the demobilized
sectors and of the population most affected by the conflict, including land transfers.
1.2   El Salvador's economic performance since  1989 has been impressive.
Stabilization and adjustment programs and trade liberalization led to an estimated real
GDP growth of 7 percent for 1995. Inflation has been declining annually, and it is
estimated at 7.5 percent for 1995, down from 8.9 percent in 1994, 12 percent in 1993
and 20 percent in 1992. Other macroeconomic indicators are in line with LMF standby
targets. The 1995 current account deficit (excluding official grants) is projected at 2.8
percent of GDP, down from 3.7 percent of GDP in 1994. This downtum reflects a
slightly larger merchandise trade deficit (15.7 percent of GDP in 1995), which was more
than offset by private remittances (US$ 1.0 billion, equivalent to about 11 percent of
GDP in 1995). Overall fiscal performance for 1994 was significantly better than
programmed. The nonfinancial public sector deficit (excluding grants) is estimated at 2
percent of GDP for 1994. Successive administrations have reformed the public sector to
increase efficiency and foster private-sector growth.
1.3   Although El Salvador has skillfully managed the transition to democracy and
significantly improved its macroeconomic framework, it has much more to do to address
the largest potential obstacle to continued peace and economic growth: poverty. Poverty
reduction requires economic growth, particularly in agriculture. A prerequisite for
agricultural inv- tment is secure land tenure.



-2-
B. Agriculture, Rural Poverty, and Natural Resources
1.4   Agriculture is the most important sector in the economy. It generates 50 percent
of exports, one third of employment, and in 1994 it contributed about 9 percent of GDP.
The sector reacted strongly to economic adjustment, contributing to tl 'recovery with a
growth rate of 3.1 percent in 1991-94. This growth, however, only represented a
recovery to pre-1980 performance, and it has since declined owing to drought and (until
1994) falling coffee prices. Investment is badly needed to improve production methods
and diversify production so the sector can continue to grow. An Agriculture Sector
Strategy report is scheduled for joint execution with the Government and a Salvadoran
NGO. The report is to provide a wel: articulated diagnosis of the causes of the relatively
poor performance of agriculture and to develop a strategy to increase the sector's global
competitiveness, while simultaneously addressing the related issues of rural poverty and
environmental degradation.
1.5   Rural Poverty. Because 70 percent of the rural population rely on agriculture for
their livelihoods, increasing agricultural productivity is vital to generate employment and
raise rural incomes. The Poverty Assessment (Report 12315-ES, June 1994) found that
poverty is largely a rural phenomenon. While 48 percent of the population are classed as
poor and the urban/rural split is about even, the majority of poor (61 percent) and
extremely poor (67 percent) live in rural areas, largely due to skewed land ownership and
lack of employment opportunities. Eighty-seven percent of farms have fewer than 3
hectares and account for only 25 percent of the area under agricultural production. The 3
percent of farms larger than 30 hectares account for 44 percent of farmed area. This
inequality of land distribution means that much of the rural population requires off-farm
employment. However, seasonal jobs in coffee, cotton picking, and sugarcane cutting
have shrunk because of low coffee prices worldwide (until 1994), the abandonment of
cotton production due to declining competitiveness, and collectivization of sugar
plantations and other large holdings.
1.6   Natural Resources. Poverty and insecure land tenure have led to low investment
in agriculture, inadequate land management, and severe environmental degradation. The
Natural Resources Management Study (Report 12355-ES, January 1994) showed that
soil erosion, mainly from farming on slopes without mitigative measures, affects 75
percent of the country. Deforestation, topography, climate, and soils also contribute to
soil erosion. Improving land tenure would provide greater security for farmers who want
to invest in improved land management techniques or permanent crops.
C. Land Reform
1.7   The Government of El Salvador (GOES) recognized in the late 1970s that land
was a serious issue, but it sought to address the issue solely by redistribution, rather than
taking a more comprehensive view that would include improved incentives as well as
tenure security, land management, and raising agricultural productivity. About 275,000



-3-
hectares were distributed (about 14 percent of the country's area), but the reform
program paralyzed land markets, deterred investment, distorted incentives, and did little
to improve tenure security because many transfers could not be completed due to
incomplete land records.
1.8    The 1970s reform was to be implemented in three phases. Phase I expropriated
farms larger than 500 hectares to collectively owned cooperatives. Landowners were
compensated by agrarian reform bonds. The cooperatives were given 30 years to repay
the government at a rate of 6 percent a year with a four-year grace period. Phase II was
intended to expropriate farms in the range of 100-500 hectares, but it was virtually
annulled by the 1983 Constitution, which mandated a maximum holding size of 245
hectares and allowed excess holdings to be sold over two years. This phase was also
interrupted by the civil war. Phase III issued titles' to people who rented land or had
other informal contracts with landowners; 90 percent of beneficiaries received plots
smaller than 2 hectares, and landowners were again compensated with bonds. The
beneficiaries had the same repayment terms as the cooperatives. Phases I and Im
distributed 275,000 hectares to 533,000 beneficiary families.
D. The New Agrarian Policy
1.9    Recognizing the need to improve agricultural policy, combat poverty, and
increase employment and incomes through better land use and secure tenure, GOES
formulated a new agrarian policy in 1994. The Bank helped organize a land policy
options seminar in February 1994 so that the new policy could take into account the
views and needs of those involved in the agricultural sector. A wide range of
stakeholders participated, including representatives of political parties, small and large
agricultural producers, agricultural workers, universities, and nongovernmental
organizations. After the seminar, a Salvadoran agrarian policy working group drafted an
agrarian policy focusing on market-based incentives and poverty alleviation. This policy
was approved by the highest government authorities as the policy context for the
proposed project. Another seminar, in which the Bank also participated in May 1994,
discussed international experience in land registry2 and cadastral3 systems. A further
seminar, on alternative conflict resolution methods, was jointly delivered in March 1995
by the Ministry of Justice and the Bank.
1. "Title" is an instrnment, such as a deed, that is evidence of a right.
2 . A "land registry" is the official record book that carries the entry of ownership rights, or title, and
encumbrances on these rights.
3. "Cadastral" is of or related to a cadastre, an official register of the quantity, value, and ownership
of real estate used in apportioning taxes.



4-
1.10 The new agrarian policy aims to (a) finalize, as quickly and efficiently as possible,
the land transfers agreed on in the Peace Accordse and complete the parcelizations
requested by agrarian reform cooperatives; (b) ensure security of tenure to promote
investment and enable transfer of land; (c) streamline state agrarian reform institutions;
(d) consolidate and restructure agrarian debt; (e) create a free market for land to
facilitate access and create employment opportunities for the rural poor; and (f) design
and install an efficient rural finance system.
(a)   Finalizing Land Transfers. The two ongoing land transfer programs have
suffered delays. The Peace Accord land transfers were speeded up in May
1994, and legislation approved in September 1994 enabled the distribution
of land coupons to beneficiaries in lieu of direct government adjudication.
Distribution was stalled, however, by a lack of clear rights to holdings. In
November 1994 the Land and Mortgage Registry (Registro de la
PropiedadRaiz e Hipotecas-RPRH), the Social Land Registry (Registro
Social de Inmuebkes-RSI) and the Liberty and Progress Institute
(Instituto Libertad y Progreso-ILP) were assigned to help accelerate
titling and registration, and in January 1995 the Bank approved a Project
Preparation Facility (PPF P-264-ES) for US$2 million to support this
process by financing land titling, registry, and cadastral activities.
(b)   Ensuring Tenure Security. The proposed project is designed to implement
the new agrarian policy's tenure security plank. It would consolidate and
modernize land registry and the cadastre, drawing on a pilot land registry
and cadastre subproject financed under the 1993 Agricultural Sector
Reform and Investment Program (PRISA) project (Loan 3576-ES) in the
Department of Sonsonate. The pilot involves the following:
(i)    Land registry activities covering over 100,000 hectares-including
aerial photography, field updating of the land registry and cadastre
(regularization), including mechanisms for alternative dispute
resolution in cases of conflicting land claims and establishment of
a consolidated legal and cadastral registry office in Sonsonate and
data stations in several municipalities. These activities have been
completed in two municipalities (about 5,800 hectares). The
findings from these municipalities were used to design the
proposed project.
(ii)    A study of legal and institutional requirements to combine national
land registry and cadastre information in single records within the
newly created National Registry Center (CNR) under the Ministry
of Justice and keep the records updated after regularization.
4. The 1992 Peace Accords committed the government to distribute 166,000 hectares to 47,500
excombatants and squatters by December 1995.



-5-
(c)   Streamlining State Agrarian Reform Institutions. The government is
consolidating its three agrarian reform agencies into the Land Bank,
which is implementing the Peace Accord land transfers.
(d)   Consolidating and Restructuring Agrarian Debt. A proposal has been
drafted to consolidate and restructure agrarian debt by transferring it to
the tax-collection sector of the Treasury and linking it to property rather
than debtors. Collection would be similar to that of taxes, and incentives
would be given to speed the resolution of debt, including discounts for
those who pay on time.
(e)   Creating a Free Market for Land. GOES has approved changes that
would allow agrarian reform beneficiaries to sell or rent their land to
anyone; existing law limits such transfers to agrarian reform beneficiaries
or landless peasants. This limitation has reduced land demand to a low-
income market, leading to lower prices and illegal transactions.
(f)   Designing and Installing an Efficient Rural Finance System. The Bank's
September 1993 Second Structural Adjustment Loan (3646-ES) and an
IDB grant of US$3 million are supporting mral finance reforms. In June
1994 the government submitted to the Bank and IDB an action plan that
is now being implemented.
1.11  In April 1991 the Legislature enacted a law allowing Phase I agrarian reform
beneficiaries to opt for individual land tenure rights (rather than ownership by the
cooperative), base on findings that yields on lands affected under Phase III-which
required individual ownership---.re substantially higher than under Phase I cooperative
ownership. In 1995 the Presides. .pproved measures allowing cooperatives to sell part
of their land to repay their agrarian debt (see para. 1. O(e)). The proposed project would
assist agrarian reform and Peace Accord property owners in voluntarily parceling their
holdings under optional property regimes.
E. Land Registry and Cadastral Institutions
1.12  Three institutions have been involved in land mapping, cadastre, and
registration-the National Geographic Institute (Instituto Geogrdfico Nacional: IGN),
the RPRH and its subsidiary the RSI. The proposed project would support the
government in consolidating, reforming, and streamlining these agencies to create a
single land registry under the new National Registry Center (Centro Nacional de
Registros: CNR). Property legal records need to be updated and unified to the cadastre
to ensure reliable registration of property titles. For a detailed institutional analysis, see
Annex A.



-6-
1.13 The government created CNR in December 1994 by executive decree, merging
RPRH, RSI, and IGN for the purpose of institutionalizing RSI's success. Prior to
negotiations, the Legislature approved Decree No. 462 on October 5, 1995,
consolidating the functions of RPRH, RSI, and IGN and bringing the functions and the
responsibility for land registry, regularization, and cadastre under one institution, the
CNR. The legislative decree also dictates that the CNR must establish tariffs
guaranteeing self-financing and bars fee waivers. The Legislature must approve tariff
changes.
1.14 The cadastre lies with IGN, which is also in charge of national cartography. The
cadastre is the physical parcel registry, but it was last (and only partially) updated in the
late 1970s.  IGN has 11 departmental offices.  There has been little functional
relationship between the cadastre and the registry, and one of the objectives of the
project would be to overcome problems resulting from this lack of coordination.
1.15 RPRH's system is essentially a nineteenth century Napoleonic Civil Code system,
a deed registry that is grantee-based rather than land-based (folio personal rather than
folio reaI).' The RPRH is a public registry with 10 departmental offices. RPRH
procedures are not transparent, providing registrars ample discretion to reject or delay
registration applications. All RPRH operations are manual because the institution lacks
the resources to acquire modern equipment and the procedures to respond to increasing
demand for diversified services, including land distribution programs, new settlements,
and urban sprawl. In spite of surplus revenues, low salaries levels and other internal
problems have driven many of RPRH's qualified staff away, and the quality of its service
is low and unreliable.
1.16 RPRH has become so unsuited to modern circumstances that the government
itself was obliged to bypass it by creating (in 1991) RSI under RPRH to register titles in
squatter settlements. RSI uses an automated folio real system. RSI's purview was
expanded in 1994 to the plots distributed under the Peace Accords, and the anpliaci6n
or transactions requiring boundary changes, e.g. housing developments and parcel
fragmentations, raising the demand for RSI services some 40 percent, particularly from
institutions financing housing developments.
F. Constraints in Land Registry and Cadastral Services
1.17  El Salvador's land registry and cadastral system suffers from out-of-date land
records, an inappropriate legal and institutional framework, and low managerial capacity.
1.18  Land records are updated by RPRH and RSI, and cadastral records by IGN. The
institutional arrangement between RPRH and IGN for providing and verifying cadastral
information is dysfunctional. Only about 40 percent of El Salvador's properties are
S. Except San Salvador, which uses thefolio real system.



-7-
registered, and of those, less than a third have cadastral references (see para. 1.23). Many
properties with valid registrations cannot be located. Property owners with title
certificates that are not registered cannot use their titles as security for mortgages or
other collateral. Some properties are registered by municipalities, but this practice does
not guarantee their legal rights before third parties.
1.19 RPRH's legal and institutional inadequacy became a critical issue, given the need
to formalize rights in squatter settlements resulting from war and urban in-migration. Its
procedures for inscription are cumbersome, and it has no standardized deed format
requirements. Procedures were also hampered because RPRH had to verify payment of
wealth and estate taxes. Registration is not obligatory, and despite the legal security it
provides, substantial transaction costs were stacked against registering land. The
abolition of the wealth and estate taxes has eliminated some of these barriers, although
the Land Registry must still collect evidence of payment of the less onerous municipal
taxes and personal transit fee (Vialidad 'C'). A draft law is before the legislature to
abolish these requirements.
1.20  RSI-the registry pilot for CNR's future land registry operations-is more agile
than RPRH, and it is allowed to retain its fee revenues to buy equipment and hire higher-
paid staff. After four years of operation, RSI's number of inscriptions is up to 40 percent
that of RPRH (even recording cadastral data, unlike RPRH), with a third of the staff and
only three locations. Its records are folios reales, automated and can be computer
searched by owner name or parcel location. In addition to automation, RSI has two other
innovative features: massive registration, because it was designed to address the needs of
squatter settlements, and a requirement to present plat drawings to complete the land
record. RSI can also control its work flow, because it is permitted to set priorities among
potential clients and does not have a backlog, which reduces document losses. This
feature will be retained under the proposed project; registration priority will be assigned
before accepting registration requests and supporting documentation helping also
minimize documents losses.
G. Lessons from Past Operations
1.21   For more than two decades the Bank has been involved in land reform and land
tenure issues under its poverty-oriented rural development strategy. In 1975 the Bank
published a land reform paper. Evaluation of projects in Thailand and Kenya6 and recent
experience suggest that land reform programs are most cost-effective and contribute to
equity objectives when they are areawide and combined with agile conflict-resolution
mechanisms. The projects showed that land titling is an important step in increasing rural
productivity in areas where (a) population densities are high; (b) freehold tenure is a
reality; (c) traditional systems of land allocation and dispute adjudication have broken
down; and (d) formal credit systems are willing and able to lend to small farmers against
6. Hans P. Binswanger and Klaus Deininger, "World Bank Land Policy: Evolution and Current
Challenges." This paper was prepared for the World Bank Agricultural Sector Symposium, 1994.,



-8-
the security of land titles. Except for the credit link-which is being addressed under the
SAL II Project (see para. 1.10(f)) and the Agricultural Sector Strategy Study (see para.
1.4)-these conditions accurately describe the situation in El Salvador. There is
significant synergy between titling and credit, and titling land can lead to productivity
increases from better access to formal credit.
1.22 A review of World Bank experience with rural titling projects throughout the
world reported that, except for the Thailand Land Titling I and II projects (Loans 2440-
TH and 3254-TH, respectively), the 12 operations surveyed performed poorly.7 The
main problems were: lack of political support; conflicting bureaucratic priorities; lack of
institutional capacity or support; and complex multiple objectives of which titling was
only an adjunct. By contrast, the Thailand projects were relatively successful due to: full
political and institutional support; Government commitment to adequate resources; single
titling objective; and relatively favorable land policy environment. The mutual
cooperation between the Land Agency and the World Bank must also be considered a
factor of the success so far. The proposed project is also characterized by full political,
institutional and financial support, single land regularization objective, a favorable
agrarian policy environment, as well as successful pilot experience, as described below.
1.23  The proposed project draws lessons from the beginning of implementation of the
pilot project under PRISA (Loan 3576-ES) which covered 5,800 hectares in the
Sonsonate Department municipalities of Santa Catarina Mazahaut and Santo Domingo
Guzman. This first phase showed that the registration program was highly popular, and
enhanced when adequate local publicity was given before visits by field teams. It also
demonstrated the effectiveness of the mapper/notary field verification teams, but showed
up institutional weaknesses that led to slow data entry, underscoring the need to
streamline and computerize the CNR. It also provided the first set of hard data on the
magnitude of the problem and target group. Based on data from these municipalities,
GOES estimates that, at most, about 40 percent of properties nationwide are registered,
and less than a third have cadastral references; of the unregistered parcels, most were
small (76 percent of the urban were below 500 m2 and 91 percent of the rural were below
3 hectares). This data confirmed the poverty reduction potential of the proposed project.
(see Annex CI). Furthermore, the pilot experience in cost minimization yielded much
lower costs per hectare for the proposed project than recent similar experiences in East
Asia (see Annex E5).
1.24  Finally, .he project also draws from the experiences of the Peace Accord
mandated land transfers, financed mainly by USAID and the European Union. These
transfers were delayed due to deficiencies in the legislation and in registry records. Once
the CNR was included in the land transfer effort -financed by a US$ 2.0 million Project
Preparation Facility (PPF-264-ES), two transitory decrees allowed streamlined
procedures for adverse possession and other preventive annotations that allowed
registration.
7 Environment Department, Research and Policy Division Working Paper No. 1992-35, March 1992.



-9-
2. THE PROJECT
A. Origins of the Project
2.1   The proposed project is based on the agrarian policy dialogue and the first phase
of its 1994 pilot subproject under PRISA. As emerged from the agrarian policy dialogue,
the Government of El Salvador (GOES) realized that land administration problems were
among the largest challenges facing the country, as made evident by delays in Peace
Accord mandated land transfers (see para. 1.10). Moreover, the GOES realized that land
tenure insecurity was one of the brakes preventing investment and modernization of the
agricultural sector as well as better management of the natural resource base. The
critical role of legally secure land ownership in El Salvador's peace consolidation and
environmental management was set out in the Country Assistan,ce Strategy (CAS, Report
P-6108-ES). The review invoked the need to establish a comprehensive land titling and
registration program to provide the foundations for a modem land market. The 1994
Poverty Assessment (Report 12315-ES) pointed out the need to increase the poor's
access to assets through strengthening the agencies responsible for land financing, titling,
and registration. The pilot project under PRISA provided a catalytic experience
convincing the GOES that modernization of the land registry and cadastre could be done
within reasonable cost parameters (see para. 1.23). To backstop these findings, under
PPF 264-ES, the project supported land regularization and registration of Peace Accords
land transfers.
B. Rationale for Bank Involvement
2.2   The proposed project is fully consistent with the the Bank's Group's CAS
discussed by the Board on September 14, 1993, including support for land transfers
mandated by the Peace Accords. This project would modernize the public land registry
and cadastral services under a streamlined agency with full financial sustainability;
alleviate poverty by addressing the needs of smallholders without land security so they
can sell and rent at full price and use land registered titles as collateral; enable private
sector growth by allowing investments on land obtaining secure tenure; and strengthen
natural resource and environmental management by providing the security needed for
longer-horizon investment decisions. The Bank has been supporting the Government in
three key areas leading to the proposed project: agrarian policy formulation, Peace
Accords land transfers and the pilot project under PRISA.



-10-
C. Project Objectives
2.3    The proposed project's major objectives are to regularize' land registration for El
Salvador's estimated 1.6 million parcels9 of rural and urban land and to create an
efficient, streamlined, and financially self-sustaining nationwide cadastral mechanism for
mapping and land registration-the new National Registry Center. Land registration
would provide land owners-particularly the vast majority of smallholders who lack clear
tenure-with the security that will enable them to sell or rent at fair market prices, and
pass on their holdings as inheritances. Improving tenure security would also increase
smallholder access to credit, raising incentives to invest and to manage land properly.
D. Project Description
2.4    The El Salvador Land Administration project would finance a six-year, US$70
million program (including US$14.0 million in physical and price contingencies) to (a)
consolidate, strengthen, and decentralize the CNR so that it can keep records updated;
(b) acquire land data to regularize the national land registry and cadastre; and (c) carry
out project administration. The project would cover all 14 departments of El Salvador.
The project design draws lessons from pilot project now being carried out based on field
work in Sonsonate Department under the PRISA project (Loan 3576-ES) (For a detailed
description of the pilot program, see Annex C).
Institutional Strengthening and Decentralization
2.5    This component (US$10.6 million) would include two subcomponents (for a
detailed description of the component, see Annex B).
(a)   Institutional Strengthening   (US$6. 1. million).  This subcomponent
would finance civil works rehabilitation, vehicles, equipment, furniture
and recurrent costs on a declining basis to consolidate and strengthen the
CNR, by merging RPRH/RSI, and IGN headquarters offices into a single
CNR headquarters. Prior to negotiations, the Legislature has approved a
satisfactory law to effect the institutional merge into CNR (Decree No.
462, dated October 5, 1995), and the Government has submitted a
satisfactory time-bound action plan (see Annex B1). Among the functions
to be strengthened during the CNR consolidation plan are the defining of
accounting norms and procedures, staffing and skills mix, management
information systems (see para. 4.17), fee and revenue-sources
diversification and marketing (see Annex B6), and training. On January
25, 1996 the Legislature approved changes in the Cadastre Law to make
s Land regularization makes ownership rights public knowledge by perfecting registration procedures
and making all records public.
9  It is estimated that there are 1.8 million parcels in El Salvador. This 1.6 million estimate excludes
the estimated 200,000 parcels in Sonsonate, which are being regularized under PRISA.



-11-
registration obligatory. In addition the Government has scheduled to
disseminate guidelines spelling out obligations of notaries and registars
with respect to standardizing documentation for registration after
regularization by mid- 1996.
The subcomponent would also provide training and technical assistance to
install staff from these agencies into their new functions and backstop
CNR's new activities. The consolidation of the CNR requires upgrading
its staff to respond rapidly to the transition to new functions and work
methods. The project would support training to adapt RPRH/RSI and
IGN staff skills to the new integrated legal and cadastral records and to
the computerized management of land information. A training plan is
included in Annex B2. The subcomponent would also provide technical
assistance to establish a national automated land information system
(LIS) by expanding the one being established under the pilot program.
The LIS is an automated database being designed under the PRISA
project to identify owners, parcels, and their descriptions, rights, and
encumbrances. The entries will be geographically referenced using
information obtained in the photogrammetric process. Each parcel will
have a unique identifier and records. The system would keep track of all
supporting documentation required to establish, change, or extinguish real
rights. The CNR land registry would receive the verified files obtained
under the land data acquisition component for registration.
(b)   Institutional Decentralization (US$4.5 million). This component would
finance civil works, rehabilitation, vehicles, equipment, furniture and
recurrent costs on a declining basis to decentralize CNR's legal and
cadastral services in regional offices. The implementation phase following
the consolidation would decentralize CNR functions to one central office
and three regional offices. The headquarters/Central Region office will be
in San Salvador and the regional offices in Sonsonate for the Western
Region, San Vicente for the Northern Region and San Miguel for the
Eastern region (depending on the availability of reliable telephone trunk
lines or radio communications). Out of these four offices land registry and
cadastre operations will be further decentralized to 52 municipal offices.
To compensate for reducing the number of field offices from 10 RPRH
offices and 11 IGN offices into 4 CNR regional offices, the proposed
location plan would provide the following:
(i)    An electronic network linking the 52 groups of five to six
municipalities, connecting all 262 municipalities in El Salvador.
The users would have access to the most common and simple
services ( i.e., land records consultation and certification-read-
only services-reception windows for service requests and, for
the larger municipalities, document submission).



-12-
(ii)    One-stop windows at each of the four regional offices offering a
complete menu of services, including verification and recordation
of instruments elaborated by private notaries and topographers.
Cadastral staff in the regional offices would revise parcel
delimitations to reflect boundary changes.   The proposed
functions of the national, regional, and municipal offices are
described in Annex B.
Land-Data Acquisition
2.6   The land-data acquisition component (US$48.7 million) would carry out the
barrido, that is, establish new land information for cadastral purposes, verify and
regularize land rights on identified parcels, consolidate the data for input in the LIS (see
para. 2.5(a)), and establish mechanisms to resolve conflicts. The component would be
divided into three subcomponents: (a) mapping; (b) land records regularization, and (c)
alternate dispute resolution mechanisms (for a detailed description of the component, see
Annex D):
(a)   Mapping (US$15.1 million). This subcomponent would finance works
and technical assistance to assist the government in conducting mapping
activities to establish a parcel-based database describing every parcel's
legal rights, geographic location, and boundary lines. These activities
would include aerial photography at scales of 1/20,000 for rural areas and
1/4,000 for urban areas, using a global positioning system (GPS). The
photogrammetric, digital information would be used to produce base
maps for field verification at scales of 1/5,000 for rural areas, 1/2,000 for
periurban areas, and 1/1,000 for urban areas. Areas not clearly captured in
the aerial photography would be subjected to topographic complementary
surveys to complete basic maps. The subcomponent would finance
technical assistance to train IGN photogrammetry staff on numeric
restitution and using GPS equipment (also see TORs in Annex DI).
(b)   Land Records Regularization (US$35.4 million including the $2 million
PPF). While base maps are being produced, this subcomponent would
finance  information  campaigns,   training, local consultants, and
incremental recurrent costs to carry out the steps described below, as well
as the completion of the Sonsonate pilot program. '0 The updating of this
information after regularization would be ensured by legislative changes
that make registration by notaries compulsory and universal. (see
Paragraph 2.5 (a)). During negotiations, the GOES has agreed to
maintain a legal registry and cadastral framework satisfactory to the Bank
(see para. 5.2(a)).
'° These are not cost overruns; the financing available for the pilot in PRISA (US$5.6 million) was
substantially below the required to complete the pilot (US$8.5 million).



-13-
*  Research and input every registry book to establish parcel-based files
to start the conversion from folio personal to folio real. This work
consists of identifying current records with their annotations;
identifying cadastral references, if they exist; and establishing a data
base with parcel-based files (see TORs in Annex D3).
*  Carry  out national and  local publicity  campaigns, with  the
participation of mayors, to announce the upcoming arrival of field
teams and their purpose.
*  Field verify geographic boundaries and legal rights with existing
records in newly-established file, seeking confirmation with neighbors.
Under the US$2 million PPF this task was carried out prior to titling
Peace Accord land transfers. Under the proposed project, this effort
would be carried out by local consultants and IGN staff who would
visit every parcel with the updated area-based map and parcel-based
files on every parcel identified in the aerial photo. As in the pilot phase
in Sonsonate, each field verification team would be composed of a
trained photoidentifier and a fourth-year law student; they would each
verify boundaries and the type and accuracy of property
documentation (certificates of adverse possession, private and public
deeds, titles or other instruments) together with the parcel holder (see
TORs in Annex D2).
Hire notaries in each municipality to supervise legal aspects of field
verification (e.g., note discrepancies in the legal or physical
descriptions of properties and create documents when needed). The
project would provide notaries training in dispute resolution
techniques (see (c) below, and Annex C, paras. 20-22).
*  Desk-verify legal and physical information in parcel-based files, assign
it a unique cadastral number, and submit for final registration in the
CNR's automated land registry (LIS). This activity would provide the
building blocks of the new national legal cadastral map. Parcel-based
files that present discrepancies between the documentation and legal
inscription or physical description would be provisionally registered.
Title holders would be advised of the assignation of the parcel number
after the effort is completed.
*  Train staff and local consultants to carry out the field and
regulariza;on activities (photoidentifiers, law students, notaries, and
land registrars).



-14-
(c)   Alternate Dispute Resolution Mechanisms (USso.1 million). This
particular subcomponent would finance technical assistance, an
information campaign and training field notaries and other staff in
alternate (nonjudicial, judicial and administrative) dispute resolution
mechanisms. Rights to some parcels are expected to be unclear or
contested. These properties would be subject to, at the request of
concerned parties, a mediation process. If agreement is reached under
mediation or other means, the notary could formalize the parties'
agreement,1' or request confirmation by local judges or justices of the
peace.
2.7   Because the component is national in scope, the government would submit to the
Bank evidence of agreement by neighbor country (on both area and activity) prior to
initiating any project activity in corresponding border area.(see para 5.2 (e)).
Project Administration
2.8   This third component (US$8.7 million) would finance the project's management,
including vehicles and equipment, technical assistance and training, and incremental
recurrent costs. The project would finance the operation and expansion of the executing
unit (Unidad Ejecutora-UE), which was created to manage the pilot program under
PRISA. It has proven extremely effective, but it will need strengthening to take on the
proposed project (see Annex E4). The UE would be in charge of managing information
campaigns and communications. In each region, the UE will contract out work to firms
and will supervise the firms and their implementation of the project. A monitoring and
evaluation system for the project established under PRISA will be expanded for this
project (see para. 4.18). The UE would be responsible also for auditing requirements and
hiring external auditors (for a detailed description of the component, see Annex E).
2.9   Because of the national project's complexity, the UE would include a Quality
Control Team at least with two main consultants in charge of technical implementation
and training (see TORs in Annex El) before June 30, 1996 (see para. 5.2(d)). The
complexity arises from the need to integrate and unify technical and legal procedures and
manage dovetailed operations in different locations and time frames. The team would
supervise fieldwork of contract firms and be in charge of following up the
implementation of project activities by the consultant teams. The Quality Control Team
would report to the head of the UE.
2.10  Most of the technical assistance and training to be provided under the project is
related to skills not available in the government in sufficient depth or quantity.
Intemational technical assistance (i.e., photogrammetry, land information systems) is to
be used mainly for developing system design and training local users. Local technical
11. Under the law of voluntary jurisdiction (see Annex H).



-15-
assistance refers to skills in ample supply in the private sector (topographers, notaries) to
handle outsourced volume services that will not increase the size of the public sector.
E. Program Objectives Categories
2.11   The project would indirectly support the private-sector development objective by
enhancing property rights and by financing outsourced activities. It is expected that the
land security provided by regularized titles and well-defined boundaries will increase
incentives for investment and land management. The project is included in the Bank's
program of targeted interventions against poverty because a significant majority of its
beneficiaries would be among El Salvador's rural poor (see para. 1.23 and Annex C1).
F. Sustainability
2.12  Participatory processes have and will continue to support project preparation and
implementation and have been designed for financial self-sustainability. Three seminars
(Land Policy Options, Registry and Cadastre Experiences and Alternative Conflict
Resolution Mechanisms) were held during preparation with a wide range of Government
and nongovernment participants. Prior to the pilot project field work, broad information
campaigns and consultations with elected Mayors were conducted. Such consultations
will continue throughout project implementation and are expected to sustain government
commitment. Moreover, the project is designed to make the new National Registry
Center financially self-sustaining. The Legislature has approved CNR autonomy including
self-financing by its ability to allow CNR to retain the revenues it collects and bar any fee
waiver. A cash-flow study carried out for the project shows that the fees to be collected
by CNR will be sufficient to defray its costs, including those for servicing the Bank loan
(see Annex B5). The study also shows anticipated revenue and expense streams under
that study's base case, beginning with its 1994 experimental phase under PRISA. On the
demand side, initial parcel-based land regularization, while compulsory, will be free; CNR
fees-which are now set at levels which allow for self-sustainability-are expected to
increase under universal registration of land transfers, as coverage increases.
G.   Environmental Issues
2.13  The project has been rated 'C" because it would not have negative environmental
effects and is expected to contribute to better land management. In the Bank's Natural
Resources Management Study (Report No. 12355-ES), soil erosion was identified as one
of El Salvador's main environmental problems (see para. 1.6). By improving land
security for owners and renters, the project should improve farmer incentives to apply
soil conservation techniques and invest in perennial crops and other attached investments.



-16-
H.    Participation Approach
2.14   Participatory processes have and will continue to support project preparation and
implementation.   Three  seminars  (Land  Policy  Options, Registry  and  Cadastre
Experiences and Alternative Conflict Resolution Mechanisms) were held during
preparation with a wide range of Government and nongovermnent participants. Prior to
the pilot project field work, broad information campaigns and consultations with elected
Mayors were  conducted.   Such  consultations  will continue  throughout project
implementation.
3. PROJECT COST, FINANCING PLAN AND FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
A. Project Cost
3.1    Total project cost is estimated at US$70 million. Project base cost is US$56
million (see Table 1 below). Physical contingencies are calculated on the basis of 10
percent for works, information campaigns, and operating costs, and 5 percent for
equipment and vehicles. Price contingencies are estimated as 8 percent for local costs (as
estimated by government) and 2.2 percent for foreign costs.
Table 1: Project Cost (US$ million)a
PROJECT COSTS                             LOCAL    FOREIGN    TOTAL
Inafitutional Strengthening and
Decentralization
(a) Institutional strengthening                14         41          5.5
(b) Lnsfitutional decentralization             1.5        2.0         3.5
Land Data Acquisition
(a) Mapping                                    6.4        6.3        12.7
(b)Land records regularization                22.8        2.3        25.2
(c) Alternative conflict resolution            0.1        0.0         0.1
Project Preparation Facility (P-264-ES)        1.8        0.2         2.0
Project Administration                         4.6        2.4         7.0
Total Base Cost                               38.7       17.3        56.0
Physical contingencies                         1.4        1.0         2.5
Price contingencies                           10.7        0.8        11.5
Total Project Cost                            50.9       19.1        70.0
a. Column and row totals may not add due to rounding.



-17-
B. Financing Plan
3.2   Total project cost is US$70 million. The proposed loan would provide US$50
million, including refinancing of the US$2 million PPF-264-ES, and the Government
would be responsible to provide the balance of US$20 million (see Table 2). Of the total
project cost, US$60.8 million would involve investment and US$9.2 million incremental
recurrent costs over six years. The proposed loan would fund US$4.2 million (about 46
percent) of incremental recurrent costs (salaries, operation, and maintenance costs) on a
declining basis: 100 percent up to the category withdrawals of US$2.0 million (estimated
by the end of 1999); thereafter, 75 percent up to the category of withdrawals of(US$ 3.0
million (estimated by the end of 2000); and 50 percent thereafter. The proposed loan
would finance about 67 percent of total local costs, a level warranted by El Salvador's
transition to peace, its financing commitments under the Peace Accords, and the
substantial share of project costs while implementing a program of fiscal austerity. To
ensure the maintenance of momentum achieved during project preparation, the PPF, and
pilot activities under PRISA, retroactive financing up to US$5 million (10 percent of
Bank loan) is recommended for eligible expenditures incurred after July 1995.
Table 2: Financing Plan
(US$ millions)
Local       Foreign         Total
IBRD             30.9        19.1           50.0
GOES             20.0         0.0           20.0
Total            50.9        19.1           70.0
C. Financial Analysis
3.3   As part of the financial analysis of the land administration project, a cash-flow
analysis was prepared of the institutions involved in the project, whose budgets have now
been merged into the CNR's. During preparation, four scenarios were analyzed. The
scenarios varied in the assumptions governing the income-generating capacity of the
CNR, as well as the number of years required to complete the project. In all four
scenarios, net financing (including annual quotas for loan repayment) proved positive
throughout the period of analysis. This finding suggested that, even based on
conservative assumptions, the CNR should have sufficient liquidity to finance its
operations throughout the six years of the proposed Land Administration Project.
Additionally, the CNR should prove to be financially sustainable once the project ends in
the year 2002 (see Annex B5).



-18-
3.4   The key to the financial strength of the project lies in the revenue-generating
capacity of the CNR through its registry activities. Even prior to project start-up (i.e.,. in
1995), the annual revenues from combined RPRH, RSI, and IGN activities equaled an
estimated s55.3 million (US$6.3 million). Upon project completion (2002), annual CNR
revenues total 4l19.5 million in nominal terms, or US$8 million in constant 1995 dollars.
This 26 percent increase in the revenue-generating capacity of registry and cadastral
activities is generated by the registry services provided to new properties that will be
registered as a result of the process of the ampliaci6n (see para. 1.16), which occurs
regardless of and independently from the proposed project. However, the project will
provide the institutional development support allowing CNR to respond to this demand.
The additional revenue that is directly attributable to the project, measured by the
incremental revenue generated directly by the activities associated with the national land
regularization plan totals US$12.2 million between 1996-2003 and at least US$2.6
million each year thereafter.
Cost Minimization Analysis
3.5   No economic analysis of this project was carried out as a meaningful cost-benefit
analysis cannot be expected for this type of project. Instead, a cost minimization analysis
considered several aspects to ensure that the objectives of the project are achieved in the
most economic manner. The resulting cost of $40/ha for institutional development and
land regularization of the whole country compares very favorably with similar
experiences in the rest of the world. The key aspects considered focused on registry
investigation and analysis, and field verification (half of total project costs) (see Annex
E5).
4. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION, PROCUREMENT, DISBURSEMENT AND
REPORTING
A. Implementing Agency
4.1   The project implementing agency would be the CNR. The CNR is decentralized
agency under the Ministry of Justice with administrative and financial autonomy. The
CNR's governing body is its Board, headed by the Minister of Justice and composed of
the Executive Director of the CNR, the Vice Ministers of Planning, Housing and Public
Works, and the Project Coordinator. The Board is expected to be expanded to include
the Vice Ministers of Economy and Finance. The CNR currently implements both the
barido and the Sonsonate records integration of the pilot project through its Executing
Unit (UE-Unidad Ejecutora). This set up, which has been successful during the pilot,
would continue under the proposed project; the CNR Directorate would implement the
institutional strengthening and decentralization component.



-19-
4.2   The UE is composed of an international manager who reports to the CNR
Executing Director through a National Coordinator appointed by the CNR Board. This
coordinator ensures day to day relations with the Government and private professional
associations. For current organization of EU, see Annex E4. Under the project, the UE
would be strengthened with a Quality Control team (see para. 2.9 and Annex El). The
Quality Control Team, composed at least two experts, will follow-up on the technical
quality of the works, and on coordination with the institutional component. The two
experts will assist in monitoring compliance of contractors with technical specifications
and timely completing of works. In addition the UE will be in charge of training of local
consultant staff to ensure staff in sufficient quantity and with proper training are brought
in for the timely completion of the activities. Hiring of the Quality Control Team would
take place on June 30, 1996 (see para.5.2 (d)).
4.3   The UE would carryout the public information functions of the project, namely
public dissemination campaigns, contact with the mayors, and coordination with other
agencies.
4.4    The UE would also supervise consultants. It is currently supervising a Dutch-
based international consortium  headed by KADASTRE.   KADASTRE  is the
international arm of the Dutch Legal Cadastre, a world leader in innovating and
regularizing land records. The consortium is carrying out all technical aspects of the
PRISA-financed pilot project, including aerial photography, mapping, land regularization
field and registry work, as well as providing technical assistance for the institutional and
legal framework requirement of the CNR, including setting up the land information
system and making recommendations on institutional organizational issues.
4.5   In the national program, and based on the larger volume of works, the contracts
would be organized differently than the pilot. For instance, in the pilot program the
international firm entered into local contracts for the legal work. This was justified given
the lack of managerial experience to implement similar complex and dovetailed activities
in El Salvador. In the national program, however, the aerophotogrammetry and mapping
would be tendered separately to international firms, which would work under the
supervision of the UE. Local consultants would take on surveying and amalgamation of
the parcel-based records. Updating the LIS (see para. 2.6(b)) would be handled by
international consultants, following on the development of the computer-based registry
procedures and establishing the LIS under the pilot project. The verification of integrated
cadastral and legal data would be carried out by CNR registrars. All international firms
would work under the UE, whose quality control team will be responsible for supervising
the collection of basic information, technical standards, reporting requirements and
coordination with other contractors.
4.6   The UE would also carry out project administration, procurement, disbursements,
monitoring and evaluation (M&E) audits and other reporting. The CNR's UE would
continue to carry out project administration, procurement and disbursement procedures.
To streamline financial flows, the GOES would agree during negotiations to make



-20-
available to the project, from CNR revenues or otherwise, funds required according to a
yearly budgeting process. As a condition of effectiveness, the government will open a
counterpart funds local currency account (see para. 5.3(a)). The UE would implement
an agreed Management Information System (MIS) for performance, monitoring and
evaluation (see para. 4.18). The UE will also carry out regular audits (see para. 4.16),
and submit information to the Bank as required to carry out effective supervision. The
Bank has identified key junctures where technical supervision would be appropriate (see
Annex E2) and will schedule supervision missions with these milestones.
B. Implementation Schedule
4.7   The UE will schedule and coordinate with the CNR the legal steps required to
formalize regularization data. Under the proposed legislative framework, prior to starting
work on an area, the site would be classed as "cadastral area" by executive decree. On
completion of regularization (formally entering the data into the LIS), the area would be
classed as "cadastred area" by the same means, thereby making the new records official
and start enforcing the registration obligations. For the proposed project, the legal
framework for land registry and cadastre is being revised to streamline these procedures
(see para. 1.19).
4.8   Coverage will be sequenced, beginning with the Central and Western regions
(Phase 1), and then moving to the Northern and Eastern regions (Phase 2). This area
sequencing will balance the workload of the 115 field verification teams by combining the
smallest region (Western) with the largest (Central, which includes the San Salvador
metropolitan area).
4.9   During Phase 1, technical assistance will need to be more intense to anchor the
learning process, and because it includes the more difficult departments, such as
Chalatenango, which has Peace Accord tasks and only a partial cadastre. This phase will
also include San Salvador, because it is both strategically important to the program's
credibility to advance rapidly in a high-profile metropolitan area and also has the highest
revenue-generating potential due to its larger number of parcels and the velocity of their
turnover. The revenue generated in the first phase would be available to defray
counterpart costs of the project (see para. 2.12) for the second phase. A preliminary
timing of program activities is included in Annex B2.
C. Procurement
4.10  A procurement assessment, conducted by the Bank in 1992, concluded that there
are no major conflicts between local procurement procedures and Bank policies and
guidelines. In 1992 the government amended the procurement law to lift restrictions on
the participation of foreign companies in civil works. The CNR will carry out all
procurement under the proposed operation following the January 1995 Guidelines:



-21-
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits, with technical assistance from UNDP
under a cost-sharing agreement satisfactory to the Bank and similar to the one being
successfully implemented for the PRISA project. Under that cost-sharing agreement,
UNDP assists the government in procuring goods, works, and services financed by the
project-using standardized procurement documents satisfactory to the Bank. As a
condition of effectiveness the government would present evidence of having entered into
a similar mechanism for the proposed project (see para. 5.3 (b); for procurement plan,
see Annex E3).
4.11  Works and Service Contracts. The project would finance civil works and
service contracts. For small civil works to rehabilitate the San Salvador CNR offices and
the other regional and municipal offices, national competitive bidding (NCB) would be
used to the extent possible for procurement. However, since these works are widely
scattered, most minor works, estimated to cost less than US$350,000 per contract and
up to an aggregate amount of US$2 million, are expected to be procured under lump
sum fixed price contracts awarded on the basis of three quotations. For service
contracts, international competitive bidding (ICB) would be used, primarily for mapping
(aerial photography, stereo plotting preparation, and aerotriangulation) and restitution,
including complementary topographic surveys (about US$14.0 million), in packages
valued above US$1 million. Below this amount, service contracts would be awarded
through NCB, up to an aggregate amount of $1.0 million. For the information
campaign, direct contracting will be used for the with newspapers and radio stations, at
prices not higher than prevailing rates for comparable services, as well as for small
contracts for the distribution of leaflets and local announcements, up to an aggregate
amount of $3.5 million.
4.12 Goods. Vehicle purchases would be packaged into contracts valued at more than
US$250,000 and procured through Limited International Bidding (LIB) from suppliers
with service and maintenance facilities in El Salvador and neighboring countries. Other
goods, including computers, office equipment and furniture, would be procured through
ICB. Packages of similar equipment valued between US$50,000 and $250,000, up to an
aggregate amount of US$250,000, would be procured through national competitive
bidding (NCB). Miscellaneous equipment items valued under US$50,000, up to an
aggregate amount of US$600,000, would be procured using national and international
shopping procedures.
4.13  Consultant Services. All consultant services will be procured according to the
guidelines, Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency (August, 1981). For prior review limits, see Table 4.
4.14 Review Requirements. Prior review by the Bank would be required for (a) all
contracts awarded through ICB and LIB, (b) the first two contracts for goods, works
and service contracts (if any) awarded under NCB, and (c) all contracts for consulting
services, with the exceptions noted in Table 3 below. All other contracts would be
subject to ex-post review by the Bank during supervision. These arrangements would



-22-
ensure prior review by the Bank of about 85 percent of the value of all Bank-financed
contracts. All procurement documentation would be kept by the UE for periodic
supervision by Bank staff. Table 3 summarizes procurement arrangements by category
and Table 4 highlights the thresholds for each procurement method and for prior review.
Table 3: Procurement Methods
(USS Million)
Ca_tory                 interaUonm             National            Other        TOT_AL
Competve            Competitive
.Mdln               B.d.ng
A. Civil Works                                          0.5                    1.5 b/         2.0
(0.4)                  (1.4)          (1.4)
Service Contracts                14.0                1.0                                  15.0
(11.2)             (0.8)                                (12.0)
B. Goods                             2.8                0.3                    2.6c/          5.7
(2.8)             (0.3)                  (2.5)          (5.6)
C. Consultants
Lmoal                                                                     27.9 d/        27.9
(17.7)         (17.7)
International                                                              3.2 d/          3.2
(3.0)          (3.0)
D. Training                                                                    1.6d/          1.6
(1.5)          (1.5)
E. Infonnation Campaign                                                        3.5e/          3.5e/
(2.8)         (2.8)
F. Incementsa Recunret Cods i                                                  9.0            9.0
(4.0)         (4.0)
G. PPF                                                  0.1                    2.0            2.1
(0.1)                  (1.9)          (2.0)
Tobl                             16.S                1.4                  51.8           70.0
14.0)              (I.2)                 (4.8)          50.0
Note: Figu in pawntis refpent amounts, including contingencies, eligible to be financed by the Bank. Rows and colunm  may
ndt add due to ounding.
A.  Includes salies and operating cost.
b.   Three quotatian procedures for small civil works satisfactory to the BanL
c.   LIB (UJSS2.0 million) for vehicles nd shopping procedure for goods (USS0.6 million).
d.   Cmutlting services.
e.   Direct Contacting.



-23-
Table 4: Limits on Types of Procurement and Prior Review Thresholds
(US$ thousands)
................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
Category            Procurement Method      Contacts Subject to Prior  Contract Value
Review
WORKS                    NCB                       First two contracts           2350
Three quotations a       None                           <350
SERVICE CONTRACTS        ICB                       All                           >1,000
NCB                      First two contracts           <1,000
Direct Contracting       None                           NA
GOODS                    ICB and LIB (vehicles)    All                           2250
NCB                      First two contracts          50 to 250
Three quotations a/      None                           <50
CONSULTING               Local and foreign consulting   All                      >100
SERVICES and TRAINING    firms                     TORs only (except sole        <100
sourcing, assigmnents of
critical nature and for
amendments to contracts
raising original contract value
above US$100)
Local and foreign individual   Same as above            >50
consultants                                             <50
fl At least three price quotations.
D. Disbursement
4.15   Disbursements would occur over the project's six-year life. The loan closing date
would be six years after effectiveness, estimated to occur in June 1996. The borrower,
GOES, would establish a Special Account for the project in a commercial bank. under
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, in US currency, with an authorized allocation of US
$2.0 million and an initial deposit of US$0.5 million, equal to about four months of
estimated disbursements under the loan not covered under costs sharing agreement with
UNDP (see para. 4.10). Disbursement requests to the Bank would be made by the CNR
and processed by the UE. Disbursements against contracts for goods under US$250,000,
civil and mapping works under US$350,000, consultants firms under US$100,000 and
individuals  under  US$50,000;  information  campaign  and  incremental  recurrent
expenditures would be made on the basis of statements of expenditure (SOEs).
Disbursements against all civil works, works and goods contracts above the set limits,
would be made against full documentation submitted to the Bank. As indicated in the
disbursement schedule (see Annex F), disbursement would be at the rate of 80 percent
for works, service contracts and information campaign, 60 percent for local consultant
services, 100 percent for intemational consultant services and training, 100 percent for
foreign costs for equipment and fumiture and 87 percent for local goods purchased
locally-in all cases excluding taxes and for eligible expenses only. The projected eight



-24-
year schedule of Bank disbursements (see Annex F) reflects the historical El Salvador
disbursement profile (for all sectors), which spans eight years; the profile was adjusted to
reflect the best estimate of expected Bank disbursements. To ensure a smooth transition
from activities programmed under the proposed project and the ongoing PRISA-funded
pilot project, retroactive financing of up to US$5.0 million is recommended for
expenditures incurred after July 1, 1995.
E. Accounts and Auditing
4.16    The CNR would maintain separate central project accounts, including
consolidation of accounts from regional offices. Each of its four regional offices would
also maintain separate project accounts for project expenditures incurred by them. All
accounts would adequately reflect project expenditures made in accordance with sound
accounting practices. Financial documents (procurement, disbursement requests, budgets
audit reports) would be reviewed by the UE before submission to the Bank. A certified
copy of the project audit by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank and in
accordance with the Guidelines for Financial Reporting and Auditing of Projects
Financed by the World Bank (March, 1982), would be submitted to the Bank not more
than six months after the completion of each financial year. The audit report would
include a separate opinion by the auditor on disbursements against certified Statements of
Expenditures (SOEs) and the Special Account. SOEs would be made available to the
Bank and reviewed by supervision missions. The implementing agency has a clear
understanding of the scope and format of project financial reports required by the Bank,
which they have been complying satisfactorily under the PRISA project.
F. Project Reporting, Monitoring and Evaluation
4.17 Reporting, monitoring and evaluation would be the responsibility of CNR. The
project would be managed by the UE under the CNR (see para. 4.1). Project
management would be backstopped by a management information system (MIS),
described below to carry out the project M&E to enable the CNR timely follow-up of
implementation.
4.18 The main vehicle for M&E would be quarterly reports prepared by the EU for the
CNR Board and Bank supervision. M&E indicators are part of the MIS system. The
UE would complete the MIS design, which would include periodic reports on impact,
and quarterly reports on financial, implementation, and legal indicators of project
progress (based on indicators in Annexes G1-4). The main features of this system are the
monitoring of activities in reference to the objectives of the project, namely land security
and institutional development. These impact indicators refer to the improvements in land
security as measured by the number of regularized parcels and credit granted to newly
registered parcels. The financial indicators would monitor the financial health of the CNR
as well as the counterpart funds availability for the project as per yearly budgeting



-25-
process (see para. 4.6). Progress would be monitored through the implementation
indicators would monitor progress on updating legal and cadastral information; number
of parcels regularized; the legal evolution of the CNR; training; and technical assistance.
Legal indicators would monitor compliance with legal covenants. Formats were agreed
during negotiations (see para. 5.2(b)) First quarterly report would be due July 1996.
Terms of reference for establishing baselines are in Annex G5.
G. Supervision by the Bank
4.19  Intense supervision would be required during the first phase because of the
breadth of the proposed project and the difficulty involved in a massive deployment of
field teams. A supervision plan has been prepared, identifying key junctures where
supervision would be appropriate (see Annex E2). Major tools for supervision would be:
(a) quarterly reports with M&E information generated by the MIS (see para. 4.18 and
Annex G), including impact, financial, implementation, and legal indicators; (b) periodic
independent studi.i and (c) a midterm review.
(a)   Periodic Independent Studies. During negotiations, assurances are to be
obtained that the Government would carry out periodic independent
studies to review aspects of implementation and modernization. The first
such study would be a review of tariffs to reconfirm self-financing and
indicator baseline survey (see TORs in Annex B6 and G5). Other such
studies would be on the effectiveness of the new CNR, project impact
surveys, evaluation of administrative decentralization on role of
municipalities, prospective property valuation system, property rights and
farm productivity and others to be agreed with the Bank.
(b)   Midterm Review. During negotiations, assurances are to be obtained that
the government would hold a midterm review no later than November 30,
1998. In addition to the points normally covered in annual reviews, the
review would analyze the need to restructure or redesign any aspect of
the project and the financial health of the CNR. It would also look at the
need to modify the following year's work plan, if necessary, to achieve
project objectives more efficiently.
H. Expected Benefits and Risks
4.20  Project Benefits. The project would enhance land security-and value-and
contribute to better land use and enhanced collateral. Secure property rights achieved
through a process of field adjudication and non judicial conflict resolution are an
important contributor to peace and a significant step toward creating a fluid land market.
Also, because land is a store of value, land holders not currently regularized (mostly
rural and poor) who obtain registered titles under the project will be able to save in land
and convey to others their interest in land assets at the full market value. Finally, the



-26-
establishment of a consolidated and self-financing CNR consolidating land registry and
cadastre functions, able to maintain records updated, is the condition for project
sustainability.
4.21   An economic analysis of this project was not carried out because a meaningful
cost/benefit analysis cannot be expected from this type of project. A description of major
technical choices involved in the design of the land data acquisition component (half of
the project costs) is in Annex E5 (see also para. 3.5).
4.22   Risks. The main risk lies in the difficulty of strengthening the CNR to modernize
the tasks of constituent agencies, RPRH/RSI and IGN. The difficulty stems from two
aspects, financial resources and human resources. Financial resources are expected to be
sufficient because historically, fees generated by RPRH have generated revenues for the
Treasury and new CNR financial autonomy allows it retain all of its revenues. In
addition, land regularization and universal registration effectively double its clientbase.
Technical staff are not sufficient but CNR will upgrade it by retrenching unnecessary
(mainly support or outdated) staff and hiring more technically qualified staff at higher
salaries with the salary savings. Legislative Decree No. 471 allowing civil service
retrenchment with enhanced indemnizations was approved on October 12, 1995, and
CNR shed 350 positions in December 1995. Administrative unrest is not expected after
these separations are completed. Some of the retrenched staff will be contracted by the
project for specific, temporary tasks.
4.23   A secondary risk is that the magnitude of the demand for field teams (115)
required under the project exceeds the available local capacity. An intensive training
program has been designed to train staff and contractors and the government has agreed
to hire the Quality Control Team before June 30, 1996. (see para. 5.2 (d)).
4.24   Civil unrest is not a risk.  Aided by a growing economy and substantial
remittances, the peace process has been relatively successful. Crime-related insecurity
remains, however, and being addressed by the recently installed civil police.



-27-
5. SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS AmD RECOMMENDATION
A.   Agreements
5.1   On January 25, 1996, the Legislature approved changes to the Cadastre Law that
make land registration by notaries compulsory and universal (see para. 2.5 (a)).
5.2   During negotiations, the government agreed to:
(a)   make no changes to the CNR or Cadastre Laws which may adversely
affect project activities (see paras. 1.13 and 2.5(a));
(b)   establish monitoring and evaluation indicators satisfactory to the Bank,
including agreed formats for performance indicators (see Annexes G1-4;
also para. 4.18) and produce quarterly reports;
(c)   hold a midterm review no later than November 30, 1998 (see para. 4.19
Cb));
(d)   hire the UE Quality Control Team before June 30, 1996 (see para. 4.2 and
Annex El); and
(e)   prior to initiating any project activity in a border area, submit evidence
satisfactory to the Bank, of bordering country's agreement to both
activity and area involved (see para. 2.7).
5.3   As a condition of effectiveness, the GOES would agree to:
(a)   establish a counterpart funds local currency account (see para. 4.6); and
(b)   enter into an agreement with UNDP, or any other agency satisfactory to
the Bank, to assist CNR in the carrying out procurement of goods, works
and consultant services (see para. 4.10).
B. Recommendation
5.4   With these agreements and conditions, the project would be eligible for a Bank
loan of US$50.0 million equivalent with a term of 17 years and a grace period of four
years.
January31 1996



ANNEXES
Annex A: Institutional Analysis of the National Registry Center
D  Al   Registry Division Map
*  A2    Registry Staff Table
3  A3    Organigram for National Registry Center



Annex A
Page 1 of 6
EL SALVADOR
LAND ADMINISTRATION PROJECT
INSTITUTIONAL ANALYSIS OF THE NATIONAL REGISTRY CENTER
1.    This annex describes the current institutional setup of the National Registry Center
(CNR), including its history, current status, size, functions, and organization. Annex B
describes the activities envisaged under the project to strengthen and decentralize the CNR.
Current Institutional Setup
2.    National Registry Center. The Government of El Salvador (GOES) created CNR by
Executive Decree no. 62 of December 7, 1994. More recently, CNR was established as an
autonomous agency by Legislative Decree No. 462, approved October 5, 1995. With this act,
GOES was able to combine the lines of authority and take the first step to streamline procedures
and establish a consolidated land registry and cadastral system. This consolidation builds on the
success of the Social Land Registry (RSI) in rationalizing and automating procedures for the
registration of land in marginal areas, mainly in San Salvador. By integrating the functions of RSI
with those of the Land and Mortgage Registry (RPRH) and the National Geographic Institute
(IGN), the GOES laid the foundation for creating an efficient, streamlined and financially self-
sustaining national cadastre and land-registration mechanism
3.    CNR is overseen by a Board composed of the Minister of Justice (chair); the vice
ministers of the Housing and Urban Development, Planing and Public Works; and the head of
the National Family Secretariat (currently the First Lady of the Republic and a notary by training).
Directly under the council, and reporting to it, is an executive director. The director of registries
(land and commerce) and the executive director of the IGN report to the executive director of the
CNR. (See Annexes Al, A2 and A3.)
4.    Land and Mortgage Registry. The Registro de la Propriedad Real e Hipotecas
(RPRH)-4and and mortgage registry system-draws on the principles of the nineteenth century
Napoleonic Civil Code prevalent in most countries in Latin America. The Napoleonic deed
registry is grantee-based rather than land-based (folio personal rather than folio reat.' RPRH
has ten departmental offices. The RPRH operates as a public registry. Consequently, the public
can access all inforrnation in the registry.
1.   Except San Salvador, which uses thefolio real system



Annex A
Page 2 of 6
5.    The present land registration system is bureaucratic and leads to delays. Notaries are not
obliged to register, procedures for insciption are discretionary with no standardized deed fornat
requiements and supporting document reqirements cumbersome. Therefore, the San Salvador
registry-the main one in the country-has a backlog of 8 to 10 years, mainly in problem
documents (staled registrations) requiring supplementary documentation, court orders, and the
like. Registration is not obligatory, and despite the legal security it provides, the incentives were
stacked against registering land. Hence, RPRH cannot cope efficiently with increasing
demand for diversified services, including land distribution programs, new settlements, and
urban sprawl. A current review of registry and cadastral legislation aims at establishing new
rules to expedite processing of problem cases.
6.    RPRfIs procedures for inscription are discretionary, lack transparency and are
inefficient. This system gives registrars excessive autonomy in decisions to reject or delay
certain registration applications. The registrar can stop the process because of a superficial
mistake or oversight (i.e.,spelling/typing error, lack of second surname). Because RPRH
also lacks the resources to acquire modern office technology and computer software, all
registration operations are manual.
7.    Supporting documentation required for registration often does not relate to the
transaction taking place, often stalling the process for extraneous reasons. In the past,
procedures were also hampered because RPRH had to verify payment of wealth and estate taxes.
The abolition of the wealth and estate taxes has emminated these barriers, but the land registry
must still collect evidence of payment of the less onerous municipal taxes and personal transit
roads fee (vialidad clase  'C');2 these certificates can be lost, and when they are, the
process is stopped until new copies can be obtained. The Ministry of Finance does not allow
repayment if taxes have already been paid, and copies of old records take a very long time to
obtain (due to backlogs at the Corte de Cuentas (Controllers), there are cases of eight-year
waits).
2 Draft legislation is now before the Legislature to abolish these requirements.



Annex A
Page 3 of 6
8.    Other bottlenecks stemming from the current registration system are the low level of
registry services (not enough registrars), a document presentation system that does not
guarantee priority (first to register is recognized as having legitimate right, but priority can
be abused or ignored)-therefore preventive annotations on the registry volumes are not
sufficient to guarantee rightful ownership security. Also, because some deeds are ancient,
the literal description of the property in the deeds does not coincide with described
boundaries and the property's actual area and location. Furthermore, the neighbors may
have changed and there is no recollection of true area or boundaries. This operation is
aggravated by the lack of a single national identification document, although lately GOES
has expanding the use of the taxpayer number or NIT (numero de identificaci6n tributaria).
9.    Examples of current problems in the legal procedures are the following:
*  Properties without prior registration, because no cadastre exists in the area, or
without updated information.
*  Broken successive tract because an inheritance was not registered, thus the
grandchildren cannot register their right inherited from the registered
grandparent.
*  Deeds not registered, even if legitimattely established because notaries are not
now obliged to present deeds to the registry.
*  Adverse possession laws: require 30 years of occupancy before a title of adverse
possession (titulo supletorio) can be granted.
*  De facto collective property (Proindivisos de facto) successively parceled and
not registered.
*  Leases with purchase options. Such an agreement is not a 'teal" right, and it
cannot be registered at the present time. But this practice is a common means of
purchasing property for small urban developments, in the absence of access to a
long-term mortgage market. An estimated 350,000 families currently in this
situation are at risk of developer fraud.
10.   RPRH's legal and institutional inadequacy became a critical issue, given the need to
fonnalize rights in squatter settlements that resulted from civil war and urban in-migration. For
instance, there is no back-up documentation. Only the San Salvador registry established a
microfiche backup, located in the same building as the original documents; If a fire or an act of
God occurs, both copies could be destroyed. During the civil war, the FMLN destroyed land



Annex A
Page 4 of 6
records in some conflict areas. This inforrnation would be restored under the proposed project.
The proposed project includes decentralized back-up systems for the four offices.
11.    Staffing. RPHR has about 300 staft of which too many are support staff and not
enough are technical and managerial staff The consolidation of the CNR requires support
training to adapt RPRH/RSI and IGN staff skills to the new integrated legal and cadastral records
and to the computerized management of land information. More registrars skilled on automated
procedures will be required to move on to the successful RSI system (see para. 12).
12.    The Social Land Registry. Because RPRH was not able to handle large-scale land
registration, such as the kind needed in marginal areas, GOES decided in 1991 to bypass RPRH
and create RSI. After four years in operation RSI already shows promising results, and it is more
agile and efficient than RPRH. On average it takes RSI three days to clear and register a title and
integrate title registration with cadastre information-it is computerizing all cadastre data in its
areas of operation-and its computerized title inscriptions permit easy searches and data retrieval.
Because of its innovative procedures, RSI's inscription volume is already 40 percent that of
RPRH, even though it also records cadastre data, has only a third of RPRH's staff and operates in
only two locations.
13.    The original establishment of the RSI was supported by AID in 1986, with the technical
assistance of the Peruvian Instituto Libertady Democracia (ILD). The ILD pioneered the 'tocial
registry' concept to register marginal lands in Lima, Peru, and to circumvent legal bottlenecks
that had precluded titling before it created the Registro Predial, managed by ILD, an NGO. The
RSI is a similar concept, with the Instituto Libertady Progreso (ILP) performing a similar role
as the Peruvian ILD. The contentious issues related to the Registro Predal have been the
potential for moral hazard created by (a) the 'Witness verification" of adverse possession claims,
(b) the parallel nature of the Registro Predial, because it had no links with the traditional registry,
and (c) the lack of properly georeferenced cadastral information that the Registro Predial
attaches to itsfolio reales (because this information is not available). The RSI has remedied these
issues by restricting its regularization to preventive annotations when the claims are not frilly
supported (instead of fill registration) and by subordinating the RSI to the traditional registry as a
branch for specified clients (social interest properties so designated by ILP), including cadastral
data to its parcel records, the latter will be properly georeferenced when cadastral information is
updated under the proposed project. The RSI assesses that, although the ILD concepts were
useful, less than 5 percent of the original ILD design is left. The proposed project also addresses
issues not included in the Registro Predial model (i.e., conflict resolution mechanisms, service
and revenue diversification).
14.   RSI will provide some key institutional elements for CNR's future land registry
operations. RSI operates as an autonomous agency under RPRH. It has a defined mandate, to
register titles in squatter settlements and handle large-scale title registrations for, inter alia,
-- -- -- -- - - ~ ~~ ~ ~ ~~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~ ~~ ~ ~~ ~ ~~ ~ ~~ ~ ~~ ~ ~~ ~~~ ~~~ ~~~ ~~~ ~~~ ~



Annex A
Page 5 of 6
FONAVIPO, the social housing fund. RSI's purview has recently been expanded to register plots
distributed under the Peace Accords and the ampliaci6n, i.e., all transactions requiring boundary
changes are registered by RSL, housing developments and parcel fragmentation. Recent addition
to RSI's portfolio raised demand for RSI services some 40 percent, particularly from institutions
financing housing developments. Another key element to RSI's success is that it is allowed to
retain its fee revenues to buy equipment and hire higher-paid staff without outside ex arde
clearance. RSI has a 'bne-stop window'receiving both legal and cadastral information. Because
RSI can also control its work flow and set priorities among potential clients, it does not have a
backlog. This substantially reduces document losses. These operating procedures will be
incorporated under the proposed project; registration priority will be assigned before accepting
registration requests and supporting documentation will be scanned.
15.   The National Geographic Institute (IGN). The cadastre lies with IGN, which is also in
charge of national cartography. IGN operates under the terms of the national cadastre law. One
of its roles is to complement land registries with cadastral dates to ensure the accuracy of land
records.
16.   IGN's budget has been insufficient to finance its operation. More than 90 percent of the
budget is slated for salaries. Available equipment is outdated and/or out of order, including an
airplane in disrepair and with no global positioning system (GPS) mounted on it. Only one or two
cadastral teams will be needed in the new CNR configuration, where all cadastral updating work
will be the responsibility of the land owners. CNR cadastral teams will only issue guidelines on
how the work will need to be presenter to ensure trouble-free inclusion in to the new folio real
system and its automated land information system (LIS).
17.   Because current legislation relating to land registries establishes no technical-legal
corrllements between those registries and cadastral data, updating the latter has suffered from
exccssive delays. Consequently, there has been a breakdown in the functional relationship
between the cadastre and the registry, these problems have often resulted in confusion as
cadastral data are not always available to support land registration procedures. Only about 40
percent of El Salvador's properties are registered, and of those tracts, less than a third have
cadastral references. NMany properties with valid registrations cannot be located. Cadastral
information sent by the land and social registries to IGN are not systematically updated.
During the appraisal mission (July 1995), an IGN official categorized as 'yesterday's" the
cadastral backlog dating back to 1992. A key activity of the project will be to overcome
problems resulting from this lack of coordination.
Other Institutions Involved in Registration and Cadastral Procedures
18.   Complementing the functions of the various public-sector agencies described above are
notaries, topographers, and municipal offices. Notaries are private-sector specialized lawyers



Annex A
Page 6 of 6
whose role is to intermediate and provide legally binding effect to all acts and transacdons
affecting real property, such as sales, mortgages, leases, conveyance by inheritance. There is no
'hotaries monopoly"( i.e., there is free entry for all lawyers into the notary profession by passing
an exam). Notanes' fees are regulated, but because of the abundance of notaries, these fees are
ceilings and rarely attained. A major flaw of the present system is that notaries have no legal
obligation to register titles or any of the transactions affecting properties. This weakness has
added to the conusion of the present system. Only registration at the land or social registries
makes the registration information public, with universal access, and provides good faith to the
transactions.
19.    Topography is an unchartered profession in El Salvador. There is no guild, no quality
control, no licensing. Most technicians worldng as topographers are civil engineers (or related
profession) or are technicians graduated from technical schools, notably the IDB-supported
Instituto Tecnolgico Centoamerino (ITCA).
20.    Municipal offices can grant title to municipal lands, but these titles, if not registered into
the land registry, arc inot legally binding before third parties.
Twpc YowNan= Hae
M:\SVANWAR\YCXA)INST.DOC
SeptuIbfr 15, 1995 11:05 AM



Annex Al
DIVISION DEL REGISTRO
EN RAZON DEL TERRITORIO
-Dptos-b. de San;  An                          Do. de Ahuach_ 1
________< 3a.                     r.cif   -ciie:  l..l§1R \\Seci6  .C _ _
Dpto. ~      v de} S,.cat                e -pos  -a  Salvador-
la. Secclon Oc.>en:-z                     5  a. Seccion Occer.:r
Dpto. deSna  An                            Dpto. deChuachapang
-~~   I~a. Seoz.on Cen r.                <\ y   a. Sec-:' on Cn:r
'-~ '     ;:zs. 3.'n '1:.-:  *                     Dpto. se is___r
/Z~~':<r  



EL SALVADOR                                              Annex A2
LAND ADMININSTRATION PROJECT
National Registry Center
Staff Positions (September, 1995)'
Agency
Field                    RSI    DGR         IGN
Management                    5                  1
Technkal                    48       165      323
Administrative               12       19       39
Support                     37       182      218
Subtotal       102      388       581
TOTALI              1049
Notes:
RSI: Social Land Regisby
DGR: General Dictorate of Registries (Land has 307 saff
and Commrnce ha 59 stff).
IGN: Natonal Geogaphic Instut
Technical staff include Cadste and Cartography
CNR shed 350 saff upon consolIdion and
effetcvenes of Decre 471
(Public Sector Retrenchenent) in December 1995.



Annx A3
Page 1 of 2
711
E~ 
~~~~~~ Q~~~~~~~~
~~_



Annex U3
Page 2 o f 2
*s      I  :- ~ORGANICRGI pNCOAL CKNTRIO  AW LDElCliOS                                                    ;
~~~~~~~~~Ia. =F_  1
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LPM_' m mo
_.__ __ ,a,"
r    1    |                    1               I 
rl~~-irO-2K ,UL_1                                             1                                       O d   1 
4 I I ^ 1i- ' q " I d1 {" F~~~~~~~~~~                                      _  L W   M   I%
e iS H1 



Annex B: Institutional Strengthening and Decentralization Component
3 B 1 Plan of Action to Consolidate CNR
3  B2   Timetable for National Project
3  B3   Training Plan
-  B4   Proposal for CNR Document Standardization
3  B5   CNR Financial Sustainability
*  B6   Tariff Review - TOR



Annex B
Page 1 of 7
EL SALVADOR
LAND ADMINISTRATION PROJECT
INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING AND DECENTRALIZATION COMPONENT
1.    This annex describes the activities and implementation process of the institutional
decentralization and strengthening component of the proposed project. This component
will finance the establishment of the institutional framework, structure and procedures for
the introduction of an integrated, nationwide mapping and land registration system.' The
objective is to achieve institutional capacity to maintain records up to date after
regularization takes place.
Background
2.    El Salvador's land registry and cadastral system's legal and institutional
inadequacy is creating serious problems at a time when the Government of El Salvador
(GOES) is trying to formalize property rights. Of particular concern for the project are
squatter settlements (usually the result of the civil war and migration from poor rural
areas) and land transfers as part of the Peace Accords.
3.    To move from the present, archaic, and inefficient system to one that is both
efficient and financially self-sustaining, it will be necessary to consolidate, restructure, and
streamline the agencies that implement the current system-RPRH, RSI, and IGN. The
end result will be an integrated "universal register," managed by the National Registry
Center (Centro Nacional de Regis&ros-CNR; see Annex A). CNR's legal status is that of
an autonomous agency under the purview of the Ministry of Justice. To achieve maximum
efficiency in land-registration and cadastral procedures, CNR's activities will be
decentralized to regional and municipal levels. Establishing the new registry system will
also involve other agencies (such as the commerce registry, which falls under the purview
of the CNR but not under the proposed project).2
Actions Required for Institutional Consolidation
4.    With help from the Bank and a team of international consultants-KADASTER
BV-CNR has prepared a detailed institutional development plan. It describes the actions
1. The history and organization of El Salvador's current land-registration and cadastre system are
described in Annex A.
2. The Bank-proposed Competitiveness Enhancement Technical Assistance Project (Loan 3946-ES) is
supporting institutional development activities for the commerce registry.



Annex B
Page 2 of 7
(and stages) that will be required for CNR to evolve into a single institution, including the
merger of RPRH, RSI, and IGN. The development plan includes
(a)   a plan of action to be carried out to achieve the consolidation of RPRH,
RSI, and IGN into CNR (see below) and Annex BI;
(b)   a timetable for implementation (see Annex B2); and
(c)   a training plan (see Annex B3).
Institutional Aspects and Regional Decentralization
5.    The main functions of CNR are defined in Executive Decree No. 62 dated
December 7, 1994 and ratified by Legislative Decree No. 462, approved on October 5,
1995. Approved legislation states CNR's administrative and financial autonomy, role and
detailed functions and technical aspects and identifies the services and products to be
provided as well as the functions of each of its component. Approval of this decree is a
condition of negotiations. To carry out this consolidation and other aspects of the project,
CNR is working in close cooperation with KADASTER's consultants who will be in El
Salvador for as long as two years under the PRISA- (Loan 3576-ES) financed pilot
project.
6.    After the existing agencies have been restructured under a single umbrella (CNR),
the next step is to select staff for CNR's new role and functions. Legislative Decree No.
471, approved on October 12, 1995, provides authority and resources for public agencies
to retrench redundant staff. The following phase of implementation (January 1996-June
1996) will be the transition phase after retrenchment, when training or remaining staff and
new hires will start (see Annex B3, Training Plan).
7.    The final phase of implementation will start in late 1996 and involve decentralizing
CNR's functions into one central office and three regional offices, respectively: San
Salvador's metropolitan area and Santa Ana/Sonsonate, San Vicente, and San Miguel. As
soon as each of the four new offices has introduced the unified, computerized land registry
and cadastre system, operations will be further decentralized to 52 municipal offices.
8.    The functions of each municipal office will be dual. First, each will be equipped
with "read only" data retrieval systems to service local clients by informing them of the
status of registration and cadastration. Second, each municipal office will act as a
collecting point of data on new transactions affecting properties within their respective
catchment areas. Each office will transmit this information to their regional office for
processing.
9.    The reason CNR's functions will be decentralized only after completing the
consolidation of existing agencies is twofold. First, full consolidation under CNR will
integrate working procedures and establish a central management structure. Without this



Annex B
Page 3 of 7
framework, it will not be possible to introduce the new system of folio real registration on
a phased basis. The new integrated computerized registry and cadastre systems will be
brought on line sequentially in the four regions after data from aerial photography and on-
site verifications have been reconciled and digitalized. This phasing procedure, in turn, will
make the institutional development process easier to implement because each regional
office will be able to learn from the experience of others.
10.   The project execution unit for the pilot project in Sonsonate will work with the
executive committee of CNR to develop organizational charts, work-flow charts, and job
descriptions for the new CNR system. This task will include defining the respective
responsibilities of the management council (Consejo de Direcci6n-CD) and executive
director (Director Ejecutivo-DE). The following functions are anticipated:
*  Acting under the authority of the Minister of Justice, the CD will determine
CNR's general orientation, business policies, operating procedures, and budget.
The CD will also appoint CNR's senior managers.
- Acting under the authority of the CD, the DE will be responsible for
subcontracting of services, determining personnel policies and internal
regulations, and representing CNR at its official functions. DE will also set
CNR's annual business plans and be responsible for delegations of authority to
CNR's component bodies. Acting under the DE are the director of registries
(land and commerce) and the executive director of the IGN.
Operational Aspects of Functional Decentralization
11.   Under the decentralization, functions under the new structure would be as follows:
(a)   Central Level Functions. A first tier, the central-level functions to be
provided by CNR will be managerial and administrative. These tasks will
include, among other things, the general orientation, planning,
programming and budgeting, financial management and accounting, human
resource management, relations with other organizations, and follow-up of
operations.
(b)   Technical Functions.These duties to be provided at the central level by
CNR will include
*  maintaining relationships with related professions;
*  elaborating technical instructions and legal, topographic, and system
norms;
*  elaborating terms of reference for contractors (firms) and receiving and
controlling the quality of their works and services;
*  elaborating model documents for procedures for document updating,
certifications, and topographic surveys;



Annex B
Page 4 of 7
*  carrying  out technical works of national interest: technology
development, geodesic surveys, general topography;
*  improving legal procedures, technical and systems works;
*  training; and
*  safeguarding the national land registry and cadastre documentation.
(c)   Regional Level Functions. A key regional responsibility will be to update
the national land registry and cadastre. Also, CNR's regional offices will
ensure personnel management of human resources and other resources of
the regional center. Regional offices will also provide technical support by
*  issuing cadastral extracts for preparing deeds and other documents,
including modifications of real rights;
*  issuing legal information for the preparation of deeds and other
documents; issuing summaries of registry information;
v  accepting documents, including registration and modification of real
rights; maintaining legal control of documentation and cadastral
surveys;
*  employing automated updating of the national land registry and
cadastre; and
*  carrying out requested technical works (e.g., topographic surveys).
(d)   Municipal Level Functions. The responsibilities of the municipalities in the
new organizational setup will be twofold. They will consist first, in
informing the registry of any real right transactions and second, in
providing information to users on the land registry and cadastre
information. This will be provided either visually or by issuing a summary
or a copy of records. Records provided by municipalities will be
standardized nationwide and will, in each case, be adapted to the needs of
the party requesting the information. By definition, notaries and registrars
will primarily carry out their functions at the municipal level, in
coordination with regional offices. In each case, the latter will verify
documents issued by these professionals. Other traditional municipal
functions-statistics, marriage licenses, birth and marriage certificates-
will remain unchanged.
Operating Procedures and Manuals
12.   CNR is in the process of elaborating operating procedures for the central and
regional levels, as well as for operations at the municipal levels. These procedures will
include definitions and guidelines to be set out. The procedures will cover such areas as
(a) accounting plan, contracting, budget and controls; (b) territorial organization and
functions as per para. 11.); (c) relations with municipal officers and reporting guidelines
for such officers to CNR's regional offices; and (d) relations with other public sector



Annex B
Page 5 of 7
agencies, the private sector, NGOs, professional associations, and academic institutions. Ir.
this context, CNR has already established formal contacts with universities and local
lawyer and notary associations to inform them of the new structure taking shape in land
registration and cadastre services.
Personnel Management, Planning, and Training
13.   CNR has prepared a complete inventory of the physical assets (plant, equipment,
and databases) of each agency to be absorbed. It is also mapping future requirements for
personnel and skills against current staff. Working with the international team of cadastre
consultants and the project coordinating unit, CNR is preparing a list of physical
requirements (office space, vehicles, computer hardware and software, GPS). In both
cases, CNR is taking both a short-term and medium-term (six-year) horizon.
14.   Personnel policies will include modalities for hiring, training and contracting out.
15.   For training, CNR's organizational chart provides for an in-house training center.
Establishment of the training center is under way. The center will train its own instructors
in new computer and GPS techniques that will be the basis for CNR's future work.
Thereafter, the training center will prepare training curricula and courses for the CNR's
key required skills. The objective of all training programs will be to (a) prepare existing
staff for the changeover; (b) familiarize staff with new technologies and reporting
guidelines; and (c) ensure that managerial and technical competence will be adapted to the
planning and implementation of the proposed project. Where necessary, training will be
outsourced to universities or technical training centers. The Pilot project-provided
training has already trained six key management and technical staff at the offices of
KADASTER in Holland (see Training Plan in Annex B3). The national project will
expand training to cover needs of regional and municipal offices.
External Relations and Relations with Notaries
16.   All contacts with outside agencies and associations will be governed by rules of
confidentiality. Operating procedures will also determine the documents and information
to be provided by notaries in registration procedures, as well as formats and guidelines for
submissions and authentications of all relevant documents for land transactions in
regularized areas.
17.   Timely and open relations with notaries will be essential to the success of the
proposed reform of land registration. Notaries are a key element in that system. They are
private agents who prepare basic land-titling and other property-related documents, and
only they can authenticate the legal validity of documents submitted to CNR.



Annex B
Page 6 of 7
Settlement of Disputes
18.   A massive, nationwide reform of the land registration and cadastre system will
inevitably raise legal disputes over title, boundaries, and other aspects. To that effect,
CNR will carry out an information campaign and training on dispute settlement and
mediation procedures. In all instances the priority will be for mediation, rather than
resorting to courts of law.
Readiness of the Institutional Development Component
19.   Though no serious problems are expected in implementing this component, in the
initial phase, there could be some resistance from certain vested interests. The reasons for
such resistance are discussed in this section.
20.   Implementing this component will require consolidating the activities of three
existing agencies; one of them, IGN was, up to December 19194, part of another ministry,
the Ministry of Public Works. Experience with civil-service reform in other countries
shows that restructuring ministries and shifting operating agencies between ministries can
present logistical and labor problems, affect staff morale, and result in slower or poorer
quality output. A second source of resistance may come from RSI itself, as its employees
may fear that they will loose some of their autonomy, privileges, and pride of place by
being absorbed into a larger system.
21.   The initial consolidation phase will raise the delicate question of retrenching
redundant staff, which is underway.
22.   The second phase of decentralization involves regrouping the existing office of
IGN (11) and RPRH (10) and RSI (3) under four regional offices. The change will
inevitably involve relocating staff (which can be disruptive for families and may meet with
housing shortages in certain localities. This possibility could create labor unrest and will, in
any case, meet with opposition from trade unions.
23.   More generally, regrouping and blending staff from various preexisting units, as
weli as the rapid introduction of new computerized recording techniques and systems, will
raise the problems of further redundant functions, skill obsolescence, and skill
requirements. These problems would be mitigated by intensive training (see Annex B3)
and the flexibility to extend contracts to groups of qualified retrenched staff for fieldwork.
24.   Squatters and slum dwellers may misinterpret sight visits from field teams from the
Ministry of Justice-to verify cadastral information-and deny access to their property.
The experience proved the opposite during the experimental phase, where people
voluntarily presented their documents to the field staff and submitted to mediation
procedures before the project notary and if necessary, to the local Justice of the Peace,
free of charge.



Annex B
Page 7 of 7
25.   A final source of resistance may come from notaries who, until now, have not been
obliged under law to register titles. One the one hand, legislation approved by the National
Assembly on January 25, 1996 will oblige them to do so, thus imposing greater quality
control and responsibility on them. The commission hired to review the legislation is
composed of El Salvador's most respected notaries in registration issues, and their stamp
of approval is expected to smooth acceptance of changes. On the other hand, the process
will be streamlined and notaries' work will be facilitated after regularization.
26.   It is unlikely that any of the problems listed above would have a significant or
lasting impact on the project's implementation. First, a detailed action plan and timetable
(see Annex B I and B2) already exist. Second, the new integrated system should be able to
prove itself through efficiency gains, greater reliability (no risk of loss of documents, easy
data retrieval and updating) and, hopefully, greater access to formal credit for smallholders
whose titles have been regularized and registered.
27.   One way of reducing initial opposition to the new system will be to mount a
national advertising campaign to show the success of the Sonsonate pilot project and the
early phases of this component. This has been contemplated in project design.
M:\SV\LAND\SAR\BC\(XB)IDS.DOC



Amex Bl
Pae I of 2
EL SALVADOR
LAND ADMWfrRATION PROJCT
PLAN OF ACrlON TO CONSOLInDATE THE CNR
Items                                           Product                 E               Staus/Tbiue
Itam , ,, ,  , ,   ,, ,   ............................   ct  RespoSbk  silg~~~~~~~~~~~~~~........
-'::.1                  .         , ::,,:   1-            -:,:--:::-:::- .-: . : --                                         .......::::
Establishmeut of the Pilot Project: Identify the fmuncions of the exeuting  Executive decree             MJustice      Completed
unit (UE) for establishing pilot project and CNR's monitoring of works.
Hiring of Mnaer for Pilot Project:. Hiring of qualihed Manager for UE.    International Contract      MJusticetCNR     Completed
CNR Functons and Resources: Legislative transfer of RPRH, RSI and IGN's  Legislative Decree No. 462       CNR          Completed
functions to CNR as per Execufive Decree no. 62 of December 7, 1994, and  approved (approval is condition of
esfablishing fnancal autonomy to manage own revenues from fees      negotiations)
Persod Inventory: List personnel, their status, qualifications, relevance to   Actual and required staffing plan  CNR  Completed
CNR'S new roles
CNR Re_gory Framework: All real rights transctions in regularized areas  Legislative Approval of Cadastre  MJustice/UE  Completed
must be registered.                                                  Law Changes (approval is a
condition of negotiations)
Plan of Action to Consolidate the CNR (this plan).                   CNR Council Approval (approval     CAN/CNR        Completed
is condition of negotiations)
Responsibilities: Define detailed duties of board of directors and executive  CNR Council Approval    CNR/CAN/UE    Completed
director. Define rules for delegating signing authority.
Monitoring and Evaluation of Pilot Project: Implement monitor and    Project monitoring and evaluation   EU/CNR        Completed
evaluation of pilot's methods and results. Establish baselines. With CNR, set    system (to be agreed during
technical M&E within MIS system for national project.                negotiations)
-2       c    e   be mn e            Deceme:19'5 t-,::ne 1996                                   :  :                        _.-  .      . 
National Planning: Identify needs for developing CNR skills long term and  Report to CNR board             CNR         Completed
short term. Establish criteria for setting priorities for needs.
Identification of Resources: Analyze human/physical resources available and   Report to CNR board          CNR          Completed
adjust CNR programs accordingly.
Set Up of Data-Procesing Plan: Assess the pilot's proposals and data-  CNR Council Approval              CNR/EU        February 1996
processing system. Set rules for developing procedures.
Accounting Plan: Establish CNR's new accounting plan, contracting rules,    Resolution by MJustice &   CNR/CAN/UE    February 1996
budget and accounting controls. Define CNR cost centers.             MFinance
Functional Organization: Identify CNR structure responsible for training.  Cycles                          CNR          March 1996
Conclude agreements for all ad hoc functions.                                                      I                  I



Annex B1
Page 2 of 2
Items                                          Product                Responsible     Status/Timing
General Information: Organize training of all personnel.           CNR Council Approval               EU/CNR        April 1996
CNR Territorial Organization: Set up and define CNR organization, its  CNR Council Approval         CNR/CAN/UE    April 1996
services and subdivisions and their functions.
Detailed Services of CNR: Identify nature of services and production.  CNR Council Approval             CNR         May 1996
CNR Administrative/Technical Organization: Define by regulation CNR  CNR Council Approval           CNR/CAN/UE    June 1996
structure, units, and services.                                                                     _
Updating of Cadastral Register: Prepare technical rules for permanent  Regulations stemming from      EU/CNR         June 1996
updating of land records. Identify CNR functions for updating. Evaluate  Cadastre Law Legislative changes
human, technical resources.
Setting Up Document Submission Formats: Elaborate norms for        CNR Council Approval               EU/CNR         June 1996
standardarization of legal and cadastre document to be submitted to the CNR
for all land transactions in regularized areas.                                                     __
Municipality Relations: Establish modalities of mutual help between  Protocols                      CNRICAN/UE    June 1996
municipalities and CNR for updating after regularization.
External Relations: List CNR's potential relations with public establishments  Protocols            CNR/CAN/UE    June 1996
and universities. Set agreements with these entities.
Promotion of CNR: Establish publicity and information campaign for CNR  Contracting information agency  CNR/CAN/UE    June 1996
activities through groups in real estate, infrastructure, physical planning,
lawyers and notaries and financial sector..
Training: Plan and administer basic training.                      Courses and Seminars                 CNR          During 1996
____________________________________________________________                                     ________________  and 1997
Premises: Inventory buildings and facilities. Cite rules of use.   CNR Council Approval                 CNR          January 1997
CShsw
M:ASVUANDAR\BCM1)2&doc
Jamuiay 30, 1996



EL SALVADOR
LAND ADMINISTRATION PROJECT
19"        n197          190          190         2000         2001         2
Sub-Component              Activity                    Tak                                                  01 02      01         02001         02        02030 4     02 Q203 04 01 02 03 04 01 C2 Q3
Mappin                     Photography                 Plannig S EstabIhi  Control Points
Aeria Photograph 8 Production
Aedrotriangtion
Resattuiton                Map Pronduc    (urban araau)
Orwphdo map poduon (nxal .nas)
Updsin otMape(basedonfleldvertfication)                                                              *  *
Land Record                Infonmation Campaign        D_ g ti                                                                                     _  _     1   
Reguh1zalon                Phase I                     Bwri                                              _   ___
Ug aSupportFol*Wu 
Registry Investigation     Study of Registry Inscrptons                                    l1                1    1
& Analysis Phase 2         ldentify and Corpterize Inscripio
FiedIestid alo
Updatin Database
Lego  support and follw-up
Fusion of Registry and Cadaser
Authrtin of Inscrip_ions
Infomation Campaign        Diagnostic                                                                                               I   m      ii      m
Phase 2                    Barrido
Lega Support Foldw-up
Annex B2
Page 1 of 3



EL SALVADOR
LAND ADMINISTRATION PROJECT
I1          133      1   1S           12                       201
Sub-Component              Activity                    Task                                                 01 021031 04 01 0210304  1 102!03 04 01 02 03 04 01 02 Q34    030    II 0 Q20Q3
Land Record                Registry Inmesigaton        Study f Registry lnscrtipons                                                                      *
Regubrion                  S Analysis Phase 2          IderI and Computze Insac ons
Field Investgation bI                                                                                                      0,041_ 1
Updating Database                                                                             I
Fusion of Registr and Cdaster                                 :     .I                                                                     |
Auoraion of Inscripfions
Training of Registrars in Computers & Databases
Training of Field Vefcation Tearm
Instituton                 Buiding Rehaibemtlon        NCR                                                                           |
Strengthening
Traning                    NCR Computer Training
GPS Training                                                                                                  I
Int raining in Mapping Techniques                      i                                                       i
Int'l brinin in Photgrammetric Unit
Inr trainng in Reglutry/Cadaster Management
Intl legal trahing & Research
int'l Geodeti & Photograrnetr  Trainin
Organizatonal Consolldabion  Inmple dmerton of New procedures and Funictions1                1    1    1
Of NCR
Annex B2
Page 2 of 3



EL SALVADOR
LAND ADMINISTRATION PROJECT
19 197 1                9        11f            20          2001         2
Sub-Component              Activity                   Task                                                0102031                     IQ|Q2103104 0 1 0040110 21 020304011 02 Q304 Q  02030401 0203
Insdljuonal                Building Rehabilbiton      Regkxa Offkces                                            i _                             -        --
DevelopCommunicaion        Syw  D                                                                                                                                  I
System  aias iofSystem Phase                           I                           I
Training                   Municipal Users Phase 1
Municipal Usrs Phase 2
Regional Office Users Phasel I
Regional Office Users Pha  2
Project Management         Planning and Management   Acivity Design and Programming                                      I_ 
Uni                                                   Matr  of AciMbt
Design of Procurement Pol c                                                                                                 -
Facilite Consolao of NCR
Prepartion of Terms of Reference
Preparation of Techncial Specfictions                                                    _ _
Participation in Negobatbons with Suppliers
Preparation of Contracts
Preparabon of Fiancial and Technical Reports                     - I
Project Tennhiton                                                                                              I IIT
Annex B2
Page 3 of 3



Annex B3
Page 1 of 5
EL SALVADOR
LAND ADMINISTRATION PROJECT
TRAINING PLAN
1.    The creation of CNR leads to an sole function for cadastral registry, replacing
three separate institutions. This requires provision of general information to all personnel
and also bringing those with new positions up to the required professional level. The
training project must include these different objectives. The training will be related to
different competency levels and at different stages of the project. It will be performed
essentially by the country's own resources. Some training will be provided abroad for
highly specialized equipment and methods. Specialized training will be into or
specialization in information technology. Individuals external from CNR (notaries,
lawyers) who will work for the project will receive also special training.
2.    The preparation of programs, search for instructors and conducting and evaluation
the training require recruitment of a specialized training coordinator by early 1996.
3.    The national project must start the training program as of the second half of 1996. The
purpose of this program is to:
(a)   prepare the staff for the technical changes; and
(b)   enable performance of the project activities in accordance with a schedule that
is compatible with the programming of the project, which will require rapid
mobilization of necessary resources.
4.    The following training plan comprises six items, for CNR  staff and private
professionals. The table at the end of this section summarizes estimated training costs for this
items.
Institutional Information and General Familiarization
5.    Objective. The autonomy and consolidation of the CNR  is designed to establish
one single function that will take the place of those performed to date by three separate
institutions. The establishment of this new center entails introduction of new working
methods and adoption of a new attitude.  This new  situation means that general
information must be made available to all CNR personnel on the functions of the
establishment, the purpose of the activities it will be carrying out and the role of each of
them in the new system.



Annex B3
Page 2 of 5
6.    A seminar will have to be prepared on this subject, based on the knowledge and
message of the creators of the CNR and of the cadastral registry modernization project
and targeting the management of staff and those performing new activities. This new
seminar will take place in early 1996.
7.    An audiovisual presentation will also have to be prepared, intended for all
personnel taking into account the number of persons working in the different institutions-
even if this number were to be reduced, it would appear that this seminar would have to be
run several times (with a total of about 1,300 attendants). This audiovisual presentation
would also be suitable for showing to the public who use the center at the regional and
municipal offices.
Data Processing
8.    This training will be defined by the pilot project information technology study
according to the modification of procedures that will result and the training that the
equipment suppliers will include and that which may be received from other sources.
Training would start in early 1996 and:
(a)   basic program (Windows, database use programs) for 50 new staff or as
refresher training in different phases of the project; and
(b)   specialized programs covering languages and the UNIX system, designed
for the future data processing chiefs of the regional centers (4 + 2 in
security and for the central structure of the CNR).
New Specialized Equipment
9.    This will be for the specialized personnel need to use the following need
equipment:
(a)   restitution equipment;
(b)   GPS; and
(c)   electronic theodolites.
Currently, IGN staff is not familiar with those capabilities, which will be installed for
supervision of contract staff carrying out regularization (early 1996) and for carrying out
updating activities (starting in 1997).
10.   For point (a), four engineers will be needed with special training by the
manufacturers for the numerical stereo restitution functions and for operating the
orthoimage production system; two of these will require additional training in
aerotriangulation.



Annex B3
Page 3 of 5
11.   For (b), the training will require the services of a foreign specialist who will have
to spend two weeks in El Salvador.
12.   For (c), the operators will have to be trained in the Central American
Technological Institute (ITCA) for one week.
13.   In addition, IGN topographic teams will be trained in stereo preparation methods.
It can be considered that the firm entrusted with work of this nature under the bidding for
the national project, will integrate this equipment with its own and will provide training, in
the form exchange, for all who can use the equipment already referred to.
Field Teams
14.   The IGN  has begun already training for the photoidentifiers and law students (in
preparation for the field phase of the pilot project). This training is being done in the
University of El Salvador's School of Agronomy. It consists of a week in work for the
photoidentifier and one week of applied law for identifying the property rights. This
training covers both the photoidentifiers and the law students hired for this work. The
duration of the training (15 days) is sufficient for personnel with some photoidentification
experience, but longer training will be needed for less qualified personnel.
15.   The training will have to be programmed in two phases, even if the photoidentifiers
have experience in dealing with legal problem (which are included in the second phase for
the training), since the law students have no experience as photoidentifiers. The staffing
numbers are based on the needs identified for the national plan's two implementation
phases.
Notaries, Proofreaders, Registrars and Surveyors
16.   Two types of public notaries have to be distinguished:
(a)   the notaries, proofreaders and  registrars involved in the work of the
national project; and
(b)   the notaries forming the corps of professionals who perform, on a private
basis, the preparation of the deeds, and also the surveyors who will be
required to identify the boundaries resulting from future physical changes in
a given property.
17.   For (a), the first purpose of the training will be to inform the notaries, proofreaders
and registrars regarding the new  legislative and regulatory provisions that set the
obligations, powers and responsibilities required by the new registry system. Another
purpose will be to train the notaries in the necessary mediation and conciliation techniques,
in view of their central role in this field, after the first selection of disputed cases identified
by the field teams. On the basis of 115 field teams and one notary for roughly four teams,
it will be necessary to train 30 notaries for the first phase of the national project and 30
more for the second (assuming that these specialists will not be transferred around). It



Annex B3
Page 4 of 5
should be noted that basic training is based on the assumption of training 30 notaries and
47 registrars for the first phase and then 30 notaries and 30 registrars for the second
phase. The number of proofreaders will be based on a ratio of four per registrar.
18.   For (b), it must be observed that more generally and outside of the project itself,
the two main groups of private professionals, notaries and surveyors, will tend to have
received training in data updating and standardization, with a view to obtaining a specific
registry approval. In view of the number of professionals involved, the organization work
will require considerable logistic capability and will benefit from project management
experience. In any event, the training will have to be funded by those concerned in order
to be up to date with the development of cadastral registry procedures. The CNR training
school is being established to provide this training with the bilateral assistance from Spain.
General Training Management
19.   The setting up of programs, the general organization of the courses and seminars,
the search for instructors, and the evaluation of the instruction given will require a
permanent staff person for the training needed for each of the phases. This person, who
will be responsible for the administration of the training plan and its development will
work with the UE Training Coordinator.



Annex B3
Page 5 of 5
TRAINING COSTS
lunitutinnal and Gentral Fn utl  it
Audioviwual                                                 600,000
s £minrnmn 2  id comgs                                        10,000
Sub     |  __________     _         610,000
* Dat  Prcessing
I1 h.vic 2t....M                      -
E IlihCS rnugrr>w:rvvaF,
*(50 pcrnlin    I UMonth s 1JI0O)    .                        1,000           50,000
(6 jcrsonn  a 2 mon1huzx i2.4 tPL,,  .-e e$                   2,000            24,000
............. . . .~ ". .............0
New Specialkied Equipaeat
(4 persons z 7,00(1) + (1 X 20000) + flud gftte              48,000           417,000
(2 perunna  a 7,IM)N) t (I s 201100) + fised pi*e            34,000           295,800
I *;se(443.j C(;S) 2 2 monitors i 1 moith
(2 a 185000) 4 (2 £ 3,0W0)                                    42,000          265,000
Thrn,doI*e. (one woek JCTA)
a 400) + 1J21 oviehead               9 :           400             6,000
............. .,,, . . ....                                      1,084,800
. Field leams
lirst Phas.
(N munirns S I mo1 thX :6,00)                                 8,000            64,000
ISdind Phas.e
(4 monItors   1 ninanib x 8.0                                 8,000            32,000
-..... -         uhta4ul -______         _ F96,000
i Nntarfru, Proofreadern. R-glutrarmF
i krart Pta.,
1 36 aaatanen,   month - 2 a 25 u ) s ;.8,pQ() {> < <         8,000            16,000
248 prwofreaden, I mowlb7fthtk1S  17$ S                      8,000           136,000
62 regi4rersu  I mnouth- 4s 15"4                             10,000            40,000
Overlneud (10%)              *             .                                   17,000
Serand >Pha.e
1I34 nolaricis  2 : o,000                                       8,000            16,000
22 rgistrar- 2 I£ 10,000                                     10,000            20,000
|Ni proorreaders ' 6 a 6,000                                  8,000            48,000
O v crh e a yS t U % ),   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _.. _...   _ _.._ _ _ _D _ _ _  9 ,0 0 0
0                 ,,                  .  ,., _ _________, ,,  .   .;_  _.... . 0..  276,000
. 1raining Managenwuot..:  ..   Fi
1l ,l,,,,,,,,,,,t,-,,;....... . .............;.;;66-0;'-Yt^1,O 8 0
IN !nn.ithhWO &1.0                                            10,000           180,000
[_ "_- ~~~~~~.   ..   ..   ..   .. .. .
I....... ----.----.-.--           ____________             180,000
2,308,000
M:I\SV'lAND\SAR\YC\(XB3)TRN.DOC



Annex B4
EL SALVADOR
LAND ADMINISTRATION PROJECT
Proposal for CNR Document Standardization
FORMULARIO PARA OTORGAMIENTO DE ESCRITURAS PUBLICAS U OTRO
DOCUMENTO INSCRIBIBLE EN REGISTRO (que se adapten a este modelo)
(deberan ir en este orden)
(1)   Encabezamiento:           lugar, hora, fecha, notario o funcionario autorizante
(2)   Identificaci6n de todos comparecientes u otorgantes: en este orden
a)    vendedor, arrendante - acreedor, etc.
b)    comprador, arrendatario - deudor, etc.
c)    puede ser apoderado (se relacionara personeria al final)
Deberi contener          nombre y apellido
domicilio
edad
profesi6n
NIT o fecha de nacimiento
(3)   parte dispositiva         transfiere (compra, venta, permuta y demas)
modifica - rectificaci6n
constituye- carga o gravamen (hipoteca,
servidumbre y demas)
(4)   cita de antecedentes      matricula - RSI o RPRH S. Salv. (Finata)
registrales              inscripci6n - RPRH del interior del pais
(5)   situaci6n del inrueble    naturaleza, ubicaci6n, area, medidas, descripci6n
tecnica (si es demembraci6n o primera inscripci6n
en RSI o RPRH
(6)   otras condiciones         precio
plazo
condiciones especiales
(7)   relaci6n de personeria    a) si es persona juridica (credencial relac. de
constituci6n de sociedad, punto de acta de
aprobaci6n, poder especial o general
b) persona natural - poder especial o general,
partidas de nacimiento, matrimonio, defunci6n, etc.
(8)   cierre
(XB4)F0RXDOC



Annex B5
Page 1 of 11
EL SALVADOR
LAND ADMINISTRATION PROJECT
CNR Financial Sustainability
Financial Analysis
1.    As part of the financial analysis of the land administration project, a cash-flow
analysis was prepared of the institutions involved in the project. During preparation, four
scenarios were analyzed. The scenarios varied in the assumptions governing the income-
generating capacity of the CNR, as well as the number of years required to complete the
project. In all four scenarios, net financing (including annual quotas for loan repayment)
proved positive throughout the period of analysis. This finding suggested that, even based
on conservative assumptions, the CNR should have sufficient liquidity to finance its
operations throughout the six years of the proposed land administration project.
Additionally, the CNR should prove to be financially sustainable once the project ends in
the year 2002 (see also Annex B5).
2.    The most conservative of the four scenarios analyzed in the study combined a low
income-generating assumption together with a project time horizon of six years. This
conservative scenario was selected as the base-case scenario for an analysis predicated
upon the final project cost estimates. If the cash-flow proves positive and the project
financially sustainable under conservative conditions, then under the more moderate
circumstances likely to prevail, no serious financial obstacles should be encountered. The
remainder of this section discusses the findings based on the revised project cost estimates.
Financial Synopsis
3.    The revised total cost of the land administration project is US$70 million (o612.7
million), with US$50 million (*37.9 million) provided by World Bank financing and
US$20 million (oI74.8 million) from counterpart finding. According to the base-case
scenario (see Annex B5, Table 1), the projected net income after financing is positive in all
project years (1996-2002). It should be noted that this result supposes an additional
contribution (besides counterpart finds) from GOES in the project's first two years (1996
and 1997), when some 38 percent of the project's investment purchases are expected to be
made.
Extracted from Roger Davis Pipe, Andlisis Financiero del Flujo de Caja, May 15, 1995. The study
examined a base case and three alternative scnarios--lower demand for ttlingfcadastal services,
slower project execton, and lower demand + slower execution. Each of the four shows positive net
cash flows over the life of the project; the flows are positive in all but one year of the first three cases,
and all but two years of the worst-case scenario.



Annex B5
Page 2 of 11
4.    In years 4 and 6 of the project (1999 and 2001), the net income after financing is
greater than the counterpart contribution in the following year. Similarly, net income after
financing in year 5 is almost equal to the counterpart contribution in year 6 (net income is
¢42.1 million in 2000 compared with a counterpart contribution of ¢43.5 million in 2001).
This comparison implies that, in years 5 through 7,2 the counterpart contribution may be
generated entirely, or in large measure, from the activities of the CNR; additional financing
from the national budget would not be required.
5.    Additional financing from the national budget will, however, be required beginning
in 2003 to meet loan repayment obligations. In that year, projected net income before
financing is o34.3 million in nominal terms (US$2.3 million in 1995 dollars). The annual
loan repayment (principal plus interest) will amount to 044.5 million in nominal terms
(US$3 million in real terms).3 Thus, an additional o8.7 million (nominal), or US$0.6
million (real) will be required by GOES in 2003 to supplement CNR revenues. In
subsequent years, the GOES contribution toward loan repayment will be around ¢10.2
million (US$0.7 million).4 In other words, the CNR will be able to contribute 035 million
toward annual repayment quotas, or more than 75 percent of annual requirements. In
addition, cumulative net income after financing generated by the CNR throughout the
period from 1996 to 2003 totals o143.8 million, which can also be applied toward loan
amortization.
6.    The key to the financial strength of the project lies in the revenue-generating
capacity of the CNR through its registry activities. Even prior to project start-up (i.e,. in
1995), the annual revenues from combined RPRH, RSI, and IGN activities equaled an
estimated ¢55.3 million (US$6.3 million). Upon project completion (2003), annual CNR
revenues total ¢19.5 million in nominal terms, or US$8 million in constant 1995 dollars.
This 26 percent increase in the revenue-generating capacity of registry and cadastral
activities is not entirely due to the project, however. Part of the increased revenue stems
from the registry services provided to new properties that will be registered as a result of
the process of the ampliaci6n which occurs regardless of and independently from the
proposed project. The additional revenue that is directly attributable to the project,
measured by the incremental revenue generated directly by the activities associated with
the plan totals US$12.2 million between 1996-2003 and at least US$2.6 million each year
thereafter.
2 Although the land administration plan is a six-year project, it takes place over seven calendar years,
beginning in mid-1996 and running through mid-2002.
Principal and interest payments were calculated using blended quotas, assuming a 7 percent annual
rate of interest with a 17 year repayment period.
4  A final loan dibrsement of US$3.9 million is made in 2003; CNR net income before the GOES
contribution will thus be US$6.3 million plus US$3.9 million in the year 2004, assuming that income
and expenses remain constant.



Annex BS
Page 3 of 11
Financial Sustainability
7.    CNR proves financially sustainable under the conservative assumptions of the base
case.5 Broadly defined, financial sustainability is the ability to finance fixed and variable
costs, as well as to finance the amortization of investment loans. A narrower definition
might exclude the loan amortization criterion. In considering the financial sustainability of
the CNR, both definitions are relevant. In the short run, the CNR should prove financially
sustainable according to the narrow definition. That is, the revenues generated from the
CNR registry and cadastral activities will be sufficient (in tandem with extemal financing)
to support the center's operating costs. Moreover, the income-generating capacity of the
CNR should be sufficient to contribute significantly each year to the loan amortization. In
the long-run, the CNR should also be self-sufficient, according to the broad definition of
the term.
8.    As mentioned above, cumulative income generated by plan-related activities from
1996 through 2003 totals 4182 million. In 2003, estimated annual revenues directly
attributable to the proposed project (i.e, from the national land regularization activities or
barrido and new services) total around ¢41 million. Assuming these annual revenues are
maintained, the CNR should be able to amortize the entire loan in 17 years.
9.    Another way to gauge the financial sustainability of the CNR is to compare
projected annual operating costs upon project completion with projected annual revenues.
Annual revenues must be equal to or greater than operating costs if the entity is to prove
financially sustainable in the long run. The annual operating costs of the CNR in 2003 are
estimated to be US$5.7 million in current (1995) dollars, including registry, cadastre, and
administration costs. Projected annual CNR revenue for the same year is US$8 million
(current dollars). This surplus of $2.3 million dollars will contribute to the loan's
amortization and ensure the long-run sustainability of the CNR.
10.   Incremental recurrent costs during the life of the project are calculated to equal
US$8.9 million (see Annex F). These costs may be divided into two categories: (a)
recurrent costs that occur exclusively during the life of the project; and (b) recurrent costs
that continue after project completion. For the purpose of gauging the long-term financial
sustainability of the project, the recurrent costs that continue after project completion are
of particular interest. It is important to ascertain whether annual revenues will finance
recurrent costs.
11.   Recurrent costs that will continue after project completion include those associated
with the institutional strengthening and decentralization component (US$2 million), and
the portion of the land record regularization component corresponding to vehicle
operation and maintenance (US$1.6 million). The remainder of recurrent costs associated
with the land record regularization component (US$5.4 million), the recurrent costs of the
5  These assumptions do not take into account Legislative Decree No. 471, approved on October 12,
1995, allowing staff retrenchment with indemnization defrayed by the Treasury.



Annex B5
Page 4 of 11
project management unit (US$1.7 million), and those of the Project Preparation Facility
(US$0.2 million) will not continue after project completion. Thus, of the total recurrent
costs incurred during the project, only US$3.5 million will be required on an annual basis
upon project completion in 2002. Note, however, that this projection only represents the
incremental recurrent costs attributable directly to the project. Additional operating costs
will be incurred by the CNR. As mentioned, total CNR annual costs are projected to be
US$5.7 million in 2002.
12.   The CNR should prove self-financing through the increased revenues generated
from:
* broader user base as a result of having all parcels regularized, barrido nacional,
*  new services, and
*  higher volume of the processing capacity (currently there is a significant
backlog of unprocessed files for want of institutional capacity to process
applications in a timely fashion).
Timeliness of Financial Flows
13.   The annual cash flow analysis discussed above does not reveal the timeliness of the
financial flows. A quarterly cashflow analysis indicates that the cumulative net income
after financing is positive in all quarters. Table 2 shows that (a) this criterion is satisfied;
and (b) the timeliness of the financial flows ensures adequate liquidity in all quarters.
Quarterly cash flow information provides a better basis for discerning whether the inflows
are appropriately timed to outflows to ensure positive liquidity at all moments. For the
land administration project, the initial years are the most problematic. Most of the
procurement of goods occurs during the first three years of the project, whereas the
incremental income-generating capacity of the CNR is lagged by several years. But this lag
does not seem to present a financing problem on an annual basis. To determine whether
the distribution of outflows and inflows was appropriate on a more disaggregated level, a
quarterly cash flow breakdown was created for the initial six months of the project, when
many of the larger purchases of vehicles, computers, and equipment are expected to be
made. If no cashflow problems are detected during this critical period (assuming a one
semester lag in Bank disbursements), then the timeliness of the financial flows wiDl be
considered adequate. To avoid this cash crunch, the CNR will request direct payment to
suppliers.
14.   Table 2 provides the results of the quarterly cash flow analysis for 1996. Revenue
estimates are derived from Table 1. It is assumed that revenue is evenly distributed
between quarters. The expenses reported for the CNR are the combined expenses of the
RPHP, RSI, and IGN-again, distributed evenly between quarters. The expenses shown
under the Land Administration Project are the programmed expenses during the first six
months of the project. In the financing section of the Table, it is assumed that the Bank's
first disbursement does not take place until 1997. In practice, it may be possible for a first
disbursement to be made in the final quarter of 1996, if the procurement work is well



Annex B5
Page 5 of 11
advanced by the project management unit before the project begins in earnest. The analysis
assumes zero disbursement in 1996 to explore the cashflow repercussions. Financing from
GOES is assumed to equal s64 million for both counterpart contribution and the normal
allocation from the ordinary budget to defray all three constituent agencies' staff cost.
This has proven conservative given 1995 legislative public sector staff retrenchment.
15.   Those items in Table 2 marked with an asterisk would be procured through a
United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) cost-sharing agreement. For this
reason, they do not appear in the column totals; from the project's perspective, the
procurement of these items does not represent a cash outflow. Instead, UNDP will
purchase the items with its own funds, and then be reimbursed directly by the World Bank
upon submission of the disbursement requests. This arrangement is key to the financial
liquidity of the project in its start-up phase. Without the assistance of UNDP, additional
funding would be required by GOES from its ordinary budget during the project's first
year.
Methodology and Assumptions
16.   A complete description of the methodologies and assumptions used to derive the
cashflow projection is detailed in the Analisis Financiero. Following is a summary of the
methodology used to derive the revenue estimates. Since the revenue from registry
services will provide most of the income to the CNR6, the discussion focuses on the
methodology used to estimate the registry revenues. Annual registry revenues are
calculated by multiplying the estimated demand for registration services by the fee for each
service. The methodology used to derive the demand estimates is discussed first, followed
by an explanation of the fee calculations.
17.   Demand for registration services befall on: RPRH and the RSI. In turn, demand for
RSI services comes from two sources: (a) demand resulting from the ampliaci6n process
(by which properties registered under folio personal are transferred to folio real); (b)
demand resulting from the barrido, National Land Regularization component.
6. In 1994, combined registry and cadastral income was i59.3 million; of this amount, registry income
(RPRH and RSI) was o58.5 million.



Annex BS
Page 6 of 11
Table 1: Land Administration Project Cash Flow (Estimate)
(millions of colones, nominal)
1 194    195    1996  | 1997    19W     1999    2000  1 2001  | 2002  | 2003  I TOTAL
Txuid9nuReg1ftr(RHIRF)          53.5    23.6    17.8    14.4    10.4         5.6
initial                          5.0
Anpliaci6n                               30.3    36.0
Now Savines                               0.0     0.7
Toal Socdl Regle7                5.0    30.3    36.7
Nadol GeopaphlcIdtue             0.8      0.9     1.0
Nedoai Registy Caeter (CNR)
1.1     1.3      1.6      1.9      2.3     2.7      2.7
New Ragiqzy
Apilicn                                                 42.9    50.3    53.3    66.9    70.9    75.1    75.1
New Savice                                               0.9      1.0      1.2      1.4     1.4      1.5      1.5     9.0
Banido                                                   3.6      3.0    17.2    28.1    36.5    40.1    40.1   173.5
£LEMIDIL'3                  59.3    55.3    55.5    62.9    71.1    33.9    96.2   111.1   119.5   119.5
Tr.d1d Regpby                   24.0    27.0    21.8    17.7    14.3    11.6
Sodal Rot"                       2.9     5.5      7.1
Nobe_l Geograpli 11wu*e         23.5    24.3    26.3
Nstonl Reglstry Cader
New Registry                                               9.9    13.4    18.7    25.3    30.9    35.8    35.8
Cadar                                                     28.4    30.6    31.2    35.7    38.6    41.7    41.7
Adoixration                                                3.8      4.4      5.0     6.1      6.9      7.7      7.7
Totl NRC                                                  42.1     48.4    S49      67.1    76.4    85.2    85.2
Land Ad_dmisru" Project
Project Prepation Facility               17.8                                                                          17.8
mapping                                          37.3    43.5    45.7        5.9     0.0      0.0      0.0            132.4
l.androordregularizcan                            15.1    34.7    52.5    57.2    61.1    63.9         7.8            292.4
Altanative Conflict Reolution                     0.3      0.3      0.0      0.4     0.0      0.0      0.0              1.0
InAbafitcer Stmohwi_g                            29.5    11.9       7.2      1.3     1.4      1.5      0.9             53.7
Inditbdona D     lowAmikation                     0.0      5.2      2.S    15.2    10.5       3.9      1.4             39.0
Projed Adninixtration                             3.4    13.2    13.9    12.1    12.2    10.4          6.2             76.4
Total LadAdmloldtration Pr.jac           17.3    90.7   108.3   122.2    92.1    35.2    79.7    16.3                 612.7
_gIau                           50.4    74.6   145.8   164.8   130.5   153.6   146.2   156.1   101.5    35.2
NET INCOME BEFORE                6.9   -19.3   -90.4  -101.8  -109.4   -69.7    48.0    45.0    18.0    343
FINANCING
Wodd Bak
Di_bursiuit                                     52.0    97.0    92.5    77.S    55.0    42.7    19.5          1.5  437.9
Conwnitmat Fee                                  -1.6    -2.9    -2.2    -1.5    -0.9    -0.5    -0.2          0.0
RMaymnnt of Prinipl                                                                         -6.9   -14.5    -15.6
Iwisd Paym-AB                                                                              -15.3   -29.9   -28.9
New Worl Bank Fbacing                            50.4    94.1    903        76.3    54.1     19.9   -25.1   -43.0
GOES
CNRCowtapt                                       4.4    19.0    27.1    31.5    36.0    43.5    13.3          0.0   174.3
Ordinary Budget                                 64.0
Total GOES                                       61.4    19.0    27.1    31.5    36.0    43.5    13.3           0.0
£L1DIM I                                    113.8   113.1   117.4   107.8    90.1    63.4   -11.8   -43.0
Netwo   wlAlhtFmcbug                            23.4    11.3        .0    38.1    42.1    18.5         6.2    -3.7
Cm_aUye Ndet l_  weit F     _ancna              28.4    39.7    47.7    35.    127.8   146.3   152.5   143.8



Annex B5
Page 7 of 11
Table 2: Land Administration Project Quarterly Cash Flow 1996
(miNlions of colones)
Q1         Q2         Q3          Q4
14.2       14.2       14.2        14.2
Natlonal Registry Centre              14.3       14.3       14.3        14.3
Land Administration Project
101 Mapping
Investment costs                                      *8.4       *8.4
Recurrent costs                                        0.2        0.3
102 Land Record Regularization
Sonsonate Pilot Completion                            14.8
Recurrent costs                                        0.1        0.2
103 Alternative Conflict                                                 0.3
201 Institutional Strengthening
Buildings                                              0.7        0.8
Vehicles                                                        *11.7
Computers                                                        *6.6
Geographic Equipment                                             *5.9
Office Equipment                                                  0.8
Training                                                          2.9
Recurrent costs                                        0.1        0.4
301 Project Management Unit
Vehicles                                                         *1.2
Office Equipment                                       0.1        0.1
Project Video                                          0.3        0.4
Int'l Consultants                                     *1.5       *1.6
Local Consultants                                      0.5        0.8
Recurrent costs                                        0.4        0.5
TOTAL COSTS                           14.3       14.3       31.5        21.8
NEW INCOME BEFORE                     -0.1       -0.1      -17.3        -7.8
FINANCING
A
World Bank
Disbursements
Commitment Fee                                         -1.6
GOES
Counterpart                           5.9
Ordinary Budget                       14.5       14.5       14.5        14.5
TOTAL FINANCING                      20.4        14.5       12.9        14.5
Quarterly Net Income                 20.3        14.4       -4.4         6.9
" Hwig I  IA   u zll l_              20.3        34.8       30.4       37.3



Annex B5
Page 8 of 11
Demand from the Ampliacidn
18.   The starting point in calculating the total number of requests presented each year
due to the ampliaci6n is to estimate the total number of properties in El Salvador for the
period of analysis. To calculate the total number of properties, the initial or base number
of properties and the annual growth rate in new properties must be known. Unfortunately,
the base number of properties in El Salvador is unknown. However, the 1992 household
census reported 1.2 million houses, including urban and rural areas. The question is: how
many rural properties without housing and commercial properties exist? For the cashflow
projections reported in the Andlisis Financiero, two scenarios were hypothesized: the first
assumed a total property base of 1.8 million, while the second assumed a base of 1.4
million properties. The base-case scenario summarized above is based on this lower
assumption.
19.   Similarly, two scenarios were assumed for the annual growth rate of new
properties. The first scenario assumed an annual increase of 60,000 properties, while the
second assumed an increase of 30,000. The first estimate of 60,000 units is based on the
current rate of property creation. Using the methodology described above (whereby 40
percent of total requests are estimated to correspond to real estate transactions, and 50
percent of these transactions are estimated to correspond to new lotification), the
estimated number of new properties in 1994 can be calculated as follows:
NEW PROPERTIES = 268,000 * 0.4 * 0.5 = 53,600
There are two reason why new property creation in 1995 and beyond may be somewhat
higher than 53,600 units. On the one hand, the Plan Nacional is expected to stimulate
investment in property development. On the other hand, a strong demand for new housing
is likely to result over the next decade due to the existing demographics (a high proportion
of the Salvadorian population is under age 24). For these two reasons, an annual increase
of 60,000 new properties is not unrealistic. Thus, the alternate scenario of 30,000 new
properties should prove to be a very conservative estimate. This lower assumption was
used for the base-case scenario.
20.   Number of Properties. The scenario for the base-case cash flow conservatively
assumes a low initial base of 1.4 million properties together with the low annual growth
estimate of 30,000 new properties. If the CNR proves financial sustainable under this low-
demand assumption, then there is good reason to suppose that the goal of financial
sustainability can be achieved.
21.   Registry Service Demand Index. With the number of properties projected, the
next step in calculating the demand for registry services is to derive a demand index based
on historical data. The demand index is defined as the percentage of registry requests
generated per hundred properties. The index is calculated by dividing total requests by



Annex B5
Page 9 of 11
total properties. Assuming the initial base of 1.4 million properties, and given the
estimated total number of requests in 1995, the demand index for 1995 is 19. The cash-
flow projections reported in the previous Andlisis Financiero assume that the demand
index remains constant throughout the period of analysis. In point of fact, there are two
reasons why the index might actually increase: on the one hand, because of the increased
efficiency of the modernized registry; and on the other hand, due to new services that will
be offered through the modernized registry. However, to ensure conservative revenue
estimates, the demand index is held constant.
22.   Estimated Demand from Ampliaci6n. Using these three elements-base number
of properties, annual property growth, and the demand index-the estimated number of
requests from the process of the ampliacion was calculated (i.e., the requests that will
result from the normal process of growth in the demand for services of the modernized
registry, regardless of the project.
Demand Due to the Bamdo
23.   In addition to the demand for registry services due to the ampliaci6n process,
demand for services will also be created due to the barrido nacional. To estimate the
demand created by the barrido, calculate the number of properties that will be
incorporated into the modernized registry as a result of the barrido. This number, in turn,
is equal to the number of properties covered by the barrido in a given year, minus the
number of those properties that are already registered in the RSI.
24.   Number of Properties. The annual universe of the barrido was calculated by
estimating the number of properties in each departamento (based on the 1992 household
census, the proportional weight of each departamento in that census, and the estimated
total property base of 1.4 million in the conservative scenario).
25.   The number of requests already registered in the RSI in a given year is estimated as
the total number of properties registered in the RSI in a given time period multiplied by
the estimated proportion of those properties that fall within the targeted area of the
barrido in a given year. In turn, the estimated number of properties registered in the RSI
in a given time period is equal to the initial number of properties in the RSI (currently
there are 77,800 properties registered in the RSI) plus the number of properties that enter
the RSI through the process of the ampliaci6n. It was assumed that (a) 90 percent of the
initial RSI registries and 59 percent of new RSI registries fall in the central and western
zones (1 and 2)7; and (b) these existing RSI properties are equally distributed throughout
the two zones. It was also assumed that one-third of the total existing and new RSI
7. The majority of properties that are at present registered in the RSI are in the departamentos that make
up the central and western zones; hence the assignation of 90 percent. The distribution of properties
that enter the RSI through the process of the ampliaci6n is based on the weighted percentage of
requests presented in 1994 by the departamentos that make up each of the two phases of the barrido.
The departamentos in phase 1 (comprising zones 1 and 2) were responsible for 59 percent of the total
requests in 1994.



Annex B5
Page 10 of 11
properties will fall within the programmed barrido territory in a given year. For the
northern and eastem zones (3 and 4), it was assumed that (a) the proportions of initial and
new RSI registries were 10 percent (existing ) and 41 percent (new); and (b) one half of
these existing registries will fall within the barrido territory of each zone in each of the
two years that the barrido is expected to take.
26.   In each year of the project a certain geographic area will be covered. Subtracting
the number of requests already existing in the RSI in this area from the total number of
properties in that area will reveal the number of properties that will enter the RSI each
year as a result of the barrido. These properties will in turn generate demand for RSI
services in subsequent years. The cashflow projections assume that the demand index for
services is equal to 15. That is, the number of requests generated by the barrido is
assumed to be 15 percent of the cumulative total of properties that entered into the RSI
registry as a result of the barrido. Thus, for example, the number of requests generated by
the barrido in year 3 is equal to 15 percent of the properties entered into the RSI registry
in years I plus 2.
27.   To recapitulate, the total number of requests presented to the RSI in a given year
is equal to the sum of requests derived from the ampliaci6n plus those derived from the
barrido. The above paragraphs described the methodology used to derive the estimated
number of requests-in other words, the estimated demand for registry services. This
estimated demand provides one element of the information needed to calculate the revenue
generated from registry services. The other element required is the price of those services,
or the tariffs associated with each registry service.
Tariffs
28.   Each service has a specific fee associated with it. However, in order to simplify the
calculation of revenues, an average tariff was derived by dividing the total revenue
received from registration services by the total number of service requests. For the cash-
flow projections, the 1993 revenues of the RPRH were used.8 In that year, revenues for
registry services totaled o41.6 million, and there were 219,000 requests, resulting in an
average tariff of j?1 90. This average tariff of 4190 was used as the basis for calculating the
projected revenues from registry services. An annual inflation rate on tariff revenues was
assumed to be half of the local cost inflation rate (4 percent tariff inflation versus 8 percent
cost inflation). Total revenues from registry services were then calculated by multiplying
the projected number of requests by the average tariff.
8. The year 1994 was considered to be an anomaly because a disproportionate number of large
properties were recorded. The average tariff of the requests was therefore higher than it was in 1993,
and since the observed and expected tendency is toward smaller lotification, it was felt that 1993 was
a more representative year.



Annex BS
Page 11 of 11
Need for Maintaining the Average Tariff
29.   The revenue-generating capacity of the CNR depends on both the demand for
services (number of requests) and the tariffs charged for each service. Since very
conservative assumptions were used to estimate the number of requests for registry
services, it is reasonable to believe that these projections are achievable. However, for the
projected CNR revenue to be achieved, the average tariff level assumed in the cashflow
analysis would have to maintained or surpassed. If the demand for registry services proves
to be higher than the base-case scenario, then the projected revenues could be achieved
with an average tariff level lower than the one used in the analysis. But assuming that the
base-case demand scenario is accurate, then the tariff structure for registry services will be
a key factor in CNR's financial sustainabilty.
30.   One possible means of ensuring adequate revenue is to include in the loan
covenant a specific conditionality concerning the maintenance of average tariff levels. This
method, however, is not recommended, because it would prove awkward to implement,
given the wide range of services provided. In addition, because the proportional mix of
services varies from year to year, it would be impossible to predict the average tariff in any
given year. In any event, there is some evidence that the tendency is for the average tariff
to rise, rather than fall. To the extent that tariffs are based on property values, the average
tariff is likely (at least) to keep pace with inflation, since in the long run the rate of
increase in property prices outpaces the general rate of inflation. Offsetting this possibility,
however, is the tendency toward smaller property divisions in urban areas, which could
have a downward tendency on the average tariff. On the other hand, subdivided properties
generally have a higher market value than the initial property, so-while the impact of
subdivision on the average tariff may be negative-the impact on overall revenue
generation should be positive
31.   Another way of ensuring sustainable cash flow for CNR would be to include a
legal covenant requiring that the GOES provide annual supplementary financing (i.e.,
above and beyond counterpart contributions) as required, based on an annual review of
budgetary projections. Such a requirement would encourage GOES to adopt a tariff
regime that helps ensure CNR's financial fluidity. This requirement, however, would
dupublicate the legal requirement established in Legislative Decree No. 462 establishing
the CNR that it have tariffs that ensure its self-financing and barring fee waivers.



Annex B6
Page 1 of 3
EL SALVADOR
LAND ADMINISTRATION PROJECT
SUMMARY TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR TARIFF AD Hoc REVIEW
Background
1.    El Salvador's Land Administration Plan has established an administratively and
financially autonomous National Registry Center (NRC) responsible for all registry and
cadastre activities throughout the country. As a part of this process, the tariff structure for the
registry and cadastral services needs to be reviewed from time to time. The purpose of this
review is two-fold:
* to ensure the financial viability of the NRC by identifying a progressive tariff
structure that will provide universal access to services, while ensuring financial
sustainability,
*  to simplify the existing tariff structure if warrented.
2.     Traditionally, the institutions which provide registry and cadastre services have not
functioned on a financially autonomous basis. As a result, the tariff structure for services is not
predicated upon the criterion of overall cost recovery. . Recently, it has been approved that the
CNR have financial autonomy, which provides an excellent opportunity to review its tariff
structure. And while a progressive tariff structure will likely include the cross-subsidization of
certain services, or graduated tariffs based on the economic capacity of clients, it is essential
that the tariff structure as a whole follow a financial logic that will permit the CNR's long-term
sustainability.
3.     The existing tariffs structure for registry services consists of a myriad of different
tariffs, leading to confusion in their application and high administrative costs. Simplification of
this structure should be reviewed.
Objective
4.     The objective of the study is review how to systematize and simplify the tariff structure,
in order to ensure both the accessibility of the cadastral and registry services and the financial
viability of the National Registry Center.
Activities
5.     Develop an overall tariff strategy for cadaster and registry services based on the
concepts of financial sustainability and universal coverage. Identify the profile of the targeted
client base and determine tariff thresholds for the various services, identifying which services



Annex B6
Page 2 of 3
should be subsidized by surpluses generated by other registry services, and which should be
subject to a progressive structure based on graduated tariffs.
6.    Identify all the registry and cadastral services, including existing services as well as any
new services resulting from the modernization of the registry. Calculate the costs associated
with each service. Review the present administrative process concerning the provision of
services. Where appropriate, recommend organizational arrangements that will simplifying
their administration and ensure the provision of services on a least-cost basis.
7.     Compare current tariffs with the real costs of each service and recommend a new tariff
structure that will balance the accessibility criterion (according to which tariffs are set in
accordance with the users' ability to pay) along with the criterion of financial sustainability.
Explore ways to simpify the tariff structure, identifying criteria for grouping tariffs into related
"families", and developing recommendations for a streamlined structure. Group tariffs by class
(i.e. cost recovery; subsidized, fixed-rate, variable-rate, or progressive). Estimate the demand
for new registry and cadaster services that the will be provided. Identify a tariff strategy for
these new services, encompassing governmental and municipal users of registry information.
8.     Prepare a seven-year cashflow analysis for the institutions involved in the registry and
cadaster services, using the World Bank's SAR financial projections and other relevant data as
a basis. Undertake sensitivity analysis to explore the irnplications of different assumptions
regarding costs and revenues. The purpose of the analysis is to validate the recommended tariff
structure, and provide evidence of its ability to ensure the NCR's financial sustainability.
9.     Define the role that municipalities will play within the context of decentralized land
registry services. Explore the advantages and disadvantages of altematives for distributing
revenues to municipalities that will encourage their active participation. Based on this analysis
and consultation with stakeholders, recommend the most appropriate revenue-sharing
mechanism.
Expected Product
10.    The study will include recommendations on a new  registry and cadastral tariff
structure; a complete list of recommended tariffs together with an explanation and a financial
and/or social justification, cash-flow projections will include a sensitivity analysis; as well as a
description of problems and advantages of the recommended structure, including summary
tables and statistical annexes.
11.   The final product will be presented at a meeting with the CNR Board.
Duration: 25-30 days



Annex B6
Page 3 of 3
Reporting Relationship
12.   The contractor will report to the Executive Director ofthe CNR
Counterpart: CNR Financial Unit
Minimum Requirements
Graduate in Economics, Finance, Business Administration or some other
relevant discipline.
*     Experience in the registry and cadastral tariffs.
*     Ability to work independently and to perform primary research.



Annex C: The Pilot Project
*   C1      Data from Experimental Phase
*   C2      Timetable for Pilot Project
*  C3       Pilot vs. National Projects
*   C4      Pilot Implementation Indicators



Annex C
Page 1 of 7
EL SALVADOR
LAND ADMINISTRATION PROJECT
The Pilot Project Experience
Pilot Project Activities
1.    The pilot project's activities financed by PRISA (Loan 3576-ES) are the following:
(a)   Works, equipment, consultant services and training, salaries and operating
costs to carry out land registry and cadastral activities covering all 16
municipalities (122,600 hectares) in Sonsonate Department. This mission
includes aerial photography, office and field updating of the land registry
and cadastral records, and establishment of a parcel-based land registry and
cadastre system. As part of project preparation, an experimental phase was
carried out. It included land regularization field surveys in two
municipalities (about 5,800 hectares) using 1980 cadastral maps (i.e.,
without the aerial photography). The findings from this experimental phase
were used to design the pilot and national projects (see paras. 16-27).
(b)   Equipment, consultant services, and training to establish a consolidated
office of legal and cadastral registry in Sonsonate and data stations in
several municipalities.
(c)   Consultant services to carry out a study of legal and institutional
requirements of the new National Registry (CNR), including mechanisms
for alternative dispute resolution to resolve registration and cadastral
conflicts.
(b)   Consultant services, salaries, operating costs for the project implementation
unit (LIE), which is responsible for project supervision, monitoring and
evaluation and administration.
Detailed Project Description
2.    As indicated above, the pilot project consists of three subcomponents. They are
described in this section.
3.    Land Registry and Cadastral Activities. This subcomponent includes the land
data acquisition activities. These activities include all steps to capture information from the
Sonsonate land registry's 1,800 land-record volumes, digitalize the IGN-maintained
cadastre and link the grantee-based records (folios personales) to the individual parcel-



Annex C
Page 2 of 7
based registry records (folios reales), and establish new cadastral maps from aerial photos.
See Flowchart 1 on page 8. The product of this subcomponent are the field-verified folios
reales (i.e., parcel-based files for each parcel identified in the aerial photography) ready to
be integrated into an automated land information system (LIS).
4.    Establishment of a Consolidated Legal and Cadastral Registry Office. This
subcomponent includes the institutional development activities to transform the Sonsonate
registry and the IGN office into a consolidated cadastral registry ( i.e., constituted of
parcel-based unified alphanumeric and graphic records). These activities range from (a)
training registry staff in the capture of thefoliospersonales in digital form and replacing
the traditional folio personal system by installing an automated RSI unit (thus
extinguishing the traditional RPRH system) to (b) receiving the field-verified folios reales
into the LIS for the completed verified area. The product of this subcomponent is an
operating RSI unit handling the LIS unified (alphanumeric) legal and graphic (cadastral)
folios reales. Once the LIS is installed and the records are uploaded, the project finances
the training of computer operators and the installation of municipal computer stations
linked by modem to the LIS. These stations will have 'read-only" capabilities and will be
able to provide certifications of information in the LIS and receive service requests for the
regional office.
5.    Study of CNR's Legal and Institutional Requirements. This subcomponent
includes the hiring of consultants to carry out the detailed work to consolidate the
operation of the CNR. Because the CNR is the agglomeration of the National Registry
(land and commerce), including the RSI and IGN, its operations need to be streamlined.
As such, its legal mandate remains the same as that of its original institutions and therefore
needs no new laws or regulations to operate. However, under a single authority, it can
streamline its operations and avoid duplications (i.e., at present, there are cadastral offices
in the registry and in the IGN as well). The study will identify ways to make CNR more
efficient and recommend further legal and institutional changes.
6.    Project Executing Unit. This subcomponent includes financing for equipment,
consultants, staff, and operating costs to manage the project. The activities of this
subcomponent include the management, supervision, quality control, monitoring and
evaluation, procurement, accounting and disbursement, as well as coordination with other
executing units within CNR (directorate of CNR, RSI, RPRH) or other agencies (UNDP,
Ministry of Justice, MIPLAN, ILP).
Project Implementation, Procurement, and Disbursement
7.    The executing unit (UE) will manage project implementation, procurement and
disbursements.
8.    Project Implementation Unit. The UE was created to manage this pilot project.
The unit is currently composed of a project manager and nine technical



Annex C
Page 3 of 7
administrative staff, as well as four support staff. (see organizational chart 1 in Annex E4).
This unit will be bolstered by a team of three resident consultants from an international
firm (KADASTER) hired to carry out the bulk of the subproject, under terms of reference
and international competitive procedures satisfactory to the Bank. The team will
temporarily be supported with short-term international staff with specific technical
specialties, as required.
9.    Based on the lessons learned from the experience (see para. 15)., the project UE
will prepare terms of reference for the works to be done in-house and the work to be
contracted out to private firms. Flow chart 1 presents the steps involved. The work to be
done in-house includes (a) establishing a database with all Sonsonate land registry
information (a first step to constituting parcel-based records); (b) strengthening CNR staff
(i.e., training, equipment) to receive the folios reales; (c) establishing the municipal data
stations after the LIS is operational; and (d) preparing project management,
administration, and supervision of work functions to be continued-at a larger scale-in
the national project. The works contracted to an international firm include (a) establishing
the updated cadastral maps based on aerial photography; (b) processing the field
regularization steps to convert the database information from the Sonsonate registry to
folios reales; (c) designing and establishing an automated LIS; (d) building the institutional
capacity (i.e., training, technical assistance) to receive the folios reales and integrate them
in the LIS; and (e) carrying out the study of legal and institutional requirements noted in
para. 5. This process requires intense management and close coordination due to
dovetailed activities.
10.   The firm is responsible for the work of local subcontractors, including quality
control of all tasks.
11.   Implementation Schedule. A timetable for project implementation was agreed
with the firm. The pilot project started in October 1994, and it is slated to finish in March
1997. Timetable 1 in Annex C2 summarizes the steps and time required to complete the
pilot project.
12.   Procurement. Procurement will be conducted in accordance with Bank guidelines.
Because UE is part of a decentralized agency of the Ministry of Justice, it must operate
under archaic GOES procurement procedures. In order to accelerate project
implementation, CNR has requested UNDP support for procurement and hiring of
consultants under a cost-sharing agreement. UNDP has been supporting the Bank-
supported PRISA project from the beginning, favorably contributing to its execution of 32
disbursements. Again, under the UNDP agreement, UNDP prefinances the project's
disbursements.
13.   Accounts and Auditing. The project keeps separate accounts and a separate
special account from the other PRISA components under the Ministry of Agriculture.



Annex C
Page 4 of 7
14.   Project Management and Information System. The project is preparing a
management and information system (MIS) to monitor progress of implementation and
identify problems. In addition, as part of the PRISA implementation and impact indicators,
the project will establish indicators and baselines before the end of 1995. The proposed
land administration project will have the same MIS and indicators as this pilot (see Annex
G).
Lessons of Experience from the Experimental Phase of Pilot Project in Sonsonate
Department
15.  Implementing the experimental phase and planning the pilot phase taught the
project executing unit several important lessons that are being applied in the planning and
programming of the pilot phase and national project. The 1994 experimental phase-from
October 1994 to March 1995-covered 5,800 hectares in two municipalities in Sonsonate
Department: Santa Catarina Mazahaut and Santo Domingo Guzman. The rest of the pilot
project-from March 1995 to March 1997-covers Sonsonate's remaining 94,000
hectares. The lessons were particularly useful in the definition of tasks to be completed by
the UE and the international firm or its subcontractors.
Lessons Learned for Design of National Project
16.   The experimental phase served as a learning experience to (a) better define the
activities required for planning, programming, budgeting, and contracting the finalization
of land regularization activities for the remainder of the department; (b) identify the legal
and institutional requirements for incorporating the resulting parcel-based information into
a unified legal and cadastral land registry in Sonsonate; and (c) identify ways to avoid
pitfalls in the pilot and national projects.
17.  Implementation of the experimental phase has led to changes in almost every facet
of program implementation, from records examination and compilation in municipal
registries to the organization of fieldwork and dispute resolution.
18.   The first step in moving from a land registration system tied to a grantee-based
folio personal record of properties to a parcel-based folio real system requires a massive
search through land registration volumes (some dating back to the 1880s). Each parcel
must be tracked through its successive owners (inscriptions on the volumes are
sequential). The original plan was to hire outside personnel to photocopy the record of
each parcel as it moved through the 200 registry volumes (for the two municipalities in the
experimental phase-the pilot phase includes 1,800 volumes). Next, the plan was to
arrange the copies by municipality and parcel. These steps proved extremely time
consuming, and the executing unit began experimenting with taking advantage of the
"know-how" of registrar assistants (confrontadores) by training them to use computers
and enter registration data directly into a database programmed to carry out the sorting
function. The database is shared in a computer network; this system allows not only the



Annex C
Page 5 of 7
use of confrontadores to enter data in the database it also allows the keeping of books in
the registry for simultaneous consultation by the public. These changes greatly speeded
record conversion, while providing the registrars skills that will greatly increase their
employment prospects as the entire land registration system is modernized; the 17
registrars who participated in the experimental phase have been hired as trainers for the
pilot phase. Once the required information in these volumes has been transcribed, the
traditional registry expires and the automated procedures of the "social registry" take over.
The staff for this unit of the RSI is constituted by the on-the-job trained staff that prepared
the records-the confrontadores-and staff from the RSI.
19.   Cadastral fieldwork underwent a similar evolution. Promotion campaigns proved
effective in preparing municipalities and outlying agricultural areas for visits by mapping
teams. But the original plan of inserting seven-person teams of mappers and law students
into a 50 square kilometer area for four weeks did not work well. Progress was slow
because plot owners were often off-property when the teams visited. The procedure was
altered to schedule each area for two visits of 14 days each. During the first visit, and after
the information campaign, the teams stayed in the municipal center so landowners could
come to them to show their land property documentation; this strategy gave the teams a
picture of the properties that faced mapping or legal problems. It also allowed the teams
to draw up an efficient program and schedule used by additional cadastral and legal teams
two months later during a follow-up, 14-day visit.
20.   Informal dispute adjudication, one of the project's other key functions, also
benefited from being centralized in municipalities. At the beginning of the experimental
phase notary teams were sent into the countryside. This effort caused many problems
because claimants often lacked necessary papers, or the parties to disputes were not all
available. The system was revised to include newspaper announcements that gave the
details of each dispute and the days that the notaries would be available in municipal
centers to attempt to mediate them.
21.   The notary offices in the municipalities have also undertaken promotional work by
offering guidance and advice to landholders who lack the proper papers to register their
properties (i.e., on procedures to obtain adverse possession certification and formalizing
successions).
22.   The experimental phase also led to some organization simplification expected to
benefit the project's later phases. When it began, the project executing unit took on almost
all coordinating responsibility, hiring consultants to carry out cadastral mapping, as well as
law students and notaries to handle the legal aspects of land regularization. The unit soon
found the burden of organizing and coordinating schedules too great, and the system was
changed to make the mapping engineers the leaders of self-contained teams that included
the notaries and law students.
23.   Another lesson was the timing required for completion of procurement procedures.
International competitive bidding (ICB) took about six months, and national competitive



Annex C
Page 6 of 7
bidding (NCB) about four months. Because the Ministry of Justice's budget lacked an
investment category, the budgetary resources could not be expended; thus implementation
prefinanced by the UNDP facilitated payments for the purchase and hiring of consultants.
Achievements vs. Expectations, So Far
24.   The pilot project is programmed to be completed in March 1997. The
achievements so far key on operational, technical, and administrative aspects. The
operational aspects include lessons learned from the following activities: (a) planning and
carrying out the information campaign preceding fieldwork for the two municipalities in
the experimental phase; (b) training and hiring field staff; (c) carrying out the field
regularization surveys; (d) collecting and analyzing primary data on the actual field
situation; (e) communicating with beneficiaries on their perception of benefits and costs of
the program; (f) defining terms of reference and carrying out an actual competition for
selection of the international firm, including the selection, negotiation, and contracting
process; and (g) carrying out the internal budgeting and processing to obtain the PRISA
loan (Loan 3576-ES) amendment approved by the Bank and the Legislature, with the
budget allocated and the procurement and disbursement staff and procedures in place.
25.   Although the achievements were many, so were the disappointments. After the
experimental phase' s fieldwork, all verified parcel-based files were sent to the UE and
IGN for calculation of the parcel area and updating of the legal and cadastral records. The
IGN was not able to update the cadastre and it was found that deeds were also registered
at the Santa Ana office. Consequently, the land market in the two municipalities followed
its usual course, and since there was no graphic section of the record to guide the
substitution of the traditional registry to the RSI system for the two municipalities, the
verified parcel-based records were not integrated into the RSI database. Thus the records
are being updated but cannot be entered into the registry. This experience pointed out the
need to install the RSI unit at the levantamiento phase and the impossibility to regularize
only partial areas reporting to more than one registry office.
26    Costs. The experimental phase of the pilot project provided tested estimates of
the cost of fieldwork, team productivity, and skill mix required. The negotiation of the
contract for the pilot phase provided cost estimates of the photogrammetry, equipment,
and other inputs. The costs derived from the contract negotiation with the main firm were
used for the cost estimates of the national program.
27.   Data Acquired by the Experimental Phase. Only by actually carrying out the
work can a fact-based assessment of the magnitude of the problem be made. The
experimental phase in two Sonsonate municipalities-Santa Catarina Mazahuat and Santo
Domingo Guzman-provided some of the data, which is in Annex C 1.
M:SVULAND\SAR\BC<XC)PILDOC



FLUJOGRAMA DE PROCESOS                             Annex C
PROYECTO PILOTO                            Page 7 of 7
Proceso Registral                                     Proceso Catstral
Registrgalion                                                   Tomas de Fotos
(Trcto)Aereas
Ingreso  Base doVerlficaci6n e Ingreso          Digitallzaci6n do
Ingreso a Be   lea Base do Fichas              HoJas Catastrales         Producci6n de Fotos
D toe                   Catastral ls                 I.G.N.       l   _   Aereas y Ortofotos
RestItucl6n
Fotborimetrica
Investgacl6n de
Campo
(Barrido)
Actualizacl6n                          I      Actualkacion y
de                                       Restdtudion Final
.oBose de Datos                                   Hoeas Catastrales
CorhsoAuorzal6 do Iaro                                 Aldeeracm
d                                           Cd;
Asistencia            T                                                I
Notarial a       Agrupamiento     d    e_Fuslon de Regkstro y4
Propietarios o   Inforrnaci6n Registral       Catasiro
Tenedores 
IAutorizacion de la         '             Al Slstema omo 
Inscripcion         '<\             Folio Real Incomrpleto
Folio Real



EL SALVADOR                                    Annex Cl
LAND ADMINISTRATION PROJECT
Data for Experimental Phase
Region   (in)       h    Nuhber ofj  With- WKhoWa
_Region l;_Area_(m__ ______a (Ra)l |             RaI
Santa Catarina Masahuat                 |
Urban      0-100          1        35        18       17
100-200          .       134       70       64
200-300                  114       84       30
300-400                   66       46       20
400-500                   49       41        8
500-600                   20       13        7
600-700:                  26       21        5
700-800          I         9        6        3
800-900:                  10        6        4
900-1000l         .         7        4        3
1000-20001                  14        8        6
2000-3000!         1         9        5        4
<3000!                   6         0       6
TOTALJ....... ___                          1 ____7
Rural     -            ° 3       1085      645      440
3-5        35        281       7
5-10        32        25        7
_   10-200        60        60        0
TOTAL_ ,_  _2121                             ml
Santo Domingo de Guzman
Urban    100-200                   67        31       36
200-300                   53       21       32
300-400                   43       18       25
400-500     0.             4        8       12
500-2000                  21       16        5
600- 7'M                  16        8        8
700-800      X            15        5       10
800-900 .4                          1        3
900-1000    :...4                    3        1
1000-2000 -....21                    12        9
2000-30C0                   13       10        3
TOTALI                            2" 7___       7777__
Rural                  0-3        586      320      268
3-5       132        86       46
1    5-10         53        40       13
*        *~=.==..=    10-200  79      7         0
TOTi            I 0I                                  SE41



Annex C2
Page 1 of 8
EL SALVADOR
LAND ADMINISTRATION PROJECT
Pilot Program Plan and Chronogram



PlAN PIELIn[uAR YCRONGWIA DE ACTIVIDADES  PLAN PIL0
NIIECIO:   M        DE 1995
Cronogauma de actvdaca                               2  3  4  5  a  7  a   OtlOfti  121 1 12   3  4  5  678 to  10 11  12
il preparaci6n de fologtda aemes
2 cdocacr6n de puno ode oontrd - aes twb w-
3 levantanienlo y cMci o de punlas de control utbsnos                                                                                       I
4 fologralna s tea
5 procesamnbo de ptculas
6 verNlwic¢Tn de calidal*                                   _                                       1
7  iangLacl6n asoea
8 Identillcca6n/levantaniento/cAkulo do puntc de
control aeas rutaks
9 alustb de boques 
10 mpllmi6n deolotogrAas areas rundes                   _                                                                                 [
I I producci6n do resVIItclones utbanas
12 produccidnde olos__
21 crepiaci6n do ttormcI6n exislents
22 irvestigaciones 9i e ternno_
23 lXvanlamlento terrsre de Iniles
24 producclbn de maps calastrabs dgllaHzados
25 Droduccidn de b bale do dulos alanumdicos
26 produccldn de bhnws de kvsllgaclIn
31 Dreoaraci6n de inloonacidn edslente
32 ccmparac6n deo maas calastrales con             . do,_s
reslitdldj
33 identicacion etrresv/oollecckin de inlrdomci6n
34 bevantarnento do Wiles
35 producci6n de la bee de dabs allanurnwr_co;
36 producci6n do ani catsrates|r
37 producci6n de Inlotnes/msullados de invesligadones                                    |_;
51 diseo de un plan isrm una nueva organtzaci6n
de nmentuntrnbnb                                                               |
52 esblocikninrto deo nmaeva oe||izac_6n de
manbe.inl nto
53 dbeto de un nusv{isbtef tcabsbrlaukonlzad     ii
54 desmrrolo, ensayi aprobacl6n del nuvo sisbleo        U           i         |           | 
55 enttaga del nuevo ibtrma catasiral
56  .,PiereelaciIn



Annex C2
Page 3 of 8
Actividad.s do Produccift
NOT&      No hay ngmemr  13-20. 28-30 y 38-S0.
JL Preparacift de un plan de fotngrafa Ai=a
Produccin de un plan de vuelo, plmnificaci6n de posicifn de punto. do control en el terreno.
(ver la parte de KLM Acocar)
L  Colocaci6n de DuMntos de control
Establecimio de pum. de control ean 1 tarono ptm la fotograZa aim. Puntos de control
serin colocados an. del vuelo ilcamcru en lu areas urban, siryesido la fuografla aim
de scala l: 4000. Pam la fotografla do 1:20,000 los putoa de control satin idaficados
desde los fotos. Eat actividad micame so reflmor as al aizmcl6n en .l cao - no,d
levantamento de los punts mismos, por quo la acividad tia quc sor tan corto en el tiempo
quo posible.
Locaci6n de la actividad; an todo .l depanamanto, airodoor do los 16 arear pam la fotograffa
de 1: 4,000.
(var ls pan de KLM Aerocarto)
Levanamiento I calculo de 2ro de control
Coordenada do los puntos do conmol deberin se  conocidos a tra  de lde aiomo . Seo
eajcutado con tanologJa GPS. Esto acdvdad debe soa ejecucado awn  del ajuse do bloques.
Locaci6n: levantamiento on todo el Damm   cOiuos: a detwminar.
(ver Ia parts de KLM Aerocao)
£ FotoQZaU AL
Implemeontacif de la fotogfla.
Antosdel ampi.zo de Isa  porada de lluvia( abril - ayo 199S).  ionerode tipo de
camera. pelicula, esoa  de fotogafa. ec.
L4cwi6n de ls ectividad: todo .1 Dp
(ver la parte de KLM Aecarto)
1L        h:mi~mQLI sJdl1gjla
Va sor bhcho en E1 Salvador.
(ver la parte de KLM Arocaro)
L Control t6cnieo v mili..r
Cotrol de la calldad de la fotogmfla y control militar
Locaci6n: El Salvador
(ver la parto do KLM Amrt o)
Inmediawmnem  despuis de la fotograffa a6r  la triangulacifn a6rea podri arrancarse. Las
coordenadas de los punros de control dobezin conocorm  despud do a trngulacion 6eo y
antes del ajusto de bloques.
(ver la parts de KLM Aerocao)



Annex C2
Page 4 of 8
.. .s
A. R1 levantamlent de los punLos de cgntrol en el area rural, sirviondo 1 20.000 fotoerraffa nina
v el calculo de los coordenad=
(ver la parte de KLM Acrocarto)
9. BE ajuste de bloques a la actividad ultiuma en el procodtminho fotogrametico awes quo cl
mapeopuede empezrse. (resdtuciones o producci6n de orrofotos)
LacaMn de la actividad: Holanda.
(ver la parte de KLM Asrocarto)
10. Prodtcc6n dMfladones fatog  cgs na los areas rumba.
Identficaci6n do Ilndzes se huuin an los fatog por imnpeccif en ol campo, pam finos
catlaes. Pan east. fse dl rabajo no . s  ccaario dc toner dspoolblos ortofotos..
Locac6n do la acdvidad: Holanda.
(vet la parts de KLM Arocarto)
I,ocac6n de las acividade: Holanda y El Salvador: Alpnos do s imumo anilogos dW
ION  ain convertidos hacia instrumns do tipo digital. Duram1    e proceco de produci6n
de In ruttulories oste capcidad de producci6n act usado.. depqndom  del progrueso
pimamme sai usdo de manara experinal y mas tarde poublemeto pam la producci6n
(ver la pam do KLM Acrocarw)
12. Noduel6n de Lou              GE Ram IDA
LocaCl6n de It aividad: Holands
(vew Ia parti de KLM Aerocato)
21.                     de la infoMMW6n existente ants da e eu  ocmo de
fican  en al ta
Rsdo deo:
-  wapas catules
-  informac6n camsral (ficha camtms)
-  idrmw    del regtro pfiblico
-  infornucln del Folo Roil.
Luge de la actividad: oficina de los cunsultores en la capi
22.    1     n en el La=
-  Idontificacif do Jos lmitos
-  rwcolecci6n de a informaci6n alfanum6fica de las parcelm, propiedades, tubos, etc.
-  decisione sobrm aquelos lnmites que no se dilstipg   en 1 focogmfa y quo tiemn quo sa
dofinidos an el terreno
Lug  do la actividad: todo el deran
'23. Lsvantanlonw diffital de los lfmitea auo no to di tnguen en lam fotoraff
Se rflers a los limitt de l parcela rurale qut no se detea en lm oros; la cantdad sri
probablmeo muy limicadla
Se reflae  tambls a In pequelimAmas residencies rules. que cambiun conuisten de
peques parcWla.



Annex C2
Page 5 of 8
Lugar de la actividad: todo el depanmo.
24. Produccifn del mapa catastral automatizado. con lfmiltes v nimeros relaclonados con Ia base
de daos alfanumrricos
Lugar de la aividad: oficina de los consulcomes en la caphaVSosonaco.
25. Producci6n do la 2arte alfanum6rica dc la base dc datos: el Polio Real automatizado
Lugar de la actividad: oficina de los consultores en la capital/Sonsow.
26. Produccidn de los informes de los estdios
Pars cada parcobl so producirS un documemuxo, quo condone coda Ia infornacifn recolectada
en el tabajo de campo sobre las parcelsu. durantel prceso de atudio, levantamzio, etc.
Lugar de la actividad: oficina de los consultoros en la capital/Sonsonate.
27. Entren deol Mits a basg de d= tosla iinuva entidaLd camtascade regiatr de dearru
JA. r i       LE              CAibLjIUl
a acividad puedc umpozar imn ediae  despu  del inicio del proycto.
Lugar de la actividad: oficina do los consultors en la capital/Sonsonate.
32. CgM2arcJ6n de los  m    catastrales existntes con las rettuciones f_to MMdrca
Este proceso de comparacifn generar& la infornii6n, relaclonada a continuaci6n, antes do quo
cmpic   s actividados de campo:
indicaciones de bs lu   doode los lInmtes existentes catstruics no coinciden exacumeno
con las linass topogrficu, pero en donde la diferencia es pequafa.
-  indicaciones sobro las pamels cuyos lfmites no pudion scr mapados en la fotogrametrfa.
-  indicaciones de las areas donde los limit. catastrales y la topogrffa claramente no
corresponden, lo que pu¢dc significar que pueden esperarse problemas sobre los limitec
do las propiedads
dapondiewto do la situaci6n t6cica actual, so pueen dtgitalizar pate do los mas
casasales o los mapas cawsales mnteros. y ser introducidos on la nueva baso do datos.
Lugr de la activiad: oficina do lot consahorus an la capltallSonsonato.
33. Idendficaci6n del terreno. recolecc*6n de infoMacift
Lugr do la actividad: todo el doparumenwo.
34. Eabieclmiento de los imites de las nacelas
Lugar do la actividad: todo el dep  o.
35. Producci6n de 1 base de datos alfaln icou (Polio Reaal
Lugar de la acividad: todo el daparmmnz.
36. Producci6n de los manas catastrals dIJliLUzado
Lugar de la actividad: todo el departamnmo.
nmr-cso de trabawo dg camnto (invesrEgAci6n an el teario- ley n=anenros- atc')



* ii



Annex C2
Page 7 of 8
Diagram relaional de actividades
preparac!6n do
fotograafa aersa (1)
M,7u do puntos do
M, =-. - areas urbanos (2)
Wlvantamiento y             fotograffa aea (4)
ci6culo de puntos          l _         _    _
de control                  procelanenwo
urbanos (3)                 do pelIculas (5)
Iverificaci6n do
1~~~~~~~~~~
caildad  (6)__          _ _   _ _  _ _ _
triangulacl6n  |identficaci6nplevanta-
aerea (7)       miento/cilculo de
puntos de control
areas ruralso (8)
r~~~- I.                           I.
-,.  aJuste de bloques (9)  --  ampIlaci6n de
[ t~  7s I-T:L-7j-T T M
produccl6n do resti-                          producci6n de
tuc=on_s urbanas (1 1)                        ortofoto's (12)



Annex C2
Page 8 of 8
Dagrma relaci   de acdvid us- ..
proparacl6n de infor-                        ampi an de fotogrm-
maci6n xlnomnb (21)                          ff. aras rural.s (10)
I lgaones eprod                                  n de
Idawrolo, ensayo y      *I tbrreno (22)    |                             (12)
obaci6n dol
nuvo sisema
t.rrosbe do llmb. (23)
produool6n d. la       prodwol6n de
bs de dalb              mapa calseta
alfanumerloos (25)  i  digSllado (24)
prosuedo6n do mrUoam
de Invulgacn   a28d)\
ontoga de Ia base de
dato haola la nuov
*nddad _aiwV  (M)



ANNEX C3
EL SALVADOR
LAND ADMINISTRATION PROJECT
Pilot Project vs. National Project
Pilot Project                 National Project
Total Cost                    US$8.5 million                 US$70 milion
Bank Financin,g               US$5.6 million                 US$50 milion
Departme                      Sonsonate                      Rest of theCountry
No. of Municipalities         16                             246
Area to regularze             122,600 ha                     1,900,000 ha
No. of parcels                160,000 to 200,000             1,600,000 to 1,800,000
Land Information System       Establish the new automated   Expand the LIS to the rest of the
registration system           country, with regional a central
back up and 3 regional back-up
systems in the Central and 3
regional offices, for security
reasons.
COMPI e                       30                             190 (estimate)
Legal framework adequacy      within present legal framework,
law established the requirement
to move from folio personal to
folio real (San Salvador Registry
ared onfolio real)
Legal Framework changes       Oblige notaries to register   Legislative change approved.
required                      transactions
Simplify procedures to fonnalize
newfolios reales from
Presidential Decree to CNR
Administrative Decision
Problem cases                 Preventive annotations wil be  Streamline requirements to
made onfolios reales          facilitate resolution of problem
cases, minimizing use of
preventive annotations.
Institutional Framework       Framework allowed project      Strengthen CNR as autonomous
activities but, to streamline the    agency.
process the Legislature has
approved the transfer of
constitutive agencies (Registry,
RSI and IGN) to CNR
CNR Decentralization          Sonsonate Registry and IGN     Current 10 Registry Offices and
offices have been merged;     11 IGN offices wil be merged
revamped office holds all     into 1 Central Office (San
Sonsonate records             Salvador) and 3 regional offices.
52 municipal consultation offices
will be opened.



Annex C4
EL SALVADOR LAND ADMNISrRATioN PROJCr
IMPLEMENTATION INDICATORS
0WART              iN S     OCEM           '  JUE 1in
SON9ONATE                                     OIKAL
MAPPING                                                o50           100
Map Production (urban) Km2                            1 177           40            100
Orthophoto map production (rural) Km2
LAND RECORD REGULAIZATION
Infbrmation campaign
Number of radio announcements (spots)                 9,536           25             90            100
Press announcements                                    192            25             90            100
Flold InvestIgatIon (barrido)
Km2 investigated urban                                  50            20             55            100
Km2 investigated rural                                1,177           20             55            100
Training Notarios de Campo (person weeks)                10          100
Field Teams                                             so           100
ALTERNATiVE CONFLICT RESOLUTiON
Training Notaries and Legal Tutorial (6 notaties)       10            50            100
(person weeks)
Information radio campaign (tutorial) spots           6,556           15             50            100
Press Announcements                                    120            15             50            100
INSTITUTIONAL STRENG3THENING3
Training
CNR/UEP: International Training (person weeks)         267            50            100
CNR/UEP: Local Training (person weeks)                  30            40            100
INSTITUTIONAL DECENTRALZATiON
Regional and Municipal Offices
Regional offices established (number)                    1                          100
Municipal offices established (number)                   5                                         100
Communications systems
Regional offices connected (number)                      1                          100
Municipal offices connected (number)                     5                                         100
Training
Regional users trained (person weeks)                   10                                         100
Municipal users trained (person weeks)                  45                                         100
ADMINISTRATION
Procurement (Committed)
Intemational bidding complete (US$S000)              5470.1          100
Local bidding complete (US$S000)                      450.5           s0            100
Intemational Deliverables (US$'000)                    77.3          100
Local Deliverables (USS'000)                          648.0           90            100
Consultancies
Intemational (person months)                            26            40             70            100
Local (person months)                                  421            32             70            100



Annex D: Land Data Acquisition Component
*  DI   Mapping - TOR
o  D2   Field Work - TOR
o  D3    Registry Teams - TOR



Annex D
Page 1 of 7
EL SALVADOR
LAND ADMINISTRATION PROJECT
LAND DATA ACQUISITION COMPONENT
1.    This Annex describes the objectives, activities, and management of the land data
acquisition component. The design of this component imbeds the lessons learned of the
pilot project for the land administration project, financed under the Agricultural Sector
Reform and Investment Loan (3576-ES), described in Annex C.
Objectives
2.    The objectives of the component is to regularize land registration for El Salvador's
rural and urban land. The newly established parcel-based land records will become the
only official land registry in El Salvador. These records will be installed in the land
information system and registration methodologies being established under the pilot
described in Annex C.
National Program
3.    Component activities would be national, except for Sonsonate. The table below
indicates areas to be covered.
Table 1: Department Areas (kMn2)
;aA4uM.wAipuI,           886            171           19
jI:ISilWA'  *.756                       146           16
IAlAUuR1   *           1653            318           22
i~YAt4Y!3.MIPP          1928            370           33
tAWTAANAi ....     .    ... ' ^ * : 1954  376         13
iAJIEI4AV4f2WUUA4       1240            239           12
I.|)PA3^l  :-:          1224            236           22
j!AIIAIA3               1104            213            9
10745          2069           146
2077            400          20
1286           243           26
I'h   ;  * m;> *        1961            378           18
1184           228           13
*--y         ;         2130            410           23
8638           1659          100
fO4Ej *<-^   19383            3728          246
j    "dIRuui~b~ru       1226            236           16
Source: IGN



Annex D
Page 2 of 7
Technical Aspects
4.    This section provides the bases for the technical recommendations included in
project design, including draft terms of reference. The sections are (a) activities
programming; (b) mapping; and (c) land registry system and automated land information
system (LIS).
5.    Activities Programming.  Project activities are divided into three aspects:
barrido, ampliaci6n, and institutional strengthening. The barrido is the land
regularization; ampliacion is the coverage of all boundary changes by the RSI; and
institutional development is the CNR evolution necessary to integrate the barrido into the
LIS and keep it up to date. The land data acquisition component deals with the barrido,
the institutional strengthening and decentralization component with the ampliaci6n and
CNR strengthening, and the project administration component with the management of the
entire process.
6.    The barrido would take place in two large phases, covering two zones every
phase. The two zones in the first phase are the Central (San Salvador, La Libertad,
Cuscatlan) and Western (Ahuachapan, Chalatenango, Santa Ana, and Sonsonate). The two
zones in the second phase are the Northern (San Miguel, Cabarias, and San Vicente) and
Eastern (Morazan, La Union, Usulutan). The phasing was decided on the bases of
required number of field verification teams, so that the same number (115) was required
for each phase. Requirement was based on number of orthoimages and percentage of
urban area in each region, difficulty of the fieldwork (with urban and noncadastred
northern border areas considered most difficult), and road network facilities for logistic
purposes (i.e., team drop-off and pickup, lodging proximity).
7.    The amplfaci6n is not directly supported by the project. It is a self-financed
activity of the RSI. It creates in parallel, and in areas not yet covered by the barrido,
updated land records with legal and physical information for small perimeters that involved
boundary changes. These small perimeters need not be revisited during the barrido. The
small-scale handling by RSI of these boundary changes and fragmentations in an integrated
legal/cadastral manner creates experience in the institution to prepare it for the massive
verification/registration process of files established under the barrido.
8.    Institutional strengthening has started under the pilot phase financed under PRISA.
The international firm hired to conduct the technical activities of the pilot phase will also
design the automated land information system (LIS) required by the Salvadoran
registration process. The firm will also conduct the institutional study to consolidate the
CNR. These tasks are programmed to be completed prior to entering the massive
Sonsonate barrido data into the LIS in late 1996 or early 1997.
9.    Mapping. This task is the framework of the land register, which allows the
localization of the parcel rights. The task is complex and will require close supervision by



Annex D
Page 3 of 7
project management. Moreover, the terms of reference in Annex DI can be improved in
light of the experience in the pilot Sonsonate phase financed under PRISA (Loan 3576-
ES). The CNR is aware that it is critical to realize the aerophotogrammetry as soon as
possible, at best no later than the 1996 rainy season (May to November).
10.   By mid-1995, IGN has published official and detailed technical specifications for
all the topographic and cartographic works. The layout of the maps will be the same as
those already produced by IGN. As per IGN estimates, aerial photographs will need to be
produced at scale 1:20000 (19200 kn2) for 1:5000 in rural areas and 1:2000 maps-
production (orthoimages)-and at scale 1:4000 (400 km2) for 1:1000 maps production in
urban areas. The flight will carry a global positioning system (GPS) on board because it is
fundamental for at least the small scale (1:20000); it is particularly needed to avoid
systematic placement of control points to determine field coordinates. The
aerotriangulation phase is the best way to evaluate the ground control quality and
therefore the success of the tasks cited in the next four paragraphs.
11.   For rural areas, orthoimage production would be used to produce raster images,
but the final production will be made within vector format. IGN will be able to participate
in this production mainly for the maps at scale 1:2000.
12.   For urban areas, the stereoplotting production would be used to produce contour
images. IGN would be able to participate in this production. The difficulty will be to adopt
a realistic density of details to assure the best identification of the properties and buildings.
13.   Next, the process to integrate topographic complementary survey data into the
digital data has to be put in place. Particular attention, control, and coordination must be
assigned to this task in respect to the time schedule and the quality of the result.
14.   For map production, IGN needs to develop a typology of expected maps with
codes for volumes that reflect the de facto situation in objects on parcels on cadastral
maps, including physical volumes representable in the aerial photography. Altimetry is not
needed for cadastral purposes. No additional training is needed for this task.
15.   Mapping Equipment. The project would procure mapping equipment to conform
a single mapping production unit at IGN. This unit would be sufficient for land records
maintenance works required after the barrido. This equipment will allow IGN to
participate efficiently in the project without creating excess capacity for the future (see
Table 3).
16.   The recommended equipment consists of (a) stereoscopes and small topographic
equipment for field identification teams; (b) theodolites and GPS for topographic surveyor
teams (topographic complementary survey and ground control); (c) a modem laboratory
to develop the b/w photographs from photogrammetric data; and (d) restitution
equipment, including one basic system to make orthoimages (raster rectified images for



Annex D
Page 4 of 7
rural area) and to introduce the complementary survey results and one analytical
stereoplotter to produce contour images for urban areas and DTM (digital terrain model).
Table 2: Mapping-Estimated Costs (colones)
Om Itb If  U1*lt GM  C    SUb tlbt   TotalMa n    TOTAL
F - -                  _1                    _                 _       1_
AERIAL PHOTO                  _                                    r_ _
Aerial photography Ikm2)    _   _             _          ___
1:20000                  19,200           190  3,648,000           _          1
1:4000                     400          4,800  1,920,000
mob/demob                     1       700,000   700,000            r _
TOTAL                 7        |              _           6,268,000 _
Photo production (kMM2'  _      _                                             1
1:20000                  19,200            40   768,000 ____   ____
1:4000                     4001           200    80,000 _                     1
TOTAL                                                       848.000           1
TOTAL AAL PHOTO           -                                           7.116.000
RESTITUTION
Ground control (points)  _
1:20000              j      300        10,000  3,000,000
1:4000                    1,600         6,000  9,600,000
TOTAL                 1         _                        12,600,000
Aerotriangulation (models)
1:20000                   4,600         1,000  4,600,000
1:4000                    2,000         1,000  2,000,000
TOTAL                                                     6,600,000
Ortholmages (images)
Scanning                  4,600          1,000  4,600,000
Images rectification 1:5000  2,300      4,500 10,350,000
DTM production            2,300          1,000  2,300,000
Plotting at 1:5000        2,300           500  1,150,000
Image rectification 1:2000  230         3,000   690,000
Completion transfer       2,530           700  1,771,000
Plotting at 1:2000          230          1,000   230,000
TOTAL                                                    21,091,000
Stereoplotting (km2)   _
Stereoplotting              400        45,000 18,000,000
Completion                  400         6,000  2,400,000
Completion transfer         400         2,000   800,000
Edition                     400         4,000  1,600,000
TOTAL RESTITUTION                                        22,800.000
WEAL PMW -                    .. ...... -- -_ _____--J               63.091,000



Annex D
Page 5 of 7
17.   The number of the vehicles (50) is calculated and optimized for 115 field
photoidentification teams and 10 topographic complementary survey teams.
18.   Land Registry System. The Government is implementing an action plan to
consolidate the CNR (see Annex BI). An important element is the design of the land
registry system, and the coding of this system into the automated land information system
(LIS). This registry system must reflect the documentation flow required by Salvadoran
legislation and custom. The system must be designed and in place to process the parcel-
based files that will be generated by the Sonsonate barrido.
Automated Land Information System
19.   As explained above, the land information system (LIS) must be designed and
implemented to receive the files from the Sonsonate barrido under the pilot project. Under
the proposed national project, the government will adjust the LIS to a national system
installed in a network constituted by a central office in San Salvador and 3 regional offices,
with reading access to 52 municipal consultation stations. This network requires a study of
the appropriate data transfer technology, including cost, security, and training
considerations.
20.   Consequently, the national project will be dedicated to the effective generalization
of procedures as validated through the pilot project. This generalization will also be
validated at the moment the national project starts up.
21.   The pilot project ought to
(a)   define information technology procedures that would assure recording in a
single file by lot of all topographical and legal information concerning the
particular lot and would assure their actualization and extraction; and
(b)   train personnel in the new procedures.
22.   As defined in the pilot project, the procedures should permit the management of all
the data for the entire national project. The structure for the information technology will
represent an unique national configuration; it should permit:
(a)   file reading
*     from the information identifying the owner, and
*     from the topographic data (lot); and
(b)   use of public terminals to transfer, but not modify, information between
regional centers and between regional centers and the national center.



Annex D
Page 6 of 7
23.   Combination of Information. After the fieldwork, including the complementary
survey, the mapping system will contain all the numerical topographical data with the
boundaries. This digitalized system will be given to the confrontador.
24.   The confronfador, under this system,
(a)   attributes a new cadastral number to each lot;
(b)   opens a corresponding folio real;
(c)   inscribes the rights concerning the lot, as well as the origin of these rights;
and
(d)   creates new digitalized information by combining all the topographical and
legal information (this step constitutes the provisionalfolio real).
25.   If necessary, the registrador would modify the provisional folio real or make it
definitive by validation.
W:\SVULANWAR\YC(XD)LDADOC



EL SALVADOR
LAND ADMINISTRATION PROJECT
Table 3: Recommended Equipment for IGN
Item                                                    Q        Unit cost(C)        Total
Supplementary field equipment
Pocket stereoscopes                                                                                       25                1,760        44,000
Mirrors stereoscopes                                                                                       4              25,000        100,000
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..............              ...................   ,,,,,.  
GPS
Dual-frequency receivers (1 cm + 1 ppm) with geodetic and battery options                                  3             380,000      1,140,000
Mono-frequency receiver (2cm + 2ppm) with antenna kit and battery options                                  3             180,000        540,000
............................................................... | ,.,., 0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.. . .  . --
Theodolites
Total station( 0,2mgr-5mm + 3ppm- accessories).                                                            2             280,000        560,000
Total station (2mgr-5mm + 3ppm-accessories).                                                              10             165,000      1,650,000
-:                                                                                        .ER  -- ,,,,,,,,, "' 'te 'te . S '=.i.t. ..' 'i't Sll:   _ M~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..  .  ..  ..    .. ..  ....  .12
Photogrammetric production unit
1. Analytical stereoplotting equipment with data acquisition system compatible with the CNR software and the  1        1,650,000      1,650,000
orthoimage production system. Aerotriangulation and DTM production software. Output with Ethernet-TCP/IP.    __________________ ______... ....
2. Orthoimage production system with vectorisation rnodule and including: Workstation operating system     1
UNIX, X-Windows, X-Motif. (32 MB RAM, 2 GB disk drives(minimum). Ethernet-TCP/IP. 17" color monitor
1152x960 pixels. CD ROM and streamer device. Digitizer AO. Scanner 400 dpi (minimum). Inkjet, thermic (or
others) vector/raster plotter AO compatible with the system (option for 1 500 dpi resolution). Output will be          1,600,000      1,600,000
compatible with CNR system. Software radiometric preprocessing, geometrics rectification (projections), data
and system management, DTM processing, rectification, mosaicking and vectorisation process. (Option for
radiometric analysis).t
Power supply equipment for above equipment for above items.                                                 1             50,000         50,000
Laboratory equipment for processing b/w aerial photographs                                                  1          1,070,000      1,070,000
TOTAL EQUIPMENT FOR IGN   =8,404,000 
2  xcvo
0_



Annex Dl
Page I of 3
EL SALVADOR
LAND ADMMIISTRATION PROJECT
SUMMARY TERM OF REFERENCE FOR MAPPING
1.    Prior to all phases of project execution described below, the consultant will
provide a Quality Control Plan. The results will comply with the National Geographic
Institute norms.
Aerial Photography
2.    Standard quality rules for photography shall apply along with recommendations
that take into account the characteristics of the works to be undertaken in El Salvador.
Photography will be programmed according to favorable meteorological periods. Flight
and photography permits should be obtained with the least delay and taking into account
also any other formalities, including those of bordering countries.
3.    Two photography takings have been determined in order to minimize field costs,
obtain maximum profit from the availability of the plane and to permit the most flexibility
for the works that foliow.
4.    Scale: 1/20,000 with a 150mm focus and a signal compensation margin. This scale
will be maintained to cover the entire territory with the exception of the area
photographed in the Pilot Project. This scale will permit also the restitution in 1/5,000 and
1/2,000 scales for those complex zones requiring it.
5.    Photography of urban areas will not be required since they will be affected by a
1/4,000 coverage. It provides no significant savings and may create '#aps." Small scale
coverage over the urban centers (for example, San Salvador) can be used for restitution
for ordering. It would be best suited for defining zones to be included in larger scale.
6.    Particular care should be taken to define flight plans, taking into account reliefs so
as not to create major differences in scales and to ensure stereoscopy. In order to
maximize the trajectory and the number of photographs, flights will be oriented, a priori,
from East to West. Black and white photographs will be developed, unless an option for
color photography is included in the contract bid. Color orthoimages must be anticipated.
Photographs will be realized with an onboard GPS. The consultant will develop the aerial
photographs in cases offorce majeure to ensure immediate quality control.
7.   It is estimated that the number of photographs taken will be: of 20,000km2/S.2km2
by pair, equaling 3,846 pairs. For a safety margin, an additional 20% will be added for a
total of 4,600 pairs.
8.   The scale will be 1/4,000 with a focus of 150mm or 300mm for the more
important locations that require it (building heights, street widths). This scale will be



Annex Dl
Page 2 of 3
applied to cover the more important urban zones that will be restituted at a scale of
1/1,000. Flight plans will depend on the locations and the reliefs founds. Delimitation
using SPOT images could offer a degree of certainty. These photographs would be black
and white for later restitution. The onboard GPS will be used and the labwork will be
undertaken in El Salvador.
9.    Developed Photographs. The consultant will develop the aerial photographs in El
Salvador according to specifications and given standards. No enlargements are required
currently, however, the option for scanning will be available so as to provide quality paper
prints with the scales required to complete field research. Aerial photography flights shall
use existing maps of El Salvador (1:50,000 and 1:15,0000). All developed photographs
shall be deposited with the IGN. El Salvador shall be the sole proprietor of the
photographs.
Stereopreparation and Aerial Triangulation
10.   Stereopreparation of the photographs scaled 1/20,000 will be done using the GPS
method. Predemarcation is not mandatory since it may delay aerial photography. Precision
should be compatible with the final products. Each point will be determined with a
precision of 5 cm in order to guarantee the 1/2,000 scale. The estimated number of points
is 250. The flight plans will permit a better approximation. The existing geodesic network
must be analyzed for eventual use of actual points and its integration into the GPS
network.
11.   Stereopreparation of the photographs scaled 1/4,000 will be done also using the
GPS with a precision of 2 cm. Predemarcation is highly recommended. The number of
points will depend on the flights, with determinations at the ends of each band.
12.   The results will be in the coordinate system for El Salvador (Lambert, Clarke
ellipsoidal 1880) that will used in the restitution tasks. At the least, the consultant should
provide these coordinates in the UTM and WGS systems.
13.   Leveling will use the current network after a quality analysis of the points
according to the conventional methods used.
14.   The preceding tasks will be undertaken in close collaboration with IGN. AU the
GPS points should be tumuli and will be included in the demarcation fiches according to
IGN standards. All the observations and calculations will be presented to the CNR. El
Salvador shall be the sole proprietor.
15.   Aerial triangulation shall be done in homogenous blocks and according to the
programming of the restitution works. The results will demonstrate the compensation
residues that should be compatible with specific data sought in the final documents. This
control will permit validating the stereopreparation operations. As mentioned earlier, the



Annex Dl
Page 3 of 3
results will be provided in the different systems and El Salvador shall be the sole
proprietor.
Restitution
16.   The actual cadastre record shall be maintained according to the entire topographic
plates. A coding system compatible with the general computing of the national plan should
be adopted in agreement with the CNR.
17.   Rural Areas. The scale for rural areas is 1/5,000. For the majority, the scale of
1/5,000 will be adopted and photographic production will be through orthoimaging (or
numeric orthophotoplans). Aerial photographs should be scan with a resolution of 25mm
that would permit having a resolution compatible with scales from 1/5,000 to 1/20,000.
With these characteristics, isolated details should be identified from 5 to 6 cm off the
ground. The contrast of the pixels will provide better definition of linear details (streets,
fencing). In this phase of production, the consultant will provide a first edition scaled to
1/5,000 for photoidentification. This provisional hard copy could be avoided if good
coordination permits photoidentification immediately after the production of orthoimages.
Rectifying orthoimages will be done by individual pixel after the orthoimages are traced in
the coordinate references for the given projection of the aerial triangulation points. In
order to achieve this rectification, it will be necessary to know the field numeric model
with precision compatible with data for curves at an equidistant level of 5 meters. The
consultant may use existing maps for a large part of the territory. It would be convenient,
however, verifying the quality of this information beforehand. If there are any doubts, it
would be convenient to re-form a numeric model by automatic correlation from the new
aerial coverage. A mosaic of the images will be done automatically.



Annex D2
Page 1 of 2
EL SALVADOR
LAND ADMINISTRATION PROJECT
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR FIELD WORKrEAMS
General Functions:
1.    Taking the aerial photography as a base, the technician for classifying field data
and the law student will visit each property indicated in the work zones. They will inspect
the property lines with the property owner/holder, or as a last recourse, with the legal
representative, administrator or caretaker, for the purposes of:
(a)   identifying in the aerial photograph the limits of the properties;
(b)   highlighting in the photograph the limits as identified and perforating the
comers or their corresponding direction change points;
(c)   numbering the photographs with temporary numbers from  1 to 'h,"
according to the number of properties within a given photograph;
(d)   interviewing the holder with the property or possession right whether or
nor inscribed in the Property Registry;
(e)   obtaining the documentary data that confimns ownership or possession
whether or not inscribed in the Property Registry;
(f)   requesting personal information of the holder of the property or possession
right in accordance with the information contained in the Personal Identity
Certificate; and
(g)   registering the data in the corresponding information filing card that is used
in cadastre.
Special Cases
2.    The property limits will be identified in accordance to what the owner or holder
indicates and states in writing.
3.    In the event of property confirmation it is supported by one or more statements or
physical limits exits that allow them to be defined, each one of the properties must be
identified and declared with its corresponding document whether or not inscribed in the
Property Registry.
4.    In the event that there a no identifiable physical limits in each property. the
conformed perimeter will be identified and all the written statements related to the
property will be registered in the information filing card.
5.    Rights and antecedents which correspond to different properties must be noted in
the event that limits cannot be identified.



Annex D2
Page 2 of 2
6.    If a property owner or holder has sold one or more parts of the property, then:
(a)   any information must be registered in accordance to paras. 2. and 3 if the
limits are defined in the aerial photograph; and
(b)   if the new limits cannot be identified, the perimeter must be outlined in the
photograph; a numbered sketch of how the divisions are configured must
be done and data from the owners or holders will be registered in the
information filing card.



Annex D3
Page 1 of 4
EL SALVADOR
LAND ADMINISTRATION PROJECT
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR REGISTRY PERSONNEL
1.    Objectives. The Ministry of Justice, through the Project Executing Unit for
Property Registry and Cadastre Services Improvement, seeks to revise, identify and
actualize the registry of all properties in the Sonsonate Department with the aim of
fulfilling the Project and establishing the Computerized Folio Real Registry to substitute
the existing Personal Property Registry.
2.    In order to obtain this goal, all the outstanding property records in the Real
Property and Mortgage Registry and the folio real as well as the records corresponding to
encumbrances and gravamens found in the respective registry books must be selected.
3.    To these ends, registry personnel will be contracted. The registry personnel will
provide the following services:
(a)   Registry study of each record contained in the registry book and folios
reales that the Sonsonate Property and Mortgage Registry maintains;
(b)   Digitization of all essential information that must be included in a record,
whether it be mortgaged  property, judgments, liens, outstanding
provisional notations, declaration of heirships and testaments (even when
the transfer to the heirs has not been completed), usufruct, bare legal title,
leasings, etc.
4.    To accomplish these services, a minimum of 90 calendar days will be required from
the date of contracted date. The contractor will be responsible for the digitization of all
essential data for the outstanding records contained in all the registry books and folios
reales through the following procedures: (a) automatic system distribution of the
corresponding registry books to each analyst; (b) the analyst will study each assigned
registry book and determine, if possible, the outstanding nature of each record; (c) each
analyst will be assigned an identification number for the digitization system in order to
access it for capturing existing outstanding record data in each of the registry books; (d)
each analyst will process the information contained in the registry books beginning with
the first registry book assigned.
5.    For the transfer records without marginal annotations, the following data will be
digitized: (a) record number; (b) registry book number; (c) property number; (d) property
data (antecedents, nature, location and area); (e) type of ownership act or contract; (f)
price and payment (either cash or term); (g) method of transfer: simple sale, sellback;



Annex D3
Page 2 of 4
homestead ties; (h) general information' about the seller and buyer; (i) contract date; ()
record date; and (k) name of notary or officer.
6.     For those records with marginal annotations, the following data will be digitized:
(a) record number; (b) registry book number; (c) property number2; (d) property data
(antecedents, nature, location and area); (e) type of ownership act or contract; (f) price
and payment (either cash or term); (g) general information about the seller and buyer; (h)
type of marginal annotation: (i) partial or complete transfers; (ii) partial or complete
mortgages; (iii) liens; (iv) declaration of heirships; (v) leasings; (vi) judgments; (vii)
rectifications; (viii) usufruct; (ix) actions for recovery; (x) filings; (xi) easements; (xii)
others; (i) registry book number with the marginal annotation; 0) record number of the
marginal annotation; (k) area (for partiaOly transferred or mortgaged properties and
properties with easements, etc.); (I) contract date; (m) record date; (n) name of notary or
officer.
7.    In order to verify the succession of property in those records that have been
transferred to different ownership, the following data must be digitized: (a) record and
registry book number; (b) property data (antecedents and location); (c) type of ownership
act or contract; (d) general information about the seller and buyer; (e) inactive status of
the record as inactive (in the event that this cannot be determined, al the data must be
included as if it were a record in force and wait for the system to determine the record
status); and (f) transfer annotation.
8.    In the event that a record has been repeated or replaced: (a) the recording
sequence must be sought; (b) all the data corresponding to the record must be entered as if
the record were in force; (c) the repetition or replacement number must be digitized; (d)
the margins must be annotated with a reference to the repetition number.
9.     For repeated records, the folowing data must be digitized: (a) complete the
antecedent number; (b) type of ownership act or contract. For cases involving
rectifications: (a) record number; (b) registry book number; (c) antecedent number; (d)
type of ownership act or contract; (e) record date; (f) deed date; (g) name of notary or
officer.
10.   In cases of gravamens or encumbrances affecting the property, the data from the
mortgage abstract or the encumbrance. This refers to aOl the marginal information found in
the record corresponding to the property. It is extremely important that the analyst take
care in relating each marginal annotation for the property.
11.   In cases of gravamens, the following data must be digitized: (a) record number; (b)
registry book number; (c) general information about the creditor/antichretic creditor; (d)
general information about the debtor; (e) mortgagor; (f) mortgage amount, interest,
I Age, civil status, business.
2 In the event that there is more than one property, the information must be digitized independenly (one
folio per property)



Annex D3
Page 3 of 4
payment terms, initiation date, mortgaged or eased area, mortgage grade, contract type,
pledge, goods, appraisal and constituent types; (g) name of notary or official; (h) type of
title; (i) notes.
12.   In cases of provisional notations, the following data must be digitized: (a) record
number; (b) registry book number; (c) date annotation ordered; (d) name of the pledging
party; (e) name of the person for whom the annotation is made or the person who
forecloses; (f) terms, amounts; (g) judgment; (h) name of officer.
13.   In cases of liens, (a) record number; (b) registry book number; (c) names of the
person who forecloses and the person whose property is foreclosed; (d) amount sought;
(e) judgment; (f) date of writ of attachment; (g) number of registry book and record of
attached property; (h) pledges; (i) description of other attached assets.
14.   In cases of judgments, the following data must be digitized: (a) record number; (b)
registry book number; (c) claim; (d) defendant; (e) plaintiff (f) judgment; (g) registry
book and record number of the property affected by the judgment; (h) registry book and
record number of the provisional annotation claim; (i) title type; and 0) notes.
15.   In cases of contracts without full transfer (leasings, gratuitous bailments-
commodatum, property consolidation, partitions etc.), the following data must be
digitized: (a) record number; (b) registry book number; (c) general information about the
title holder and the beneficiary; (d) initiation data and terms, amount; (e) disposition of
the property (leasing or commodatum); (f) guarantee; (g) payment ; (h) area; (i) leasing
the usufruct/bare property; (.) valuation; (k) notary or officer; (1) titles; and (m) notes.
16.   In cases of declarations of heirships or testaments, the following data must be
digitized; (a) record number; (b) registry book number; (c) property number; (d)
heir/transferor; (e) heir(s)/transferees; (f) duties of the transferees; (g) type of title; (h)
notary or officer; and (i) notes.
17.   In cases of sales of property rights, the following data must be digitized: (a) record
number; (b) registry book number; (c) property number; (d) property data (antecedents,
nature, location and area); (e) property percentage; (f) type of ownership act or contract;
(g) general information about the seller and buyer (specifying whether or not it is bare
legal title or usufruct being transferred, maintaining one or the other; if the bare legal
property is transferred and in another the usufruct, the information about the buyer must
be digitized also for each and the amount of each transaction); (h) deed date; (i) record
date; and (k) notes.
18.   In cases of condominium, the following general data must be digitized: (a) record
number; (b) registry book number; (c) antecedents; (d) property number; (e) property data
(antecedents, nature, location and area); (f) building (A, B, C, how many floors and how
many apartments in each building); and (g) notary.



Annex D3
Page 4 of 4
19.   In cases of easements, the following data must be digitized: (a) record number; (b)
registry book number; (c) easement area; (d) type and description of easement; (e) registry
book and record number for servient and dominant tenement (may be various); (f) record
date; (g) deed date; and (h) notary.
20.   In cases of dependent properties, the following data must be digitized: (a) record
number; (b) registry book number; (c) antecedent number and tome; (d) property data
(antecedents, nature, location, area, capacity (m3), percentage); (e) type of ownership act
or contract; (f) general information about the seller and buyer; (g) deed date; and (h)
record date.
21.   It is important to announce when a new registry applications are made. These must
be recorded accordingly in their respective registry book and included in the data base. the
digitized entry would be placed inactive if all is completed, otherwise the remainder must
be actualized. When the area of the property is not included in the recorded document in
the registry, the analyst must calculate the area of the property according to the
determined formula. When it is not possible to determine area because of the description
given of the property, area may not be assigned.
22.   The enumerated tasks must be realized also during the transition period from the
old to the new registry.
23.   Quality control. From  the entries made the supervising registrars and the
Executing Unit will select randomly records that will be compared with the entries in the
registry books. If the digitized book contains wrong or missing information, or other error
or omission that could effect the digitization process, the book will be rejected. The
contractors will review and correct immediately at their own cost.
24.   Inputs to be provided by Executing Unit. The Executing unit will provide: (a)
training for the registry personnel; (b) network computers; (c) data base with the requisite
information for data entry; and (d) access to the registry offices during the contract period,
including Saturdays, Sundays and holidays.



Annex E: Project Administration Component
o  El   Quality Control Team - TOR
*  E2    Supervision Milestones
o  E3    Procurement Plan
*  E4    Organigram for Executing Unit (UE)
*  E5    Summary of Design Alternatives Considered



ANNEX E
Page 1 of 3
EL SALVADOR
LAND ADMINISTRATION PROJECT
Project Administration Component
1.    This Annex provides details of the project administration component, including
management of the project activities, projet supervision plan, the procurement plan, and the
terms of reference for the quality control team.
Activities to be Financed
2.    The project administration component (US$7.0 million) would finance the
project's management, including vehicles and equipment, technical assistance and training,
and incremental recurrent costs. The project would finance the executing unit (Unidad
Ejecutora-UE), which was created to manage the pilot program under PRISA. The UE
is within the CNR, which is managed by a council headed by the Minister of Justice. The UE
has proven to be extremely effective, but it will need strengthening to take on the
proposed project.
3.    The UE  would be in charge of managing information campaigns and
communications, auditing, and project reportingm, including monitoring and evaluation of
implementation. A monitoring and evaluation system for the project was established under
PRISA by the end of 1995.
4.   Because of the national project's complexity, the UE would include a Quality
Control Team with two main consultants in charge of technical implementation. The
complexity arises from the need to integrate and unify technical and legal procedures, as
well as manage dove-tailed operations in different locations and time frames. The quality
control team would report to the head of the UE and be in charge of following up the
implementation of project activities by the consultant teams.
5.    Most of the technical assistance and training to be provided under the project is
related to skills not available in the government in sufficient depth or quantity.
International technical assistance (i.e., photogrammetry, land information systems) is to be
used mainly for developing system design and training local users. Local technical
assistance refers to skills in ample supply in the private sector (topographers, notaries) to
carry out outsourced volume services that will not increase the size of the public sector.
Technical assistance will also backstop ad hoc studies to review project impact and CNR
effectiveness. Funds would also be available for studies agreed with the Bank, translating
the SAR and other project documents, for project evaluations and auditing, as well as
preparing other documentation relevant to the project.



ANNEX E
Page 2 of 3
Activities to be Managed
6.    Activities to be managed:
(a)    Once the Sonsonate pilot phase is finished and the basic data is obtained, it
will be necessary to formulate modifications in the legal framework that
will be the basis for modernization throughtout the country. This
framework will be analyzed in terms of the applicable norms that may be
found in the pilot phase and the recommendations from the experts
redesigning the registry system software (LIS).
(b)    Subsequently, it will be necessary to contract firm for aerial photography
for the entire country in accordance with the procedures and scales
determined through the Sonsonate Pilot Project. These firms will enlarge
and restore the aerial photographs and eventually, the country will be
provided with the restoration equipment necessary for maintaining the
registry system nationwide.
(c)   Once the aerial photographs are enlarged, local firms will photoidentify
lots. These firms will also conduct the corresponding searches for the rights
that the titleholders may possess. They will be also responsible for hiring
notaries for alternative conflict resolution and will report to the Justices of
the Peace or other judges those conflicts that cannot be resolved
administratively. Two teams would work simultaneously in order to
complete these activities in the a reasonable amount of time. According
the estimates, the firms shouls have at least 112 photoidentifiers at work
through both phases of the project. An equal number of students will work
along with them as well as 15 notaries at each base operation city.
(d)   Each one of the firms will coordinate its activities with a legal firm that will
undertake the registry studies according to the specific Department in
which modernization is taking place.
(e)   Finally, the legal, graphic and field analyses will be placed in a single
document to as to fulfill the transfers from the old to the new registry
system.
(f)    When the preceeding have been accomplished, the old registry offices and
the National Geographic Institute offices will become either regional or
municipal offices in those Departments. There will be four departmental
offices for the new Registry and Cadastre System. Subsequently, there will
be 52 presentation and consulting tables.



ANNEX E
Page 3 of 3
Phasing of the regularization activities
7.    The first phase groups two zones (see map in Annex Al). The first zone consists
of the La Libertad, San Salvador and Cuscatlan Departments. The Registry Office (First
Section of the Center located in San Salvador) furnished registry services for the
Departments of San Salvador and Cuscatlan. The Departments of San Salvador and La
Libertad contain the highest urban populations for which they are known as 'Greater San
Salvador." This would define with greater precision those aspects related to municipal
limits. The execution of this phase will begin in mid-1996 and completed in at the
beginning of the year 2000.
8.    The first phase also includes the Western Zone, consisting of the Santa Ana,
Chalatenango, Ahuachapan and Sonsonate Departments. The first two are undergoing
delimitation with Honduras. The execution of the first phase for these departments will
begin in mid-1996 and be completed at the end of 1999.
9.    The second phase also consists of two zones. The first zone comprises the San
Miguel, Morazan and La Uni6n Departments. The Registry Office (First Western Section
located in San Miguel City) provides registry services for all three departments, which will
facilitate recompiling primary registry data. Two of the Departments are undergoing also
delimitation with Honduras. The execution of this phase will begin in early 1998 and be
completed in early 2001.
10.   The second phase also includes the Eastern Zone. It consists of the La Paz,
Usulutan, Cabafias and San Vicente Departments. The Registry Office (Second Section
located in San Vicente City) provides services to the latter two. The execution of this
phase will begin in mid- 1999 and be completed at the end of the year 2000.
Organization
11.   The attached charts show the composition of the UE and the work flow as presently
organized for the implementation of the pilot project.
Monitoring and Evaluation, Inpact Indicators
12.   Project progress would be monitored according to the monitoring and evaluation
procedures and implementation and impact indicators in Annex G.



Annex El
Page 1 of 4
EL SALVADOR
LAND ADMISTRATION PROJECT
SUMMARY TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR QUALITY CONTROL TEAM
1    Under the guidance of the executing unit (UE), the quality control team will
supervise the execution of the regularization (establishing the folio real, conducting
fieldwork, and integrating the records into the LIS). The team is needed because of the
complexity of integrating and unifying technical and legal procedures and managing
dovetailed operations in different locations and time frames. All these tasks will be
implemented by consultant teams. The quality control team would report to the head of
the UE and would consist of two main consultants.
2.    Most of the technical assistance and training to be provided under the project is
related to skills not available in the government in sufficient depth or quantity.
International technical assistance (i.e., photogramnmetry, land information systems) will be
used mainly for developing system design and training local users. Local technical
assistance refers to skills in ample supply in the private sector (topographers, notaries) to
perform outsourced volume services that will not increase the size of the public sector.
3.    The Quality Control Team will consist of two technical advisors: (a) mapping
expert; and (b) Registry process expert. The mapping expert will supervise the mapping
and land regularization components. The Registry expert will supervise the institutional
strengthening and decentralization components. Detailed terms of reference are given
below.
(a)   Mapping Expert
* The expert will prepare detailed terms of reference and monitor the completion of
contracts with specialized firms.
* The expert will be responsible for:
(a)   aerial photograph and aerialtriangulation;
(b)   adjustments to photogrammetric blocks for aerial photography and land
photogrammetry;
(c)   two dimensional adjustments and subsequent procedures for adjustment;
(d)   verifying field, land surveying and establishing support points;
(e)   measuring terrestrial support;
(f)   urban restitution and rural orthophotography production operations;



Annex El
Page 2 of 4
(g)   supporting the land surveying personnel in charge of orthophotographs
production and restitution;
(h)   urban and rural digital map production; and
(i)   processing land survey data.
* Each of the indicated points may be divided into more specific categories according to
the institution's needs and its technical areas. In all cases, the technical knowledge
must be identified in which the expert has and demonstrates experience and scientific
knowledge.
(b)   Registry Process Expert
* The Registry expert will provide technical and scientific support for institutional
development and will be responsible for: (a) preparing the terms of reference for
bidding and contracting of firms; (b) quality control of products rendered; (c)
elaborating the quality and efficiency control norms and standards; and (d) providing
institutional organization support to the different sectors of the CNR at all times.
* Analyze the current institutional situation:
(a)   evaluate the tasks of the key existing agencies;
(b)   evaluate the human resources structure (qualifications, duties, age groups,
etc..) and training proposals;
(c)   evaluate of the organizational structure and work procedures; and
(d)   consult with key personnel on expected constraints for the new
organization.
v Support and assist in implementation and reengineering.
(a)   basic organization structure (units/sections) and work procedures, impact
and operation of the organizational database, new processes and tasks, etc.;
(b)   degree of decentralization of the regional centers in relationship to the
central CNR office;
(c)   design of flows/channel of information and communication; and
(d)   develop a range of options and alternatives.
*  Review and formulate training programs for new staff.
*  Define and propose features of the CNR promotional and informational campaigns.
*  Support a proposed CNR  Special Work Group to reach agreement on the
organizational and structural concepts of the new agency and support the General
Director in preparing CNR's detailed institutional agenda and development objectives.



Annex El
Page 3 of 4
* Support the new organization management:
(a)   support new sections and units;
(b)   follow-up in quality of CNR operations and services;
(c)   make recommendations for improving work procedures and services, etc.;
and
(d)   make recommendations for extrapolating or replicating the project pilot
results.
* Design the technical specifications and monitor fulfilling of the temporary execution of
contracts and their results.
* Other principal areas that this expert will consider include:
(a)   operation and maintenance of the CNR central information system;
(b)   design of the telecommunications system and network between regional
systems with the central CNR system;
(c)    design and operation of the integrated regional registry systems;
(d)   design of organizational structures, control and responsibility lines within
the information technology organization (regional centers and central CNR
office);
(e)   operation and maintenance integrated databases for Property Registry,
Cadastre, Commercial and Intellectual Property;
(f)   computerized accounting and management systems for CNR  and its
regions;
(g)   design and optimization of CNR communication systems;
(h)   alphanumeric and vector databases for operating the Land Information
System (LIS);
(i)    operation and maintenance of the LIS, vector thematic maps, ties with/and
sales of services to third parties;
(j)   evaluation and configuration of technical alternatives for operations of
cadastral systems;
(k)   linking photogrammetry with field work;
(I)   evaluation of hardware needs, specifications and preliminary budgets;
(m)   delineation and specifications of requirements for personnel training; and
(n)   design of training modules in relation to the institutional organization;
Note: Given the broad knowledge required to fulfill this TOR, it may be necessary for
two consultants to complete these tasks



Annex El
Page 4 of 4
Training Coordinator
* Although not part of the Quality Control Team a training coordinator will provide
support on technical expertise and training needs. The technical coordinator will be
responsible for preparing specific technical work terms of reference and designing mid-
and long term training programs (in conjunction with the institution and the CNR
training center). The coordinator will develop training programs and quality control
methods for those receiving training and locate trained staff for timely project input.
Accordingly, trained staff may serve in the CNR training center to guide and train
others in their specialty.
*  Long term training. The coordinator will prepare training programs and identify the
locations where specialists that the CNR requires will be trained. Training will be
offered to licensed professionals with degrees from local universities to obtain
specializations at the master's level. In principal, the specializations to consider would
be:
(a)   Land surveying and Cadastre;
(b)   Notary and Registry Sciences (specialized legal training);
(c)   Registry Administration and Management; and
(d)   Systems Development and  Operations, Databases and  Geographic
Information Systems.
3 Specific training. This type of training wilH be applied to registry staff to raise the
quality and efficiency of their services. It will be based upon refresher courses or
seminars by area of interest and as a function of the responsibilities of each individual.
Training will be orientated towards using existing national or international courses that
contribute to achieving the stated goals.
(a)   Legal Registry;
(b)   Topography and Land Surveying;
(c)   Administration Systems;
(d)   Information Technology and Database Management;
(e)   Administrative and Accounting Systems;
(f)    Operation of Cadastre, Aerial Photography, Orthophotograph Production
and Restitution; and
(g)   Civil Law with emphasis on registry law (property and business) and
related legislation.



Annex E2
Page 1 of 1
EL SALVADOR
LAND ADNMIISTRATION PROJECT
SUPERVISION MILEsroNEs
1.    Project supervision will take place at the following critical stages and for each phase of
the national project:
(a)   Four to six months after beginning the national project: supervision of
(i)   the general organization of project management at the national
level;
(-i)   the response to the service tenders required by the project; and
(iii)   the establishment of the Quality Control Team to supervise the
service contracts--(experts in technical execution, institutional
organization and procedures and training).
(b)   Upon the delivery of photogrammetric restitution of the first 10,000 hectares
of rural plans and the first 200 hectares of urban plans-(experts in
photogrammetric techniques).
(c)   Upon achieving the conciliation/mediation procedures related to the first ten
ural municipalities and one urban municipality-(experts in legal procedures
and cadastral techniques).
(d)   During the validation process of the legal-cadastral files established during the
first phase of project implementation (Central and Western zones) and the
second phase (Northern and Eastern zones)-(experts in legal procedures and
cadastral techniques, and experts in information technology).
(e)   At the beginning of the national project, for land information systems
technology, validation of a benchmark test for the national procedures-
(experts in information technology).



Annex E3
Page 1 of 5
EL SALVADOR
LAND ADMINISTRATION PROJECT
Procurement Plan
I .    According to the time schedule of the project, the preparation of the tenders has to
begin at the end of 1995, at least seven months before the start of the proposed land
administration project (estimated to begin in June 1996). Based on this timetable, the
procurement plan includes the following key tenders:
(a)   Mapping for El Salvador, including aerial photography, ground control,
aerotriangulation, restitution (scales are 1:1000, 1:2000, 1:5000), and
topographic complementary survey. The first phase is the writing of the
mapping tenders documents. (see Annex DI).
(b)   Legal research (levantamiento) operations, field photoidentification, and
merging for the first phase covering he West Zone (Santa Ana,
Chalatenengo, Ahuachapan) and the Central Zone (San Salvador, la
Libertad, Cuscatlan). The tender for the second phase-the Northem-
Central Zone (Usulutan, la Paz, San Vincente, Cabanas) and the East Zone
(San Miguel, La Union, Morazan)-will be launched seven months before
the starting of the second phase on October 1, 1998 (International
Competition Bidding-ICB) (see Annexes D2 and D3).
(c)   Extension and adjustment of the land information system (LIS) software. If
this step is necessary, it could be launched as soon as the design made
during the pilot phase is ready and accepted. To ensure the best integration,
the tender could include the hardwaie (ICB).
(d)   Technical equipment. Separate tenders or one or two tenders f-ir different
equipment types will be necessary. Because there is not a sole supplier for
all of the required equipment, a single tender would be inorG *.sqpensive but
easier to handle administratively (ICB). The equipment needed ir.cludes
(i)   total stations, small topographic equipment, including stereoscopes;
(ii)    GPS and accessories and computer for calculations;
(iii)   analytical stereoplotter with power supply unit;
(iv)    orthoimages production equipment with power supply unit; and
(v)   laboratory equipment for aerial photographs with power supply
unit.



Annex E3
Page 2 of 5
(e)   Vehicles- ICB or Limited International Bidding (LIB).
(f)   Audio visual support for training-(National Competitive Bidding).
(g)   Technical supervision. (Jse of Consultants by World Bank, Borrowers
and World Bank as Executing Agency, August 1981).
2.    For the ICB, insertion in Development Business and the prequalification procedure
should start at the end of 1995 to allow sufficient time between the bidding and the
contract implementation.
M:ASVVAMAR\BOx.3)proc.doc



Annex E3
LAND ADMINISTRATION PROJECT                       Page 3 of 5
EL SALVADOR
PROCUREMENT PLAN
BMDDDING & CONTRACTING PROCEDURES
- Estimated Dates as of l7 january 1996 -
(mn/ddlyy)
Contract      Issue of       Receipt of    Negotiation    Contract Award       Start work
Bid           Bid                          Bank No Objetion     Delivery
Aerotriangulation
Aerophotograh
Restitution and
Ortography(ICB)06/01/96      09/30/96       10/21/96      11/15/96              12/15/96
Information
Campaign Design
& Strategy
(Other).      06/01/96       09/01/96      09/15/96       29/09/96              10/01/96
Vehicles
Field Teams Phase I
(LIB)         01/15/97       03/30/97                     04/30/97             08/30/97
Vehicles
Field Teams Phase 2
(LIB)         01/15/99       03/30/99                     04/30/99             08/30/99
Main Computers
& Data Equipment
(ICB/LIB)     07/01/96       11/01/96                     12/06/96             04/06/97
Main Computers
& Data Equipment
(ICB/LIB)     01/06/99       05/06/99                     06/06/99             10/15/99
Computers for
Registras
(LIB)         01/06/99       04/06/99                     06/10/99             08/15/99
Geographic
Equipment
(LIB)         01/15/97       04/30/97                     05/30/97             09130/97
Photogramet.
Production Unit
(LIB)         01/15/97       04/30/97                     05/30/97             09/30/97
Training
(Other)       Agreements with international schools or universities has to be sought.



Annex E3
Page 4 of S
BIDDDING & CONTRACTING PROCEDURES
- Estimated Dates as of 17 january 1996.
(mmld/yy)
Contract      Issue of      Receipt of     Negotiation    Contrac Award       Start wodL
Bid           Bid                         Bankl No Objedon     Delivery
Building Rehab
Occid. Region.
(NCB)         06/01/97      09/15/97                     12115/97             01/15/98
Building Rebab.
Paracentral Reg.
(NCB)         01/07/99      04/15/99                     05/15/99             06/15/99
Building Rehab.
Oriental Reg.
(NCB)         06/01/99      09/15/99                     10/15/99             11/15/99
Building Rehab.
Cental Reg.
(NCB)         06/01/99      09/15/99                     10/15/99             11/15/99
Vehicles
Regional Off.
(LIB).        06/01/98      09/15/98                     10/15/98             02/15/99
Vehicles
Regional Off.
(LIB).        06/01/2000    09/15/2000                   10/15/2000           12/15/2000
Computers
Occ. Region.
(LIB).        01/07/97      04/30/97                    05/30/97              08/30/97
Computers
for Paracentral
Region.
(LIB)         01n/99        05/15/99                     06/15/99             09/15/99
Computers
for Central
Region
(LIB).        01/7/2000     05/15/2000                  06/15/2000            09/15/2000
Computers
for Oriental
Region
(LIB).        06/01/2001    10/15/2001                   11/05/2001           12/05/2001



Annex E3
BIDDDING & CONTRACTING PROCEDURES                         Page 5 of 5
- Estimatod Dates as of 17 january 1996 -
(mm/dd/yy)
Contract      Issue of       Receipt of     Negotiation    Contract Award       Stant Wod
Bid           Bid                           Bank No Objetion     Delivery
LOCAL
CONSULT.
Registrv
Investigation   Individual contracts should be signed, work will be done in all existing Registry Off.
the investigation will produce data bases extracted from all existing Registry Books
*"Barrido"
Fase I,Zone I
(Other)       08/10/96       11/01/96       11/20196      12/20/96              02/15/97
*"Barrido"
Fase I,Zone I
(Other)       01/06/98       04115/98       04/30/98      05/20/98              07/15/98
* "Barrido"
Fase II,Zone I
(Other)       06/01/99       09/01/99       09/20/99      10/20/99              12/15/99
* "Barrido"
Fasell,Zone II
(Other)       06/01/2000     09/0112000     09/20/2000    10/20/2000            12/15/2000
PROJECT
MANAGEMENT
OFFICE
Intern.Consult.,
Local Consult.
& Project Mngt.
Staff (Other).   To be hired as needed, Technical Mngr.; Int. Quality Control Team &
8 Local Consult. will be hired stardng on July 1996.
Vehicles      07/01/96       10/20/96                     11/20/96              12/10/96



Annex E4
EL SALVADOR
Land Administration Project
National Registry Center
Executing Unit
MINISTRY OF
JUSTICE
NAllONAI.
REQSTRY (NTER
_not_AL
PROJECT
COORDNATOR
I
INTERNATIONAL
PROJECT
MANAGER
COMMLINCATOR
.Cadkl Am       Re9istry Arw    Pirairg, Evlskton  U"       1rtma&lt        hiw  o
Caordmft       Corcinatr    and Foflo UpArea   Arm Cooirdmtc   Akm Cocidirtr    AdmNivistan
\WAD                                           Co YCmA FNNEX Pccinw
S.SupeAor SUWsr                                               kd              wshtet
As1tarb
M:\SV\IAND\SAR\YC\ANNE)M4 PPT



Annex E5
Page 1 of 2
EL SALVADOR
LAND ADMINISTRATION PROJECT
SUMMARY OF DESIGN ALTERNATmES CONSIDERED
Design Issues
I.    Topographic Surveys, Aerial Photography and GPS.  The topographic
alternative was the first considered given the lack mastery of other technologies in the
country, but discarded because it was too expensive and cumbersome.  GPS-only
technology is very exact but very expensive and labor intensive (about 10 minutes per
point). Also, GPS accuracy is random because of some satellites' jamming, so it requires
considerable adjustments.  The chosen technology combines all three technologies
complimentarily: GPS capability, mounted on the plane and aerial photography to create
digital maps and topographic surveys to complement as needed to cloud or other cover.
2.    Why Orthophotomaps only in the Rural Areas? Orthophotomaps are images
from digitalized data. They are accurate on a plane but do not capture images well in the
presence of heights (for example, tall buildings). For this reason the digital data needs
stereoplotting to produce urban cadastral maps (to capture information hidden by shadows
created by high buildings).
Cost Minimization Alternatives: Some Design Elements from the Pilot's
Experimental Phase
3.    Registry Investigation and Analysis. The initial pilot project design included
photocopying all the registry books so that the work to establish initial folio reales could
be contracted out. Given the expense and the lack of notaries familiar with folio reales to
establish the new folio reales database, it was decided to hire Registry staff to input the
data directly. Registry staff are more familiar with folio reales because some goverment
programs (that is, San Salvador Registry, FINATA) use them. This allowed the registry
volumes to be kept in the Registry to ensure their continued availability to the public as
well as on-the-job training for data input clerks in the new automated system. This
solution increased staff ownership, saved the expense of photocopying and accelerated
implementation by about four months (contracting and training a different team).
4.    Field Verification Teams. Initially, teams were to be composed of an IGN
photoidentifier with a notary. But notaries were not willing to participate in the field work
for the salary offered. Therefore it was decided to place one notary per municipality for
document formulation and use fourth year Law students to review the property documents
in the field. This allowed to focus the role of notaries in non-judicial dispute resolution
(mainly mediation) and establishing documents, and reduced the cost of the field document
review.



Annex E5
Page 2 of 2
5.    Recent Indonesia and Thailand Bank projects yield a per hectare cost of
US$200/ha and US$80/ha (including institutional development), explained by their higher
urban land composition.



Annex F: Cost Tables, Financing Plan and Disbursement Schedule



Annem F
Page 1 of 10
EL SALVADOR
LAND ADMINISTRATION PROJECT
COST TABLES, BANK DisBURsEMENTs AND SCHFDULE
1.    Components Project Cost Summary
2.    Project Component per Year
Detailed Cost Tables
3.    Institutional Strengthening
4.    Institutional Decentralization
5.    Project Management Unit Mapping
6.    Mapping
7.    Land Records Regularization
8.    Alternative Conflict Resolution
9.    Project Preparation Facility
10.   Estimated Bank Disbursements
11.   Disbursement Schedule



Anne F
Page 2 of 10
*1 Salvador
Land miaistration (Six ear Prejoetion)
Prejqt cost  _rq
I    I Total
(Colam  Klflion)          (US$ Xl4uonI       Foreign   Sae
Local  Foreaaa  Total  Local  foreian  Total  bxhama __qL..
A. project Preparation Facility                15.6     1.3    17.7     1.S     0.2     2.0       10        4
S. imA Data, Agniitla
Napping                                     56.4   S4.7   111.1      6.4     6.3    12.7       49       23
Lua  record regularization                200.1   20.4   220.5   22.9        2.3   25.2         9       45
ALtacnative Conflict 9Asolutioan             0.9       -     0.9      .i   -         0.1        -        -
*eetal  Z_ Data ~~.ait*.                     257.3   75.1  332.4    29.4        6.6   35.0        23       66
C. a __mtgattme  ad St_amgthmAg
Snatitutioal Steagtheain                   12.2   35.9   45.1        1.4     4.1     5.5       75       10
lnatitutioal Dec atraliLstion              13.1   17.3    30.4       1.5    2.0      3.5       57        1
_t.t   l aeintaaL.iatLa       Stunlei_   _ ag    25.2   53.3    78.5    2.9     6.1     9.0       44       16
0. Project ?ainmstration                      40.5   21.0   61.5        4.6 .    .4    7.0        34 .      3
tetaj.        COn s                           338.9  151.2  490.1    38.7    17.3   56.0           31      100
Physical Comtingcieg                         12.4     9.1    21.5      1.4     1.0     2.5       42        4
Price Cmtingencie                            93.7     7.0  100.7    10.7       0.5   11.5         7       21
tetal  CO    00S                              445.0  161.2  612.2  s5.9    19.1   70.0             27      12S
Thu Sep 23 13:14s25 1995
I1 Salvador
Lmad Ainimtration (Six Yor Proj ectioni
_uejet C0me_t  by TOM
(US Million)
bass Cost
1996  1997  199   1999  2000  2001  2002 ZEsi
A. Prect Preparatian recility                 2.0     -     -     -     -     -    -  i.0
B. Lan Dat Aoqt&L
Nappig                                     3.3  4.2   4.2   0.5      -    -      - 12.7
Land record regularixetian                1.5   3.5   4.9   S.0   4.9  4.0  0.5  25.2
Altecnative Cnflic t esoutioan             00   0 0      -   0 0     -    -      -    .
tetaL Le" Data Aa      ti_                   5.4   7.7   9.1   5.5   4.9   4.5   0.5  33.0
C. DeewtvaaUmation and atomsge ag
Institutional Steogtbeanin                3.2   1.2   0.7   0.1   0.1  0.1   0.1  5.5
Inatitutiaoal Dacentralixatioa              -   0.5   0.3 1.*   O.9  0.3  0.1  3.5
_teeWa  DoeataaMaM  and St_aithin* e    3.2   1.3   1.0   1.5   1.0  0.4   0.1  9.0
0. Project Ainistratioan                     09   14   1.4   1.1  1.0   O.J  0.4  7.0
Petal, BAin       00823                      11.5  10.9  l1.5   5.1   7.0   6.0   1.1 S.0
Physicul Coantinenciem                      0.7   0.6   O.S   0.3   0.2   0.1   0.1  2.5
Price Continqencie                         0.2 .....I.J2 1.9         2.   30   0.7  11.5
linea      : COin    002                     12.4  12.4  13.9  10.5   9.7   0.1   1.9  70.0
TAXe                                        0.4   0.7   0.o   0.;   0.3  0.7   0.2  4.4
Foreign Sachnge                             6.3   4.6   4.1   2.0   1.2   0.7   0.2  19.1
Thu Sep 20 15:19:27 1995



Annex F
Page 3 of 10
11 Salvador
La.nd >diniztration  (Six Year Projection)
Table 101. Kapping
Detajed  Ceots
US. Million)
Totals ,ncludinp Contingenciey
1996  1997  1996  1999  2000  2001  2002  Total
x. 3k ot t Coets
A. Aerotrianqulation  (models)                    IS       -      -      -       -      -      -   1.S
S. Aerial photography a production                 2.7      -      -      -       -      -      -   2.7
C. Map Production  (urban)                           -   3.7   3.9        -       -      -      -   7.5
D. Orthophoto map production  (rural)                -   1.2    1.3   0.7         -      -      -   3.2
1. International Technical Assistanco /a   0.1   0.1   0.1                -       -      -      - 02
TOtal                                                    4.3   5.0   5.2   0.7          -      -      -  1S.1
\a Includes travel and per di_e (US$750 p/d)
Thu Sep 28 17:07:32 1995



x1 Salva d
Laud Adaietratiam (Six Y-ee Fro ection)
Sablo 102. Land e eerd rgularilaticm
Detaild Cmete
(MR Willicam
TOtal. Iecludie  Cemtieencir
1994  1197  I"I   19l9  200  200l   2L02   tal
I. hee     tm  Ca
A. Scmmata Filet  rolect CeWpltiam                       1.                                           1.7
*. h.nqtim ae1ga
1. Initial caaeia                                      -   0.*   0.*   0.1   6.7   0.6        -   3.6
2. Felln--   em in                                      -   -:   * 1-1 e             1  e   a e  I   I  e
abdta  Ma_Us   C _eiga                                         6.5   6.6   0.6   6.6   0.9   0.1   3.S
C.  sae-
1. tiig for lel Pereme a                               -   0.0      -   0.0        _      _      _  .
2.  Sralalag for pboto-idetitfiecs /b                  -   60       -   0.0      -   _            * 6
a*eta       .-.                                                6.0          6.0     -      -     -   0.1
e. ee" C mltta
1egitzy  iweetigatim  G Anlysis Jc               _         0.3   0.1  5e6   6.6   0.1   0.1   2.5
rield vritieatiam  team _d                             -   1.0   2.2   2.4   2.6   2.6        -  11.0
legal vield lk Corditot                                -   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1        -   0.3
Caetre Oporatiom Nbmagamet /a                          -   0.2   0.2   6.2   0.2   0.2        -   1.1
tapo eaphic team   t                                   -   0.3   0.7   6.7   0.6   0.6        -   3.3
otedt.i   2                                             -   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2       -   1.0
09S  ri _d   l                                          -   0.1   0.1   6.1   0.1   0.1       -   0.S
aistcrat  tor final veriticatiom/registry            _          S   0   0 7   0.S   0.        -   3.1
_1te_ Lee" 0nlt-t                                          -   2 7   4 S   4j    1       1 . 4   0.1  22 .
total    Sb _ te                                             1.7   3.2   5.1   5.6   6.0   6.2   0.2  26.4
A. field Ottice Operatics                                  -   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3       -   1.I
S. Office & staff fat  teni cal Supervisor             0.0   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.6
C. Land Record  Agulariation *elleup office In.            -     -   0.0   0.1   0.1   0.0   0.6   0.2
D. Vehicle Naintasae A Insurance /I                       -   0.3   0.4   0.4   0.4   0.1   0.e   2.4
S. Vehicle Operatio n1                                     -   0.i  1   0.1   0.1    .    0.1   0.1   0 7
total   _nut C*ete                                           0       7   *J    10   1.0   1.1   0.7   5.4
seta                                                          1.7   4.0   6.0   6.5   7.0   7.3   0.9  33.4
S- Iclude. notaries, cefzr.tadozee. registers
lb Include. pboto-idestifiers a eurvyors
'c Includes  evinien de L bree{ (ceaframtadres) ad Digitacide de Infermaci6a de Campo
Xd gaeb team include  I photo-interrter (C 4,656 )   I legal student (c 4.20) includinog visticom and prestaciones.  Asums average cov age of 3.2 equare kn./aoth/tan., eacept San Salvador (1.15 Sq. km.) y
La Libertad 42.4 sq. ka.)
e Include  Garact Tacoico, S.cretsria, Aocostant, Ceauffar, + Overead
'f Eacb tea  cmeists of topqrato + 2 assisteate
'S Asru_a* I notary per 10 field veritiers + 2 tor San Salvador
'b Your brigade  caaistin  oft I tpagrato and I assistant
1i Asmas ISt ot purchae  price for maintenance coats * St inaureae
%S  lncluds Fuel & Oil. clculated *r 1.200 colonealmothlvbhicla far 270 daysl yet. Total of 61 vaeicles  tran 1196 am       foa  Tield Verificetiom  Sem   7 for Land Record Segularlnatiam  Pallo-up.
Tbu Sap 26 17:67:4 199S
3-1 Led   record rgulariaatiom



Annex F
Page S of 10
01 Salvador
Land Admnitration (Sia Y"r Projection?
Table 103. Alatsnativo Conflict Rasolution
(US$ Nililn)
Totals tncludinu Continaci.,
j3i- 1997  1999  1ttt  2000  2001  2002  Total
A. ?ra                       0.00.
D. Information campaign        -   0.0      -   0.0      -      -      -   0.1
Total                             0.0   0.0       -   0.0      -      -     -   0.1
Thu Se  2t 17:07:59 1995



SI Salvador
Lend Admiistration (Six Year lrojection)
Table 201. lstitutianl Strengtb.eing
Detailad ma0te
(US$ Million)
Totals Including Continneaia
1996  1997  1096  1t    2C00  2001  20e2   oatal
X. Zn_sMamt Ceats
A   aildiag aibabLi_Ake
1. SW Main Building /a                          0.2                                  -       0.2
*. Viel
1. Veicles for field teem  lb                   1.2     -      -     -      -     -      -   1.2
2. Land Record  asuarization 7eileup            0.1                                          0.1
Xl-tntl 1-ie3                                      1.3                                    1.3
C. /UtUfe /a
1. Nain CqWuter and Data Squipmont              0.5     -   0.2      -      -     -      -   0.o
2. Registry Analysis and Invewtigation          0.1   0.0      -     --                  0.1
3. C"puters for gs gistrar                      0.1                             -   0.1
utotal  e _*Awg                                    0.7   0.0   0.2             -     -          0.9
D. Maegpusgh mwai~t
1. TSbodolitas                                  0.3     -      -  0.3
2. cn  d                                        0.o      -     -     _                      0.4
3. Vtotograaatric 7roduction Unit                 -   0.6      -     -     -      - -        0.6
6. Supplamntary field  quip  nt                 0.0      -        .-.-     -_.-         -    0.0
maatal      _    ieagha   miguet                   0.7   0.6                  1.2
3. ai_  euimt e         tia itte
1. Office Squipment /                             '     - 0.1                            0.1
W. Tainiag
MCR Couter training It                          0.0      -     0.0
G#S trainin                                         0.0                              0.0
Matatal taslain                                    0.0   0.00.0
. Iamttiemal Trani
Intl Trg in Mapping Techniques                    -   0.1   0.1                          -   0.2
Intl Trg for Obotogrmtric Uait                    -   01   01                  -             0.2
Intl Training Registry/Cadastr Management   0.2   0.1   0.1                       -          0.5
Intl Leal Training A  rrsach                    0.1   0.1      -  0.2
IDtl aeodatic A 7intograotric Training            -   0.1   0.0          -     -     -       0.1
Intl GIS Training                                     0.1   0.1                -         -   0.3
Stotal International  raiing                         3   0.6   0.5             -                1.4
fatal IVat_t Cot.                                       3.3   1.2   0.7                -     -       5.2
II.  __m    t Coats
A. NBC building rantal                             0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.1   0.1   0.3
D. ICR Support Staff                               0.0   0.0   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.0   0.3
C. persi"  Coots
NRC  /g                                         00   0.0   0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0 0   0 2
total asonvet Cets                                      0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.2   0.1   0.6
fetal                                                   3 4   1 3   0 .    0 1   0 1   0 2   0 1   6 1
1a Includes rdaabilitation of space for 34 rgisters and their support staff. Assues tenting b9 bmilding
\b 25 vebicles par some, 2 zones running ainultaneously; plus I veicla tor tehnical supervisor and 3 for Internmtieal Accerds
lc Ineludas ce puters and printers
%d Ineludes equipment for international accords with basa cost of 1.3 illion colas
a Furniture. tan  nodem, printer, photocapier, phoen system, air cnditiners. etc
'f Include  bae programs a language training
Ig Includs Oficin  Rgioal de San Salvador
Thu Sap 20 17:00:06 1995
° a
5-1 Institutional Strengthening



I1 Salvador
Land Adinistration (Six Year Projection)
Table 202. Institutional Dcsntrslinztion
Detailed Cat-
(USW Million)
Totals Including Contingencies
1996  1997  1996  1999  2000  2001  2002  Total
Investmet  Cato
A. bulie    Ushabilitatim
1. Regional Ottic..                             -   0.2       -   0.5   0.6       -      -   1.6
2. Agi2tro Offices                               -   0.0      -   0.0   0.0       -      -   0.0
Atot.tal &ldia  We Uabilitatig                      -   0.2      -   0.6   0.6       -      -   1.6
D. Vehial.s
1. Vehicls for the Regional Offices /a          -      -   0.2       -   0.4      -      -   0.5
C. Cmauter
1. Ccoputers for Regional Offices /b            -   0.3       -   0.7      -   0.1       -   1.2
O.D ice eO t  i_ t I tl  itue
1. Office Squipent /c                            -     -   0.1   0.1       -      -      -   0.2
Total Investet Casts                                    -   0 6   0 2   1.6   0.9   0 1          -   3.5
xI. 240.rtest Coste
A. Vehicle Maintenance a lnsurnc  /d                -      -   0.0   0.0   0.1   0.2   0.1   0.5
S. Vehicle Operation /a                             -      -   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.1
C. Operating Casts
Regional Offices /f                                  0.0   0.0   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.0   0.4
etal                                                      -   0.6   0.3   1.7   1.2   0.4   0.2   4.5
\a Includes 7 vehicle per office
\b Includes for each office. 1 plotter, I scanner, 6 graphic ,orkststions, 3 servers, 10 tereinmles, 4 lsec printers, 4 matrix printers, end 26 UPS
\c Furniture, ft, mod, pbotocopier, phone system, air conditioners, etc
kd Aessues 15  of purchase price for aintenance cats * 5  insurance
\1 Include fuel  oil, calculated as 1,200 colones/month/year for 270 daYs/year.
\f San Salvedor regional office onprating costs are included under CIR operating costs
Thu Sep 26 17:08:29 1995
6-1 Institutional Decentralization



U Salvador
Lead   WiIeitrati  (Ste Tea  Projectiea)
table 301. Project Maagemnet Unit
Detailed coo"
(Us$ Hillin)
Totals lacl'dine Cctiaee iee
190S   197  1995  1999  2000  2001  2002   otal
A. Veicles                           0.1      -      -      -      -     -      -   0.1
D. Office mqitnt /a                  0.0   0.0   0.0        -      -     -      -   0.1
C. T7bodolites                          -   0.0      -      -      -            -   0.0
D. Project video a Sesiare /b    0.1          -      -      -      -     -      -   0.1
C. C_nalt_t.
Technicel Ikagert (Int1) /c   0.1   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.1   1.0
Project Neogemmt Staff            0.1   0.4   0.4   0.  0S   0.6   0.3   2.6
lItrnatiLeal coRNaWtLta /d   0.3   0.   0.   0.2   0.1              -      -   1.5
Local Consultants                 0 1   0 2   0 2   0X   0. 3   0.2          -
^teta   cinitita                     0.6   1.3   1        1.1   1.1   0.9   0.4 
tow  Zaveem. costs                        0.9   1.3   1.4   1.1   1        0.9   0.4   7.1
is. Dem4  eo"
A. Project Suport Staff               0.0   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.5
S. Office  peetiLe  /.               0-1   0.2   0.2   0-2   0-2 0I   0o             1-2
Seta  a_       t Cete                     0.1   0.2   e2   0.3   0.3   03   0.3   1.7
Set                                        1.0   1.0   1.6   1.4   1.4   1.2   0.7   6.7
%& tnludes all office equi_ ent & icbiary  cept ctputers
lb Iecludes 2 esmma: at S0000 coloen  per smina
%c Include  superviaLce of pboto-idotificatiLm  team  a lao1l tame
\d loclude  travel and por diS  (UN650/dayl
\e Includes wvbieles opecation a einttoence
Thu Sap 29 17:09:43 1990
7-1 Project Neneg.t (Mit



Si Salvador
ALad dIniatzeatio (Sin Year Frojectim)
Table 401. Project Preparation facility
OetaIad ~eata
(UU SKillion
totals Includinag Coatiaeacies
1994  1997  199  nlnL 2eee   200l 202  Total
5.    a_ t ego
A. Office end coAte  equitaet             0.1                                     -   0.1
S. Vehicles                               0.1                                     -   0.1
C. CasultenciLe                           0.O                                     -   0.0
0. field Cedatrol and Registry Costs   1._                  -     -               -   1.6
set" zv~tmt ete                               I.6                                     -   1.5
Ux.  e_wut coots
A. Opereting costs                        0.2                                     -   0.2
Total &emw mt cots                            0.2     -                                   0.2
etLS                                          2.0                                     -   2.0
tbu Sep 26 17:07:21 1995
1-1 Proeact Pcepazation Facility



Annex F
Page 10 of 10
Table 10: Estimated Bank Disbunements
Bank FY         19961    1997    1998       1999    2000   2001   2002    2002
Annual            5.9     11.0     10.5      8.9     6.3    4.9      2.3      0.2
Curmnulative      5.9     11.6     27.4     36.3    42.6   47.5    49.8    50.0
a. Column and row totals may not add due to rounding.
b. Includes US$2 million financed under the Project Preparation Facility (P-264-ES), as well as up to
US$5.0 million of retroactive financing for expenditures incurred since July 1995.
Table 11: Disbursement Schedule
Category                   millon              IBRD Disbursement Percentage
(US mlion)
100 percent of foreign expenditures, 100 percent of local
1. Goods                            5.2        expenditures (exfactory cost) and 87 percent of local
expenditures for other items procured locally.
2. Works, Service Contracts and    14.4        80 percent.
Information Campaing
3. Consultant services             20.2        60 percent of local expenditures and
100 percent of foreign expenditures
4. Training                         1.5         100 percent
5. Incremental recurrent costs      4.2        100 percent until withdrawals in this category have
reached an aggregate amount equivalent to US$2.0
million; thereafter, 75 percent until withdrawals have
reached an aggregate amount equivalent to US$3.0
million; and 50 percent thereafter
6. PPF refinancing                  2.1        Amounts due
7. Unallocated                      2.4
Total                           50.0
M:\SVULANAR\GC\(a)O8.DOC



Annex G: Project Implementation, Indicators and Reporting
3  GI  Impact Indicators
-  G2  Implementation Indicators - Inputs
-  G3  Implementation Indicators - Outputs
-  G4  Status of Legal Covenants
-  G5  Baseline Field Survey - TOR



Annex G
Page 1 of 2
EL SALVADOR
LAND ADMINISTRATION PROJECT
PROJECT REPORTING, MONITORING, AND EVALUATION
1.    To  support the Government's management of implementation  and  the
establishment of a monitoring and evaluation (M&E) system to enable this, the project
finances necessary personnel, equipment, and training under the project administration
component to: (a) generate and disseminate information as a management tool and to
streamline administrative procedures; (b) track indicators to guide adjustments during
implementation; and (c) evaluate success relative to defined objectives and criteria.
Indicators are listed in Annexes GI-G4. A project implementation timetable for the
national project by year has already been prepared by the government (Annex B2),
Because the importance for project administration, the project supervision milestone for
critical activities is outlined in Annex E2. The Procurement Plan is in Annex E3. The
Disbursement Schedule is in Annex F, page 10.
2.    Monitoring and Evaluation. This phase of the project would be the responsibility
of the CNR and will be carried out by the Executing Unit (UJE), supported by a Quality
Control Team that consists of three principal consultants. This team would report directly
to the head of the UE and be in charge of quality control, so the system would provide
project management with monitoring and evaluating data for activities carried out by the
local consultant teams. The UE would complete the design of the management
information system (MS) to generate, among others, the draft indicators in Annexes GI
to G4 and based on terms of reference in G5 (see also SAR, para. 4.18.). The MIS would
enable the UE to track implementation (inputs and outputs), impact and legal indicators.
3.    Reporting. Quarterly reports based on project implementation planning would be
prepared by the UE. The quarterly reports would provide evaluations of implementation
progress and impact. This information would enable the UE to adjust activities, if
necessary, in agreement with the Bank. These reports would be summarize and submitted
to the Bank 30 days before the annual reviews. Each review would take place about
September 30 of each year. Bank supervision would review implementation progress and
proposed budget and work plans for the following year.
4.    Each quarterly report would be composed of completed tables on:
(a)   implementation indicators:
(i)     inputs
a. financial    i.    revenues and expenses
ii.   budget execution (standard format)
uii.  loan disbursements (standard format)
b. and physical;
(ii)   outputs (physical);



Annex G
Page 2 of 2
(b)   impact indicators; and
(c)   status of legal covenants.
5.    Project supervision input would be based on the MIS's M&E   indicators
established under the project. These indicators would be agreed upon during negotiations.
6.    Independent Studies.   Project management will carry out periodic and
independent studies to both monitor implementation and impact and visit an specific
aspect of the project. These studies include the studies to establish the baseline field
survey for the establishment of the impact indicators (see TORs in Annex G5) and the
periodic client evaluations and surveys to report on these. The studies also include
independent studies to review tariffs (see TORs in Annex B6), evaluation of effectiveness
of administrative decentralization and role of municipalities, prospective property
valuation system, property rights and farm productivity and others to be agreed with the
Bank.
M:\SV\LAND\SAR\YCX(XG)IM&R.DOC
December 3, 1995



EL SALVADOR                                                                           Annex Gl
Page 1
LAND ADMINISTRATION PROJECT
Impact Indicators
Baselne Feb 96                    Year 2                          Year 4                          Year 6
SAR                           SAR                           SAR                               SAR
Obcthis                               Target  REV.  ACT.  CUM.  Target  REV.  ACT.  CUM.  Target  REV.  ACT.   CUM.    Target  REV.  ACT.  CUM.   Source
1. Improve Land Security
Land
Information
Parcels Regularized                                                                                                                                              System
Parcels Cadastered                                                                                                                                               LIS
Access to Credit (Mortgages):
Registered Properties prior to
regularization with Mortgages                                                                                                                               _    Survey
Regularized Properties with Mortgages                                                                                                                            Survey
Investment in land improvements                                                                                                                                   Survey
Likelihood to invest after regularization
through mortage classification in
Registry
(a) diversifying sources of revenue
(b) in capital investments
(c) in land management
(d) others                                                                                                                                                        Survey
II. Institutional Strengthening
Ratings of Capacity to perform
1 = excellent; 2 = very good;
3 = average; 4 = poor                                                                                                                                             User's
User's
CNR Regional Offices                                                                                                                                              evaluation
User's
Municipal Offices                                                                                                                                                 evaluation
CNR's Financial sustainability                                                                                                                                    Auditors
Length of time for successful resolution
of disputes
Speed of registration(at RPRH) assuming
problem-free documentation
Mortgage                                     _                                                                                                                    LIS
Inheritance                                                                                                                                                       LIS
Certification                                                                                                                                                _    LIS
Preventive Annotation                                                                                                                                             LIS
Inscriptions                                                .                                                       _                                     .       LIS



EL SALVADOR                                                                         Annex G2
LAND ADMINISTRATION PROJECT                                                                     Page 1 of 7
Implementation Indicators
INPUTS                                           Q3                             Q4
SAR                            SAR                          Annual
FJnnrx; i/hputs (US S mAronsi        Target IREV.  ACT.  CUM.   Target  REV.  ACT.  CU.||Targot
gi                   -                  =      =        YEAR 1
Cadastre
Existing services
New Services
Land registry (ampliaci6n)
Existing services                       2.06                           2.06                           4.11
New Services                            0.04                           0.04                           0.08
Land registry (barrido nacional)
___~~~ _\\N\C                                                                    = _______
Project Preparation Facility
Investment Costs                         0.9                            0.9                            1.8
Recurrent Costs                          0.1                            0.1                            0.2
Mapping
Investment Costs                        2152.15                                                        4
Land record regularization
Investment Costs                        0.85                           0.85                            1.7
Recurrent Costs
Alternative Conflict Resolution
Investment Costs                       0.025                          0.025                           0.05
Institutional Strengthening
Investment Costs                        1.65                           1.65                            3.3
Recurrent Costs                                                        0.05                            0.1
Institutional decentralization
Investment Costs
Recurrent Costs
Project management unit
Investment Costs                        0.45                           0.45                            0.9
Recurrent Costs                         0.05                           0.05                            0.1
3.15   =                       3.15                           6.31
Procurement (CommittedJ =)=_=
International bidding complete
(USS')000
Local bidding complete (US$'000)
International Deliverables (US$'000)
Local Deliverables (US$'000)
Consultancies
International (person months)                                          __
Local (person months)                                   _



EL SALVADOR                                                                        Annex G2
LAND ADMINISTRATION PROJECT                                                                      Page 2 of 7
Implementation Indicators
____________________________                       01                          a2                            03                            04
INPUTS                                 Target  REV.  ACT.  CUM.  Target  REV. ACT. CUM.  TarTaret   REV.  ACT.  CUM.   TagIet
Akencb  wipts fUS nmmsl                                                                                                           - Y iAR 2
Cadastre                              _               _
Existing services
New Services                              0.03                     3___                   __        0.03                            0.03       ___0.13
Land  registry   fampliaci6n)          __ _ _          _ _                                       _ _ _           _ _    _ _    _ _ _ _ __ _ _         _ _ _   _ _ _ _
Existing services                         0.03                         0 03                         0.03                    |       0.03 _                        0.10
New Services                              1.23                            3 __                      1.23           _ _              1.23       _4_ _| 0_          4.90
Ljgtr (ba rrido nacional)                 0.10        ___                                           0.10              0 1 0| 0.10                    _            0.41
Project Preparation Facility                                                                                                                                 _ __
Investment Costs                                                                                                                                             ____-
Recurrent Costs
Mapping                                                                                                                                                      ____
Investment Costs                          1.25                         1 25                         1.25  1_                                    _  125             . 5 00
Land record regulanization _                                                                    _       _  ____I_I
Investment Costs                          0.80          =              080   _0 80 __                                       |       080         3_ 320
Recurrent Costs                           0.1180 18 _0 18 |0 18                                                                                                   0 0  70
Altemative Conflict Resolution                                     I _     |____                                            |____
Investment Costs                          0.01                         0.01_                        0.01                             . 0 01             0_ 005
Institutional Strengthening           _         _     _             _      I_____
Investment Costs                          03030                                                     0.30                            0 301  0  30 _1.20 30    __L=  _12
Recurrent Costs                      | 0_03                            0 0 03 _                     0.03                    |       0.03 _              _         0.10
Institutional decentralization                         I____
Investment Costs                   |__                              ____                            0.15               |. -  01  5  -  _    015    _              0 60
Recurrent Costs             |_ 018_                                    0 18_  _                     0.18                                                   _ _    _ 0.70
Project management unit               _         _                          | _                                                                               _____
Investment Costs                      _0_33_ 0_33                                                   0.33       1                    0_33                          1 30
Recurrent Costs                      | _0 03 j                         0 03 j__                     0.03   __                       003                           0.10
____                     1.71                         1.71                                                 _683
p    h  -  -t                        ,_I_                       I_ I_                                       I_                                 I_
Procurement (Committedi
International bidding complete (US'o000) |      _     _                                 _               |
Local bidding complete (US'000)       _         _      _                            ____|
International Deliverables (US$'000)
Local Deliverables (USS'000)                                        _                                           _                                            ________
Consuitancies                         _                             _           ___
International (person months)         ________
Local (person months)                 _               _                      _                  _                            I     _I



EL SALVADOR                                                                     Annex G2
LAND ADMINISTRATION PROJECT                                                                  Page 3 of 7
Implementation Indicators
Q1                         02                          03                           04               ____
|_        SARR                        SAR                      r SAR                           SAR                          Annual
INPUTS                  | Targe~~~~~~~t REV. ACT, CUM. Tar t  REV. ACT. CUM.  Target REEV. ACT. CUM.   Target RE.ATCU.|are
Fkhancbt Inputs /USS m0ons)        I_YiEAR 3_
Cadastre                                                                                                                                       T
Existing services                                 _
New Services                            0.04                        0.04                       0.041                          0.04                         0.15
Land registry (ampfiaci6n)  -        __1I___
Existing services                       0.03                        0.03                       0.03                           0.03                         0.11
New Services                            1.44                        1.44                        1.44                          1.44                         5.75
Land registry (barrido nacional)        0.23                        0.23             _          0.23       _                  0.23                         0.91
Project Preparation Facl7ity
Investment Costs
Recurrent Costs
Mapping
Investment Costs                        1.30                        1.30                        1.30|                         1.30                         5.20
Land record regularization
Investment Costs                        1.28                        1.28                        1.28                   |      1.28                         5.10
Recurrent Costs                         0.23                        0.23                        0.23       _                  0.23|                        0.90
Altemative Conflict Resolution
Investment Costs
Institutional Strengthening                                                                                                                           I
Investment Costs                        0.18                        0.18                        0.18                          0.18 ____0.70
Recurrent Costs                         0.03                        0.03                        0.03                          0.03                         0.10
Institutional decentralization
Investment Costs                        0.05                        0.051                       0.05                          0.05                         0.20
Recurrent Costs                         0.03 .                      0.03                        0.03                          0.03                         0.10
Project management unit
Investment Costs                        0.35                        0.35       _                0.35                          0.35                         1.40
Recurrent Costs                         0.05                        0.05                        0.05                          0.05                         0.20
.                  -        n 1.79                        1.79                       1.79                           1.79 _ _                     7.17
Procurement (Committed_
International bidding complete (USS'000)
Local bidding complete (US$'000)
International Deliverables (US$'000l  - _    _ i
Local Deliverables (US$'000)
Consultancies
International (person months)        _        _                          _____                     I _   _   _
Local (person months)                _    _              t___  __l__ I                                       I



EL SALVADOR                                                                   Annex G2
LAND ADMINISTRATION PROJECT                                                                Page 4 of 7
Implementation Indicators
____ ____ ___ _ _Q_ 01                  Q2                         CQ3                          04
l                         | ~~~        ~       ~ ~~~~~SAR  .ICM    SAR  -   -      SAR                  _       SAR       _               |Annual
INPUTS                               Target  REV. ACT. CUM.  Target  REV. ACT. CUM.  TarTetar                                     REV. ACT. CUM.  Target
Akm=Wvw tV    m)W$                                         _ -_-                         YEAR 4
Cadastre
Existing services                                                             _            _                      =
New Services                            0.05                       0.05       _     _         0.05  _                       0.05  _                      0.18
Land registry (amplfaci6n)          _                                                                                _         _
Existing services                       0.03                       0.03       _     _         0.03 _  _                     0.03                         0.14
New Services                            1.67                       1.67       _ _             1.67  _             -         1.67                         6.66
Land registry (barrido nacional)        0.49                       0.49                   1 _   0.49  _           -         0.49                         1.97
Project Preparation Facility        ______
Investment Costs
Recurrent Costs                                                                                                       _          ___
mapping
Investment Costs                        0.18                       0.18                       0.18                          0.18                         0.70
Land record regularization
Investment Costs                        1.40                       1.40                       1.40                          1.40                    1    5.60
Recurrent Costs                         0.25          _            0.25             _ _       0.25                          0.25                         1.00
Altemative Conflict Resolution      _                           _                                                 _
Investment Costs                        0.01                       0.01                       0.01                          0.01                         0.05
Institutional Strengthening
Investment Costs
Recurrent Costs                         0.03                       0.03                       0.03                          0.03             1           0.10
Institutional decentralization
Investment Costs                        0.40                       0.40                       0.40                -         0.40  _                      1.60
Recurrent Costs                         0.00                       0.00 _     __              0.00             -            0.00                         0.01
Project management unit                                        _  ____T__
Investment Costs                        0.28 _                     0.28             _ _       0.28                          0.28                _        1.10
Recurrent Costs                         0.08                       0.08              _        0.08   _                       0.08   _                    0.30
_illajm.                                1.90        _              1.90       _      _        1.90                -          1.90                        7.60
ph*10104                                                                     I                           I
Procurement (CommittedJ
International bidding complete (USt'000)
Local bidding complete (US$'000)
International Deliverables (US*'000)    |     _____
Local Deliverables (US*'000)        ____ r=___
Consultancies
International (person months)       ___ _          _____
Local (person months)



EL SALVADOR                                                                       Annex G2
LAND ADMINISTRATION PROJECT                                                                     Page 5 of 7
Implementation Indicators
01                          02                          Q3                             (4
INPUTS      T(r et mEREV. SAR    REV. I                            ACT. I          CT. CUM     Target T   REV. ACT. CUM.    Tar et   REV. ACT. CUM.  Aa
Fihancial hq,ots /VS $ mPbns/                                                               YEAR 5
Cadastre                                 -                   -
Existing services
New Services                             0.05                        0.05                         0.05   _                        0.05                         0.22
Land registry (ampliaci6n)                                                             _               ..
Existing services                        0.04                        0.041                  _     0.04                            0.04                         0.16
New Services                             1.91                         1.91              _ .       1.91                            1.91                         7.65
Land registry (barrido nacional)         0.80                        0.80        _                0.80 _                          0.80                         3.21
_                                                                                        I_
Project Preparation Facility
Investment Costs
Recurrent Costs
Mapping
Investment Costs
Land record regularization                                                             _
Investment Costs                         1.50                         1.50                        1.50                            1.50                         6.00
Recurrent Costs                          0.25                        0.25             _           0.25=                           0.25                         1.00
Altemative Conflict Resolution
Investment Costs
Institutional Strengthening
Investment Costs
Recurrent Costs                          0.03                        0.03                         0.03                            0.03                         0.10
Institutional decentralization
Investment Costs                         0.02                        0.02 _                       0.02                            0.02                         0.09
Recurrent Costs                          0.05                        0.05                         0.05        _                   0.05 _                       0.20
Project management unit
Investment Costs                         0.28                        0.28                         0.28             _              0.28                         1.10
Recurrent Costs                          0.08                        0.08                         0.08                            0.08                         0.30
_       _      s      _       =         1.92                        1.92                         1.92                            1.92                         7.67
Procurement (Committed)
International bidding complete (US$'000)
Local bidding complete (US$'000)    T_I
International Deliverables (US$'000)
Local Deliverables (US$'000)
Consultancies
International (person months)
Local (person months)                l                 _                 _                    l         l



EL SALVADOR                                                                      Annex G2
LAND ADMINISTRATION PROJECT                                                                   Page 6 of 7
Implementation Indicators
Q 1                         Q2                          Q3                           Q4
INKTSSA                                               ISAR                           SAR                           SAR      RE._                Annual
INPUTS                              | Target  REV. ACT. CUM.  Target  R REV. ACT. CUM.  Target  REV. ACT. CUM.   Target
hianOchSIlopuft b USS mKVns;l              7  77 7               7                         YEAR 6             =
Cadastre
Existing services
New Services                             0.07                        0.07                        0.07                           0.07 _ _                     0.26
Land registry (ampliaci6n)           _______
Existing services                        0.04             _  _       0.04                        0.04                           0.041                        0.16
New Services                             2.03             _  _       2.03                   1   2.03                            2.03                         8.10
Land registry (barrido nacional)         1.04 _     _                1.041                       1.04                           1.04                         4.17
Project Preparation Facility
Investment Costs
Recurrent Costs
Mapping                              _______
Investment Costs
Land record regularization
Investment Costs                         1.55                        1.55                        1.55                           1.55       _      _          6.20
Recurrent Costs                          0.28                        0.28 _                      0.28              _            0.28       _ _               1.10
Alternative Conflict Resolution
Investment Costs
Institutional Strengthening
Investment Costs                                   |      |            _              __
Recurrent Costs
Institutional decentralization                                                  
Investment Costs                    1   0.031                        0.03                        0.03                           0.03                          0.10
Recurrent Costs                     1   0.081      1      1      1   0.08                        0.08                           0.08                         0.30
Project management unit             |        l      l     l      llll                                                                      l     l_
Investment Costs                    |   0.23_  _ _               |  0.23 _                   |   0.23                           0.23                         0.90
Recurrent Costs                     1   0.081       l     l      |  0.08                         0.08                           0.08 |              ___      0.30
______                          2.181                       2.18                           2.18       _      _          8.73
Physkailngiw*t*___
Procurement (Committed)
International bidding complete (US$'000)  _   _I__.
Local bidding complete (US$'000)     _______
International Deliverables (USS'000)  -                                                                                   ___________                    __I  I  I  I
Local Deliverables (USS'000)
Consultancies
International (person months)        _                                                _       _                                                          ________
Local (person months)                _                            __I                 I      II                                            I



EL SALVADOR                                                                        Annex G2
Page 7 of 7
LAND ADMINISTRATION PROJECT
Implementation Indicators
INPUTS                                          GI |2
............... ...... :  |SAR  |                                      | SAR  Annual
Flhaaddr11ts gi$                  j .in,W  Target IREV. ACT. CUM.  Target  REV. ACT. CUM.  Target
-------- -- -R    7
Cadastre
Existing services
New Services                          0.15                          0.15                          0.31
land registry (ampliacionl
Existing services
New Services                                                        0.09
Land registry (barrido nacional)      4.29                          4.29              _            8.58
Project Preparation Facility
Investment Costs
Recurrent Costs
Mapping
Investment Costs
land record regulafization_                                             _              _
Investment Costs                       0.1                           0.1                            0.2
Recurrent Costs                       0.35                          0.35                            0.7
Altemative Conflict RlesoAition_
Investment Costs_
Institutional Strengthening                                   _
Investment Costs                      0.05                          0.05                            0.1
Recurrent Costs
institutional decentralization
Investment Costs
Recurrent Costs                        0.1                            0.1                           0.2
Project management unit
Investment Costs                       0.2                           0.2                            0.4
Recurrent Costs                       0.15                          0.15                            0.3
__  4.87                      4.87                          9.74
t                             ~~~I __   _  __
Procurement (Committed)           i         I     _                      i_i
International bidding complete
(USS'I000l                                                      I
Local bidding complete (USS'000)
International Deliverables (US$'000)
Local Deliverables (USS'000)                     1 i  i                         j
Consultancies                     I        I      _         t  1         j      I
International (person months)     f        i _          i _                                           -
Local (person months)             j         j      t    |



EL SALVADOR                                                                            Annex G3
LAND ADMINISTRATION PROJECT                                                                        Page 1 of 7
Implementation Indicators
Q3                                                  Q4
Original|l
Program       SAR                                                  SAR                                                Annual
(June 1996)    Target        REV.         ACT.         CUM.         Target        REV.         ACT.                     Target
Ortps                                                                                               YEA R 1                                 
Map Production (urban) Km2                                                                             l
Ortho Map Production (rural) Km2
Information Campaign
Number of radio
announcements (spots)
Press announcements
Field Investigation (barndo)
Km2 investigated urban
Km2 investigated rural
TraKnivng Notaros de Campo (person
weeks)
Field Teams
Training Notaries and Legal Tutorial
(person weeks)
Information radio campaign (tutorial)
spots
Press Announcements
Training
CNR/UEP International (person weeks)
CNR/UEP Local (person weeks)
Regional and Municipal Offices
Number of Regional Offices established
Number of Municipal Offices established                          _
Communications Systems                                                                           __
Number of Regional Offices connected                                                      I
Number of Regional Offices connected
Training
Regional users trained (person weeks)
Municipal users trained (person weeks)                                                    l                                                    l



EL SALVADOR                                                                            Annex G3
LAND ADMINISTRATION PROJECT                                                                      Page 2 of 7
Implementation Indicators
I -  -1  -Q-                       -          02                             03                             04
Original                                          j                -        -I-                            -- I-
Program      SAR  |                         SAR  |                         SAR                            SAR  |               j         Annual
(June 1996)  Target  REV.  ACT.  CUM.  Target  REV.  ACT.  CUM.   Target  REV.  ACT.  CUM.  Target
0 58                                                                                                           YEAR 2
Map Production (urban) Km2
Ortho Map Production (rural) Km2
Infoimation  Campaign      (peso
Number of radio
a             nnouncements (spots)ed
Press announcements_.
Field Investigation {oaarido) 
Km2 investigated urban_
Km2 investigated rural
Training Notarios de Campo (person
weeks)
Field Teams
Training Notaries and Legal Tutorial
(person weeks)_
Information radio campaign (tutorial)
Press Announcements
Training 
CNR/UEP International (person weeks)
CNR/UEP Local (person weeks)
Regional and Municipal Offices_                                                                                                                               _
Number of Regional Offices established
Number of Municipal Offices established
Communications Systems
Number of Regional Offices connected_
Number of Regional Offices connected                                                                                                             ii
Training__
Regional users trained (person weeks)=                                 ==                                     =
,Municipal users trained (person weeks)



EL SALVADOR                                                                            Annex G3
LAND ADMINISTRATION PROJECT                                                                      Page 3 of 7
Implementation Indicators
I_______      Q1                              Q2                             Q3                             Q4
Original                  I      II1                                                    '
_ _ _ _ _ __   SAR  r       SAR                                            SASAR       t                                                 Annual
June  1996                                                                           Taret   REV.  ACT.  CUM.  Target  ACT.  CUM.  REV.  ACT.  CUM.  Target   REV.  ACT.  CUM.  Target
0 *F t                                                                                                         YEAR 3
Map Production (urban) Km2
Ortho Map Production (rural) Km2
Infommation Campaign
Number of radio
announcements (spots)
Press announcements
Field Investigation (barrido)
Km2 investigated urban
Km2 investigated rural
Training Notarios de Campo (person
weeks)
Field Teams
Training Notaries and Legal Tutorial
(person weeks)
Information radio campaign (tutorial)
spots
Press Announcements
Training
CNR/UEP International (person weeks)
CNR/UEP Local (person weeks)
Regional and Municipal Offices
Number of Regional Offices established    __________ 
Number of Municipal Offices established
Communications SystemsI                                      I      I      II_I
Number of Regional Offices connected
Number of Regional Offices connected
Training
Regional users trained (person weeks)
Municipal users trained (person weeks)               _                              _                         -    _       .                      _         F _       -  -



EL SALVADOR                                                                          Annex G3
LAND ADMINISTRATION PROJECT                                                                     Page 4 of 7
Implementation Indicators
01                             Q2                            03                             Q4
Original                 1I                             II                             Ij___
Program     SAR           j       -        SAR  |          .l .l          SAR |                  i       SAR  |        l              A
(June 1996)  Target  REV. ACT. CUM.  Target
PUP"                                                          =       =      _-                    =YEAR 4
eap Production (urban) Km2
Orto Map Production (rural) Kr2
Information Campoaggn
Number of radio
announcements (spotst
Press announcements
FieAd Investigation fioarrido/
Km2 investigated urban=                                               ==                             =      ==                     ==                             =      =
Km2 investigated rural
Training Noterios  de Campo (person
weeks) 
Field Teamsl
Training Notaries and Legal Tutorial
Rperson weeks)
Information radio campaign (tutorialO
spots        R     O      e                                                                                                               _
Pmess Announcements
Trainkig
CNReiEP Intersational (person weeks)
MNR/UEP Loca i (person weeks)
Regional and Munkicial Offices_l_
Number of Regional Offices establishedl
Number of Municipal Offices established__|_
Communications Systemns_l
Number of Regional Offices connectedl_
Number of Regional Offices connectedl
Trainingl_
Regional users trained (person weeks) 
[Municipal users trained (person weeks)                                           



EL SALVADOR                                                                            Annex G3
LAND ADMINISTRATION PROJECT                                                                      Page 5 of 7
Implementation Indicators
Q1                             02                             03                             04
Original                                                        f       JI                     II                           
Program      SAR                            SAR  |                         SAR                            SAR           J T              Annal
(June 1996)  Target  REV| ACT.. |CUM.  Target  REV.  ACT.  CUM.   Target | REV.  ACT.  CUM.  Target
O~fs_                                                                                                         YEAR 5
__ _ _ _ __ _ = _ _ __ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ ___  ____ _ _ _ _     ___ _                                 ___ _                  __  _ _    __ _ _  -    _-_ _ _ __ _ _ _
Map Production (urban) Km2
Ortho Map Production (rural) Km
Inf      ormati on Campaign   wes
Number of radio
announcements (spotsa O    es_bise
Press announcements_  
F ield Investigation Sbartidoe
NKm2 investigated urban  
Km2 investigated rural O   c
Training Notarios de Campo (person 
e seweeks)                                                                                                      --                        _                        _
Field Teams   t       (      w
Training Notaries and Legal Tutorial                                                      
(person weeks)_                                                                                _|_ 
Information radio campaign (tutorial)                                                     
spots                                                               [      -                       
Press Announcements                                                                                                                                               I
Training     
CNR/UEP International (person weeks)                                                                                                                              |
CNR/UEP Local (person weeks)                                                                
Regional and Municipal Offices|
Number of Regional Offices established|                                    |                        
Number of Municipal Offices established ll\|_ 
Communications Systems  _| |_.|
Number of Regional Offices connected                                                             
Number of Regional Offices connected               l|                      | _|                      
Training||_|                                                                       |        |
Regional users trained (person weeks)                                                                 
IMunicipal users trained (person weeks)                                    ;       l        l       l      l       l        l[  



EL SALVADOR                                                                          Annex G3
LAND ADMINISTRATION PROJECT                                                                     Page 6 of 7
Implementation Indicators
- 1    -     -        ~~~~~Qi          j               2                            03                             04
_ _  _     _     _     _     _      _            I                         -     I  - I ~   I     -    O rig-n-l-I
-Program       S        -      -              SR                            SAR                            SAR                           Annual
(June 19961   Target  REV.  ACT.  CUM.  Target  REV.  ACT.  CUM.  Target  REV.  ACT.  CUM.   Target  REV.  ACT.  CUM.  Target
Outps                                                                                                        YEAR 6
Map Production (urban) Km2
Ortho Map Production (rural) Km2
Information Campaign                                                __________
Number of radio
announcements (spots)
Press announcements
Field Investigation (barrido)
Km2 investigated urban
Km2 investigated rural                                                     _                                                           I
Training Notarios de Campo (person
weeks)
Field Teams
l~~Nme of Reinl Ofie connected
Training Notaries and Legal Tutorial                                                                                                    
eion  uerst(person weeks)                                                  i      i 
Information radio campaign (tutorial)  i_i_i_i_i_i_i_i
spots
Press Announcements                                                                                      i
Training
CNR/UEP International (person weeks)                                                              |      |_                                   
CNR/1JEP Local (person weeks)                                                                     I      III                                                    I      I      I
Rfegional and Municipal Offices                                      _    |       |                                    
Number of Regional Offices established                                                     i      I      II                                    II               I      I      I
Number of Municipal Offices established            l        l|                  _         
Communications Systemns                                                                                           
Number of Regional Offices connected                                                       I      I      II                             I      II               II
Number of Regional Offices connected
Training                                                                                                                        |      |
Regional users trained (person weeks)                                                                               
Municipal users trained (person weeks)                                                                                                         I                              I



EL SALVADOR                                                                            Annex G3
LAND ADMINISTRATION PROJECT                                                                        Page 7 of 7
Implementation Indicators
Q        _Q2
Original
Program       SAR                                                  SAR                                                Annual
(June 1996)    Target        REV.         ACT.         CUM.         Target        REV_ .      ACT.     CUM.             Target
outputs                                                                                             YEA R 7 
Map Production (urban) Km2                        _                        _              | _
Ortho Map Production (rural) Kmt
Information Campaign
Number of radio
announcements (spots)
Press announcements
Field Investigation (barridol
Km2 investigated urban
Km2 investigated rual                                                         __..__._
Training Notarios de Campo (person
weeks)
Field Teams
Training Notaries and Legal Tutorial
(person weeks)
Information radio campaign (tutorial)
spots
Press Announcements
Training
CNR/UEP International (person weeks)
CNR/UEP Local (person weeks)
_-IUPLoa (personwes)&s:.s..iss                                                     __________
Regional and Municipal Offices         _                                                                                          _____
Number of Regional Offices established ..                                     __|_|
Number of Municipal Ottices established             __I
Communications Systems
|Number of Regional Offices connected|                                                                      
Number of Regional Offices connected    _            _           _                          __|_|_--_ 
Training                                 _                                   |             | _               _                    | _                      _
Regional users trained (person weeks)  __                                                 |         -                |            |            I
Municipal users trained (person weeks)



Annex G4
EL SALVADOR
LAND ADMINISTRATION PROJECT
Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement    Section     Covenant    Present        Original     Revised    Description   Comments
Type        Status     Fulfillment  Fulfillment      of
Date        Date       Covenant
Covenant types:                                                             Present Status:
I = Accounts and audits                                                     C = covenant complied with
2 = Financial performance/revenue generation from beneficiaries             CD = complied with after delay
3 = Flow and utilization of project funds                                   CP = complied with partially
4 = Counterpart funding                                                     NC = not complied with
5 = Management aspects of the project executing agency
6 = Environmental covenants
7 = Involuntary resettlement
8 = Indigenous peoples
9 = Monitoring, review and reporting
10 = Project implementation not covered by categories 1- 9
11 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetry or other resource allocation
12 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/regulatory/institutional actions
13 = Other



Annex G5
Page 1 of 3
EL SALVADOR
LAND ADMINISTRATION PROJECT
TERMS OF REFERENCE IMACT INDICATORS BASELINE FIELD SURVEY
Background
1.    The Land Administration Project seeks to increase land tenure security in El
Salvador to improve the access to credit of previously untitled land owners. By improving
access to credit, the land regularization is expected to increase investment, which-in
turn-is expected to increase farm income by increasing productivity and creating a wider
range of production opportunities. Similarly, strengthened land tenure and access to credit
are expected to impact positively on land management.
2.    To obtain quantifiable data for measuring the impact of the proposed project on
credit, investment, and land management, a baseline field survey is required prior to
project implementation. The baseline for Sonsonate will provide valuable input for
comparison purposes for other departments.
Objective
3.    The objective of the field survey is to collect primary data of the situation of
intended project beneficiaries prior to project implementation. This data will serve as a
point of comparison with follow-up surveys to be taken at Mid-Term and completion of
the proposed project. This comparison will permit a quantification of the plan's impact on
farm income, investment decisions, and land management techniques.
4.    Specific information required from the survey includes the following:
* Access to credit, increased number of mortgages given to newly regularized
properties
* Investment: type of investment, including for income diversification, land
improvements and management.
5.    Baseline information is to be collected from a selected sample of farms in the
Sonsonate Department. The sample will be divided into three size categories: micro (less
than 3 hectares), small (3-10 hectares), and medium to large (more than 10 hectares). Half
of the sample will be made up of farms with land title and half will be without land title.
Sonsonate will be used as the area of study because in that department, by the



Annex G5
Page 2 of 3
project's completion year (2002), sufficient time will have elapsed for the modernization
process to produce measurable results.
Activities
6.    Assembling a Field Survey Team. The survey team will consist of a field
supervisor/coordinator and four field surveyors. Team members should be from the
Sonsonate area, and they should have an agricultural background and a strong knowledge
of crop and livestock production parameters. Surveyors should be very personable and
should be able to work independently. Women surveyors are strongly recommended.
7.    Training a Survey Team in Field Survey Techniques. The survey team will
probably require specific training (2-3 days) in field survey techniques. Team members
must understand how to properly solicit information without distorting the respondents'
answers. Also, they must learn the inviolate nature of the information that is collected (no
changes should be made to the recorded answers). The quality of the survey process is
enhanced when the surveyors understand how the information they are collecting will be
used; this process should be carefully explained to them.
8.    Finalizing a Field Survey. Review and prepare a version of the field survey
questionnaire for testing purposes. Undertake field testing of questionnaire with at least 20
questionnaires (four per surveyor and the coordinator). Finalize the field survey based on
the results of the testing.
9.    Preparing the Data Entry Module. Prepare the data collection module in a way
that reflects as closely as possible the visual presentation of the field survey (this practice
facilitates data entry and reduces entry error).
10.   Selecting a Sample and Planning the Survey Route.
(a)   Select the communities within Sonsonate for surveying. As a start, we
proposed Santo Domingo Guzman and Santa Catarina Mazahuat because
field work has already been carried out there.
(b)   Select sample. From regularized properties, stratification required is 50 of
each urban >500 m, urban <500 m, rural > 3 ha and rural < 3 ha.
Information from registry sources and local extentionists will help identify
initial lists of target farms or contacts in target communities.
(c)   Plan the survey route.
11.   Undertaking the Survey. Conduct the survey based on the route plan. The goal
should be an average of five questionnaires per surveyor per day. The field coordinator is



Annex G5
Page 3 of 3
responsible for ensuring the integrity of data collected, including periodic revision during
the day, and a compiete review of all questionnaires at the end of the day. Prior to each
day's survey activities, the coordinator will review problems and questions that the survey
team may have about the previous day's activities. The coordinator will also discuss and
correct methodological discrepancies and/or deviations that may develop.
12.   Entering Data and Cleansing and Preparing Summary Tables. Data will be
entered into the data collection module. This transfer should be done at least once a week.
Data entry will be performed by members of the field survey team. This practice will
maintain continuity between data collection and data entry and will help ensure the
integrity of the data collected.
13.   Data cleansing will be performed by using the SPSS data cleansing routine. Data
cleansing will also be carried out through the preparation and analysis of summary tables.
Expected Product
14.   A total of 200 field surveys will be collected from Sonsonate, from farms with the
following characteristics:
PROPERTY SIZE          UNTITLED
urban > 500m                50
urban c 500 m               50
rural > 3 ha                50
rural<3ha                    50
Note: Original surveys and a diskette with data file will be provided.
Duration
15.   Time frame for the survey is six weeks, including three weeks of fieldwork.
Dependency
16.   The major responsibility for carrying out the survey will be in the hands of the
executing unit.
January 30, 1996



Annex H: Documents in Project File
* HI Project Implementation Plan (PIP) Contents



Annex H
EL SALVADOR
LAND ADMINISTRATION PROJECT
DOCUMENTS IN PROJECT FILE
1.    Project Implementation Plan (draft-March 1995). See contents in Annex HI
2.    Evaluation of the Sonsonate Experimental Phase.
3.    Documents from the Seminar on Conflict Resolution Non-Judicial Mechanisms,
San Salvador, March 1995.
4.    Project Cost Tables (complete COSTAB tables).
5.    Hans P. Binswanger, Klaus Deininger,"World Bank Land Policy: Evolution and
Current Challenges." This paper was prepared for the World Bank Agricultural
Sector Symposium, 1994.
6.    Decreto No. 1073, Ley del Ejercio Notarial de la Jurisdicci6n Voluntaria y Otras
Diligencias.
7.    Decreto No. 462, establishing CNR's administrative and financial autonomy and
consolidating registry and cadastre functions, approved October 5, 1995.
8.    Decreto No. 471, Ley Temporal de Compensacion Economica por Servicios
Prestados en el Sector Puublico, approved October 12, 1995.



Annex Hi
EL SALVADOR
LAND ADMINISTRATION PROJECT
DRAFT PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION PLAN (PIP)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Antecedentes y Programaci6n de las actividades:
(a)   cronograma de actividades a nivel nacional, y
(b)   cronograma de actividades a nivel regional
2.    Costos del proyecto
3.    Aspectos tecnicos:
(a)   costos detallados del mapeo;
(b)   equipo recomendado para el IGN;
(c)   terminos de referencia tecnicos (mapping);
(d)   terminos de referencia para los equipos de trabajo de campo; y
(e)   demarcaci6n internacional.
4.    Aspectos institucionales:
(a)   consolidaci6n institucional,
(b)   nota para el estudio de las funciones del CNR a cada nivel regional,
(c)   capacitaci6n, y
(d)   infrastructura del CNR.
5.    Administraci6n del proyecto:
(a)   supervision del project;
(b)   indicadores de monitoreo e impacto; y
(c)   organizacion de los concursos de consultorias.
6.    Anexos tecnicos:
(a)   pautas para el establecimiento de escrituras y su inscripci6n en el registro;
obligaciones del notario y del registrador;
(b)   analisis financiero de los flujos estimados de caja del CNR; y
(c)   conclusiones del seminario sobre mecanismos no judiciales de soluci6n de
conflictos.



ERD COTSSr3
N,' -' '  -i                                                                                                          EL SALVADOR
V -KL )  \\   s<>2:                                                                  LAND ADMINISTRATION PROJECT
K\                                                                                       ? -  FIRST POASE             S sELECTED CITIES AND. TO.NS
IT                                                              D~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~ONE ICENTRAKI    DEPARTMENT CAPITALS
R REGIONAL OFFICE          i    NATIONAt CAPITAL
G  U A T E M  A L A                                         -                                                                                                         ZONE 2 CwESTERNT    -        OARED ROADS
GUATEMALA                                                                                                          _ REOIONAW OFFICE        -  -   SECECNDARY ROADs
7~~~~~~~~
>  _  v    ,> a   4    ^ -   ,   l                                                                                   2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A,LROADS
Al                                 Z X   . Aa N  a   ,   f   * t'-   :.*0   S   0z  ONE 3 1bJQ2THE2NW  -   REIVERS
j  tcc-'.lo                C, 1  >  j   t  ;    C h  ..........   Pt  /< R OEGIONAL OFFICE  =  .   DEPART.ENT BOuNDARIES
-        (           '~          ~          ~~~~~p ZONE A EA$TERNI       NTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
R rEGONAL OFFICE
-W~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                
Al"/.CoTE.MA,Y  -                                                T %
\ H                 !                    ,1    _ < L            B+/>AO R      '   i   <   -r~   - -  > f ~ :  .   30..,0.0 '  ,    L 2 A  ' LA   7
' ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ X t X ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i_                                                                                S ror - L7 or 
-   , L      |    SONAE                            SoR,   I(      9v   
0   ww                       t                       9    t                t                                                                                 0  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~U N_
,N,TED STATES OF AMERICA
GWAIESA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ L.,ad.o                                                                                                     T ET- 0                           ,  
TIlE SRA.A.M                                                                                                                                                                                                        C -0'
CU   IITRA
_ ,   CA..GUA    ,K(ILO.ETE.S                                                                                                                                                    _           elGCG    ~~   -  -
_.      ,           0bt lQe 10      20 T. .g0 or                                                            -- -.-  - o.- Fa
:COSTA .RIAc,
iETEC _ A _ '                             d.000,M 3o.0
'ANAMA' ~~~~~~  C  00 ~~~~ OTTO  OTTOOTO TO 00001104 1A .00.0Ro,. S'o,o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S



IMAGING
Report No:      15085 ES
Type: SAR



