            Document of
          The World Bank




                                      Report No: 34698

IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
   (SCL-39820 PPFB-P2640 TF-26533)

               ON A

               LOAN

  IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 50 MILLION

              TO THE

           EL SALVADOR

               FOR A

   LAND ADMINISTRATION PROJECT




          December 12, 2005

                              CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                                (Exchange Rate Effective )

                                Currency Unit = US$1

                                     FISCAL YEAR
                                     July 1   June 30

                         ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
CNR      Centro Nacional de Registros (National Registry Center)
GEF      Global Environmental Fund
ICB      International Competitive Bidding
ICR      Implementation Completion Report
LAP I    Land Administration Project (Phase I)
LAP II   Land Administration Project (Phase II)
M&E      Monitoring & Evaluation
PEU      Project Execution Unit
PPF      Project Preparation Facility
PRISA    Agricultural Sector Reform and Investment Project
RPRH     Registro de la Propieded Raiz e Hipotecas (Land and Mortgage Registry
SAR      Staff Appraisal Report
SIRyC    Sistema de Informacion Registro y Catastro (Property Registry and Cadastre Information
         System
UNDP     United Nations Development Program




                              Vice President:    Pamela Cox
                            Country Director     Jane Armitage
                             Sector Manager      Mark Cackler
          Task Team Leader/Task Manager:         Frederic de Dinechin

                                       EL SALVADOR
                                Land Administration Project


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                                     Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                           1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                          1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry                2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                   5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                   11
6. Sustainability                                                                       13
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                        14
8. Lessons Learned                                                                      15
9. Partner Comments                                                                     16
10. Additional Information                                                              16
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                    18
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                    20
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                    23
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                    29
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                    32
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                       33
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                   34
Annex 8. Borrower's ICR: Informe Final de Implementacion - Proyecto de Administration   35
de Tierras (LAP)

Project ID: P007174                                                  Project Name: Land Administration Project
Team Leader: Frederic de Dinechin                                    TL Unit: LCSER
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: December 14, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: Land Administration Project                              L/C/TF Number: SCL-39820; PPFB-P2640;
                                                                                                     TF-26533
   Country/Department: EL SALVADOR                                                        Region: Latin America and the
                                                                                                     Caribbean Region

        Sector/subsector: Central government administration (92%); Sub-national government
                            administration (7%); Law and justice (1%)
                  Theme: Land administration and management (P); Rural markets (S);
                            Decentralization (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 06/08/1994                                     Effective: 03/11/1997                03/21/1997
     Appraisal: 06/29/1995                                         MTR: 05/07/1999                  05/07/1999
      Approval: 03/05/1996                                      Closing: 06/30/2002                 06/30/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          REPUBLIC OF EL SALVADOR/CENTRO NACIONAL DE REGISTROS (CNR)
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Pamela Cox                                     Shahid Javed Burki
Country Director:               Jane Armitage                                  Edilberto Segura
Sector Manager:                 Mark E. Cackler                                Michael Baxter
Team Leader at ICR:             Frederic de Dinechin                           Cora Melania Shaw
ICR Primary Author:             Anna Corsi


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      HL
   Institutional Development Impact:       H
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time:

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The major objectives of the Project (1) were to: (a) regularize land registration for El Salvador's estimated
1.6 million parcels (2) of rural and urban land; and (b) create an efficient, streamlined, and financially
self-sustaining nation-wide cadastral mechanism for mapping and land registration ­ the new National
Registry Center (CNR). The successful execution of the Project, according to the Staff Appraisal Report
(SAR), was expected to provide land owners ­ particularly the vast majority of smallholders who lack clear
tenure ­ with the security that would enable them to sell or rent their land at fair market prices and pass on
their holdings as inheritances.

Regularization in this case referred to systematic parcel-based surveys and clean-up of data in the land
recording system, excluding land titling or allocation. In this context, a successful regularization process
was to ensure that: i) land titles are legally valid and registered; ii) there's a clear link between the parcel
and the landholder; iii) the description of the parcel included in the title is consistent with its on-the-ground
physical characteristics; and iv) the legal history documented in the registry is entered into a public,
integrated cadastre-registry recording system. If inconsistencies arise, these are also entered into the system
and flagged as issues to be addressed by future legalization efforts. The ease in accessing information was
expected to reduce transaction costs in title transfers. Further, the enhanced security of property rights
stemming from recordation in the system was expected to lead to improved efficiency of rural and urban
land markets, enhanced land investments and productivity, and increased use of property as collateral.

The Project objectives were clearly defined and achievable, and reflected country priorities both at the time
of appraisal and in subsequent years. They remain highly relevant as evidenced by approval of a follow-up
operation (El Salvador: Land Administration II- LAP II, Ln. No. 7278-ES) and the Government's request
for a GEF operation, which is expected to be approved by the Board on November 29, 2005 (3). The
objectives are further consistent with the current (FY05-FY08) Bank's Country Assistance Strategy
(CAS), which emphasizes support for broad-based equitable growth, access to assets, and enhanced
security and reduced vulnerability.

The genesis of this Project is primarily found in the urgent need to improve land registry and cadastre
services stemming from the Government's compliance with the land distribution program mandated by the
Peace Accords. As a result, the Agricultural Sector Reform and Investment Project ­ PRISA (Ln. No.
3576-ES) funds were reprogrammed to fund a pilot land registry and cadastre services in the Department of
Sonsonate from 1994 to 1998. This pilot program was highly successful (ICR - Report No. 25503) and
provided the basis for a national scale-up land regularization based on the new, integrated land registry and
cadastre system.

Overall, the Project's design and scope were properly defined and reflected the client's needs and capacity.
The Project was neither too complex nor too risky in terms of implementation and it was not anticipated to
be overly demanding either, as assessments carried out during preparation showed that the few technical,
administrative and financial weaknesses of the Borrower could be easily addressed. Further, critical
political and legal challenges were properly resolved before the effectiveness of the loan.

_________________________________________________________________________________
1.The World Bank. 1996. Staff Appraisal Report: El Salvador Land Administration Project. Report No. 15085-ES. January 31,
1996.
2. It is estimated that there are 1.8 million parcels in El Salvador. The 1.6 million estimate excluded the estimated 200,000
parcels that were regularized under the existing PRISA project.
3. LAP II will i) complete the regularization process throughout the country, ii) include titling activities in targeted poor areas,



                                                              - 2 -

and iii) include specific land regularization activities in protected areas and cultural sites. The Protected Areas Consolidation
and Administration GEF Project will strengthen the National Protected Areas System and consolidate two protected areas.



3.2 Revised Objective:
The original objectives were maintained throughout the life of the project.

3.3 Original Components:
The Project comprised three components.

Component 1: Institutional strengthening and decentralization (US$10.6 million or 15.1 percent of total
project cost including contingencies and excluding PPF funds). The aim of this component was to establish
the institutional framework, structure and procedures for the introduction of an integrated, nation-wide
mapping and land registration system, and to maintain up to date records after regularization had taken
place. The component further aimed at strengthening the related legal framework through the promotion of
key legal reforms. The component had two sub-components:

(i)       Institutional strengthening. This sub-component aimed at consolidating and strengthening the
CNR so that it would have the capacity to implement its mandate through: (a) the provision of technical
assistance, training, equipments and other goods; (b) the leasing, construction and rehabilitation of office
facilities for CNR, as needed; and (c) the establishment of an automated Land Information System (LIS) by
expanding the one developed under the PRISA pilot.
(ii)      Institutional decentralization. The objective of this sub-component was to support decentralization
of the legal and cadastral services of CNR into at least four regional offices and about fifty two municipal
offices.

Component 2: Land-Data Acquisition (US$48.7 million or 69.6 percent of total project cost including
contingencies and excluding PPF funds). The component's aim was to acquire land data for cadastral
purposes, verify and regularize land rights on identified parcels, consolidate the data for input into the Land
Information System and establish mechanisms to resolve conflicts. The component had three
sub-components:

(i)       Mapping. This sub-component aimed at carrying out mapping activities, including aerial
photography and field surveys, to establish a parcel-based database of the Borrower's territory. The
mapping activities included aerial photography at scales of 1/20,000 for rural areas and 1/4,000 for urban
areas, using a Global Positioning System (GPS). Using the photogrammetric digital information, this
sub-component planned to produce base maps for field verification at scales of 1/5,000 for rural areas,
1/2,000 for peri-urban areas, and 1/1,000 for urban areas.
(ii)      Land records regularization. This sub-component was planned to finance information campaigns,
training, the field verification of geographic boundaries and legal rights as well as the completion of the
Sonsonate pilot program. It also financed activities required to initiate the process for the conversion of the
real estate files of CNR from the system of folio personal (grantee-based files) to the system of folio real
(parcel-based files), including the identification of the legal status of each parcel. The updating of this
information after regularization was expected to be ensured by legislative changes that would make
registration by notaries compulsory and universal.
(iii)     Alternate dispute resolution mechanisms. This sub-component aimed at providing technical
assistance on mechanisms for non-judicial resolution of real estate related disputes and at developing and
implementing new judicial and administrative procedures.




                                                                - 3 -

Component 3: Project management (US$8.7 or 12.4 percent of total project cost including contingencies
and excluding PPF funds). The component aimed at strengthening and expanding the Project Executing
Unit (PEU) that was created during the pilot program under the PRISA-funded pilot. The component
planned to finance the project's management, including vehicles and equipment, technical assistance and
training and incremental recurrent costs. In addition to, and as part of the regular project implementation
unit tasks, the PEU was entrusted with managing information and communication campaigns, expanding
the M&E system established under PRISA, contracting out work in each region, and supervising the firms
and                   their                   implementation                    of     the              Project.

3.4 Revised Components:
There were no revisions in component objectives or content. However, formal reallocations among
disbursement categories were made and the Project closing date was extended twice for a total of three
years. The reasons for the two extensions were difficulties encountered with the procurement of three large
land regularization contracts and the occurrance of several natural disasters (one hurricane and two
earthquakes) during the 1998-2001 period (see section 5.1).

3.5 Quality at Entry:
Quality at entry was satisfactory. There was no assessment by the Quality Assurance Group. Peer
reviewers and Bank management considered the project objectives consistent with the 1993 Country
Assistance Strategy, which focused on (i) modernizing the public sector, (ii) enabling private sector growth,
(iii) reducing poverty, and (iv) strengthening environmental and natural resource management. The key
project design issues were based on experience gained in similar successful projects in other countries
(Thailand and Kenya) and lessons learned from the first phase of implementation of the pilot project under
PRISA, carried out in one region of the country (Department of Sonsonate). The project preparation team
assessed the experience gained during the implementation of the pilot and identified critical areas that
needed further improvement such as strengthening the capacity of the newly created CNR and expanding
the existing PEU for effective project implementation. The need for establishing an M&E system was fully
recognized. The risks were correctly identified: the low capacity of CNR and field technicians in handling
the expected increase in demand for the services. Environmental risks were determined to be negligible and
positive impacts were expected in terms of improved land management. The Project was thus rated as
category "C".

At the time of Project preparation, the Bank had limited experience with similar operations in the region.
Notwithstanding, the overall Project design was appropriate to the client's needs and to achieving the
project's development objective. The Project's components were reasonably related to achieving the
Project's objectives and to the financial and administrative capacity of the implementing agency. The Latin
America and Caribbean Region considers the Project to be an example of best practice in terms of land
administration. However, the costs of institutional development and land regularization were
underestimated. The comparable figures from Bank experience in Indonesia and Thailand at project design
stage were in the order of US$200/ha and US$80/ha respectively, given the higher urban land composition
in those countries. The Project estimated a cost of US$40/ha for El Salvador (4), which later was found to
be unrealistic as it did not take into consideration that rural areas in the country are densely populated.

_________________________________________________
4. Cost per ha is calculated dividing total project cost by total project area.




                                                                 - 4 -

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Overall, the outcome of the Project is rated satisfactory and the development objectives were achieved. The
Project had substantial impact on the overall modernization of land administration in El Salvador, and was
largely responsible for the observed improvement in institutional efficiency and enhanced tenure security.
More specifically, the achievement of the project objectives should be examined from the perspective of the
realization of each of the Project's objectives.

The Project's first objective was to regularize land registration of rural and urban land in the country. The
Project established a target of regularizing the registry of 1.6 million parcels, thereby covering 100 percent
of the country's territory. However, given that regularization costs were higher than predicted, only about 1
million parcels of land, or 66 percent of the original target, were actually completed. Additionally, the
Project completed the regularization of the Sonsonate pilot (regularizing about 100,000 parcels) (5) . It has
to be further pointed out that, following the establishment of the integrated automated system countrywide,
new land transactions relating to property not yet surveyed are also entered in the new system and, by doing
so, automatically regularized and publicly accessible at no cost.

Property owners whose real estate has been regularized and registered in the cadastre and registry system
have fully secure property rights. As a result of secure tenure, preliminary studies (6) carried out upon the
Project's closure indicate that owners in both urban and rural areas have had better access to the formal
credit market, such as a bank or "caja de credito". As shown in Table 1, access to the formal credit market
was higher in the Department of Sonsonate than in the Department of Usulutan, which was not covered by
the Project. While 7.6 percent of Project beneficiaries in urban areas used their property as collateral, 4.9
percent of property owners did so in Usulutan. Of those that requested credit, Project beneficiaries did so
mostly through a financial institution (62.1 percent in urban areas and 61.1 percent in rural areas), while in
Usulutan owners did so mostly through the informal sector (only 27 percent in urban areas and 51 in rural
areas had access to the formal credit market). Similarly, the amount of time needed to process a credit
request in Sonsonate was reduced from 2 months to 22 days. These data show that the Project created a
wide acceptance of the institutional importance of CNR, and that a cultural shift in favor of participation in
the formal credit market has started to take root in El Salvador. The specific reasons behind this behavioral
change will be further analyzed during the implementation of the follow-up project (LAP II).




________________________________________________________________________________
5. Out of a total estimated 1.8 million parcels in the country, the Project (LAP I) regularized a total of about 1.1 million
parcels, while PRISA had regularized about 100,000 parcels. Under the second phase (LAP II), the remaining 600,000 parcels
will be regularized.
6. Carcach, C. 2005. "Estudio de Mercados de Tierras en El Salvador: Evaluacion de Impacto de la Primera Fase del Proyecto
de Administracion de Tierras." (Study of Land Markets in El Salvador: Impact Evaluation of the First Phase of the Land
Administration Project).




                                                           - 5 -

                Table 1: Access to credit in Project and Non-Project departments (%)
                                                                   Urban                       Rural
                                                                        Usulután                 Usulután
                                                        Sonsonate       (Non-        Sonsonate   (Non-
                                                        (Project)       Project)     (Project)   Project)


      Place where credit request was made (% of parcels that sought credit)
      Bank                                              45.9*           27.0         50.0*       38.0
      Caja de crédito                                   16.2            2.3          11.1*       13.0
      Informal lenders (Prestamista)                    27.2*           50.6         11.8*       17.8
      Unknown ­ detail not given                        10.7            20.1         16.0        15.1



* It indicates a statistically significant difference (5%) between the two departments.


The Project's second objective was to establish the bases for land regularization in the Borrower's territory.
The Project, through the consolidation and strengthening of CNR, created a streamlined and financially
sustainable institutional framework and improved the national and local capacity for land administration,
thereby establishing a reliable and efficient land administration service. CNR (7), which brings together the
functions and responsibilities for land registry, cadastre, and regularization under one agency, has proved
itself to be the leading land administration institution in Central America, as evidenced by its support to
several similar projects in the region. It now has a fully functioning automated and decentralized
information system (SIRyC) which stores and links legal and cadastral/geographical data for each
registered land parcel. The system, maintained and operated by well-trained CNR staff, provides timely and
reliable information at reasonable cost. Service users can access the system directly through terminals
installed in 10 of the 11 CNR departmental offices and in 4 municipalities. Registration of standard real
estate transactions takes between 15 to 17 days compared to 30 to 45 days in 1997, on average a reduction
of more than 250 percent. The number of visits service users need to pay to CNR offices to register land
transactions has been reduced from 3.5 to 1.5, on average a 133 percent reduction. A commensurate
reduction in transaction cost has also been achieved ­ from US$28 to US$12, a 133 percent decrease (8).
Improved records management has avoided the issuance of double and overlapping titles and led to
detection of duplicate titles. Other beneficial outcomes include the greater transparency and accountability
in land transactions as a result of greater public access to land information. Feedback from service users
provides evidence of increased customer satisfaction in land administration services in the Project area.




___________________________________________________________________________________
7. Currently, CNR is a unique institution worldwide as it integrates mapping, cadastre, real estate property, intellectual
property, and commercial registries functions into a single agency.
8. See Annex 3 (Economic and Financial Analysis carried out during the preparation of LAP II).




                                                                - 6 -

The Project also had a positive impact in terms of increased land investments and productivity and
improved land management practices. However, such improvements were not systematically recorded and
therefore it has become difficult to quantify and compare the `with' and `without' project scenarios. The
above mentioned study (Carcach, 2005), financed by CNR, has found that project beneficiaries in
Sonsonate have invested more in their land compared to property owners in Usulutan (no project).
However, the increase in investments could not be attributed to the Project alone. Although regularization
of land registration supported by the Project has undoubtedly facilitated and promoted land investments,
remittance payments have also been a major contributor.

With regard to land management, using the CORINE Land Cover methodology, the Project contributed to
the preparation of a map detailing the land use pattern in El Salvador, which served as the basis for the
identification of the Mesoamerican Biological Corridor of El Salvador. Further, the project identified the
extent of changes in vegetation cover and provided the information necessary for the delineation and
demarcation of natural protected areas and mangroves areas to be included in the National System of
Protected Areas, thereby avoiding erroneous titling of those areas. In doing so, the Project contributed to
improving the knowledge base for sustainable land use and management in the country. Finally, there is
some evidence that land regularization activities have been instrumental in promoting land conservation
practices.

The economic analysis carried out during the preparation of the second phase of the Project confirmed
economic benefits in terms of increased property value, more efficient banking system, streamlined
registration process, and environmental sustainability. Similarly, the financial analysis showed that the
additional revenue directly attributable to the Project was double the estimated amount (see Section 4.4 and
Annex 3).

Finally, the Project played a key role in responding to emergency and political events. For example, CNR
provided government and local stakeholders with just-in-time, efficient technical support for: (i) the
identification and mapping of areas affected by Hurricane Mitch in 1998; (ii) the assessment of homes
destroyed as a result of the 2001 earthquakes; (iii) the mapping of areas affected by the 2002 drought; and
(iv) the redefinition of the boundaries between Guatemala, Honduras and El Salvador in 2003-2005.

4.2 Outputs by components:
Component 1: Institutional strengthening and decentralization (US$21.5 million or 31% of total actual
project cost including contingencies and excluding PPF funds). This component is rated highly
satisfactory. The Project developed procedures designed to address some of the fundamental weaknesses in
the land administration system, largely a result of the absence of: i) a complete and up-to-date picture of all
existing land parcels, ii) an appropriate legal and institutional framework, and iii) strong managerial
capacity. It was very successful in establishing a nation-wide mechanism for mapping and land registration.
CNR, created in 1995 by legislative decree, has become a modern institution that consolidates the activities
of regularization of land registration within El Salvador. Before the Project, although coordination between
the registry and the cadastre was required by law, formal links between these two functions/institutions
were inadequate and outdated. With CNR, these key responsibilities were integrated in one single agency,
thereby facilitating simultaneous access to juridical and cadastral information for each parcel and
increasing security by avoiding overlaps.

Within CNR, specialized units responsible for a variety of land regularization services (such as geodesy,
aerial photography, mapping, etc.) have been created and are fully functioning. CNR staff and external
users (notary publics) have been fully trained, and CNR offices have been equipped with modern
cartography and other necessary equipment and are operating effectively. A new integrated and automated



                                                     - 7 -

land information system (SIRyC) that identifies legal rights, geographic location and boundaries for each
parcel has been established. Historic data have been transferred into the SIRyC, including: i) property
records from various departments, and ii) the older electronic property databases. These transfers have
ensured more efficient and accurate archiving and effective operation of the SIRyC. The system keeps track
of all supporting documentation required to establish, change or extinguish real rights. Service standards
have been greatly improved, with response times to client requests sharply reduced. Registration of
standard real estate transactions takes between 15 to 17 days compared to 30 to 45 days in 1997 under the
old system.

In addition to the central CNR office modernization, the Project supported the decentralization of land
services provision through the establishment and strengthening of regional offices. By the Project's closing
date, 10 out of the 11 planned regional offices, compared to the target of 4 specified in the SAR, were
opened and connected through the SIRyC, covering about 90 percent of the total population of the country.
Installation of the SIRyC has been accompanied by a satisfactory reorganization of the local offices where
a "one-stop shop" for property registration, consultation of the cadastre, and consultation of the
commercial registry has promoted greater efficiency. In response to cost-benefit analyses carried out during
implementation, instead of decentralizing through the establishment of 52 municipal offices, cooperation
agreements were signed with 17 municipalities for the exchange and maintenance of cadastral information.
Ten of these municipalities have been connected to and trained in the management of the SIRyC that has
become the basis for the local government land planning and tax revenues. Further, the installation of
remote terminals has greatly facilitated access to land-related information, such as the generation of land
records certification, bringing the services closer to and reducing the transaction costs for users.

The consolidation of the institutional framework for land regularization and administration was further
supported through the strengthening of the legal framework. Under the Project, through a consultative
process that involved all key stakeholders, CNR supported the drafting of five laws that are key for the
long-term sustainability of the institution and for the maintenance of the parcel-based registry. Two of these
laws were approved, namely: 1) the transitory law on the proindiviso property rights, whose main objective
was to facilitate the regularization of properties in the proindiviso regime, and 2) the law on new fees,
which enabled CNR to increase its service fees by 27.7 percent in 2002. However, three other key pieces of
legislation, namely 1) the law for the autonomy of the CNR, which would ensure further CNR's financial
sustainability, 2) the law on the maintenance of the integrated cadastre and registry system, and 3) the law
on the Appeal Tribunal, which would give property registry users the opportunity to appeal CNR's
registration decisions, have yet to be approved (9). Similarly, legislative changes that would make
registration by notaries compulsory and universal, as proposed in the SAR, were not achieved. An
additional law on the harmonization of registration procedures was approved in 2003, which has provided
common standards and procedures for registration throughout the country.

Other institutions have also benefited from the Project. For instance, useful maps and property information
were provided to the Ministry of Public Works, the Ministry of Agriculture, and the Ministry of
Environment to determine areas damaged following Hurricane Mitch, the 2001 earthquakes, and the 2002
drought. Further, the National Police were trained in the use of cartography necessary to develop an
emergency system, and the Ministry of Economy is using CNR geographic data to carry out the national
census.

Component 2: Land-Data Acquisition (US$36.4 million or 52.4% of actual total project cost including
contingencies and excluding PPF funds). This component is rated satisfactory. It aimed to undertake the
survey and mapping works required for systematic regularization of land registration. Before the start of
the regularization activities, intensive information dissemination and communication campaigns were


                                                      - 8 -

conducted in 6 Departments to promote land regularization through the Project. As a result of this
component, 100 percent of the country has a new geodetic network and 45 percent of it has been provided
with a new large scale cartography and cadastre, a useful public good. The pilot program in the
Department of Sonsonate was successfully completed with the regularization of all parcels. Of the
estimated remaining 1.6 million parcels in the country to be regularized at the start of the Project, about 1
million were completed and transferred into the integrated SIRyC, corresponding to 66 percent of the
Project's target. In fact, although the SAR indicated that 100 percent of the country would be covered, due
to costs overruns, the target was lowered to 60 percent of the territory.

Costs overruns were partly the result of difficulties encountered in the field verification of legal rights and
the delimitation of buildings, due to: i) the lack of adequate experience and capacity of local firms and
consultants, ii) the lack of an adequate methodology for surveying densely populated rural areas, iii)
unforeseen difficult terrain in various rural areas, and iv) the lack of clear responsibilities defined in an
operational manual, resulting in duplication or shortage of efforts. In particular, the SAR did not anticipate
the extent of the training required for technical and juridical staff from CNR and private contractors. This
led to delays in work execution, and CNR's realization of the need to develop technical standards, a quality
control system, a revised survey methodology, and operational manuals for each area of work. To meet the
pressing need for technical experts, intensive training was organized, resulting in about 800 technicians
trained in registry and cadastre services in the Project area.

Finally, difficulties in collecting and verifying data also arose from: i) in some cases, the poor quality of the
original data in the old system requiring additional efforts and resources for clean up, ii) a high rate of
absence of owners during regularization activities; in these cases occupants provided the lacking
information but not the supporting documentation, and iii) high incidence of criminality in some areas of
the country.

All the activities necessary to initiate the conversion of the real estate files from the folio personal system
(grantee-based files) to the folio real system (parcel-based files), such as the identification and scanning of
existing records containing the legal status of properties and cadastral references for each parcel, were
completed. More than 50 percent of the total number of land parcels in the country have been converted
from the old system to the new computerized folio real system. The second phase of the Project (LAP II) is
expected to complete the conversion process.

The Project supported the design of the following alternative conflict resolution activities, which were
carried out during the implementation of the land regularization activities: i) communication and awareness
campaigns (10), ii) the training of field brigades on mechanisms for non-judicial resolution, and iii) public
viewing of corrected records. Overall, these activities proved to be successful, as the majority of conflicts
that surfaced during the regularization process were resolved by the field brigades and/or public viewing
through the CNR's Results Notification Unit. Conflicts without a solution were flagged in the
cadastre-registry system (11).

___________________________________________________________
9. During one of the last supervision missions, it was agreed that, given the difficulty of passing a law on the maintenance of
the integrated parcel-based system, CNR will promote these legal changes through executive decree. The approval of the decree
is a condition of disbursement for the second phase of the project (LAP II).
10. The project logo is the `'Chambita Medidor'' (the Salvadorian surveyor), which is very well known and positively perceived
in the country.
11. The percentage of unresolved conflicts in relation to the number of parcels in each affected Department was the following:
Ahuachapan: 0.09%, Santa Ana: 0.12%, La Libertad: 0.08%, San Salvador: 0.02%, La Paz: 0.11%. Of these conflicts, three
cases were reported to be severe conflicts, for which no solution has been found to date.



                                                              - 9 -

Component 3. Project Management (US$9.4 million or 13.5% of actual total project cost including
contingencies and excluding PPF funds). This component is rated satisfactory. It provided support for
carrying out information and communication campaigns, supervision of field verification and property
delimitation activities, monitoring and evaluation, and fiduciary activities. The PEU performed both
managerial and technical roles. It effectively coordinated all project activities, and managed project
finances, although flaws in several procurement processes were identified. CNR took appropriate measures
to thoroughly assess and improve the PEU procurement capabilities, including setting up specific control
mechanisms. Problems with the procurement process were also due to the complexity and size of the
contracts for regularization activities and the lack of experience of the procurement agent (UNDP). Loan
funds were disbursed and used in accordance with Bank guidelines. Audited accounts have generally been
maintained satisfactorily. Difficulties were initially encountered in the operation of CNR's manual M&E
system. Additionally, a complete and adequate baseline study to determine the Project's overall impact was
lacking. An action plan to adjust and upgrade the system and update existing baseline information was
designed and implemented, taking into account inputs from the Bank's regional assessment of land
administration projects. Although a satisfactory M&E system was put in place and better monitoring of the
Project's physical and financial execution was achieved, the system has not allowed for a comprehensive
and systematic impact evaluation of the Project. M&E activities ­ information collection, analysis,
reporting and presentation ­ have been further strengthened during the preparation of the second phase of
the Project. Finally, given the experience acquired by CNR through the Project, fiduciary responsibilities
for the implementation of the second phase (LAP II) will not be outsourced, but will be carried out by CNR
internal procurement and financial management units.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
The SAR noted that a meaningful cost-benefit analysis cannot be expected for this type of Project (p.18).
As a result, the ICR did not conduct an economic analysis. However, the assumption that both institutional
development and regularization activities could be realized at a cost of $40/ha (12) was overly optimistic.
The final figure indicates that the cost was US$85/ha, which is still acceptable compared with other
international experiences. Direct beneficiaries are the property owners who obtain secure property rights
and also realize significant savings on transactions costs associated with registering real estate transactions.
Indeed, the main immediately quantifiable benefit is the reduction of the time needed to register a real estate
transaction from typically 38 days to 16 days. Benefits further derive from improved access to the formal
credit market, which offers better rates than the informal sector (13).

4.4 Financial rate of return:
As part of the financial analysis of the Project, a cash flow analysis was prepared during preparation. It
was estimated that the additional revenue directly attributable to the Project would total US$12.2 million
between 1996 and 2003 and at least US$2.6 million each year thereafter. As explained below, the actual
results were double that amount.




_____________________________________________________________________
12. Cost per ha is calculated dividing total project cost by total project area.
13. The detailed economic analysis (see annex 3) carried out during the preparation of LAP II confirms these outcomes.




                                                                - 10 -

In 2004, a historical analysis of the financial sustainability of CNR was carried out, which showed that a
positive cash flow of about US$0.5 million was generated in 2000, when repayment of the LAP I began.
The positive cash flow increased to about US$5 million in 2002 and 2003, for a total of about US$24
million between 1996 and 2003. Additionally, the financial analysis of CNR's expected cash flows carried
out during preparation of LAP II shows the agency's capacity to continue financing the modernization
process and assume a new loan. From 2005 until 2011 (when repayment of LAP II begins), a surplus
between US$4 and US$5 million is expected every year. No surplus is projected for years 2012 ands 2013
when the repayment periods of LAP I and LAP II overlap. After 2013 and until 2020 (repayment period of
LAP II), an average surplus of between US$3 and US$5 million is expected. After that the surplus will
increase significantly up to US$10 million.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The Project's institutional development impact is high. It has successfully consolidated cadastre and
registry functions and responsibilities into a single agency, the CNR, thereby being recognized as an
example of best practice worldwide. As a result, responsibilities and functions related to land
administration have been streamlined and rationalized, and overlaps and gaps significantly reduced. The
Project has further successfully established an efficient and reliable decentralized cadastre and title
registration system for real estate property, covering the entire country. It has further established a modern
map production capability, and a professionally operating private surveying industry. Good progress has
been achieved in establishing the associated legal framework, based on work done during project
implementation, which will be continued under the second phase.

An important institutional development issue successfully addressed by the project was the introduction and
institutionalization of client orientation in a public sector agency that has turned itself into a service
provider with clearly established service standards. This included the ISO9000 certification of two of
CNR's units, and the sales and intellectual property registries in 2003, and the upcoming ISO9000
certification of the cadastre, mapping and real estate property registry units in 2006. The second phase of
the Project will consolidate these institutional achievements and ensure their sustainability in the long-term.
It will also put in place client feedback mechanisms.

Decentralization efforts were successful at the regional level, with the establishment of 10 fully functional
CNR departmental offices. However, the Project was not as successful in decentralizing service provision
at the municipal level. The ability of municipalities to maintain the parcel-based property registry and to
provide land administration services has not been sufficiently strengthened. In particular, due to political
constraints, the linking of 52 groups of municipalities to the automated system, which would have
connected 262 municipalities, proved not to be operationally viable. Instead, a new, more flexible approach
was taken, one where cooperation agreements are signed with individual municipalities. Strengthening of
local capacity through this approach will be further improved through LAP II. (For the detailed discussion
of the institutional development achievements, see Section 4.2.)

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The key factors affecting implementation that were outside the control of the government were: i)
procurement and contractor performance issues; and ii) natural disasters. Two Project extensions, for a
total of 3 years of extension, were necessary due to delays in the bidding process for three large land
regularization contracts. Specifically, the delay was caused by the unsatisfactory performance of the
international contractor in the department of Santa Ana, and difficulties in completing the procurement



                                                     - 11 -

process for the ICB for San Salvador, due to lack of contractors who met the bidding standards and
requirements.

Additionally, the 1998 Hurricane Mitch and the 2001 earthquakes had a serious impact on project
execution. The Project lost equipment and an unexpected reallocation of loan resource had to be carried out
to cover some emergency infrastructure activities. In particular, CNR's headquarters and some of the
Offices of the Registry were affected. Field work had to be rescheduled and postponed for several months
after both the hurricane and the earthquakes. For example, the execution of the contract for field surveys in
the Departments of Ahuachapán and Santa Ana was delayed, as well as the bidding process for the contract
for works in the Departments of San Salvador and La Libertad.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The Government placed very high priority on this Project. Government's support is further evidenced by its
commitment to the second phase of the Project. However, even with this support, the necessary regulatory
measures and key laws were not always enacted expeditiously. In terms of financial support, the provision
of counterpart funds was prompt. This was facilitated by the fact that CNR became financially sustainable.


5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The fact that CNR is the sole agency responsible for the full array of land administration functions has
greatly facilitated Project implementation and adjustments at the working level. CNR management has
demonstrated a very keen interest in the Project implementation, responding rapidly to issues that arose.
Recommendations on improving technical and procedural aspects of operations were carefully considered
and, if agreed to, effectively implemented. Suggestions concerning improvement of information and
communication systems, transfer en masse of information into the automated system, and legal reforms
were all accepted and implemented. In addition, CNR's Board of Directors includes representatives of
major stakeholders, such as the Ministry of Economy, the Ministry of Finance, the Vice Ministry of Urban
Development, Engineers and Notaries Associations, which greatly facilitated the decision making process
and Project implementation. However, some operational difficulties were encountered in terms of internal
coordination among CNR's units in charge of different aspects of regularization, due to the lack of clear
division of responsibilities. These difficulties were eventually resolved.

5.4 Costs and financing:
At appraisal, the total Project cost over five years was estimated at US$70 million, to be financed by an
IBRD loan of US$50 million, and US$20 million from the government. The estimated Project cost included
a Project Preparation Facility (PPF) in the amount of US$2.0 million. The actual Project cost over eight
years is US$ 69.5, of which US$ 49.92 million were from proceeds of the IBRD loan, and US$ 19.58 from
the government. Only about US$80,000 of the loan remained undisbursed.

Some reallocations among expenditures categories were necessary during implementation. Specifically,
following the Bank procurement unit's recommendation, land regularization activities were reclassified as
Category 1 (works) rather than Category 3 (consultant services) expenses. Additionally, the approximately
50 percent increase in the cost of Component 1 was due to salaries and operating cost increases resulting
from the additional 3 years of implementation.




                                                      - 12 -

Component                              Appraisal Estimate         Actual
                                                               expenditures

Institutional   strengthening     and          10.6                 16.7
decentralization
Land-Data Acquisition                          48.7                 41.3
Project Administration                          8.7                  9.4
Project Preparation Facility                    2.0                  2.1
                                               70.0                 69.5
TOTAL



6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Sustainability of the project is highly likely. The Project has continually increased the flow of income from
user fees collected by CNR, which cover CNR's operational and maintenance costs and repayment the
Loan (both interest and principal). The system's financial sustainability will further improve as the volume
of transactions continues to increase, while staff costs are reduced once the initial systematic registration
effort is completed. In addition, there are windows of opportunity for CNR to increase its income through
the diversification of products and services, such as the provision of digital geographic information to
utility companies, and online land transaction services to law firms and mortgage companies. The technical
and operational aspects of the cadastral and registry system meet high standards. The successful efforts
made in recent years to develop a decentralized, client-oriented, reliable and high quality service suggest
that user acceptance will continue to grow. The simplicity of the system and its wide acceptance will
contribute to its sustainability.

Furthermore, the contracting out of field surveys effectively contributed to the development of a
professional and efficient private sector, thus preventing a ballooning of the institution (on average, 500
private surveyors were hired and trained each year during project implementation). The local capacity built
through training and provision of modern equipment also bodes well for the sustainability of project
outcomes. Finally, CNR, and the range and decentralization of its services, will be further consolidated and
modernized through the second phase of the Project. LAP II will also support key legal and regulatory
reforms necessary to ensure the sustainability of the Project's achievements. Specifically, during the second
phase, the legal and regulatory framework will be strengthened to ensure the integration of registry/cadastre
information collected during LAP I and LAP II, and to keep this information updated in the long term.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The transition to regular operations has been smooth, given that the Project's activities were already a core
part of the regular operations and services provided by CNR. Since the beginning, the Project was regarded
by CNR management as a mainstream effort to develop and consolidate CNR into an efficient and effective
cadastral agency. Therefore, the need for special transition arrangements was minimal. The PEU staff (25
percent administrative and 75 percent operational) decreased throughout the life of the Project (from 120 on
average to 75 employees), as CNR staff was being trained to carry out some key technical activities. The
project's achievements and sustainability will be consolidated through the second phase of the operation
(LAP II), expected to start in 2006, which will devote additional attention to decentralization, titling,
environmental sustainability, and impact evaluation issues. For the implementation of the second phase,
which will cover the entire country, the procurement, administrative and financial management functions of


                                                     - 13 -

the PEU have been transferred into CNR.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank's performance during identification, preparation and appraisal of the Project was satisfactory.
The Project was very consistent with the priorities of the Government, especially as highlighted in the Peace
Accords, and the CAS, both of which had a strong focus on modernizing the public sector and enabling
private sector growth. The project was also well timed to support the Government's ongoing efforts aimed
at modernizing the real estate registry and establishing a single land agency. The close cooperation with the
Government and its National Registry Center (CNR) ensured a high degree of institutional ownership. The
Bank's inputs in terms of staff and skill-mix were considered adequate during preparation of the Project.
Overall, project design was appropriate to meet the client's needs. However, although the SAR included
monitoring indicators (Annex G), these were not adequate to measure the impact of the operation since they
focused on physical and financial outputs, and the PEU failed to establish a comprehensive and adequate
baseline.

7.2 Supervision:
The Bank's performance during the implementation of the Project was satisfactory. Supervision missions
were carried out regularly and included comprehensive teams with key specialists participating throughout
supervision. However, during the life of the Project, four task managers were responsible for the Project,
which at times created some difficulties in continuity of supervision efforts. This did not compromise the
quality of advice and technical inputs, including lessons from other countries, which were provided in a
timely manner to improve CNR's operational efficiency, technical competence and client orientation. In
fact, all task managers were land administration specialists and had worked together in several similar
projects within and outside the region.

The Bank attempted to minimize project delays resulting from difficulties in the procurement process, by
increasing supervision efforts and putting pressure on the procurement agent so that it provided CNR with
the necessary assistance to execute the large work contracts. The Bank also showed flexibility in meeting
CNR's needs following: i) the impact of natural disasters, by approving the reallocation of funds for
emergency civil works, and ii) the difficulties in the procurement process, by approving in a timely manner
an extension of the Project's closing date and reallocation of funds.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The Bank's overall performance is rated satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower's performance during preparation is rated satisfactory. The Government provided the Bank
team with competent counterparts who contributed effectively to the preparation of the Project. Preparation
efforts were also supported through the allocation of undisbursed PRISA funds to finance key activities in
the Sonsonate pilot, which fed into the design of LAP I (SAR ­ Annex C). Additionally, a PPF further
supported project preparation activities.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
The Government's implementation performance is rated satisfactory. The operation was continuously
supported at the highest level, thereby maintaining project staff high morale. Counterpart funds were
provided on timely basis and no major delays were observed. Project effectiveness was delayed by about



                                                     - 14 -

one year, due to the two-step Congressional approval, and so was approval of key legal reforms, in part
due to difficulties in passing new laws in a Congress that was politically divided.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
The performance of the implementing agency is rated as satisfactory. CNR provided strong leadership
throughout Project implementation. Issues identified during supervision were readily considered and
addressed effectively. In particular, when issues arose with regard to the quality of regularization works,
CNR developed several technical operational manuals, provided comprehensive training to private
contractors, established a supervision unit, and set up a quality control mechanism. CNR was also
successful in maintaining stability of its staff and in quickly adjusting to undertake new responsibilities
arising from emergencies -- earthquakes, Hurricane Mitch. The only matter that took excessively long was
the establishment of satisfactory Monitoring and Evaluation system.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The Borrower's overall performance is rated as satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

Continuous high level support is critical. LAP I has enjoyed the highest levels of political support,
including that of the Presidency, the Ministry of Economy and CNR's Board of Directors throughout
project preparation and implementation. In that context, it was critical that the Project quickly delivered
results (e.g., maps, cadastre, computerized system, financial surplus) that would show its positive social
and economic impact to decision makers and politicians. It was also key that the project could provide
timely and important information to decision makers in the aftermath of the 1998 Hurricane Mitch, the
2001 earthquake and the 2002 drought. Finally, the macroeconomic stability that El Salvador has enjoyed
during the last fifteen years has created a favorable environment for Project implementation.

The single land agency model is the preferred option for land administration projects. This model
significantly improves the efficiency of registration and the maintenance of updated information, thereby
increasing tenure security and, as a result, public support. It greatly contributes to the financial
sustainability and profitability of land administration services. Further, the integration of the cadastre,
property, intellectual and commercial registries contributes to an improved investment climate in the
country. Finally, it improves project implementation. Experience in other countries in the region and
worldwide show that delays and bottlenecks, due to rivalries and conflicting interests, are inevitable when a
number of competing land agencies are simultaneously responsible for the implementation of land
administration projects. LAP I, through the consolidation of CNR, has established a best practice example
of land regularization and administration. Several countries in and outside the region, including for example
Honduras, are now following the single agency model.

Land records management through an integrated cadastre-registry system has enormous potential for
supporting a growing and dynamic land market and an effective and local revenue collection system.
However, tenure security through regularization alone does not spur land investments and facilitate land
access. Synergies and sequencing with other sectors (e.g., judicial, rural finance, decentralization) need to
be supported and maintained.

Broad and active involvement and participation of major stakeholders is key for project success. In
particular, active communication toward and participation by civil society are important to ensure the
quality of regularization work. Local governments also play a very significant role in land administration
reform and the delivery of services to the community.



                                                     - 15 -

A pragmatic and incremental approach to legal reforms is often the best approach. The Project
envisaged support for key legal reforms, some of which turned out to be too ambitious, such as legislative
changes to make registration by notaries compulsory and universal. In other cases, the use of a law (rather
than an executive decree) to introduce necessary changes for the sustainability of the new system has
proved not to be the most adequate tool. It became clear that, given the sensitivity of land administration
reforms, flexibility and incremental learning and experimentation was more effective to consolidate gains
and move forward.

Automation and internet access to land records provides a more efficient service and improved access
to data and information. Despite the complexity of the system and the initial major efforts in terms of
costs and time to establish it and train users, automation has proved to be more efficient and effective than
a manual system.

Pro-actively involving the private sector through competitive contracting, as was done through the
Project with the surveying industry, can generate substantial efficiency gains and cost savings. In fact, use
of the private sector and NGOs for land regularization instead of force account for field work has proven to
be significantly more effective and efficient.

Strong institutional reforms and clarification of responsibilities are key for successful project
implementation. Although there was some resistance and inertia to change, especially with regard to the
establishment and use of an innovative automated system, these were overcome through the provision of
targeted training and capacity building activities.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
As described in the ICR, the project's results have been satisfactory. Part of this is due to the diligent
performance of Bank staff and specialists because throughout project execution they carried out ongoing
monitoring by means of periodic supervision missions and provided advice on individual issues when
needed.

One of the most noteworthy aspects has been the experience gained and the learning achieved in Latin
America through the execution of such complex projects as those of Land Administration, both by the
Executing Agency and the Bank, as well as by the firms that executed the contracts, especially those related
to collecting land data (registration/cadastre).

Another important aspect to be considered, among the long-term policies for State modernization, has been
the full support provided to the Executing Agency by the Government throughout project execution. This
had a positive influence on project sustainability and on transparency in operational decision making.
Likewise, it is important to note that the macroeconomic stability El Salvador has maintained over the past
15 years ensured a favorable climate for project execution.

(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information



                                                    - 16 -

- 17 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix


       Indicator/Matrix                 Target (SAR)                  Actual/Latest Estimate
1. Reduction of transaction costsNot quantified                A 133% decrease (from $28 to $12)
(%)
2. Land registration regularized 1.6 million (excludes         1 million (or about 66% of target), plus
(parcels of land)                Sonsonate)                    0.1 million in Sonsonate
3. Revenue generation (US$ M) 12.2 million (1996-2003)         24 million (1996-2003)
4. Increased land value (US$ M)Not quantified                  Price of properties with secure tenure
                                                               (registered) is 17% higher than those
                                                               not registered
5. Improved access to credit      Not quantified               Sonsonate (w/ project):
(Number of owners using land                                   - Urban 7.6%
as collateral - % of total)                                    - Rural 4.1%
                                                               Usulutan (w/out project)
                                                               - Urban 4.9%
                                                               - Rural 4.9
6. More efficient land            Not quantified               From on average 38 days to 16 days (or
registration services                                          reduction of about 250%)
(days/transaction)
7. Investments in land            Not quantified               Sonsonate (w/ project):
improvement (% of total                                        - 51.2%
owners)                                                        Usulutan (w/out project)
                                                               - 36.7%



Activity                                   Unit of          Target          Actual      Actual/plann
                                       measurement          (SAR)                          ed (%)
Component 1. Institutional
Strengthening and Decentralization
1. Institutional Strengthening                            Completed       Completed          100
- Establishment of the integrated
cadastre-registry system (SIRyC)
2. Training of staff and service           # Events       Not quantified       350
providers                                  # People                           2,094
3. Decentralization:
- Establishment of regional offices;       # Offices           4               11            275
- Regional offices connected            # Connections          4               10            250
- Municipal offices connected           # Connections          52               0              0
- Support to Municipal offices          # Cooperation         N/A              17
                                          agreements
- Training of municipal users              # People       Not quantified       327
- Training of private users                # People       Not quantified      1,087
Component 2. Land-data
acquisition
Mapping:                                      Km²             400             590.1          147



                                                   - 18 -

- Aerial photography in urban areas     Km²            19,383         8,116      42
- Aerial photography in rural areas
Land records regularization:
- Communication campaign              # Events
·       Radio spots                   # Events       Not quantified  78,504      36
·       Press articles                # Events       Not quantified    150       36
·       Field announcements                          Not quantified  23,730
- Field verification                    Km²
·       Total area                  # Municipalities   19,383         6,909      66
·       Municipalities                # Parcels          246           88
·       Parcels in urban areas        # Parcels      Not quantified 700,000
·       Parcels in rural areas        # Parcels      Not quantified 300,000

·       Total parcels                                 1,600,000     1,000,000

- Training                            # People

·                                     # People       Not quantified    346
        Field notaries
·                                                    Not quantified    285
        Field brigades
Alternate dispute resolution                         Not quantified    Not
mechanisms                                                          quantified




                                             - 19 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                            Appraisal        Actual     Percentage of
                                                            Estimate       Expenditures  Appraisal
                     Component                             US$ million      US$ million
1. Institutional Strengthening and Decentralization            10.6           16.7        -57.5%
a) Institutional Strengthening                                  6.1           12.4        -103.3%
b) Decentralization                                             4.5            4.3          4%
2. Land-data acquisition                                       48.7           41.3         15.2%
a) Mapping                                                     15.1           12.4         17.9%
b) Land records regularization                                 33.5           28.9         13.7%
c) Alternate dispute resolution mechanisms                     0.1             0.0         100%
3. Project Administration                                      8.7             9.4         -8.0%


Project Preparation Facility (PPF)                             2.0             2.1         -5/0%


                        Total Financing Required               70             69.5        0.7%


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                     Procurement Method1
    Expenditure Category               ICB               NCB          Other²      N.B.F.   Total Cost

1. Works                                14.0              1.5          5.0         0.00   20.
                                                                                           5
                                       (11.2)            (1.2)        (4.2)       (0.00)  (16
                                                                                          .2)
2. Goods                                2.8               0.3          2.6         0.00   5.7
                                       (2.8)             (0.3)        (2.5)       (0.00)  (5.
                                                                                          6)
3. TA (consultants and                  0.00              0.00         31.1        0.00       31.1
studies)
                                       (0.00)            (0.00)       (20.7)      (0.00)     (20.7)
4. Training                             0.00                           1.6         0.00       1.6
                                       (0.00)            (0.00)       (1.5)       (0.00)  (1.
                                                                                          5)
5. Miscellaneous (salaries              0.00                           9.0         0.00   9.0
and operating costs)                   (0.00)            (0.00)        (4)        (0.00)  (4)


6. PPF                                                    0.1          2.0                2.1
                                                         (0.1)        (1.9)               (2.
                                                                                          0)
               Total                    16.8              1.9          51.8        0.00   70.


                                                   - 20 -

                                                                                  0
                                      (14.0)           (1.2)     (34.8)   (0.00) (50
                                                                                 .0)
Note: Row and columns may not add due to rounding


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million
equivalent)
                                                   Procurement Method1
   Expenditure Category                ICB             NCB      Other²    N.B.F.  Total Cost

1. Works                               28.2             0.0       2.5            30.
                                      (22.5)                     (1.2)            7
                                                                                 (23
                                                                                 .7)


2. Goods                                2.3             0.3       5.1            7.7
                                       (2.0)           (0.2)     (3.8)           (6.
                                                                                  0)


3. TA (consultants and                                            18.1               18.1
studies)                                                         (11.2)             (11.2)


4. Training                                                       1.2                1.2
                                                                 (1.2)              (1.2)


5. Miscellaneous (salaries                                                 9.7   9.7
and operating costs)                                                      (5.7)  (5.
                                                                                  7)


6. PPF                                                            2.1            2.1
                                                                 (2.1)           (2,
                                                                                  1)


            Total                      30.5             0.3       38.7           69.
                                      (24.5)           (0.2)     (25.2)           5
                                                                                 (49
                                                                                 .9)




                                                 - 21 -

Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)

                                                                ACTUAL/LATEST
          COMPONENT              APPRAISAL ESTIMATE*               ESTIMATE       PERCENTAGE OF APPRAISAL


                                    Bank           Govt.       Bank      Govt.     Bank          Govt.
1. Institutional Strengthening       N/A           N/A                              N/A           N/A
and Decentralization                                            12.1      4.6

a) Institutional Strengthening                                  9.1       3.3
b) Decentralization                                             3.0       1.3


2. Land-data acquisition              N/A          N/A          29.8      11.5      N/A           N/A

a) Mapping                                                      9.4       3.0
b) Land records regularization                                  20.4      8.5

c) Alternate dispute resolution                                 0.0       0.0

mechanisms
3. Project Administration            N/A           N/A          5,9       3.5       N/A           N/A

Project Preparation Facility
(PPF)                                N/A           N/A          2.1       0.0
             TOTAL                    50            20          49.9      19.6     99.8%         98.0%




* The SAR did not include an estimate of financing by component.




                                                     - 22 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Economic and Financial Analysis - El Salvador: Land Administration II



                               Summary of Economic Benefits and Costs
                     Flow                          Net Present Value of Flows
                     Expected Benefits               US$ 70.7 million

                     Expected Costs                   US$ 38.4 million

                     Net Benefits                    US$ 32.3 million

                     IRR                                    21%



I. Economic Costs

The costs used in the economic analysis are those costs which bear directly on land regularization and the
functioning of the land registration system. These costs include land regularization activities,
decentralization of land administration services, project administration, and operating costs after the
completion of the investment phase. As shown in Annex 5 on Project Costs, the costs with contigencies
total US$ 55.8 million, of which US$ 39.4 million are for land regularization, US$ 8.7 million for the
decentralization of land administration services, and US$ 4.3 million for project management. These costs
are treated as a flow over the six years of the project. Operating costs after the investment-phase are
expected not to exceed US$ 200,000 per year and they are accrued over the next 14 years. Using a discount
rate of 12%, these costs have a net present value of US$ 38.4 million.

II. Economic Benefits
Benefits are estimated in four dimensions: a) impact on property value; b) impact on banking system; c)
streamlining of registration process and d) environmental benefits. This annex discusses each of these types
of benefits. For evaluating the cost-benefit ratio of the project only direct benefits, financial benefits, and
streamlining of registration process are used. Accruing benefits over a 20 year period and using a discount
rate of 12%, these benefits have a net present value of US$ 70.7 million.

Impact of the Regularization Process on Property Values

Increased property value due to regularization is a summary indicator of the capitalized value of three
major   types of benefits associated with land regularization: improved investment and environmental
conservation incentives, marketability, and ability to use the land as collateral for loans. Estimating the
magnitudes of these expected increases is a complex problem for a national program. Property values are
influenced by a wide range of factors--location, access to public services, size, value of construction, use
of the property--each of which interacts with tenure status. Controlling for these factors, the difference in
value between similar regularized and unregularized properties is a good indicator of the economic benefit
of regularization. The additional value increment associated with regularization of tenure is estimated,
based on empirical examination of properties which have been regularized under LAP I.

The premium for land regularization can be interpreted from estimating a basic linear regression model of


                                                    - 23 -

property value (P=f(x)+e where x is a set of explanatory variables). The hypothesis investigated is that the
degree of land tenure security has a positive, significant impact on the property value at the time of
purchase/sale. One of the explanatory variables is an indicator of regularized land tenure. Other two
explanatory variables are included as control variables. These variables are one compound indicator for
education and one explanatory indicator for rural areas. The analysis was based on data available in SIRyC
and on municipal poverty indicators available through the website of the Social Investment and Local
Development Fund (FISDL). The sample size is 41 observations. The reduced form property value function
is estimated at the following linear equation:

              Value of Property = B0 + B1(Regularization) + B2(Education) + B3(Rural) + e

The results of the model are as follow:

                            Constant            Regularization            Education                 Rural
Coefficient                   41.54                   6.98                   -0.59                  -0.30
Standard Error                  2.81                  0.78                   -1.66                  -4.81
N=41, R2=.40,
and adjusted
R2=.35

The model predicts an additional property value at the time of sale/purchase attributable to regulation of
17%. These percentage is calculated by dividing the coefficient for the regularization variable by the
coefficient for the constant. This increase in property value is calculated for the average property prices in
the new departments and it is multiplied by the number of properties to be regularized under LAP II. The
total increment in property value is of approximately US$161.4 million. If we assume that 3.3% of these
properties are sold annually, then the resulting annual financial benefit is approximately US$ 5.4 million.
The projection assumes that the total benefit is distributed evenly over a 20-year period, beginning the
second year of the Project.


    Department           Average Price of     Value Added from        Estimated Number        Total Benefit from
                         Properties Sold        Regularization        of Properties to be      Regularization
                             Between                                  Regularized under
                           2000-2004                                        LAP II*
Morazán                                4,161                   707                   9,386            6,639,099
La Unión                               5,192                   883                 16,971            14,978,214
San Miguel                             12,623                2,146                 32,076            68,831,555
San Vicente                            4,341                   738                 10,340             7,630,833
Cabaña                                 6,479                 1,101                   8,837            9,733,077
Usulután                               9,734                 1,655                 20,014            33,120,221
Chalatenango                           4,561                   775                 11,650             9,032,255
Cuscatlán                              5,106                   868                 13,224            11,478,077
Total                                                                             122,498           161,443,330

* This number is calculated as the estimate number of parcels x 30% (the estimated percentage of non-concordant
parcels) x 70% (the estimated percentage of non-concordant parcels that will be regularized under LAP II).




                                                      - 24 -

Impact on the Banking System

When a financial institution approves a loan, the corresponding amount is reserved until the mortgage is
recorded in RPRH. During that period, the financial institution incurs an opportunity expense in unrealized
investments. According to RPRH, the average time to record a document is five weeks. In Phase II of the
project, the period is expected to be reduced to seven working days: a savings of about 30 days.

In 2003, the total value of mortgages issued nationwide was $1.5 billion. The annual average passive
interest rate in 2003 was 3.24%, resulting in an annual financial opportunity cost of $4.1 million ($1.5
billion x 3.24% x (30/365)).

Streamlining of Registration Process

The project will have a positive impact on response time and on the number of visits that CNR clients must
make to follow up on the registry process. The experience in the Sonsonate Registry during Phase I of the
Land Administration Project is indicative of the impact that can be expected as a result of Phase II.

According to RPRH, from 1996-2000 the average response time per document in the Sonsonate Registry
was one month if the document did not modify property lines and two months if it did (because in such case
the cadastre intervened). The average response time before the project to register documents was five
weeks. Currently, response time is eight working days.

Prior to the modernization process, the average number of visits that Registry clients made until they were
given the registered document was 3 to 4 (3.5 on average). Experience in the departments of Santa Ana and
Ahuachapán indicates that one of the consequences of a reduction in response time is a reduction in the
number of follow-up visits that clients have to make. According to RPRH, in the department of Sonsonate
the number of visits required for each registration has been reduced to 1 or 2 (1.5 on average).

Supposing that each visit requires an average of two hours, and assigning an economic value of $4.0 per
hour, the annual savings would be 1.5 visits × 2 hours × the annual number of submissions to RPRH.
Excluding the departments that were terminated during Phase I of the project (Sonsonate, Ahuachapán, and
Santa Ana), RPRH's average annual demand from 1998­2004 is around 263,400 submissions. Supposing
that this average level of demands is maintained over the coming years, this implies an average annual
economic saving of around $3.2 million (263,400 ×1.5 × 2).

One of the project's activities will be to transfer registration to SIRyC and to make an alpha-geo link, so
that parcels surveyed in Year t of the project until Year t+1 should be transferred to SIRyC and linked. In
the benefits projection it is assumed that the impact will be perceived starting in Year t+2. Thus, it is
assumed that the annual average benefit of $3.2 million will be perceived beginning in the sixth year of the
project. To generate the projection of the flow of benefits corresponding to clients' savings in terms of time
and expenses during Years 1 to 5, the cumulative percentage of progress was applied, assuming a two-year
gap between execution and the generation of benefits.

III. Net Present Value of Net Economic Benefits and Internal Rate of Return

The NPV of net economic benefits is calculated taking into consideration direct benefits from land price
increase as well as benefits from the impacts on the banking sector, and streamlining of services. The
discount rate used for the analysis if 12%. The total of economic benefits is US$ 70.8 million and direct
costs from the project is US$ 38.4 million. The NPV of net economic benefits is US$ 32.4 million and the


                                                     - 25 -

project's internal rate of economic returns is 21%.

Economic Benefits and Costs (US$ Thousands)

                    2005         2006          2007         2008         2009         2010          2011-
                                                                                                    2024
 1. Benefits        -            5,381         7,236        9,438        11,355       12,673        12,673

 1.1 Increase in    -            5,381         5,381        5,381        5,381        5,381         5,381
 property price
 1.2 Impact on      -            -             1,033        2,066        3,098        4,131         4,131
 financial
 system
 1.3                -            -             822          1,991        2,876        3,161         3,161
 Streamlining
 of registration
 process
 2. Direct costs    3,608        14,323        15,272       12,536       6,365        1,345         200
 of Project and
 Operating
 Costs
 3. Net             -3,608       -8,942        -8,036       -3,098       4,990        11,328        12,473
 Benefits


Environmental Impact of Regularization Process

The project is expected to have two positive environmental impacts due to an improvement in legal security
over land: (i) through the introduction of soil conservation measures in agricultural lands; and (ii) through
the reduction of natural resource degradation in protected areas demarcated by the project. With regard to
agricultural lands, legal security over land is expected to bring about a change in the producer's timeline,
causing him to adopt a long-term strategy with regard to the productivity of his parcel and creating the
basis to achieve greater acceptance of the adoption of conservation-oriented practices and investments in
soil conservation works. Through such practices and works, especially in areas of erosion, an increase is
expected in soil productivity as well as a reduction in the required amount of agrochemical products.
Consequently, higher yields, reduced production costs, and a reduction in or elimination of the soil erosion
rate are expected.With regard to protected areas, delimitation and marking activities are expected to
contribute to production in these areas.

III. Financial Analysis

A cash flow analysis of the CNR was carried out for the 1996­2015 period to determine the agency's
capacity to continue financing the modernization process and assume a new project loan. A baseline
scenario was developed and a sensitivity analysis was made to calculate the CNR's likely surplus. The
results are shown below in Figure 1.




                                                    - 26 -

Figure 1: Probable Surplus of the CNR



                    10.0

                     8.0

                     6.0

         millones
                     4.0
                 US$
                     2.0

                     -
                         2005   2006     2007      2008     2009     2010     2011     2012   2013     2014  2015




The scenario is a Bank loan of US$ 40.2 million and a counterpart contribution of US$ 15.6 million for the
execution of a 6-year project, with a 6-year grace period and a repayment period of 15 years. The analysis
shows that the CNR is capable of financing the loan and the counterpart contribution. Before the repayment
period of LAP II, which begins at the end of 2011, a surplus between US$ 4 and US$ 5 million are
expected every year. No surplus and likely a very limited deficit is projected for years 2012 and 2013
respectively, because this is the time when the repayment periods of LAP I and LAP II overlap. To solve
possible short-term liquidity problems during the deficit years, it is recommended to use the surpluses of
previous years. After 2013, and during the repayment period of LAP II until 2020, an average surplus
between US$3 and US$5 million is expected. After that the surplus will increase significantly up to US$ 10
million, causing a very positive fiscal impact for the government.

IV. Fiscal Analysis

One of the spheres of the project's impact is at municipal level, where cadastre information is expected to
have a positive impact on the capacity to collect fees for municipal services and taxes.

To estimate the project's impact on fee collection, an analysis is made of the incremental incomes of a
small, selected sampling of municipalities that are using cadastre data to identify those residential and
commercial properties which receive municipal services. Based on the data collected, the average per capita
incremental collection is calculated, dividing the average incremental amount of fees and taxes by the
average urban population. The estimated average per capita incremental collection is US$ 8.27.




                                                     - 27 -

                     Total Population          % Urban          Urban Population       Incremental
                                                                                     Annual Fees and
                                                                                          Taxes
Cuscatancingo                 130,000                    51%                66,300             491,279
San Antonio del                17,750                    41%                 7,278             136,800
Monte
Ahuachapan                     85,460                    31%                26,493             200,000
Average                                                                     33,357             276,026

To calculate the impact at national level, the average per capita incremental collection is multiplied by the
relative urban population in the rest of the country. It is estimated that the government will receive US$ 15
million each year from the collection of fees and taxes. US$ 4.6 million alone will come from San Salvador.




                                                     - 28 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              05/09/1994                3    TASK MANAGER (1);
                                             CONSULTANT (2)
              10/11/1994                6    TASK MANAGER (1); RURAL
                                             SPECIALIST (1); SOCIAL
                                             SPECIALIST (1); LAND
                                             SPECIALIST (1); AGRARIAN
                                             REFORM SPECIALIST (1);
                                             LEGAL CONSULTANT (1)
              02/22/1995                4    TASK MANAGER (1);
                                             FINANCIAL ANALYST (1);
                                             CONSULTANT (2)
              03/051995                 5    TASK MANAGER (1);
                                             CONSULTANT (3); FM
                                             SPECIALIST (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              06/29/1995                5    TASK MANAGER (1);
                                             CONSULTANT (3); FM
                                             SPECIALIST (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT
                                             SPECIALIST (1)
              01/16/1996                8    GOV. REP. (5); UNDP
                                             PROCUREMENT EXPERT (1);
                                             TASK MANAGER (1);
                                             LAWYER (1)

 Supervision

              06/06/1996                2    TASK MANAGER (1);                S               S
                                             AGRICULTURAL
                                             ECONOMIST (1)
                                             CONSULTANT (1)
              02/13/1997                2    TASK MANAGER (1);                S               S
                                             PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (1)
              05/17/1997                4    CONSULTANT (2);                  S              HS
                                             AGRICULTURAL
                                             ECONOMIST (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT ASSISTANT
                                             (1)
              10/03/1997                2    AGRICULTURAL                     S              HS
                                             ECONOMIST (1); URB. &
                                             REGIONAL ECON. (1)
              05/08/1998                4    AGRICULTURAL                     S               S
                                             ECONOMIST (1); URB. &
                                             REGIONAL ECON. (1); LAND



                                              - 29 -

                                           INFORMATION SPEC. (1);
                                           PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                           (1)
               12/11/1998              2   LAND INFORMATION SPEC.             S    S
                                           (1); TECHNICAL SPECIALIST
                                           (1)
               05/07/1999              3   TEAM LEADER (1); LAND              S    S
                                           INFO. SPECIALIST (1);
                                           CONSULTANT (1)
               02/19/2000              1   LAND SPECIALIST (1)                S    S
               06/30/2000              4   PROCURMENT SPECIALIST              S    S
                                           (1); SOCIAL/INSTITUTIONAL
                                           (1); TASK MANAGER (1);
                                           FINANCIAL CONSULTANT
                                           (1)
               12/02/2000              1   TASK MANAGER (1)                   S    S
               04/07/2001              3   TASK MANAGER (1);                  S    S
                                           SECTOR LEADER (1); SENIOR
                                           ECONOMIST (1)
               10/22/2001              1   TASK MANAGER (1)                   S    S
               03/18/2002              3   TEAM LEADER (1); ITC               S    S
                                           SPECIALIST (1);
                                           PROCUREMENT ANALYST
                                           (1)
               11/09/2002              2   TM/ LAND ADMIN. SPECI.             S    S
                                           (1); YP/ LEGAL/INST. SPECIA
                                           (1)
               03/28/2003              3   TTL (1); CONSULTANT/ENV            S    S
                                           ESP. (1);
                                           CONSULTANT/FINANCE
                                           M&E (1)
               10/03/2003              1   SR LAND ADM SPECIALIST             S    S
                                           (1)
               06/29/2004              5   TASK MANAGER (1), ENV              S    S
                                           SPEC. (1), FM SPEC. (1);
                                           OPERATIONS ANALYST (1);
                                           TEAM ASSISTANT (1)
               07/13/2005              2   TASK MANAGER (1), ENV              S    S
                                           SPEC. (1)

 ICR
               04/11/2005             1     OPERATIONS                        S    S
                                            SPECIALIST (1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation           109.8                           338
  Appraisal/Negotiation                 15.3                            47
  Supervision                        161.83                            473



                                            - 30 -

ICR           6          18
Total    292.93         876




              - 31 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 32 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 33 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


1.Borrower's ICR: Informe Final de Implementacion - Proyecto de Administration de Tierras (LAP)
2. LAP-SAR: Staff Appraisal Report - Land Administration Project, January 31, 1996
3. LAP II-PAD: Project Appraisal Document - Land Administration Project II, February 15, 2005
4. GEF-PAD: Project Appraisal Document - Protected Areas Consolidation and Administration Project
(PACAP), October 27, 2005
5. Loan Agreement, December 11, 1996
6. Supervision Mission Aide Memoires and PSRs
7. LAP I Analisis Financiero
8. LAP II Analisis Economico y Financiero
9. PACAP Analisis Economico y Financiero
10. Carcach, C. 2005. Study of Land Markets in El Salvador: Impact evaluation of the first phase of the
Land Administration Project.
11. Reaching the Rural Poor in the Latin America and Caribbean Region. The World Bank. 2002.
12. Land Policy for Growth and Poverty Reduction. Policy Research Report. The World Bank. 2003.
13. Perfil de los Pueblos Indigenas de El Salvador. Comite Tecnico Multisectorial para los Pueblos
Indigenas de El Salvador. 2003.




                                                   - 34 -

Additional Annex 8. Informe Final de Implementacion - Proyecto de Administration de
Tierras

Antecedentes Históricos
1.1.   Situación de la Regularización de Tierras
   Antes de emprenderse en El Salvador la modernización del registro inmobiliario, y del catastro
   que le sirve de apoyo, el registro de la propiedad inmobiliaria se basaba en los principios del
   Código Napoleónico Civil del siglo XIX, el cual prevalece en la mayoría de los países de
   América Hispánica. Sobre este principio, la inscripción se basa en el Folio Personal por
   medio del cual el registro de los documentos que legitiman la propiedad es razón de su
   propietario y no en razón de la parcela (Folio Real). Este último permite identificar de
   manera inequívoca bajo un número de registro el inmueble y en base al cual se inscribirán los
   subsiguientes cambios, transacciones y anotaciones que se realicen sobre el mismo.

   El registro de la propiedad inmobiliaria fue establecido en El Salvador en 1881 mediante la
   promulgación de la Ley Hipotecaria; posteriormente fue regulado por el Código Civil en
   1904, en el cual se estableció la institución del Registro de la Propiedad Raíz e Hipotecas
   (RPRH); este registro recogió el principio del Folio Personal el cual estaba basado en la
   tecnología de papel (Libros). Bajo este sistema, que se empleó por más de un siglo, el manejo
   de los asientos de registro en Libros generaba inseguridad jurídica ya que la información por
   ser de acceso o consulta pública lo hacía vulnerable a alteraciones, sustracciones, deterioro o
   pérdida de la información registral y era burocrático y causaba muchas demoras. Además,
   bajo el sistema de Libros no era posible conocer el inventario de propiedades registradas en
   cada una de las Oficinas de Registro ni mucho menos una consolidación de la información a
   nivel nacional.

   El RPRH se caracterizaba por mantener una estructura institucional obsoleta y rígida, con
   bajo perfil técnico y administrativo, con sistemas, métodos de trabajo y procedimientos
   arcaicos, respaldados por una legislación anacrónica, recursos humanos no capacitados
   adecuadamente para la función de registro, y relativamente poco permeables y preparados
   para aceptar y asimilar sistemas modernos y el empleo de nuevas tecnologías. Todo contribuía
   a generar una inseguridad jurídica en la tenencia de la tierra en el país. Además, la totalidad de
   las Oficinas de Registro mantenían una mora en el registro de documentos de muchos meses,
   y en el caso de documentos problemáticos la demora llegaba a ser de varios años.

   Como una forma de encarar los problemas de registro, en 1986 se promulgó la Ley de
   Reestructuración del RPRH, mediante la cual se estableció que la inscripción de inmuebles, y
   sus registros conexos, se llevaría a cabo a nivel nacional bajo el sistema de Folio Real y para
   lo cual se le dio al RPRH un plazo de 6 años para su implantación en forma gradual; este
   sistema, cuya tecnología también era de papel, solamente se aplicó parcialmente en la Oficina
   de Registros de San Salvador ya que la función de registro se continuó haciendo
   paralelamente bajo el viejo sistema Folio Personal en Libros; el hecho que en esta oficina no se
   haya logrado sustituir totalmente este sistema, se debió en gran parte a las debilidades
   institucionales, tecnológicas y de procedimientos del RPRH.




                                               - 35 -

1.2.   Arreglos Institucionales
   Ante esa situación crítica del registro tradicional y dada la necesidad urgente de atender a los
   sectores sociales de más bajos ingresos que se encontraban el margen de la legalidad en
   cuanto a la tenencia de la tierra, especialmente lotificaciones urbanas y rurales ilegales,
   tugurios y zonas marginales, el Gobierno creó por Ley el Registro Social de Inmuebles (RSI)
   el 12 de Abril de 1991, como una unidad especial del RPRH con el fin de registrar títulos de
   esos asentamientos ilegales en tierras estatales, municipales y privadas. El RSI inició sus
   operaciones en Agosto de 1992 empleando por primera vez en el país un sistema Folio Real
   automatizado. En 1994 se expandió para las tierras distribuidas bajo los Acuerdos de Paz y
   para las transacciones que implicaban cambios de linderos, como por ejemplo programas de
   vivienda. También en ese mismo año se le amplío su competencia para el registro, a nivel
   nacional, de todos inmuebles que sufrieran modificaciones en sus linderos. Esta decisión se
   tomo con la finalidad de no continuar alimentando al sistema tradicional y como una etapa de
   transición hacia la modernización del sistema de registro.

   Desde que inició sus operaciones en Agosto de 1992 hasta Enero de 1994 (18 meses), el RSI
   había efectuado 40,544 inscripciones. Es importante señalar que estas operaciones registrales
   constituyeron una demanda, que de no haber sido atendida por el RSI, debería ser atendida
   por las 10 oficinas del registro tradicional (RPRH), lo cual habría presionado la ya limitada
   capacidad de servicios de esas oficinas, y por lo tanto el atraso de documentos sin inscribir se
   habría incrementado aún más. Solo considerando el año 1993, la demanda de proyectos de
   vivienda generó aproximadamente 32,000 inscripciones, las cuales fueron atendidas
   eficientemente por el RSI. La utilización de técnicas modernas y de procesamiento electrónico
   de datos, ofreció agilidad, confiabilidad y eficiencia en el trámite de los registros. Después de
   casi cuatro años de operación, el número de inscripciones del RSI llegó a alcanzar el 40% del
   total del país, con solamente un tercio del personal con respecto al registro tradicional y en tan
   solos 3 oficinas regionales, lo que significó un avance.22 Fuente: Investigación del Programa de
   Naciones Unidas para el Desarrollo (PNUD)


1.3.   Problemas y Dificultades
   No obstante el avance alcanzado, persistía muy poca relación funcional entre el catastro y el
   registro. Los registros de tierras eran realizados por el Registro de la Propiedad Raíz e
   Hipotecas (RPRH) y el Registro Social de Inmuebles (RSI), los cuales dependían del
   Ministerio de Justicia, y los servicios catastrales eran realizados por el Instituto Geográfico
   Nacional (IGN), el cual dependía del Ministerio de Obras Públicas. El arreglo institucional
   entre RPRH y el IGN para suministrar y verificar la información no funcionaba; esta
   insuficiencia institucional y legal a también llegó a ser un factor crítico en el tráfico de
   inmuebles.

   En conclusión, el sistema tradicional de registro, basado en la tecnología de papel, estaba a
   punto de colapsar al no poder atender una creciente demanda de servicios de registro, no
   obstante de algunas acciones emprendidas para mejorar el sistema, como es el caso de la
   creación y funcionamiento del RSI, mas sin embargo este fue nada más que un paliativo; por
   otra parte, el catastro, que sirve de apoyo a la seguridad jurídica del registro, había alcanzado
   un nivel de des­actualización severa, así como un substancial rezago en el área tecnológica.



                                                - 36 -

   Esta situación no era más que el reflejo de la baja asignación de recursos presupuestarios que
   le eran proporcionados a estas instituciones, muy a pesar de que intervenían en funciones
   claves para el funcionamiento de la economía nacional, además de subsistir la inseguridad
   jurídica en la tenencia de la tierra al continuar empleándose métodos de manejo y resguardo
   de la información registral anticuados y sumamente vulnerables a manipulaciones. Todo ello
   afectaba seriamente el mercado de tierras y           la inversión, y por lo tanto un obstáculo
   importante al desarrollo económico del país.

1.4.   Cobertura de los Servicios y Metodología en la Provisión de los Servicios
   La respuesta a la demanda de los usuarios no era satisfactoria, llegando a alcanzar niveles
   sumamente críticos; durante 1993 fueron presentados para registro, a nivel nacional, 138,900
   documentos, de los cuales solamente 101,400 fueron inscritos; la diferencia (37,500)
   representó el 27% del total de presentaciones, lo cual fue equivalente a más de 3 meses de
   atraso en ese año. Desde el punto de vista de atención a zonas geográficas, las Oficinas de
   Registro de la Zona Occidental acusaron atrasos del 40%; las de la Zona Oriental del 31%, y
   las de la Zona Central del 20%. Las oficinas con mayores atrasos fueron las de San Salvador
   (40%), Santa Ana (52%), Ahuachapán (48%), y San Miguel (49%).11 Fuente: Investigación del
   Programa de Naciones Unidas para el Desarrollo (PNUD)


   Además, el catastro, que sirve de apoyo a la seguridad jurídica del registro, había alcanzado
   un nivel de desactualización severa (de 6 a 10 años), añadido a que solo contaba con
   información catastral de aproximadamente del 80% territorio nacional (sin catastro unos
   4,000 Km² de la franja norte del país); esto debido básicamente a: (1) Dificultades propias de
   la institución (Instituto Geográfico Nacional, IGN), tales como no contar con el suficiente
   recurso humano capacitado, por la obsolescencia casi total de su           equipo esencial, y la
   ausencia de nuevas tecnologías (el 90% de su presupuesto era gastado en salarios); y (2) al
   conflicto bélico que durante 12 años afectaron al país1.

1.5.   Justificación para el Proyecto
   En vista que el problema había alcanzado niveles críticos, es a partir de Enero de 1994 que el
   Gobierno emprendió las primeras acciones a fin de ejecutar un proyecto nacional de
   modernización del registro inmobiliario y del catastro, haciendo en esa oportunidad el
   siguiente planteamiento sobre el problema: Dentro del contexto de la modernización del
   Estado y en lo que se refiere a aquellos servicios que por su propia naturaleza no pueden ser
   delegados a agentes privados, se encuentra el servicio de registro de la propiedad
   inmobiliaria . Una de las mayores preocupaciones del Gobierno es la poca confiabilidad,
   falta de agilidad y una creciente desactualización de los servicios públicos relacionados con
   el registro de inmuebles, y las actividades catastrales que le sirven de apoyo, lo que da como
   resultado una inseguridad jurídica en la tenencia de la tierra y a una prestación de servicios
   deficiente.

   El dar una respuesta adecuada al problema planteado, éste se enmarcó dentro los lineamientos
   que el Gobierno (1989-1994), con respecto a la modernización del Estado, había trazado, los
   cuales resumidamente eran los siguientes: Las políticas publicas modernas tendientes a
   consolidar la paz y la democracia, mantener la estabilidad económica y desarrollar un



                                                   - 37 -

crecimiento sostenido, a potenciar la reconversión de los sectores productivos e incrementar
la inversión social y el acceso de la población de menores ingresos a oportunidades de
desarrollo económico y social, no pueden ser implementadas a una administración débil,
burocrática y sin capacidad para hacer cumplir sus propias regulaciones. Por otra parte, las
nuevas políticas económicas y sociales no son compatibles con los tradicionales sistemas,
instituciones y formas de prestación de servicios. .....

..... El esfuerzo para reformar el Estado se concentrará e 4 grandes áreas de acción, que
respondan a necesidades específicas: 1) mejorar la gestión de las políticas públicas,
readecuando y reestructurando las instituciones de acuerdo al campo de especificación de
sus funciones o de acuerdo a su nueva misión encomendada; 2) la continuidad del proceso
de privatización de aquellas empresas o activos estatales ubicados en actividades que los
agentes privados pueden desempeñar más eficientemente; 3) la descentralización
administrativa, trasladando competencias, recursos y capacidad de decisión desde el
gobierno central hacia niveles descentralizados territorialmente, para la ejecución de
programas y proyectos de beneficio público; y 4) desarrollar un nuevo, moderno y flexible
marco regulador, cuya finalidad última será el propiciar un ágil funcionamiento del sistema
económico en su totalidad.33 Plan de Gobierno de la República de El Salvador 1994-1999.

El 30 de Septiembre de 1,993, el Gobierno de El Salvador firmó con el Banco Mundial el
Convenio de Préstamo N° 3576-ES, por US$ 40 millones, con el objetivo de impulsar un
proyecto de modernización agrícola denominado "Programa de Reforma e Inversión Sectorial
Agropecuaria" (PRISA). El 24 de Noviembre de 1,993, mediante el Decreto N° 718, la
Asamblea Legislativa aprobó dicho convenio. Una vez de aprobado el préstamo, el Ministerio
de Agricultura y Ganadería (MAG) tuvo               problemas para la ejecución de algunos
componentes del programa, por lo que no iba a utilizar una parte de los recursos del
préstamo. En vista de lo anterior, el Banco Mundial comenzó a buscar un uso alternativo de
esos recursos en otro programa que de alguna manera estuviese relacionado con el Sector
Agrícola.
En ese mismo tiempo, el Vice-Ministerio de Vivienda Desarrollo Urbano (VMVDU)44 A
través del Programa Nacional de Vivienda Popular (PRONAVIPO) y el Instituto Libertad y Progreso
(ILP), dependencia de la Presidencia de la República, estaban promoviendo un proyecto de
modernización del registro inmobiliario de El Salvador, tomando como punto de referencia los
resultados positivos logrados por el Registro Social de Inmuebles (RSI); aprovechando esa
coyuntura, lo sometieron a consideración del Banco Mundial, en Abril de 1,994, como un
proyecto piloto, lo que condujo finalmente a que se firmaron las enmiendas correspondientes
al Convenio de Préstamo N° 3576-ES el 6 de Septiembre de 1,994, por medio de las cuales se
introdujo el Componente "C": "Mejoramiento de los Registros de Tierra y Servicios de
Catastro" (Proyecto Piloto que incluía el levantamiento de información de registro y catastro
en el Departamento de Sonsonate, conocido como "barrido"); estas enmiendas fueron
aprobadas por la Asamblea Legislativa mediante el Decreto N° 348 del 26 de Mayo de 1995.

Paralelamente a la etapa preparatoria para la implementación del proyecto piloto, se creó,
mediante el Decreto Ejecutivo N° 62 del 5 de Diciembre de 1,994, el Centro Nacional de
Registros (CNR) como una dependencia del Ministerio de Justicia, y posteriormente, la



                                             - 38 -

    Asamblea Legislativa, mediante el Decreto N° 462 del 5 de Octubre de 1,995, le otorgó la
    autonomía administrativa y la financiera, y le transfirió todos los bienes, muebles, inmuebles y
    presupuestos, asignados a la Dirección General de Registros, al IGN y al RSI, que en ese
    momento eran utilizados en funciones registrales, así como la facultad de recaudar y
    administrar los derechos de registro de propiedad inmobiliaria, de comercio y de catastro.

    Con la creación del CNR, el Gobierno combinó las líneas de autoridad, y dio los primeros
    pasos para simplificar los procedimientos, y establecer y consolidar la fusión de los sistema de
    registro y catastro en una sola institución. El fortalecimiento y consolidación del CNR, para
    convertirla en una institución capaz de suministrar los servicios de registro y catastro con
    calidad y eficiencia, fue uno de los mayores retos que enfrentó el Gobierno para cumplir con
    su responsabilidad de garantizar la seguridad jurídica en la tenencia de la tierra y de esa
    manera promover el desarrollo económico y social.

2.      El Proyecto de Administración de Tierras
2.1.    Objetivos
    Los objetivos del proyecto, tal y como se establecieron en el Convenio de Préstamo 3982-ES,
    fueron: (a) modernizar los registros públicos y del catastro e inmuebles del prestatario y (b)
    establecer las bases para la regularización de tierras en El Salvador.

    El "Plan Nacional de Modernización del Registro Inmobiliario y del Catastro en su Fase I"
    constituyó una continuación del Proyecto "Mejoramiento de los Registros de Tierra y
    Servicios de Catastro" (Proyecto Piloto de Sonsonate), por lo tanto el problema que se ha
    propuesto solucionar se mantiene. En tal sentido, contribuir a la seguridad jurídica en la
    tenencia de la tierra en el país continúa siendo un objetivo primordial.

2.2.    Componentes
    El proyecto comprendió tres componentes:
    A. Fortalecimiento Institucional y Descentralización
i.      Fortalecimiento Institucional
ii.     Descentralización Institucional
    B. Levantamiento de Información de Tierras
i.      Cartografía
ii.     Regularización de los Registro de Tierras, incluido Facilidades para la Preparación del
Proyecto
iii.    Resolución Alternativa de Conflictos
    C. Administración del Proyecto

2.3.    Arreglos Institucionales en la Ejecución del Proyecto
    El CNR fue creado en octubre de 1995 con el soporte del Proyecto Piloto financiado bajo el
    Proyecto de Reforma e Inversión Agrícola- PRISA (Préstamo 3576-ES), por medio del cual
    se logró la integración en una sola institución las funciones de tres instituciones que antes
    operaban separadamente: el Registro de la Propiedad Raíz e Hipotecas, el Registro Social de
    Inmuebles, y del Instituto Geográfico Nacional (Cartografía y Catastro).




                                                 - 39 -

   Bajo el Proyecto "Plan Nacional de Modernización del Registro Inmobiliario y del Catastro
   Fase I" (LAP I), se han modernizado las oficinas del CNR y se crearon unidades
   especializadas responsables de diferentes actividades relacionadas con la regularización de
   tierras. Este Proyecto ha apoyado la capacidad local en diferentes áreas especializadas, las
   cuales se han efectuado con la ayuda de diferentes firmas internacionales y mediante
   capacitaciones

2.4.   Cobertura y Metodología de la Provisión de servicios
   Con el Proyecto se ha mejorado sustancialmente la prestación de servicios de registro y de
   catastro con el establecimiento de un sistema informático y de comunicación que ha permitido
   que 10 de las 11 oficinas Departamentales se encuentren operando interconectadas con el
   Sistema de Información de Registro y Catastro (SIRyC), el cual es un sistema digital que
   permite manejar la información catastral y registral de los inmuebles de forma descentralizada
   y facilita la consulta directa mediante terminales.

   Además de la descentralización de los servicios, con la implantación del SIRyC hubo cambios
   trascendentes en la prestación de los servicios, especialmente de orden tecnológico y de
   procesos, lo que ha facilitado las operaciones de registro, al reducir sustancialmente los
   tiempos de respuesta, y ha permitido el acceso de los usuarios a la información registral a
   través de las terminales instaladas en las oficinas Departamentales de Registro del CNR.

3.     Ejecución del Proyecto de Administración de Tierras
3.1.   Arreglos para la Ejecución
   El manejo de las actividades del proyecto básicamente han estado orientadas a: i) Coordinar
   las campañas de comunicación e información; ii) Supervisar a las empresas contratadas para la
   ejecución de los trabajos de Verificación de Derechos y Delimitación de Inmuebles, y de
   Traslado Masivo al Nuevo Sistema de Registro y Catastro de las Inscripciones Inmobiliarias
   apoyados por un sistema informatizado de Control de Calidad (SICCA); iii) Monitoreo y
   Evaluación del proyecto; y iv) Actividades de Administración, Finanzas, y de Adquisiciones.

   Como resultado de las diferentes actividades del proyecto, se han establecido las bases y los
   mecanismos para la regularización de tierras en El Salvador mediante la creación de la
   capacidad técnica en diferentes áreas especializadas, tales como la toma de fotografía aérea
   apoyada con Sistema de Posicionamiento Global (GPS), la elaboración de cartografía básica
   (ortofotografías y restituciones), la creación de una Red Geodésica básica, el escaneo del
   100% de los libros del sistema de folio personal y folios reales en papel, y la creación de
   manuales técnicos en las diferentes áreas.

   Durante la vida del proyecto, la Unidad de Administración del Proyecto (UAP) mantuvo la
   estabilidad laboral del personal profesional, técnico y de apoyo,        lo que permitió una
   formación continua para desarrollar una capacidad nacional en la ejecución del proyecto.

3.2.   Enmiendas al Convenio de Préstamo
   No hubo, desde el punto de vista formal, enmiendas al Convenio de Préstamo, aunque si hubo
   dos extensiones a la fecha de Cierre del Proyecto, una por dos años y otra por un año.



                                                - 40 -

   Además, hubo cuatro reprogramaciones a las Categorías de Desembolsos.

3.3.   Nuevas Actividades Incluidas o Reducción en el Alcance y Fundamentos para el
Cambio

   Se había previsto que la toma de fotografía aérea era una actividad incluida en los contratos
   de Verificación de Derechos y Delimitación de Inmuebles. El proyecto, se adquirió una
   cámara para fotografía área, Leica RC-30, la cual fue instalada en el avión existente del
   Instituto Geográfico Nacional, lo cual permitió realizar la fotografía. Así mismo se
   fortalecieron significativamente las áreas de fotogrametría y geodesia tanto tecnológicamente
   como capacitando al personal del CNR involucrado.

   Huracán Mitch en 1998. Identificación de las zonas afectadas con la colaboración de Spot
   Image. En el año 2001 hubo dos terremotos destructores, para lo cual el proyecto efectuó en
   coordinación con el Viceministerio de Vivienda y Desarrollo Urbano un censo de las viviendas
   dañadas por dicho fenómeno. Adicionalmente el proyecto apoyó a la reconstrucción de las
   oficinas del CNR dañadas por el mismo. ·          Sequía de 2002: Entrega de cartografía a
   Ministerio de Gobernación para identificación de las zonas afectadas.

   Participación en la delimitación de fronteras internacionales (Guatemala ­ Honduras) y límites
   administrativas de El Salvador. (2003-2005).

    Censo y delimitación de las ocupaciones de la población en los Bosques Salados del
    departamento de La Paz. (2004)

   Capacitación indirecta del personal nacional de las empresas contratistas. En 1999: 210
   personas. 2000: 360. 2001: 365. 2002: 617. 2003: 800. 2004: 800. 2005: 158.

   Apoyo al Proyecto a diferentes Proyectos de administración de Tierras. PRODEP de
   Nicaragua, PRONAT de Panamá, apoyo al Proyecto PATH de Honduras en asesoría
   informática y cartográfica y capacitación para la UTJ de Guatemala.

   Participación en la elaboración de documentos de precalificación y licitación estándares del
   Banco Mundial.

   La información cartográfica, aunada a la transferencia de tecnología por el Proyecto permitió
   al CNR la elaboración de un mapa de Uso de Suelos utilizando la metodología "CORINE
   Land Cover" que ha servido de base para que el MARN cree la propuesta de Corredor
   Biológico de El Salvador, además se creo un Mapa a Nivel Centroamericano que fue
   coordinado por la Comisión Centroamericana de Ambiente y Desarrollo.

   Con la información cartográfica proveniente del barrido se actualizaron los mapas
   topográficos a diferentes escalas que produce el Instituto Geográfico y del Catastro Nacional

   También se verificó por medio de las fotografías e imágenes de satélite, visitas de campo y



                                              - 41 -

   entrevistas con los propietarios que en un área donde el proyecto no ha pasado como es el
   caso de uno de los ex-bolsones del diferendo con Honduras resuelto por la Corte
   Internacional de la Haya (Nahuaterique), y en donde existía incertidumbre sobre la tenencia de
   la tierra; con esto se demostró que las personas tendían talar los árboles al tener miedo de
   perder la parcela. A partir de ello podemos concluir que cuando las personas tienen certeza de
   su tierra y seguridad sobre ella, crea confianza en los propietarios y los motiva a cuidar su
   parcela y los recursos naturales que sobre ella se encuentran.

   Creación de la RECCAT (Red de Capacitación de Centro América en Administración de
   Tierras con financiamiento del Banco Mundial, AID y Cooperación francesa): Participación en
   Guatemala 2003, Costa Rica 2004, Honduras 2004 y Nicaragua 20005. Creación del Consejo
   Registral Inmobiliario de Centroamérica y Panamá (CRICAP), que lo integran los jefes de
   registros de la región y cuya secretaría permanente le corresponde a El Salvador


   Presentaciones en seminarios internacionales presentando la experiencia salvadoreña en:
   seminarios regionales de la Reccat en Guatemala (2003), El Salvador (2004), Costa Rica
   (2004), Nicaragua (2005). Francia: Congreso anual de la FIG (Federación Internacional de
   Agrimensores) en 2004. México 2004: Curso del Banco Mundial para Centro América
   "Crecimiento y reducción de la Pobreza. México 2004: FIG ­ Datos Espaciales - Desarrollo
   de políticas de información territorial. India 2004. Panamá 2003: Curso del Banco Mundial en
   Gestión de Suelo Urbano. Panamá 2005


   Preparación de la Segunda fase del Proyecto de Administración de Tierras. Asesoría y
   asistencia administrativa al Ministerio de Medio Ambiente y Recursos naturales para la
   preparación del Proyecto Consolidación de Aereas Protegidas y Administración de Tierras.

   El Proyecto no ejecutó actividades de resolución de conflictos en campo, pues la cantidad que
   pudo verificarse durante los trabajos de levantamiento de datos fue únicamente de tres casos,
   por lo que no ameritó la asignación de recursos en dicha área; en su lugar, el proyecto atendió
   en Oficina por medio de la Unidad de Notificación de Resultados (exposiciones Públicas) la
   corrección de errores detectados por los titulares de los inmuebles, lo cual se llevaba a cabo a
   través de la tramitación de impugnaciones sobre la información resultante del proyecto,
   habiéndose llegado a alcanzar únicamente 1% de impugnaciones recibidas.

3.4.   Apoyo del Gobierno para el Proyecto
   Tanto en su fase preparatoria como durante su ejecución, el Proyecto ha recibido un decidido
   respaldo para su realización por parte de los cuatro gobiernos que se han sucedido en los
   últimos 10 años; por el contrario, no han existido interferencias de ningún tipo, especialmente
   en cuanto a las decisiones operacionales del Proyecto. En tal sentido es importante resaltar
   que en materia de adquisiciones estos se han mantenido totalmente al margen, y así como con
   respecto a la contratación de personal profesional, técnico y administrativo al servicio del
   Proyecto, con lo cual se ha conseguido la necesaria estabilidad laboral.

   Por otra parte, en la provisión a tiempo de fondos de contrapartida no han habido problemas,
   ni en materia de políticas sectoriales; por el contrario, la estabilidad macroeconómica que ha


                                                - 42 -

     mantenido El Salvador en los últimos 15 años, y que es reconocida internacionalmente, ha
     asegurado un clima favorable para la ejecución del Proyecto.

3.5.     Costos del Proyecto
(a)      Por Fuente de Financiamiento: El Banco Mundial financio 50 millones de dólares y el
Gobierno de El Salvador a través del CNR financió 19.5 millones. Se ejecutó financieramente el
99.3% del monto estimado en el SAR.

(b)      Por Componentes:

A.       Fortalecimiento Institucional y Descentralización. (US $21.5). Se ha fortalecido la capacidad
institucional del CNR para la ejecución de su mandato bajo la Ley a través de la provisión de, entre otros,
asistencia técnica, entrenamiento y bienes para esto, y el arrendamiento, construcción y rehabilitación de
las instalaciones para las oficinas del CNR. Desarrollo y establecimiento de un sistema de un sistema de
información de tierras automatizado. Descentralización de los registros y servicios catastrales del CNR.

B.       Levantamiento de Información de Tierras. (US $ 36.4). Se llevaron a cabo las actividades de
mapeo incluyendo fotografías aéreas e investigaciones de campo para establecer una base de datos basada
en parcelas. Se completó el programa piloto del departamento de Sonsonate. Se llevaron a cabo campañas
de información pública para promover la regularización de tierras en el territorio. Se llevaron a cabo las
actividades requeridas para iniciar el proceso de conversión de propiedad inmobiliaria del CNR del Sistema
de folio personal (basado en archivos de personas) al sistema de folio real (basado en archivos de parcelas)
incluyendo la identificación del estado legal de cada parcela. Se dio asistencia técnica en el campo y
durante las campañas de notificación de los resultados para la resolución por la vía administrativa de los
conflictos.

C.       Administración del Proyecto. (US$ 9.4). Se ha hecho la administración financiera, la
administración y coordinación de las actividades del proyecto, el monitoreo y la evaluación del proyecto. Se
llevaron a cabo las actividades de auditoria.

(c)      Por Métodos de Adquisición. Las adquisiciones ascendieron a US $69.5 millones,
concentrándose en su mayora en Licitaciones Publicas Internacionales (US $30.5 M) y otros
métodos tales como Compras por Comparación de Precios y Selección de Consultores.

3.6.     Problemas Encontrados durante la Ejecución y Factores Positivos que
Contribuyeron al Éxito en la Ejecución del Proyecto
     Falta de experiencia tanto del Banco como del prestatario en Latinoamérica para implementar
     proyectos de Administración de Tierras, por lo que hubo diferentes interpretaciones en temas
     y alcances de términos específicos. Deficiencia técnica en diferentes áreas especializadas por
     parte del prestatario. Sin embargo a lo largo del proyecto se lograron superar estas
     dificultades y se logró un aprendizaje por las diferentes partes lo que conllevó a lograr los
     objetivos del proyecto.

     En un inició al interior del CNR hubo un rechazo al cambio en aspectos técnicos,
     organizacionales y metodológicos de la dinámica del proyecto, lo cual se ha ido mejorando
     paulatinamente.
     Contratos de Verificación de Derechos y Delimitación de Inmuebles: falta de comprensión de


                                                    - 43 -

los TdR´s y de experiencia por parte del Contratista y falta de un plan de calidad. Suspensión
de los trabajos durante 6 meses de una de las contratistas debido a deficiencia en la calidad de
los productos. Calidad insuficiente de los vuelos aerofotogrametricos entregados por el CNR
para uno de los contratos debido a la falta de capacidad y experiencia. Fracaso de la empresa
de supervisión de uno de los contratos debido a problemas financieros de la empresa en su
casa matriz. Falta de un manual técnico-Jurídico de referencia por parte del Contratante. Lo
que llevó al CNR a desarrollar un sistema de aseguramiento de la calidad y estándares para
tener homogeneidad y calidad en los productos, además de mejorar las especificaciones
técnicas de los contratos.

Fuerte desarrollo urbano alrededor de la área Metropolitana de San Salvador que implicó
modificaciones en la sectorización. Metodología inadecuada en uno de los contratos en los
cuales se esperaba desarrollar una nuevo proceso de levantamiento focalizado por parte del
CNR, lo que necesitó una revisión de éste después de 6 meses de realización. Se concluyó a
partir de ello que era necesario realizar una actualización sistemática de la información
antigua y desarrollar mecanismos adecuados para asegurar su mantenimiento.

Fuerte número de ausencias de los informantes principalmente en las zonas urbanas. Falta de
motivación de los propietarios a mostrar su información. Se concluyó que a pesar de que las
personas conocen el proyecto se debe de buscar nuevas formas de comunicación para
sensibilizar sobre los beneficios del proyecto.

Problema para la aceptación de productos realizados por el Contratista para uno de los
contratos, debido a insuficiencia de capacidad instalada y de diferencia de criterios por parte
del contratante y el contratista. Se concluyó que se debe prever la capacidad instalada en las
áreas técnicas de la supervisión y también definir alcances y criterios de aceptación de los
productos. Se debe mejorar la coordinación de las diferentes áreas que contribuyen al
desarrollo del proyecto en su totalidad.

Dificultad de las empresas de encontrar el personal técnico y jurídico necesario, para lo que
tuvieron que capacitar técnicos especialmente, lo cual a pesar que en un inicio no se previó la
magnitud de este esfuerzo, ha dejado un personal técnico en el país capacitado, el cual se
calcula es de aproximadamente 800 técnicos capacitados en áreas de registro y catastro.

Zonas caracterizadas inicialmente como rurales las cuales eran densamente pobladas, lo que
implicó cambio de metodología. Condiciones del terreno difíciles en varias zonas que no
fueron previstas por los contratistas. Lo que ocasionó en ambos casos, dificultades de
programación y atrasos en la ejecución de los contratos.

Utilización de un documento provisional del cual no se tenía experiencia en su aplicación por
ninguna de las partes del Documento Estándar del Banco para Contratos de Servicios de No
Consultoría para uno de los contratos debido a vacíos lo que conllevo a afrontar dificultades
con el contratista.

Dificultades en implementar un sistema automatizado de monitoreo del proyecto, el cual ha



                                           - 44 -

    sido desarrollado parcialmente, ya que no se integró en sus diferentes módulos, ni permitió
    tener una visión global y actualizada del estado del proyecto para la toma de decisiones
    oportunas.

    El proyecto sufrió de la carencia de un manual de operaciones que definiera funciones y
    responsabilidades, lo que generaba duplicidad o carencia de esfuerzos, a pesar de ello se
    definieron funciones y responsabilidades mediante instructivos y manuales en cada área, pero
    desarticulados entre ellos.

4.     Logros del Proyecto de Administración de Tierras
4.1.   Impacto
   Eficacia institucional: El Proyecto ha mejorado sustancialmente la eficiencia en la prestación
   de los servicios. Por ejemplo, por medio del Proyecto se ha logrado disminuir los tiempos de
   respuesta en los procesos de atención al cliente; en el año de 1997, los servicios registrales
   relativos a compraventas, hipotecas, segregaciones y cancelación de hipotecas, el trámite
   duraba entre 30 y 45 días, y actualmente estos tiempos se han disminuido entre 5 y 7 días.

   Antes del proceso de modernización, el número promedio de visitas que realizaban los clientes
   al Registro hasta que se le entregara el documento inscrito fue 3 a 4 veces (3.5 en promedio).
   La experiencia en los Departamentos de Santa Ana y Ahuachapán indica que una de las
   consecuencias de una reducción en el tiempo de respuesta es una reducción en el número de
   visitas de seguimiento que los clientes deben realizar. Según la Dirección de Registro del
   CNR, en el Departamento de Sonsonate el número de visitas requeridas por inscripción se ha
   reducido a 1 o 2 (1.5 en promedio).

   Elaboración de diferentes documentos: Manual de Verificación de Derechos y Delimitación de
   Inmuebles, Manuales de Geodesia, Manuales de Fotogrametría ( una serie de documentos
   para la restitución fotogramétrica y una para la ortofotografía), Manual de Supervisión (1) y
   un Sistema de Control de Calidad en base a normas internacionales y manejable con la Web.
   Manuales (3) de Aseguramiento de la Calidad elaborados por los Contratistas (Toponort,
   Kampsax, Inypsa). Manual del Usuario del SiRyc y Manuales de capacitación en Topografía,
   Geodesia.

   Crédito: El acceso al crédito se ha facilitado apoyando a la Banca en dar respuestas más
   rápidas a sus clientes. Por otra parte, se demostró que los beneficiarios del proyecto lograron
   un mayor acceso al crédito formal derivado de la seguridad en la tenencia de la tierra. Por
   ejemplo, en el departamento de Sonsonate, cubierto ya por el proyecto, el 7.6% de los
   propietarios urbanos utilizaron su parcela como garantía para acceso al crédito hipotecario,
   comparado con el 4.9% de los propietarios en Usulután, donde todavía no ha pasado el
   proyecto. El 50% de los propietarios de parcelas rurales que solicitaron créditos en el
   Departamento de Sonsonate lo hicieron a través de la banca (sector formal), contra un 38% en
   el Departamento de Usulután:

                            Características del Uso de Crédito Hipotecario
                          Porcentaje de Parcelas según Área y Departamento

                                                                    Urbano           Rural

                                                - 45 -

                                                                      Sonsonate   UsulutánSonsonateU
                                                                                        sulután
            Utilizó parcela como garantía (% de todas las parcelas)     7.6            4.94.14.9
              Lugar donde solicitó el crédito (% de parcelas que
                              solicitaron crédito)
            Banco                                                      45.9*        27.050.0*38.0
            Caja de crédito                                             16.2         2.311.1*13.0
           Prestamista                                                  27.2*       50.611.8*17.8
            No dio detalles                                             10.7         20.116.015.1
            Opinó que tener escritura registrada en CNR da              89.3         87.295.993.8
            ventajas para obtener crédito


Inversión en la Tierra:
Inversiones en la parcela se encuentran entre los beneficios esperados del proceso de
regularización de tierras. Se ha encontrado evidencia de la existencia de una asociación
negativa entre la decisión de invertir en la parcela y la presencia de conflictos sobre la
propiedad de la misma. Se tiene evidencia que las parcelas cuyos propietarios han realizado
inversiones durante los últimos cinco años tienen valores por vara cuadrada más altos que
aquellas en donde esta inversión no ha ocurrido.

Parcelas Rurales: La promoción de condiciones que resulten en la disminución de la
degradación ambiental es uno de los beneficios derivados del proceso de regularización de
tierras. En el lado positivo, se han registrado cambios favorables a la conservación de los
suelos reflejado en incrementos significativos en el porcentaje de parcelas que usaron barreras
naturales, ahoyado y remoción manual de suelos, junto con disminuciones en el uso tractoreo.
En el lado negativo, se han registrado incrementos en el uso de abonos químicos así como
disminuciones en prácticas de conservación tales como uso de abonos orgánicos, dejar crecer
monte, carrileado, rastrojo y siembra en curvas a nivel.

Parcelas Urbanas: Existe evidencia que muestra que el porcentaje de inmuebles urbanos para
los cuales se registró alguna inversión fue significativamente mayor en los departamentos
donde paso en barrido que en aquellos que no. No se detectaron diferencias significativas en
cuanto a la mayoría de aspectos relacionados con inversiones en los inmuebles.                     Los
resultados de diferentes estudios sugieren que el proceso de regularización del catastro y
registro ha tenido un impacto favorable en la propensión de los propietarios urbanos a invertir
en sus inmuebles y que ha contribuido a mejorar sus expectativas de inversiones en el futuro
inmediato.


Cambio en la Metodología de Provisión de Servicios: Se ha desarrollado un sistema
informático que almacena la información de los libros en folio real y folio personal en papel, y
vincula la información catastral y registral, ubicando inequívocamente la parcela, vinculándola
con sus derechos registrales, como con su tracto sucesivo; lo que favorece a la seguridad
jurídica de la parcela. Además este sistema ha modernizado la atención al usuario, pudiendo
este consultar en terminales ubicadas en las oficinas departamentales información de diferentes
registros, consultas que anteriormente se realizaban solamente en el registro donde se



                                                    - 46 -

encontraba la información en papel.

Establecimiento del Sistema y Número de Usuarios: Con el proyecto se estableció un
sistema integrado de registro y catastro, el cual es utilizado por el personal del registro y
catastro como herramienta de trabajo y atención al cliente. Este sistema puede ser utilizado
por todos los usuarios que acuden a las instalaciones del CNR y sus oficinas departamentales,
lo que mejorado la calidad del servicio disminuyendo los tiempos de respuesta, costos de
transacción y ha disminuido sustancialmente actos de corrupción, ya que la información es
pública, accesible, y los tramites registrales son mas ágiles.

Capacidad Nacional Mejorada y Creada: Se han adquirido inmuebles, construido y/o
remodelado la infraestructura de servicios del CNR en los departamentos de Sonsonate, Santa
Ana, Ahuachapán, La Libertad, San Salvador, Usulután. Se han ampliado y/o mejorado las
instalaciones en San Miguel, San Vicente y La Unión.
Se ha capacitado a personal del CNR y otras instituciones en diferentes áreas y niveles
técnicos y profesionales, tales como: geodesia, fotogrametría, topografía, mapeo, laboratorio
fotogramético, navegación aérea fotográfica, sistemas de posicionamiento global, sistema de
información geográfica, desarrollo tecnológico, técnicas de escaneo masivo, comunicaciones,
técnicas catastrales, sensores remotos especialmente en información satelital, registro
inmobiliario, legislación, administración, atención al usuario, entre otros.
El CNR además ha adquirido una mística de trabajo, la cual favorece del desarrollo
profesional de sus empleados, al capacitarlos continuamente, asegurando el CNR su inversión
por medio de retener al recurso humano, lo cual es percibido como estabilidad laboral. Siendo
considerado al CNR como una institución técnica, la cual no es vulnerable a cambios políticos.

Medio Ambiente: Durante la ejecución del Proyecto fueron incluidas muchas actividades que
no estaban previstas; tal es el caso del Ministerio de Medio Ambiente y Recursos Naturales
(MARN) que ha sido uno de los beneficiarios de las actividades del proyecto, dado que a
través del mapeo se han demostrado los cambios en la cobertura de la vegetación a lo largo
del país, especialmente en los manglares. Además, la vinculación de la información catastral y
registral ha permitido crear la herramienta adecuada para evitar titulación errónea de
manglares, ya que se vincula la información física gráfica con las escrituras de propiedad, lo
cual era muy difícil hacerlo antes de la ejecución del proyecto. La información también ha
permitido hacer la delimitación de las áreas naturales y manglares, lo cual es relevante para el
MARN, ya que uno de los pasos para declarar un área como parte del Sistema de Áreas
Naturales Protegidas es hacer la delimitación de la parcela.

Otros Impactos: Por medio de la solvencia y de la credibilidad del Proyecto el CNR ha
podido obtener diferentes donaciones para apoyar al tema de tierras en El Salvador. Estos
fondos son obtenidos mediante el Proyecto, pero no solamente son destinados al CNR, sino
que también a otras instituciones que tratan otras temáticas vinculadas con la administración
de tierras.

Entre las donaciones que se han obtenido por medio del Proyecto se encuentran las siguientes:




                                              - 47 -

   Donación japonesa para Asistencia en la Implementación del Proyecto de Administración de
   Tierras- PHRD, donación para implantación de genero. Se determino la tenencia de la tierra
   en términos de género y se adecuó el proyecto para obtener un mayor impacto. El Monto de
   Donación fue $121,150.00. El período de realización fue del 01 de Agosto de 2002 hasta el
   30 de junio de 2003.

   Donación japonesa por $549,500.00 para diseñar la segunda fase del Proyecto de
   Administración de Tierras. El período de realización fue del 2 Marzo de 2004 al 15 de Marzo
   de 2005. Se realizaron diferentes consultorías determinando los impactos de la fase I del
   Proyecto de Administración de Tierras, con el fin de mejorar el diseño de la fase II. Así mismo
   evaluó la capacidad financiera, administrativa e institucional del CNR para ejecutar la segunda
   operación, diseñando el proyecto de tal forma que sea implementado por el CNR
   institucionalmente, para que el fortalecimiento sea absorbido por el personal y asegurar así el
   mantenimiento a largo plazo de la información catastral-registral. Así mismo se desarrollaron
   diferentes estudios     para asegurar la adecuada implementación del proyecto y su
   sostenibilidad.

   Donación del Project Development Facility, Block B (PDF-B) para la Preparación del
   Proyecto de Consolidación de Areas Naturales Protegidas y Administración de Tierras por
   $350,000.00. Esta donación será ejecutada por el Ministerio de Medio Ambiente y Recursos
   Naturales (MARN) y el Centro Nacional de Registros del 4 de Marzo de 2005 al 15 de
   Octubre de 2005.

   Posible Donación del Global Environmental Facility (GEF) para la Ejecución del Proyecto de
   Consolidación de Areas Naturales Protegidas y Administración de Tierras. La donación será
   por $5.000.000.00 con $5.000.000.00 de contrapartida en especie a ser provista en su
   totalidad por el CNR y deberá de ser ejecutada en un período de cinco años. El beneficiario
   será el MARN y el CNR lo apoyará en la administración de los recursos.

4.2.   Mejora en la Administración de Tierras Rural y Urbana
   El SIRyC se ha instalado dentro de las Alcaldías con las cuales el CNR ha suscrito convenios
   de cooperación, pudiendo estas utilizar la información que contiene como base de datos para
   conocer, planificar y administrar mejor su gestión tanto en las áreas rurales como en las
   urbanas.

4.3.   Logros en los objetivos del proyecto
   Los objetivos del proyecto, tal y como se establecen en el Convenio de Préstamo del mismo
   son: (a) modernizar los registros públicos y del catastro e inmuebles del prestatario y (b)
   establecer las bases para la regularización de tierras en El Salvador.

   El CNR fue creado en octubre de 1995 con el soporte del Proyecto Piloto financiado bajo el
   Proyecto de Reforma e Inversión Agrícola- PRISA (Préstamo 3576-ES). El Proyecto en su
   Fase I ha fortalecido la modernización del Sistema de Registro y Catastro en El Salvador, y ha
   creado unidades especializadas responsables de diferentes actividades relacionadas con la
   regularización de tierras. También ha apoyado la capacidad nacional en diferentes áreas



                                               - 48 -

   especializadas.

   También el Proyecto ha establecido las bases para la regularización de tierras en El Salvador;
   si bien el proyecto tenía como meta principal regularizar el registro de tierras en El Salvador,
   estimado en 1.6 millones de parcelas urbanas y rurales, logró levantar 827,696 parcelas
   urbanas y 411,869 rurales, totalizando 1,239,565 parcelas; es decir 76.8% de la meta del
   proyecto

4.4.   Rendimientos por componentes y subcomponentes
   El proyecto comprendió tres componentes:
   A. Fortalecimiento Institucional y Descentralización
i.     Fortalecimiento Institucional
         Se modernizó las oficinas del CNR (Creado previamente en 1995) y creó unidades
         especializadas responsables de diferentes actividades relacionadas con la regularización
         de tierras. Se estableció un sistema informático de registro y catastro. El CNR ha
         mejorado la eficiencia en la prestación de los servicios. Se ha logrado disminuir los
         tiempos de respuesta en los procesos de atención al cliente en todo el país.
         Asimismo, se han adquirido inmuebles, construido y/o remodelado la infraestructura de
         servicios del CNR en Sonsonate, Santa Ana, Ahuachapàn, La Libertad, San Salvador,
         Usulután. Se han ampliado y/o mejorado las instalaciones en San Miguel, San Vicente y
         La Uniòn.
         Por medio del Proyecto se ha capacitado a personal del CNR y otras instituciones en
         diferentes áreas y niveles técnicos y profesionales, tales como: geodesia, fotogrametria,
         topografía, mapeo, laboratorio fotogramético, navegación aérea fotográfica, sistemas de
         posicionamiento global, sistema de información geográfica, desarrollo tecnológico,
         técnicas de escaneo masivo, comunicaciones, técnicas catastrales, sensores remotos
         especialmente en información satelital, registro inmobiliario, legislación, administración,
         atención al usuario, entre otros.

ii.    Descentralización Institucional
           Se previó en el SAR la descentralización de los registros y servicios catastrales del
           CNR en una oficina central, tres regionales y unas cincuenta y dos oficinas municipales
           con el objetivo de informar el estado del registro y catastro y por otro lado de
           recolectar datos para nuevas transacciones de propiedades. No obstante que se
           encontraba previsto descentralizar las oficinas regionales por medio de la creación de
           oficinas municipales, en los inicios del proyecto se desconocía la demanda real de
           servicios, llegándose a determinar que ésta no permitía operar oficinas rentables y que
           la mejora incremental de los servicios era significativa. Se ha informado a cada
           beneficiario el estado catastral y registral de su parcela por medio de la notificación de
           resultados del levantamiento de la información de tierras. Se ha creado un sistema
           informático y de comunicación lo que ha permitido que diez oficinas departamentales
           que atienden a los 14 departamentos del país se encuentren operando interconectadas,
           acercado los servicios a los usuarios, además de tener acceso a la consulta mediante
           terminales remotas.




                                                - 49 -

    B. Levantamiento de Información de Tierras
i.     Cartografía
       Elaboración de de Fotografía Aérea a escala 1: 15 000 en áreas rurales y 1: 5000 en áreas
       urbanas, produciendo ortofotografia a escala 1: 5000 en áreas rurales y restitución a escala
       1: 1000 en áreas urbanas. Elaboración de Mapas Catastrales y Topográficos.

ii.    Regularización de los Registro de Tierras, incluido Facilidades para la Preparación del
Proyecto
       Se titularon y registraron y se realizaron actividades para la distribución de tierras a los
       desmovilizados del ejercito y Ex-Combatientes, derivados de los Acuerdos de Paz,
       atendiendo a 36,272 copropietarios en 3,253 propiedades, con una extensión total de
       tierra de 141,238 manzanas cuya distribución fue de 75% para Ex-Combatientes y 25%
       para desmovilizados del Ejercito
       Se terminò el Barrido del Proyecto Piloto de Sonsonate completando el levantamiento
       catastral y recital de 114,785 parcelas correspondientes a 1 266 Km2.
       Se definió un proceso sistematizado de "Barrido" registral y catastral, obteniendo el
       estado legal de cada parcela (actual e histórico) así como la información catastral (física)
       actualizada y trasladando esa información al sistema creado al efecto.
       Se levantaron 1 239,565 parcelas de las cuales 827,696 correspondían a parcelas urbanas y
       411,869 a rurales, es decir el 76.8 de la meta del proyecto.
       A efectos de divulgar los resultados del Barrido se estableció un proceso para comunicar
       a los propietarios, especialmente en casos de conflictos o discrepancias de linderos,
       ofreciendo asesoría y apoyo jurídico para su solución.
       Se llevó a cabo campañas de información pública por medio de radio, periódicos,
       perifoneo, afiches, folletos, para promover la                      regularización de tierras.
       Se cumplieron las actividades requeridas para iniciar el proceso de conversión de los
       archivos de propiedad inmobiliaria del CNR del Sistema de "folio personal" (basado en
       archivos de escrituras) al sistema de "folio real" (basado en archivos de parcelas)
       incluyendo la identificación del estado legal de cada parcela.
       Se escaneó y se creó una base de datos de imágenes del 100% de los libros y folios reales
       para facilitar la consulta registral y para trasladar la información del folio personal y folio
       real en papel al sistema computarizado SIRyC.

iii.   Resolución Alternativa de Conflictos
       El Proyecto no ejecutó actividades de resolución de conflictos en campo, pues la cantidad
       que pudo verificarse durante los trabajos de levantamiento de datos fue únicamente de
       3casos, por lo que no ameritó la asignación de recursos en dicha área; en su lugar, el
       proyecto atendió en Oficina por medio de la Unidad de Notificación de Resultados
       (exposiciones Públicas) la corrección de errores detectados por los titulares de los
       inmuebles, lo cual se llevaba a cabo a través de la tramitación de impugnaciones sobre la
       información resultante del proyecto, habiéndose llegado a alcanzar únicamente 1% de
       impugnaciones recibidas.

    C. Administración del Proyecto
    Se ha realizado una coordinación adecuada con el agente de pagos y adquisiciones, y se ha



                                                 - 50 -

   efectuado los reportes en el tiempo adecuado tanto al Banco y a las instituciones de gobierno
   a las que el CNR reporta periódicamente. Se han llevado las auditorías requeridas y en
   ninguna de ellas se han tenido observaciones significativas.

5.     Sostenibilidad de los resultados del proyecto
5.1.   Financiera
  El proyecto ha permitido la mejora en la prestación de los servicios registrales y catastrales, y
  ha contribuido al aumento de los ingresos del CNR; con ello se ha logrando su
  autosostenibilidad financiera, siendo sus ingresos por el pago de la prestación de los servicios
  en 1996 de US $ 17.5 millones y para de 2004 se elevaron en US $ 31.8 millones. Existe a
  futuro la posibilidad de incrementar los ingresos del CNR mediante la diversificación de sus
  servicios, por ejemplo, poniendo a disposición de los usuarios, a través de la web, la consulta
  registral y catastral desde sus propias oficinas u hogares.

  Una estimación preliminar de las tasas internas de retorno financiero y económico del proyecto
  determinó que el mismo tiene un alto nivel de rendimiento económico y financiero, estimado
  en 19% y 50%, respectivamente, con valor presente neto de US$34.6 millones y US $ 181.6
  millones, respectivamente.

5.2.   Institucional
  Antes de este proyecto no existía vinculo entre el Registro de la Propiedad y el Catastro
  Nacional. Esto se debía a que cada uno de ellos operaba separadamente y estaban adscritos a
  diferentes Ministerios del Gobierno; si bien estaba previsto legalmente la coordinación entre
  ambas, esta no llegó funcionar. Con el apoyo del Proyecto, las funciones del Registro de la
  Propiedad Raíz e Hipotecas y del Catastro se integraron en una sola institución, el CNR. Esta
  integración facilitó el acceso a la información tanto física como jurídica dando agilidad al
  proceso de tramites, favoreciendo la transparencia y seguridad jurídica de los servicios de
  registro y de catastro como parte de la modernización del sistema.

  Además el Proyecto ha fortalecido institucionalmente al CNR, entre otros, con el
  establecimiento de un sistema informático y de comunicación lo que ha permitido que 10 de las
  11 oficinas departamentales se encuentren operando interconectadas con el Sistema de
  Información de Registro y Catastro (SIRyC), el cual es un sistema digital que permite manejar
  la información de catastro y registro de los inmuebles de forma descentralizada y facilita la
  consulta directa mediante terminales.

  El Proyecto de Modernización del Registro Inmobiliario y del Catastro Fase II, dará su apoyo
  para consolidar los avances institucionales alcanzados por el CNR, a fin de que sea sostenible
  institucionalmente en el largo plazo.

5.3.   Compromisos Políticos
  Existe un fuerte compromiso político de parte del Gobierno en continuar apoyando la
  modernización del registro inmobiliario y del catastro; ello lo demuestra el decidido respaldo
  ofrecido a la ejecución de una Segunda Fase del Proyecto mediante la firma de una segunda
  operación de préstamo con el Banco.



                                               - 51 -

6.     Desempeño del Banco y del Gobierno en la Ejecución del Proyecto
6.1.   El Banco
   El Banco ha efectuado un seguimiento continuo del proyecto, asesorándole y efectuando
   misiones periódicas de supervisión. Se efectuó entre ellas una misión de medio término,
   cumpliendo con lo estipulado en el convenio de préstamo.
   En la vida del proyecto se tuvieron cinco Task Manager, lo que en ciertos momentos afecto el
   seguimiento y la supervisión por parte del Banco, y en algunos casos debido a ello se
   interpretaron de diferente forma los términos en cuanto a su alcance y concepto.
  Una de las debilidades del seguimiento es la falta de comunicación respecto a cambios de
  documentos estándares, normas, lo que generaba algunos atrasos.

6.2.   El Prestatario
   Durante la ejecución del Proyecto, el CNR ha recibido un decidido respaldo para su
   realización por parte de los cuatro gobiernos que se han sucedido en los últimos 10 años; por
   el contrario, no han existido interferencias de ningún tipo, especialmente en cuanto a las
   decisiones operacionales del Proyecto.

   Por otra parte, en la provisión a tiempo de fondos de contrapartida no han habido problemas,
   ni en materia de políticas sectoriales; por el contrario, la estabilidad macroeconómica que ha
   mantenido El Salvador en los últimos 15 años, y que es reconocida internacionalmente, ha
   asegurado un clima favorable para la ejecución del Proyecto.

7.     Las Lecciones Aprendidas
   Aprendizaje por el Banco y el prestatario en el tema de Administración de Tierras, no solo en
   El Salvador si no también en otros países, lo que conllevó a lograr y superar los objetivos del
   proyecto.
   Desarrollo de un sistema de aseguramiento de la calidad y estándares para tener
   homogeneidad y calidad en los productos, además de mejorar las especificaciones técnicas de
   los contratos.
    Concientización de la necesidad de realizar una actualización sistemática de la información
    antigua y desarrollar mecanismos adecuados para asegurar su mantenimiento.
    Mejorar y adaptar según los beneficiarios, las campañas de comunicación por medio de la
    divulgación de los beneficios del proyecto.
    Prever la capacidad instalada en las áreas técnicas de la supervisión y también definir alcances
    y criterios de aceptación de los productos.
    Mejorar la coordinación de las diferentes áreas que contribuyen al desarrollo del proyecto en
    su totalidad.
    Necesidad de desarrollar un Sistema de Monitoreo y Evaluación automatizado e integrado en
    todos sus módulos, utilizado y consultado por los diferentes actores para ser empleado como
    herramienta oportuna de toma de decisiones.
   Necesidad de un Manual de Operaciones donde se defina las funciones, procesos,
   responsabilidades e interacciones entre las diferentes áreas involucradas.
   Sensibilización del personal que no pertenece al proyecto y si a la institución para interiorizar
   el proyecto.



                                               - 52 -

- 53 -

- 54 -

