Page  1
                                                          CONFORMED COPY
                                                     LOAN NUMBER 3982-ES
                              Loan Agreement
                       (Land Administration Project)
                                  between
                           REPUBLIC OF EL SALVADOR
                                   and
                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                               AND DEVELOPMENT
                           Dated December 11, 1996
                                                      LOAN NUMBER 3982-ES
                                LOAN AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated December 11, 1996, between REPUBLIC OF EL SALVADOR
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
(the Bank).
     WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the fea-
sibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the
Project; and
     (B)  WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and con-
ditions set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                 ARTICLE I
                      General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the Bank, dated
May 30, 1995 (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of
this Agreement.
     Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several
terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective meanings
therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
Page  2
meanings:
     (a)  "Cadastre Law" means the Borrower's Legislative Decree No.
604, published in the Borrower's official gazette dated June 24, 1974,
as amended by the Borrower's Legislative Decree No. 611, published in
the Borrower's official gazette dated February 9, 1996;
     (b)  "CNR" means Centro Nacional de Registros, the Borrower's
National Center of Registries;
     (c)  "CNR Law" means the Borrower's Legislative Decree No. 462,
published in the Borrower's official gazette dated October 10, 1995
and Executive Decree No. 62 published in the Borrower's official
gazette dated December 7, 1994;
     (d)  "Information Services" means services required to implement
the information campaign to be carried out under Part B.3 of the
Project, such as publishing of public notices and advertisements in
newspapers, broadcasting of advertisements in radio stations, posting
of public notices and advertisements in billboards, publishing and
distribution of leaflets and broadcasting of public service messages
by mobile sound-trucks;
     (e)  "Mapping Services" means surveying, photogrammetry, stereo
plotting preparation, aerotriangulation, restitution and map production
services;
     (f)  "PMU" means the Project management unit referred to in Section
3.05 (b) of this Agreement;
     (g)  "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section
2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and
     (h)  "Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation
advance granted by the Bank to the Borrower pursuant to a letter signed
by the Bank on January 19, 1995 and countersigned by the Borrower on
January 27, 1995.
                               ARTICLE II
                                The Loan
     Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the borrower, on the terms
and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount
equal to fifty million Dollars ($50,000,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
     (b)  The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and
maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in its Central Bank on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits into, and
payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with
the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
     (c)  Promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the
amount required to repay the principal amount of the Project Prepara-
tion Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of such date and to pay all
unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount
of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be canceled.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2002 or such later
date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the
Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
Page  3
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.
     Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus
LIBOR Total Spread.
     (b)  For the purposes of this Section:
          (i)  "Interest Period" means the initial period from and
               including the date of this Agreement to, but excluding,
               the first Interest Payment Date occurring thereafter,
               and after the initial period, each period from and
               including an Interest Payment Date to, but excluding
               the next following Interest Payment Date.
         (ii)  "Interest Payment Date" means any date specified in
               Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
        (iii)  "LIBOR Base Rate" means, for each Interest Period, the
               London interbank offered rate for six-month deposits
               in dollars for value the first day of such Interest
               Period (or, in the case of the initial Interest Period,
               for value the Interest Payment Date occurring on or
               next preceding the first day of such Interest Period),
               as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as
               a percentage per annum.
         (iv)  "LIBOR Total Spread" means, for each Interest Period:
               (A) one half of one percent (1/2 of 1%); (B) minus (or
               plus) the weighted average margin, for such Interest
               Period, below (or above) the London interbank offered
               rates, or other reference rates, for six-month deposits,
               in respect of the Bank's outstanding borrowings or
               portions thereof allocated by the Bank to fund single
               currency loans or portions thereof made by it that
               include the Loan; as reasonably determined by the Bank
               and expressed as a percentage per annum.
     (c)  The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and
LIBOR Total Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the
determination thereof.
     (d)  Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting
the determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section
2.05, the Bank determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers
as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for determining the
interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as provided in said
Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months' notice
to the Borrower of the new basis. The basis shall become effective on
the expiry of the notice period unless the Borrower notifies the Bank
during said period of its objection thereto, in which case said
modification shall not apply to the Loan.
     Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable April 15
and October  15 in each year.
     Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the
Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule
3 to this Agreement.
                              ARTICLE III
                       Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agree-
ment, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project, through CNR,
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
engineering, economic, financial, administrative, environmental and
Page  4
surveying practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the
Project.
     (b)  Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph (a) above,
the Borrower shall, at all times until the completion of the Project,
operate and maintain, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank, in a commercial bank acceptable to the Bank, a revolving fund
with a quarterly balance equivalent to the counterpart funding require-
ments for the next three months of Project implementation, as provided
in the annual budget referred to in Section 3.04 (c) of this Agreement.
     Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procure-
ment of the goods, works, Mapping Services, Information Services and
consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
     Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General
Conditions, and without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
     (a)  prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank,
and furnish to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing
Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the
Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the future operation of the Project;
and
     (b)  afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views
with the Borrower on said plan.
     Section 3.04.  The Borrower shall:
     (a)  maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to
monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators
satisfactory to the Bank, the carrying out of the Project and the
achievement of the objectives thereof;
     (b)  furnish to the Bank, during the months of January, April,
July, and October of each year until the completion of the Project,
a report of such scope and detail as the Bank may reasonably request,
on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during
the three calendar months preceding the date of said report pursuant
to the monitoring and evaluation indicators referred to in paragraph
(a) above. As part of the report to be delivered during the month of
October of 1998, the Borrower shall also prepare and include, under
terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, data integrating the
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant
to paragraph (a) above, on the progress achieved in the carrying out
of the Project since the initiation of the execution of the Project;
     (c)  in each of the reports to be delivered during the month of
October of each year according to paragraph (b) above, also recommend
the measures to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and
the achievement of the objectives thereof, including a budget, an
investment plan and the targets to be achieved for the implementation
of the Project during the succeeding calendar year; and
     (d)  review with the Bank, by not later than November 30 of each
year until the completion of the Project, beginning in 1997, the
corresponding report delivered during the month of October according
to paragraph (b) above, and thereafter take all measures, satisfactory
to the Bank, required to ensure the efficient completion of the
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof.
     Section 3.05. Without limitation to any of its obligations under
this Agreement, the Borrower shall maintain:
     (a)  CNR, during Project implementation with:
          (i)  an organizational structure satisfactory to the Bank;
               and
Page  5
         (ii)  an Executive Director, a national Project coordinator
               and a PMU manager, all with functions and responsibi-
               lities satisfactory to the Bank and with experience
               and qualifications acceptable to the Bank; and
     (b)  in CNR, until the report referred to in Section 9.07 (c) of
the General Conditions has been prepared, a Project management unit
with functions and responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank which
shall include, inter alia:
          (i)  carrying out of Part C.1 of the Project;
         (ii)  preparation of the plan referred to in Section 3.03 (a)
               of this Agreement and the reports referred to in Section
               3.04 (b) of this Agreement and 9.07 (c) of the General
               Conditions;
        (iii)  processing of documentation required for:
               (A)  the disbursement of Loan proceeds; and
               (B)  the procurement of goods, works, Mapping Services,
                    Information Services and consultants' services
                    under the Project;
         (iv)  maintenance of the records and separate accounts
               referred to in Section 4.01 of this Agreement; and
          (v)  maintenance of continuous supervision of quality
               control over the Project activities, in accordance
               with means and procedures acceptable to the Bank.
     Section 3.06. The Borrower shall obtain the Bank's non-objection
before initiating any Project activity to be carried out in any part
of the Borrower's territory bordering on the territory of another
country.
     Section 3.07. The Borrower shall, not later than March 30, 1997,
hire a team of at least two consultants to assist PMU to carry out
continuous supervision and coordination of quality control of Project
activities.
                                ARTICLE IV
                           Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and separate accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with sound accounting practices the operations, resources
and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph
               (a) of this Section including those for the Special
               Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
               with appropriate auditing principles consistently
               applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
               Bank;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any
               case not later than six months after the end of each
               such year, the report of such audit by said auditors,
               of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall
               have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
               said records and accounts and the audit thereof as the
               Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
Page  6
     (c)  For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from
the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure,
the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with
               paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts
               reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, until at least one year after the Bank has
               received the audit report for the fiscal year in which
               the last withdrawal from the Loan Account was made,
               all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills,
               receipts and other documents) evidencing such expen-
               ditures;
        (iii)  enable the Bank's representatives to examine such
               records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are included in
               the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this
               Section and that the report of such audit contains a
               separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the
               statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal
               year, together with the procedures and internal
               controls involved in their preparation, can be relied
               upon to support the related withdrawals.
                                ARTICLE V
                          Remedies of the Bank
     Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Con-
ditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  The CNR Law or the Cadastre Law or any provision thereof
shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so
as to affect materially and adversely, in the opinion of the Bank,
the ability of the Borrower to perform any of their obligations under
this Agreement.
     (b)  The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment
of CNR.
     Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Con-
ditions, the following additional events are specified, namely, that
any of the events specified in Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall
occur.
                              ARTICLE VI
                      Effective Date; Termination
     Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions, namely,
that: (a) the revolving fund referred to in Section 3.01 (b) has
been established; and (b) the Borrower has entered into an agreement,
satisfactory to the Bank, with the United Nations Development Program
or with any other entity acceptable to the Bank, to assist the
Borrower in the carrying out of activities related to the procurement
of goods, works, Mapping Services, Information Services an the
contracting of consultants' services under the Project.
     Section 6.02. The date March 11, 1997 is hereby specified for
the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
                             ARTICLE VII
                Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is desig-
Page  7
nated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section
11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Ministerio de Hacienda
          Condominio de las Tres Torres
          Urbanizacin Buenos Aires
          San Salvador, El Salvador
                                        Telex:
                                        30120245
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
          Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                Telex:
               INTBAFRAD                248423 (MCI) or
               Washington, D.C.          64145 (MCI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.
               REPUBLIC OF EL SALVADOR
               By /s/ Manuel Enrique Hinds
                                                Authorized Representative
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
               By /s/ Gobind T. Nankani
                                           Acting Regional Vice President
                                          Latin America and the Caribbean
                                 SCHEDULE 1
                   Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the
Loan to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so
to be financed in each Category:
                        Amount of the
                       Loan Allocated             % of
                       (Expressed in          Expenditures
     Category             Dollars)           to be Financed
(1)  Works, Mapping       14,400,000         80%
     Services and
     Information Services
Page  8
(2)  Goods                 5,200,000         100% of foreign
                                             expenditures,
                                             100% of local
                                             expenditures
                                             (ex-factory
                                             cost) and 87%
                                             of local ex-
                                             penditures for
                                             other items pro-
                                             cured locally
(3)  Consultants'         20,200,000         100% of foreign
     services                                expenditures
                                             and 60% of local
                                             expenditures
(4)  Training              1,500,000         100%
 (5) Salaries and          4,200,000         100% until
     operating costs                         disbursements
                                             under this
                                             Category shall
                                             have reached an
                                             aggregate amount
                                             equivalent to
                                             $2,000,000;
                                             75% until
                                             disbursements
                                             under this
                                             Category shall
                                             have reached an
                                             aggregate amount
                                             equivalent to
                                             $3,000,000; and
                                             50% thereafter
(6)  Refunding of          2,100,000         Amount due pur-
     Project Prepara-                        suant to Section
     tion Advance                            2.02 (c) of this
                                             Agreement
(7)  Unallocated           2,400,000
                          __________
          TOTAL           50,000,000
                          ==========
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that
of the Borrower;
     (b)  the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower;
     (c)  the term "training" means: (i) training materials; (ii)
rental of training facilities; (iii) transportation expenses of
trainees to the place where training is provided and subsistence
expenses for such trainees; (iv) scholarships and fellowships for
training courses to be provided in the Borrower's territory or
abroad; and (v) study tours and internships in the Borrower's
territory or abroad; and
     (d)  the term "salaries and operating costs" means: (i)
remuneration of personnel hired under the Project; and (ii)
recurrent costs associated with the implementation of the Project,
including: (A) operation, leasing and maintenance of: (a) office
equipment, vehicles (including fuel, repairs and spare parts); and
(b) office facilities under the Project; (B) insurance for equip-
ment and vehicles procured under the Project; (C) office utilities
Page  9
associated with the functioning of the PMU; (D) communications
expenses required for the implementation of Part A.2 of the
Project; and (E) office materials.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals in an
aggregate amount not to exceed $5,000,000 equivalent, may be made
on account of payments made for expenditures before that date but
after July 1, 1995.
4.   The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be
made on the basis of statements of expenditure, under such terms
and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower,
for:
     (a)  expenditures for goods, works, Mapping Services Information
Services and consultants' services under contracts:
          (i)  costing less than the equivalent of:
               (A)  $250,000 in the case of goods and $1,000,000 in
                    the case of works and Mapping Services (other
                    than the first two contracts for goods, the first
                    two contracts for works and the first two con-
                    tracts for Mapping Services to be awarded during
                    Project implementation pursuant to the provisions
                    of Part C.2 of Section I of Schedule 4 to this
                    Agreement);
               (B)  $100,000 in the case of consulting firms' services;
                    and
               (C)  $50,000 in the case of individual consultants'
                    services; and
         (ii)  for Information Services to be awarded pursuant to the
               provisions of Part C.5 of Section I of Schedule 4 to
               this Agreement, regardless of the cost thereof; and
               (b) payments made under Categories (4) and (5) of the
               table set forth in paragraph 1 of this Schedule.
                               SCHEDULE 2
                      Description of the Project
     The objectives of the Project are to: (a) modernize the Borrower's
public registries and the cadastre of real estate; and (b) establish
the bases for land regularization in the Borrower's territory.
     The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Institutional Strengthening
1.   Strengthening of the institutional capacity of CNR to implement
its mandate under the law through: (a) the provision of, inter alia,
technical assistance, training and goods therefor; and (b) the
leasing, construction and rehabilitation of office facilities for
CNR, as needed.
2.   Development and implementation of an automated land information
system.
3.   Decentralization of the recording and cadastral services of CNR
into at least four regional offices and about fifty two municipal
offices.
Part B:   Land Regularization
1.   Carrying out of mapping activities, including aerial photography
Page  10
and field surveys, to establish a parcel-based database of the
Borrower's territory.
2.   Completion of the pilot program for land regularization that is
being implemented in the Borrower's Department of Sonsonate.
3.   Carrying out of public information campaigns to promote land
regularization in the Borrower's territory.
4.   Carrying out of the activities required to initiate the process
for the conversion of the real estate files of CNR from the system
of folio personal (grantee-based files) to the system of folio real
(parcel-based files), including the identification of the legal
status of each parcel.
5.   Provision of technical assistance on mechanisms for non-judicial
resolution of real-estate related disputes.
6.   Provision of technical assistance to develop and implement new
judicial and administrative procedures for the resolution of real-
estate related issues.
Part C:   Project Administration
1.   Administration, coordination, evaluation and monitoring of the
Project activities.
2.   Provision of technical assistance for the carrying out of
auditing activities under the Project.
                                  * * *
     The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2001.
                                SCHEDULE 3
                           Amortization Schedule
                                         Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                        (expressed in dollars)*
     October 15, 2000                          1,300,000
     April 15, 2001                            1,335,000
     October 15, 2001                          1,375,000
     April 15, 2002                            1,420,000
     October 15, 2002                          1,460,000
     April 15, 2003                            1,505,000
     October 15, 2003                          1,550,000
     April 15, 2004                            1,595,000
     October 15, 2004                          1,645,000
     April 15, 2005                            1,695,000
     October 15, 2005                          1,745,000
     April 15, 2006                            1,795,000
     October 15, 2006                          1,850,000
     April 15, 2007                            1,905,000
     October 15, 2007                          1,960,000
     April 15, 2008                            2,020,000
     October 15, 2008                          2,080,000
     April 15, 2009                            2,145,000
     October 15, 2009                          2,205,000
     April 15, 2010                            2,275,000
     October 15, 2010                          2,340,000
     April 15, 2011                            2,410,000
     October 15, 2011                          2,485,000
     April 15, 2012                            2,560,000
     October 15, 2012                          2,635,000
     April 15, 2013                            2,710,000
                                              __________
                                    Totals    50,000,000
                                              ==========
_____________________
Page  11
*    The figures in this column represent the amount in dollars to be
     repaid, except as provided in Section 4.04 (d) of the General
     Conditions.
                               SCHEDULE 4
                   Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.     Procurement of Goods, Works, Mapping Services and
               Information Services
Part A:   General
     Goods, works, Mapping Services and Information Services shall be
procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published
by the Bank in January 1995 (the Guidelines) and the following pro-
visions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:   International Competitive Bidding
     Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods
works and Mapping Services shall be procured under contracts awarded
in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines
and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Limited International Bidding
     Vehicles estimated to cost $250,0000 equivalent or more per
contract, up to an aggregate amount of $2,000,000 equivalent, may
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions
of paragraph 3.2 of the Guidelines.
2.   National Competitive Bidding
     Goods estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $250,000 but
more than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount
of $250,000 equivalent, works estimated to cost less than the
equivalent of $1,000,0000 but more than $350,000 equivalent per
contract and Mapping Services estimated to cost less than $1,000,000
equivalent per contract, may be procured under contracts awarded in
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the
Guidelines.
3.   International or National Shopping
     Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or less per
contract, up to an aggregate amount of $2,000,000 equivalent, may
be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of international
or national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
4.   Procurement of Small Works
     Works estimated to cost the equivalent of $350,000 or less per
contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $2,000,000, may be
procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis
of quotations obtained from three qualified domestic contractors in
response to a written invitation. The invitation shall include a
detailed description of the works, including basic specifications,
the required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable
to the Bank, and relevant drawings, where applicable. The award
shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation
for the required work, and who has the experience and resources to
complete the contract successfully.
5.   Direct Contracting
     Information Services costing $3,500,000 equivalent in the
aggregate may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be procured in
Page  12
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines
at prices not higher than the prevailing rates for comparable
services offered in the Borrower's territory.
Part D:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.   Procurement Planning
     Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts,
the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to
the Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the pro-
visions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement
of all goods, works, Mapping Services and Information Services shall
be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have
been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph
1.
2.   Prior Review
     With respect to: (a) each contract to be awarded pursuant to the
provisions of Parts B.1 and C.1 of this Section; and (b) the first two
contracts for goods, the first two contracts for works and the first
two contracts for Mapping Services to be awarded during Project
implementation pursuant to the provisions of Part C.2 of this Section,
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply.
3.   Post Review
     With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.    Employment of Consultants
1.   Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in
accordance with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guide-
lines). For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts shall be
based on the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued
by the Bank, with such modifications thereto as shall have been agreed
by the Bank. Where no relevant standard contract documents have been
issued by the Bank, other standard forms acceptable to the Bank shall
be used.
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section,
the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review
or approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures, letters of
invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts, shall not
apply to: (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms esti-
mated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each; or (b) contracts for
the employment of individual consultants estimated to cost less than
$50,000 equivalent each. However, said exceptions to prior Bank
review shall not apply to: (a) the terms of reference for such
contracts; (b) single-source selection of consulting firms; (c)
assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the
Bank; (d) amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting
firms raising the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above; or
(e) amendments to contracts for the employment of individual con-
sultants raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.
                               SCHEDULE 5
                            Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "eligible Categories" means Categories 1, 2, 3, 4
and 5 set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;
Page  13
     (b)  the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equal to
$2,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into
the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule,
provided, however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equal to
$500,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan
Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments
entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General
Conditions, shall be equal to or exceed $6,500,000.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.   After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account
shall be made as follows:
     (a)  For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the
Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such
request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, with-
draw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such
amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
     (b)  (i)  For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower
               shall furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into
               the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank
               shall specify.
         (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
               Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents and
               other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of
               this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect
               of which replenishment is requested. On the basis of
               each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
               Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit
               into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
               shall have requested and as shall have been shown by
               said documents and other evidence to have been paid
               out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures.
               All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from
               the Loan Account under the respective eligible
               Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts,
               as shall have been justified by said documents and
               other evidence.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account,
the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request,
furnish to the Bank such documents and other evidence showing that
such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule,
the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the
Special Account:
     (a)  if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement;
     (b)  if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank,
within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of
Page  14
this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished
to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the
records and accounts for the Special Account;
     (c)  if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower
of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the
Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to the
provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
     (d)  once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Categories of the Project, minus the total amount
of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to
the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after
and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the
date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for
eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to
the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank:
(A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so
request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless
the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into
the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
     (b)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.
     (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.
     (d)  Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b)
and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General Condi-
tions.
