Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 11483
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
FOURTH NIGERIAN INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK PROJECT
(LOAN 2299-UNI)
DECEMBER 22, 1992
Industry and Energy Operations Division
Western Africa Department
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit  =    Naira (N)
1983 US$1      =    Naira 0.71
1986 US$1      =    Naira 1.75
1987 US$1      =    Naira 4.02
1988 US$1      =    Naira 4.54
1989 US$1      =    Naira 7.37
1990 US$1      =    Naira 8.04
1991 US$1      =    Naira 9.44
ABBREVIATIONS
CBN     -    Central Bank of Nigeria
EIB     -    European Investment Bank
ERR     -    Economic Rate of Return
FGN     -    Federal Government of Nigeria
FRR     -    Financial Rate of Return
ICB     -    International Competitive Bidding
ICC     -    Industrial Credit Corporation of Ireland
ICON    -    Investment Company of Nigeria Limited
MIS     -    Management Information System
NBCI   -    Nigerian Bank of Commerce and Industry
NDIC   -    Nigerian Deposit Insurance Corporation
NIDB    -    Nigerian Industrial Development Bank
PCR     -    Project Completion Report
SAP     -    Structural Adjustment Program
SFEM    -    Second Tier Foreign Exchange Market
SME    -    Small and Medium Enterprise
FISCAL YEAR
Government   January 1 - December 31
NIDB          January 1  - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
W"hington, D.C. 20433
U.SA
Otfice of Diroctor-Goneral
Operations Evalualtion
December 22, 1992
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Federal Republic of Nigeria - Fourth
Nigerian Industrial Development Bank (NIDB IV) Proiect (Loan 2299-UND
Attached is a copy of the report entitled "Project Completion Report on Federal Republic of
Nigeria - Fourth Nigerian Industrial Development Bank (NIDB IV) Project (Loan 2299-UNI)" prepared
by the Africa Regional Office, with Part U contributed by the Borrower. It provides a satisfactory
assessment of project achievements.
The project outcome has been affected by adverse macroeconomic conditions (foreign exchange
shortage, liquidity squeeze, drastic and frequent devaluations), and NIDB's less than prudent banking
practices in project selection. NIDB has been marginally profitable, but its portfolio has been characterized
by large arrears and its finances have required substantial injections of equity and debt conversion by
Government.  The overall performance of the project is rated as satisfactory with partial institutional
impact.
While project sustainability is rated as uncertain, it should be noted that NIDB, the major financial
intermediary providing term financing to Nigerian entrepreneurs, has recently made an effort to reorganize,
improve its policies, procedures, and work methods, and implement a restructuring and diversification
program.
An audit will be conducted on both NIDB Im and IV spanning a period of 15 years, with a view
to ascertaining the prospects for NIDB's effecdveness in Nigeria's widening and more open financial
sector.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distributlon and may be used by recipients only In the performance of their oMcial dmSleL
Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
FOURTH NIGERIAN INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK PROJECT
(LOAN 2299-UNI)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE   .....................................................                                                 i
EVALUATION SUMMARY  ..........................................    iii
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW  FROM  THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE  ................    1
1. Project Identity ..............................................                                         1
2. Background  ................................................                                            1
3. Project Objectives, Description, Design and Organization   ...................    3
4. Project Implementation  .........................................    5
5. Project Results  ..............................................    6
6. NIDB Operations  ............................................   10
7. Project Sustainability  ..........................................   13
8. Bank Performance ............................................   14
9. Borrower Performance  .........................................   14
10. Findings and Lessons ..........................................   15
11. Project Documentation and Data  ...................................   16
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW  FROM  THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE  ....                                     .......  17
1.  The Nigerian Economic and Industrial Scene  ...........................   17
2.  NIDB's Strategic Response  ......................................   19
3.  Conclusion   ................................................   20
Annex A: Collection Performance Report for the Year 1991  ....................  22
Annex B: Provisions for Bad and Doubtful Debts - Guidelines for Making Provisions  ....  23
Annex C: Recommendations of ICC on Policies on Providing for Doubtful
Investments Earlier Agreed Between the World BanklNIDB/External Auditors   ...  25
PART IH: STATISTICAL INFORMATION  ................................   29
Table 1: Related Bank Loans  .......................................   29
Table 2: Project Timetable .........................................   30
Table 3: Loan Disbursements - Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Disbursements  ......            .       .....................................   31
Table 4: Project Costs and Financing  ..................................   32
Table 5: Status of Covenants  .......................................   33
Table 6: Use of Bank Resources  .....................................   35
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (cont'd.)
ANNEXES
1.  Action Program   .............................................  37
2.  Outline of Development Strategy for 1983 Through 1985 .41
3.  Characteristics of Projects and Costs Approved Under Loan 2299-UNI .43
4.  Performance of Sub-projects Financed Under Loan 2299-UNI .45
5.  Sectoral Distribution of Projects Financed Under Loan 2299-UNI .47
6.  Geographical Distribution of Projects Assisted Under 2299-UNI .48
7.  Investment Cost Distribution of Projects Financed Under
Loan 2299-UNI .49
8.  List of Cancelled and In-active Sub-projects Under Loan 2299-UNI .............  50
9.  Comparison of Portfolio Arrears of Over Six Months ......................  51
10.  Comparative Income Statement for 1979-1990 ...........................  52
11.  Comparative Balance Sheets ......................................   53
12.  Statement of Key Financial Ratios 1979-1989 ...........................  54



- i -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
FOURTH NIGERIAN INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK PROJECT
(LOAN 2299-UNI)
PREFACE
This is a Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Fourth Nigerian Industrial Development
Bank (NIDB) Project in Nigeria, for which Loan 2299-UNI was approved in the amount of US$120
million equivalent. The Loan was appraised in September 1982, approved by the Board on June 2,
1983, and declared effective on April 6, 1984. It was closed on December 31, 1991 (against the
original closing date of December 31, 1988). The final disbursements amounted to $118.8 million or
99.0% of the loan amount.
This PCR has been prepared by the Industry and Energy Operations Division of the Western
Africa Department (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III). It is based, inter alia, on the Staff
Appraisal Report; correspondences between the Bank and the Borrower; internal Bank memoranda; and
information in the project file. The Borrower has prepared Part II of this PCR.






- a11 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
FOURTH NIGERIAN INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK PROJECT
(LOAN 2299-UNI)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.       The Nigerian Industrial Development Bank (NIDB) was established in 1964 as a successor
to the largely British owned Investment Company of Nigeria Limited (ICON). IFC assisted in the
reconstitution of NIDB and purchased 25% of NIDB's equity. Following the indigenization decree of
1972 Government bought out all shareholders at par, including IFC. NIDB has received four direct
loans from the Bank, the fourth (oan 2299-UNI) approved in 1983 being the one under reviewY
Obiectives
2.       The basic objectives of the project under the fourth NIDB loan were: (a) to continue the
Bank's institutional support of NIDB, in particular through the implementation of an agreed Action
Program (Annex 1) and a Development Strategy (Annex 2 ; (b) to support NIDB's efforts at mobilizing
additional resources from the foreign capital markets; and (c) to transfer needed foreign exchange
resources from the Bank to viable industrial projects in Nigeria.
Implementation Experience
3.       Project became effective on April 6, 1984, about ten months after the Board approval of June
2, 1983. Project start up was initially delayed as a result of late creation of "Managed Fund", the
purpose of which was to separate Government behest subprojects from the NIDB portfolio (Part I,
para 4.01). Project implementation was initially about two years behind schedule. By the original
terminal date for subproject approval, December 31, 1985, only about US$30 million or one-fourth of
the loan amount had been committed. At the request of the NIDB, this date was extended three times
to finally December 31, 1988 (Part I, para 4.02). Disbursements were also slow and were significantly
below the levels anticipated in the appraisal. The loan closed on December 31, 1991, after four
extensions. Almost the entire loan amount of US$120 million was disbursed (Part I, para 4.03).
4.       One of the main objectives of the project was to continue the Bank's institutional support of
the NIDB. Due to the unexpected economic and portfolio problems in NIDB in the early years of the
implementation, the institution building aspect of the project was delayed. Based on the Bank's support
and financed under the project, in 1989 NIDB engaged Industrial Credit Corporation (ICC) of Ireland
' The experience with the first two loans is reviewed in PPAR dated October 10, 1977 (No. 1750).
The third loan PCR was prepared on October 22, 1990 (No. 9084).



- iv -
to conduct a strategic study of its operations and to outline a role for NIDB in the context of an open
financial markets in the 1990s. In 1990, based on the ICC recommendations, NIDB was restructured.
The study essentially recommended a more diversified outlook for NIDB operations through
strengthening of its commercial activities and development of other viable commercial ventures, in
addition to more efficient and financially self supporting development banking.
Results
5.       Generally speaking, NIDB's performance under the loan should be treated as mixed. While
satisfactory progress was made in certain areas, more work in still necessary to be done in some others.
The loan financed a total of 46 subprojects. The approved subprojects represented 36 new ventures and
10 expansion or rehabilitation subprojects. About 91% or 42 subprojects were fully owned by
Nigerians. The project also achieved a fairly broad geographic dispersal.
6.       Besides institution building, NIDB achieved, with varying degrees of success, most of the
objectives set out for it at the time of appraisal, in particular: (a) upgrading management information
system (Part I, para 5.06); (b) resource mobilization (Part I, para 5.07); (c) geographical dispersal of
NIDB's assistance (Part I, para 5.08); and (d) maintenance of the interest rates at the minimum level
of 13% and assumption of foreign exchange by the sub-borrowers (Part I, para 5.09).
7.       NIDB has been able to maintain its lending operations with a consistent, although relatively
low, level of profitability since its inception. However, in the Nigerian economic environment, as in
many other countries that suffer from a system of price distortions, profitability alone cannot be
considered sufficient to ensure sustainability in the long run. NIDB has undoubtedly achieved the basic
function of transferring investment resources to industrial borrowers, but given the high level of arrears
(58% of portfolio as at December 31, 1990 was affected), and the poor implementation record and
performance of many subprojects, NIDB's capacity for project appraisal needed considerable
improvement. In addition NIDB's interest accruals policy and possible under-provisioning of doubtful
debts especially in the early years of implementation made its profitability somewhat illusory (Part I,
para 6.09). While NIDB's existence is largely dependent on Government support, it must be stated to
its credit that it has in the recent past diversified its operations through: (a) mobilization of domestic
resources through debenture issue; (b) undertaking some commercial banking activities;
(c) establishment of two subsidiaries to carry out leasing and management consultancy operations; and
(d) commencement of implementation of the recommendations of the ICC restructuring program (Part I,
para 7.02). Furthermore, NIDB, after a slow start has been intensifying its loan recovery efforts
through improved supervision and debt collection practices.
8.       In summary, given the adverse macroeconomic circumstances which prevailed during the
implementation period, the project was successful in achieving most of its major objectives.
Findings and Lessons Learned
9.       NIDB has carried out its mandate under difficult economic and operational conditions. With
continued Government support, it has been able to overcome many financial and organizational
problems. A few lessons can be drawn from the experience of implementation of this project. EiM,
the loan required sub-borrowers to assume the foreign exchange risks. Following the major Naira
devaluation which started from September 26, 1986, the Naira equivalent of NIDB's portfolio of foreign
currency sub-loans increased manifold. This situation made it virtually impossible for some of NIDB
clients to service their debts. The 1986 devaluation, in particular, had a very serious consequence for



- v 
the NIDB subprojects which increased the Naira equivalent of their foreign exchange loans manifold.
However, in 1987 the FGN decided to step in and provide a one time "safety net" by guaranteeing
exchange rate of US$1 = N 1.57 for all disbursements made or letters of credit outstanding as of
September 26, 1986. It should be pointed out that the FGN safety net was extended for the entire
banking system which NIDB application was part of. The result was that the foreign exchange losses
for sub-borrowers who had opened letters of credit up to September 26, 1986, were partly alleviated;
(Part I, paras 5.11 and 10.03). This emphasizes the importance of having a reasonable balance between
foreign currency and local currency loans. It is important to note that the macroeconomic conditions
and stable foreign exchange in 1982/83 justified the design of the project to require assumption of
foreign exchange risks by the sub-borrowers. The significant devaluations of the Naira, which occurred
as a result of foreign exchange liberalization policies under SAP which started during mid-
implementation could not have been anticipated at the appraisal time. It seems the project would have
had better results if the sub-borrowers could have repaid in Naira (without foreign exchange risk
assumption) but with market based local currency interest rates. Second, institution building is a slow
and continuous process, therefore, lack of discipline in following sound banking practices and
inadequate commitment to continued staff training can affect the institution's effectiveness. NIDB has
made limited progress in these areas and should continue its activities in this process (Part I,
para 10.04). Third, NIDB did not maintain a reasonable balance between its developmental and
commercial objectives (Part I, para 10.05). Finally, it is very important for NIDB to take a critical and
deep analytical look at project appraisals before commitment especially when the economic situation is
likely to change to such an extent that original assumptions underlying projections would no longer
remain valid. NIDB should undertake a more thorough sensitivity analysis on all subprojects (Part I,
para 10.06).






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
FOURTH NIGERIAN INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK PROJECT
(LOAN 2299-UNI)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1. Project Identitv
Name:         Fourth Nigerian Industrial Development Bank Project (NIDB IV)
Loan Number:  2299-UNI
Regional Unit:  Africa Region - Western Africa Department
Country:       Nigeria
Sector:        Industry
2. Background
2.01    One of the principal aims of the Nigerian Government after independence was to achieve
higher rates of economic growth by breaking the patterns of colonial trade, by which primary raw
materials were exchanged for manufactured goods. Since markets for many consumer goods had
already been established among Nigeria's higher income groups, import substitution of consumer goods
offered a ready means of industrializing and was pursued vigorously. Protection in the form of high
tariffs and bans on imports of competing products was made readily available, as well as other
incentives such as preferential treatment for imports of capital and intermediate goods. As the limits
of the domestic high income market began to be reached in the 1970s, the pace of industrial output
growth was sustained by using the same instruments of protection to substitute imports of consumer
durables (e.g., motorcars), intermediate and capital goods and to establish industries that upgraded
domestic raw materials and were considered to be of basic importance to Nigeria's economic
development (e.g., steel, petrochemicals, etc). Since the investments required in these latter industries
were large and were slow in coming from the private sector, the Government assumed the responsibility
of promoting them and state investments in them were particularly large during the oil boom years when
there were ample resources in the public sector. Many state sponsored investments were not adequately
evaluated and have turned out to be financially unsuccessful.
2.02    By the mid-1980s, Nigeria's manufacturing sector exhibited three disturbing characteristics.
Firstly, it was not generating foreign exchange for the national economy, on the contrary, it was a
substantial net user of foreign exchange and had to rely on other sectors to generate its needs to
purchase processed inputs and spare parts.  Secondly, because of its high comparative costs,
manufacturing was entirely dependent on the internal market for growth, particularly the urban market
where services and construction activities had thrived on the expenditure of state oil revenues. This
dependence became clear when Nigeria's economy began to contract as a result of the sharp fall in oil
prices in the early 1980s. Both shrinking domestic demand and shortages of foreign exchange to
purchase imports and spare parts, resulted in very low capacity utilization levels. Thirdly, the public



- 2 -
sector had overextended its management capacity. Industrial enterprises in the public sector, as well
as parastatals that were created to provide services to the community at large including the
manufacturing sector (e.g., power, water supply and sewage services, etc.), were not performing their
intended functions adequately or at acceptable cost and were, moreover, requiring substantial
subventions from the state.
2.03    The Structural Adjustment Program (SAP) introduced in the fall of 1986 constituted a radical
break with previous economic policies. The basic features of SAP that affected the industrial sector
were: the introduction of the second-tier foreign exchange market (SFEM) and later merging both tiers
into one FEM; reform of tariff and export policies; removal of all price controls to enable producers
to operate profitably in the new environment; liberalization of interest rates; and initiation of a
commercialization of public sector enterprises.
2.04    The manufacturing sector, although only about 10% of GDP, occupies a prominent role in
the country's development goals and plans. The sector is expected to play a critical role in the
structural transformation of the economy through diversification of the productive base, employment
generation, and exploitation of key natural resources. It is also expected to play a catalytic role in the
development of other sectors of the economy through backward linkages, skill formation and
entrepreneurial development.
2.05    Nigeria has a relatively well developed financial system with an extensive and growing
commercial banking network throughout the country. The Nigerian financial system has open entry
under rather liberal rules and regulations. Nigeria's financial system is one of the more complex ones
in the developing world. It comprises over 110 commercial and merchant banks, a few development
finance institutions, over 100 insurance companies, 800 to 900 pension funds, seven stock exchanges
and a number of other small specialized financial institutions serving inter alia small enterprises and
rural borrowers. Monetary policy is conducted by the Central Bank of Nigeria which also supervises
banks together with the Nigerian Deposit Insurance Corporation (NDIC). Capital market institutions,
including the Securities and exchange Commission which directly supervises the stock exchanges, are
ultimately regulated by the Ministries of Finance and Trade.
2.06    Although the level of commercial bank term-lending to manufacturing enterprises increased
significantly during the later part of 1970s and early 1980s, this situation reversed with the growing
domestic liquidity squeeze and foreign exchange shortage.  Available data indicates that the
manufacturing sector may have received less than its share of credit over the period 1982-88. During
this period aggregate credit increased at an average annual rate of 14.8% compared to 17.1% for the
government sector and 12.5% for the manufacturing sector. The NIDB remains the country's leading
development finance institution and the primary source of term financing for predominately private
industrial projects in Nigeria. Another development finance institution, NBCI, which concentrates on
financing small and medium enterprises, has received a first line of credit (Loan 2376-UNI approved
in December 1983) from the Bank for onlending to SMEs. Yet another loan (2995-UNI) for private
sector SMEs was granted to FGN in 1988 which is administered by the CBN.
2.07    The project under review was implemented against a backdrop of sharply declining GDP
(1977-78 N32.5 billion vs. 1983 N27.9 billion) and falling levels of manufacturing outputs in real
values in the country. It was only after 1986 that the economic trends in Nigeria began to show some
improvement.



- 3 -
3. Project Objectives. Description, Design and Oreanization
3.01    Project Objectives: The basic objectives of the project were:
(a) to continue the Bank's institutional support of NIDB, in particular through assistance in the
formulation and implementation by NIDB of a comprehensive Action Program (detailed in
Annex 1) as summarized below:
(i) strengthening its organizational structure, recruitment and training programs;
(ii) improving its management information systems and internal coordination;
(iii) improving loan recovery effectiveness and reducing arrears; and
(iv) reviewing its equity investments operations to determine their economic impact and
profitability, and to set out objectives and strategy in this area.
It would also implement a Development Strategy (detailed in Annex 2), the general thrust of
which was to increase NIDB's contribution to the Nigerian economy by broadening its
activities (including research activities); diversifying its operations and directing them toward
priority subsectors; and broadening NIDB's resource base.
(b) to support NIDB's efforts at mobilizing additional resources from the foreign capital markets;
and
(c) to transfer needed foreign exchange resources from the Bank to viable industrial projects in
Nigeria.
3.02    Project Description: The Bank loan proceeds of US$120 million was expected to finance
100% of the cost of direct imports, 50% of domestically-procured capital goods, and 35% of local civil
works. The last two percentages represent the estimated foreign exchange components. In addition,
NIDB was to develop its apex lending role further, and was to devise guidelines and procedures
satisfactory to the Bank for using a part of the Loan proceeds to finance subprojects through state-level
and regional DFIs in Nigeria. Finally NIDB was to be allowed to use up to US$500,000 of the loan
to finance the foreign exchange expenditures of technical assistance for its operations. To encourage
NIDB's lending to the private sector, a ceiling of US$24 million (20% of the loan amount) was set for
financing public sector subprojects.
3.03    The free limit whereby NIDB could review and approve subprojects on its own was increased
from US$650,000 under the previous loan to US$ 1,000,000, and the aggregate free limit under the loan
from US$15 million to US$40 million under the fourth NIDB loan. The expectation was that 45% of
the number and up to 25% of the amount of subprojects financed would fall under the free limit. To
ensure that loan proceeds go to a reasonably large number of subprojects, a ceiling on the size of the
individual subloans eligible for Bank financing was set at US$8.5 million (equivalent to 7% the loan
amount).
3.04    At the time of appraisal, it was expected that subprojects to be assisted under the loan would
be predominantly private sector projects selected with an emphasis on priority industrial subsectors
(agro-industry, engineering industries, construction materials and other intermediate goods).



3.05    NIDB's interest rate at the time of appraisal was 13% per annum which was the maximum
allowed under the prevailing guidelines from CBN. In addition, NIDB intended to introduce a one-time
1.25% appraisal and development fee. As part of the loan conditionality, NIDB agreed to a minimum
interest rate of 13% per annum. NIDB was also to pass to sub-borrowers the foreign exchange risk.
3.06    Project Design: The conceptualization of the project at the time of appraisal (to mostly
finance new and import substituting industrial projects, and to carry out an institutional and technical
reform of NIDB) appeared to be appropriate, on the basis of the Government's commitment to industrial
development as being one of the main pillars of Nigeria's long-term development. However, NIDB's
appraisal capacity of sponsor's ability to implement subprojects and to contribute their share of the
investment cost was over-estimated. Also at the time of appraisal it was not quite foreseen that NIDB
had an immediate need to upgrade its portfolio and assets management capabilities to conduct adequate
analysis of subproject implementation which led to high cost escalations which often were beyond the
sponsor's capacity to manage. Given the macro economic framework prevalent at the time of appraisal,
the project design also did not envisage the effects of the SAP which during project implementation
resulted in significant and frequent devaluations of Naira. With the foreign exchange risk being
assumed by the subproject sponsors, devaluation resulted in substantial increases to their debt in Naira
terms, which most of them were unable to service. The above problems largely contributed to the
limited success of the project. Based on the prevailing macroeconomic conditions and the outlook for
the future, the Bank should have designed and insisted on a mechanism, whereby either (a) Government
would have assumed the foreign exchange risk and the sponsors would have borrowed in Naira terms
under market determined conditions, or (b) through a variable cost mechanism sponsors would have
assumed the foreign exchange risk under a set of conditions commensurate with such borrowing (e.g.
dollar or foreign currency interest rates which at the time were in the single digit range).
3.07    Organization: The Nigerian Industrial Development Bank was established in 1964 as a
successor to the Investment Company of Nigeria (ICON). It is Nigeria's only financial institution
specializing in the provision of term finance (loan and equity) to medium and large scale industrial
projects on a nationwide scale. At first its majority shareholding was privately owned: IFC 25%, CBN
25%, other Nigerians 1%, and foreign private shareholders 499%. Later, it became a wholly owned
government institution under the indigenization policies of the mid-1970s. Since its formation NIDB
has been an important source of development finance for Nigerian industry, particularly of long-term
foreign exchange loans. To enable NIDB to play a key role in Nigeria's development efforts, the
Government provided considerable support to its lending operations under the Third Development Plan
and channelled N93 million in loans and N16 million in equity to NIDB from 1975 to 1977. NIDB's
paid-in share capital, which at the time of the appraisal (September 1982) stood at N99.4 million has
since increased substantially and stood at N397 million as of December 31, 1989.
3.08    Bank Group's association with NIDB dates back to 1964 when IFC assisted NIDB's
establishment and took 25% share in its equity; this investment was later sold to FGN when
indigenization took place. Bank's lending involvement in NIDB started with a loan of $5.6 million
(Loan 588-UNI) in 1969, followed by a second one of $6.2 million (Loan 705-UNI) in 1970. These
loans provided much needed foreign exchange for industrial development during the period of post-war
reconstructionY  A third loan was appraised in 1973, but further processing was ceased, as the
Government decided that it was in a position to provide NIDB with sufficient local and foreign
resources from its own substantial oil revenues at a lower costs. This decision also affected to some
A PPAR on these two Bank loans was circulated in October 1977. The report had concluded that
NIDB performed satisfactorily as an intermediary in implementing these projects.



extent the close relations that had evolved between the Bank Group and NIDB, with the result that
institution building deteriorated. At the same time considerable staff turnover took place due to
comparatively low compensation paid by NIDB and the fact that its staff were in demand by other banks
(other banks were starting to get into term-lending business and they needed people with some
experience in the field). By the fall of 1977, however, it became obvious to the Government that it
could no longer meet NIDB's resource requirements entirely on its own. Discussions were held with
the Bank in September 1977, and subsequently the third loan of $60.0 million (Loan 1597-UNI) was
approved in 1978 marking the resumption of a long-standing association between the Bank and NIDB.
The current project (Loan 2299-UNI), which is the fourth NIDB loan, was approved in 1983.
4. Project Implementation
4.01    Loan Effectiveness and Project Start-up: The project became effective on April 6, 1984,
or about ten months after the Board approval (June 2, 1983). Most effectiveness conditions were met
as had been planned except for the creation of the Managed Fund. Although the creation of Managed
Fund was not a formal condition of effectiveness, the project was recommended by the Bank's
management to the Board for approval on the basis of government assurance that the Managed Fund
would be created shortly after approval. The purpose of the Managed Fund was to seek funding for
and separate certain Government behest subprojects from the rest of the NIDB portfolio as these
subprojects had been identified by the Bank's mission to be one of the major causes of the NIDB's
arrears problem   The effectiveness date was extended three times because of delays in the
implementation of the Managed Fund.
4.02    The project start up was also hampered by the delays in the Government's appointing a new
board of Directors and problems in securing import licenses (up to 1986) for NIDB's subprojects. As
a result of all the problems referred to above, the project implementation was about two years behind
schedule. The original terminal date for subproject approvals, December 31, 1985, proved to be too
optimistic as by that date only about US$30 million or one-fourth of the loan amount had been
committed. The date had to be extended thrice, finally to December 31, 1988. By this final
commitment date almost the entire loan amount had been committed (Annex 8).
4.03    The actual disbursements under the loan were slower than appraisal estimates (see Table 3
in Part III). As of December 31, 1988, the original loan closing date, only about 53% of the loan had
been disbursed. The closing date had to be extended four times and the loan was finally closed on
December 31, 1991. The final loan disbursements were US$118.8 million or 99.0% of the loan
amount. The slower than estimated commitment and disbursement under the project were attributable
to a combination of factors: (a) general start-up problems in the beginning of the project (paras 4.01-
4.02); (b) inadequate staffing situation of NIDB due to uncompetitive salaries, which sometimes led to
departure of good staff during the early years of the project implementation thus affecting NIDB's
project processing capabilities; (c) slow internal bureaucracy within NIDB coupled with governmental
red tape in the issuance of various permits and documents; (d) slow progress in the implementation of
the Action Program under the project which, inter alia, had an effect on strengthening NIDB
organization structure, training programs, and management information systems; this in itself had an
impact on NIDB's marketing and appraisal capabilities; (e) Government's sub-optimal industrial policy,
whereby, it undertook most of the country's investment in industries; and (f) devaluation of Naira at
levels unsustainable to some of NIDB's clients. These factors combined with the unusually slow project
implementation pace in Nigeria, affected the speed of disbursements under the project.



- 6-
4.04     Part of the variance between the planned and actual implementation was due to economic
conditions in Nigeria which could not have been foreseen by NIDB. However, NIDB could have
avoided those resulting from institutional weaknesses to some extent. The appraisal report correctly
identified and made reference to the project risks involving NIDB's institutional shortcomings which
was to be remedied by the implementation of the Action Program (Annex I' and the development
Strategy (Annex 2) under the project. However, what the appraisal report did not foresee was that
inability of NIDB's appraisal staff to carry out intensive and in-depth appraisal and reappraisal of
financial prospects of projects in the emerging difficult economic situation in the country which had the
potential of making their financial projections unrealistic, and thus affecting the viability of the projects.
Furthermore, NIDB quite often failed to thoroughly assess the ability of the project sponsors to invest
their share of the project cost or to have adequate contingency planning for raising resources to meet
cost overruns resulting from the slow project implementation, devaluation and inflation. Had these
deficiencies been rectified in a timely way, some of the project implementation problems could have
been resolved and the related deterrent to the quality of the portfolio avoided.
4.05     Procurement:  Under the previous Bank loan NIDB procurement contracts above US$3
million and turn-key projects for contracts above US$15 million were subject to ICB. These limits were
maintained under the fourth NIDB loan. For those procurement (local and foreign) not subject to ICB,
NIDB's normal practice of requiring alternative quotations (usually three) was found satisfactory.
5. Project Results
5.01     Project Objectives: Generally speaking, NIDB's performance under the loan should be
treated as mixed: most of the loan objectives set out at the time of appraisal were realized (some
objectives had to be modified due to changing macro economic conditions). At the same time many
subprojects faced implementation difficulties, including delays in commitments and disbursements.
5.02     NIDB approved a total of 54 subprojects, two of which were later canceled and six have been
inactive with no disbursements. The details of the 46 financed subprojects comprising 36 new ventures
and 10 expansion/rehabilitation subprojects are discussed below and presented in Annex 3. The
majority of the subprojects (42) were fully owned by private Nigerian nationals. A substantial part of
the subprojects were therefore privately sponsored, as it had been intended at the time of appraisal. Of
the four non-private subprojects, two were wholly owned by Government and two were joint ventures
with foreigners.
5.03     Institution-Buildins!: One of the main objectives of the project was to continue the Bank's
institutional support of NIDB, in particular through assistance in the formulation and implementation
by NIDB of a comprehensive Action Program and a Development Strategy, both of which are detailed
in Annexes 1 and 2 respectively and briefly described in para 3.01. The severe and somehow
unexpected economic and portfolio problems of the NIDB, especially in the early years of the
implementation, over-shadowed most of the institutional support aspects of the project. Part of the slow
activities in this respect may be due to the fact that during this period the Government was
contemplating to privatize NIDB by transferring at least 30% of its shares in NIDB to private investors.
This did not materialize. However, supported by the Bank, NIDB later engaged Industrial Credit
Corporation (ICC) of Ireland to conduct a strategic study of its operations and to outline what role
NIDB should fulfill in Nigeria's more open financial markets in the 1990s. In spring 1990, based on
the strategic study, and fully endorsed by the Bank, NIDB began restructuring its organization and
activities. ICC recommended a more diversified outlook for NIDB operations through strengthening
of its commercial activities and development of other viable commercial ventures, in addition to more



- 7 -
efficient and financially self supporting development banking. With assistance from ICC consultants,
NIDB implemented the restructuring on May 2, 1990. The new organization structure was put into
place followed by a mass transfer of managers and staff into new positions.
5.04    The Government which had suspended the NIDB board in August 1989, appointed a new
board comprising thirteen members on May 8, 1990. As part of the restructuring package, a Banking
Procedures Guide was prepared and circulated to all banking managers and staff. The Guide set out
in detail the procedures to be followed starting from screening of the subprojects, to their presentation
to the board, and finally sending the letter of offer to client. To ensure that a project promoter will be
in a position to contribute counterpart funds, NIDB made it mandatory that starting early in 1990 a
deposit of 40% of the proposed equity be put in an interest bearing account. To improve the portfolio
situation and to thoroughly review the non-performing subprojects, a Resuscitation Unit was set up in
April 1990.
5.05    NIDB's management effectiveness has been mixed over the years. There were changes in the
composition of NIDB board and management during the implementation period of the loan under
review. In some areas management and particularly the Chairman of the Board was very effective,
particularly in obtaining Government's approval for a massive increase of its paid-in capital (almost
100% increase to N397 million) in 1988. In other areas i.e., strengthening NIDB's appraisal and
supervision capabilities, improving cash collection practices, and introducing a credit risk management
program, the management has been slow. The perception of NIDB in business circles varies. Many
private sector Nigerians perceive NIDB as slow and having cumbersome procedures, while others
characterize it as a fairly sound and flexible institution, particularly in view of its restructuring program
(paras 5.03-5.04).
5.06    Management Information System: Within the framework of institution building, another
component of the Action Program (Annex 1) included in the objectives of the project was to assist
NIDB install a modern and effective management information system (MIS). The existing MIS was so
cumbersome to use that management frequently had insufficient information to perform its tasks
adequately and the data at its disposal was often internally inconsistent. After extensive delays - mainly
due to lack of appreciation of the benefits of a modern MIS and also disagreement within NIDB on
which departments should be responsible for running it -- consultants were employed and finished
designing and partially installing a computerized MIS that will enable NIDB to carry its payroll,
personnel records, investment and portfolio records and general accounting ledgers.  After the
conclusion of design phase in late 1988/early 1989, NIDB staff started loading data and additional
personal computers were purchased. NIDB's MIS capabilities have improved when compared with
several years ago, however, there is plenty of room for improvement in the operation and effectiveness
of their MIS.
5.07    Resource Mobilization: With Bank encouragement, NIDB made efforts to mobilize foreign
exchange resources from the foreign private capital markets but could not make much headway because
of the country's balance of payments and external debt problems; however, in 1983 NIDB succeeded
in obtaining a second loan of US$36.8 million equivalent from the European Investment Bank (EIB).
More recently, in 1989, a third loan of ECU 50 million (US$61 million) was signed with EIB. The
African Development Bank also approved, early in 1990, a loan of UA 80 million (US$104 million)
to NIDB. In the area of domestic resource mobilization, NIDB successfully floated its first debenture
issue for N 15 million (US$20 million) in 1983 on the local capital market; the coupon rate was 11.5%
with maturity in 1995.



- 8 -
5.08    GeograRhical Distribution of NlDB's Assistance: In addition to increasing the number of
its area offices to five (Kaduna, Akure, Aba, Bauchi, Lagos), NIDB also succeeded in achieving broader
geographical distribution of its assistance in general and under the line of credit in particular.
Subprojects in 17 states were financed under this loan (Annex 6). This compares to coverage of 14
states under the third NIDB loan. The dispersal achieved under the third and fourth loans show marked
improvement over the previous NIDB records when about 50% of its portfolio was concentrated in
Lagos alone. Under the loan, 30% of subproject were in Lagos, the remaining 70% spread over 16
states. NIDB still needs to diversify further and cover more states to attain a full national profile.
5.09    NIDB's Interest Rates and Fee Structure: At the time of the appraisal of the project under
review the interest rate charged by NIDB was 13% per annum. The interest rate of 13% was the
maximum allowed under the then Central Bank guidelines. Third Loan Agreement required that NIDB
charge a minimum of 10.5% per annum. The fourth NIDB Loan Agreement required that on-lending
interest to be a minimum of 13% per annum and that NIDB would pass through to sub-borrowers all
the foreign exchange risks. In addition, NIDB introduced a one-time 1.25% appraisal and development
fee. The high liquidity of the banking sector in the early 1980s in Nigeria resulted in generally low
interest rates. The interest rates under the third and fourth loans, in the early 1980s, were considered
adequate, when Nigeria had a fixed exchange rate and low inflation. The interest rate for sub-loans
given from EIB line of credit has been 16% per annum; foreign currency working capital loans were
charged 20% per annum. In late 1980s and up to 1990, Naira term loans were charged a floating rate,
approximately 24% per annum; and working capital loans from funds raised from the local market were
also charged a floating rate, which went up to 28% per annum. During 1986-87, NIDB's net interest
margin was about 4-5% which covered direct and overhead expenses. However, after the provisions
of 4-7% of average assets, NIDB's net income from financial operations was negative. This negative
net income had serious consequences which resulted, inter alia, on the Bank's recommendation for the
NIDB's restructuring (para 5.03). NIDB's other income mainly from hard currency interest bearing
accounts and rental income accounted for the narrow profits in 1986 and 1987. Partly because of the
FGN safety net (para 5.11), and mainly due to increased other income, NIDB experienced improvement
in its 1988-89 income but nevertheless 1990 showed a negative operating income. The end result was
that there was not enough profit to adequately cover the credit risks and profits. On January 1, 1991,
Government intervened by declaring a cap of 21% on the interest rates. The cap was removed on
January 1, 1992. The capping of interest rates and its subsequent removal did not have much effect on
the project under review as most of the funds had already been disbursed or committed. However, the
capping hampered NIDB's other activities and created a strain on its already narrow interest margins.
NIDB has been rather slow in adjusting its rates in the past. However, under NIDB's new management,
which is more commercially oriented than the previous ones, it is expected that a more flexible posture
will be adopted in this area in the future.
5.10    Subproject Results: The 46 subprojects financed under the loan covered a reasonably broad
spectrum of industrial activities: eight subprojects in textile, seven in food and beverage, nine in
chemical and allied, two in hotel and tourism, one in agro-allied, fifteen in manufacturing, and four in
miscellaneous industries. Based on the limited data available, an estimated N 1,084 million or
US$116.6 million was disbursed on these subprojects. A comparison of actual costs and appraisal
estimates for a sample of 18 subprojects indicates that there was a cost overrun of about 47% during
the implementation period. Based on the same sample, the average cost of individual subprojects rose
from an estimated N48.1 million at the time of appraisal to an actual N70.7 million. It should me
mentioned that many of the subprojects under the loan (especially those in textile industry) are operating
successfully and are meeting their debt service requirements. Actual costs and other characteristics of
the subprojects financed under the loan are presented in Annex 3.



- 9 -
5.11    Effect of Devaluation: Under the Bank loan, the subproject sponsors were to assume the
foreign exchange risk. After a long period of almost constant exchange rate (1978 US$1 = N0.65,
1983 US$1 = NO.71), a major devaluation took place as part of the SAP in September 1986 (US$1 =
N4.12). Since then, the Naira has devalued further. In January 1992, the official CBN exchange rate
was US$1 = N9.50. All NIDB commitments thereafter were made at the SFEM rate of exchange
which was much higher than the rate under the safety net, and was more in line with market rates.
Although even at the favorable rate of exchange the debt service liability of those sub-borrowers more
than doubled in most cases. For commitments made after September 26, 1986, the sponsors' liability
to NIDB continued to increase significantly as a result of the progressive devaluation of the Naira (e.g.,
Naira devalued 169% from September 1986 through October 1987, for example).
5.12    Implementation Delays: Almost all subprojects faced implementation delays ranging from
several months to several years. A few subprojects were still under implementation in the latter part
of 1991. The typical reasons attributed to implementation delays are: delay in obtaining import licenses
for the plant and machinery (until 1986); promoters inability to contribute their equity as and when
required and to mobilize resources to cover higher project costs resulting from inflation and devaluation;
inability of contractors to mobilize on time; and delays in complying with legal formalities.
5.13    Capacity Utilization: The subprojects in operation are producing at levels ranging from 20%
to 90% of their capacities. However, most of them are operating in the rage of 30-60% of capacity
which, though unsatisfactory, is consistent with the capacity utilization rate of other Nigerian-owned
projects in the sector. The high cost of imported raw materials and sponsors' difficulties in raising
working capital from commercial banks due to credit restrictions are the main reasons for low capacity
utilization. It should be noted that due to: (a) shortage of working capital which was restraining
industrial production; (b) the increased risk associated with medium to long term lending in foreign
exchange; and (c) lack of sufficient supply of term lending in the banking system, NIDB was prompted,
based on the Bank's recommendation and support, to give serious consideration to and engage in term
lending, inter-alia, for working capital purposes in the late 1980s.
5.14    Performance and Rates of Return: The ex-ante weighted average ERR based on NIDB's
appraisal estimate was 25% ranging from a low of 12% (textile) to a high of 58% (cosmetics). Since
no information has been provided by the NIDB for this PCR, and there is a shortage of adequate data
from the subprojects, it is not possible to present any ex-post results. The ex-ante weighted average
FRR based on NIDB's appraisal estimates was 40% ranging from a low of 18% (hotel and tourism and
food) to a high of 100% (chemical). The related data which is retrieved from the Bank's project files
have been presented in Annex 4.
5.15    Portfolio Performance: Out of a total principal outstanding including capitalized interest of
N328.4 million at the end of 1990, accounts with arrears on principal and/or interest of six months or
over accounted for N 172.8 million, or 52.6% of the outstanding portfolio. The ratio is considerably
higher than the one at the end of 1989 (18%). At the end of 1990, loans with total arrears of one year
or more were N 137.8 million (42% of the outstanding portfolio and 80% of total arrears) as compared
to N48.6 million at the end of 1989. Of total NIDB arrears almost 25% are estimated to be over two
years old. Comparative data on NIDB's arrears situation is provided in Annex 9 and is further
discussed in paras 6.05 and 6.06. The major reasons for these arrears are delays in financing of
projects, and most importantly inability of sub-borrowers to meet their debt service due to devaluation
of Naira. As a result of the above figures, NIDB has increased its provisions in the 1990 profit and
loss account significantly to N40.9 million compared to N 16.4 million in 1989 (Annexes 10 and 11).
The table in para 6.07 provides comparative analysis and the size of NIDB's annual provisions.



- 10-
6. NIDB Operations
6.01     Operations: The main trends in NIDB's operations over the period 1983-1989 are set out
in the table below:
1983   1984   1985    1986   1987   1988-   1989
Avplications- No.           150    369    317    na..   227    240     337
Approvals
No. of Loansi                45      32      47      30     53      21       16 
Value Nm              35      18     65      56,   392    168    124
Average Size Nm      0.8    0.6      1.4    1.9    7.5    8.2      7.8
Equity - Nm                 0.7     1.0    1.9    2.2    6.3    3.3    3.4
Disbursements - Nm
Loans               38.5   16.3   19.6   75.8  108.4    84.1  217.3
Equity               1.3    1.2      3.3    5.9    1.5   4.51  -S17.6
3      L~ 22.9~  81.7  109.9~   88.6  234.
Portfoliost No. of loans    319    290    301.   322    242.   302    280,
Value Nmin           301    228    233    447    391    4371.  629,
Average Size Nm       1.0    0.8    0.8      1.4    1.6    1.4C       2.3
No. of States covered
by receiving approvals     n.a     14      15      14      14     12       7
Source: NIDB and Annual Reports
6.02     The number of applications received by NIDB has varied considerably since 1983. The
pattern does not seem to have necessarily followed the macro-economic performance as a large
number of applications was received in 1984 and 1985, the years in which there was poor
performance in manufacturing output and GDP. The average size of the loans approved by NIDB
which were less that N I million in 1983 and 1984 have increased rapidly since those years and have
reached above the level of N7 million since 1987. The increase reflects both the domestic price
inflation and the devaluation of Naira. Although the size of loans increased, the numbers approved
in each year fluctuated, and in 1988 and thereafter fell sharply below the trend of previous years.
One main reason for the drop in the number of approvals particularly in 1989 was the full
commitment of all Bank loans with the NIDB. The extraordinary increase in the Naira value of loans
approved in 1987 was partly due to significant devaluation of Naira (para 5.11) and partly to the
financing of short-term loans for working capital (N31 million) from the EIB line of credit. These
sub-loans were approved by NIDB to sustain its commercial operations (para 5.13). Disbursements
though risen sharply in Naira terms, due to reasons stated above, fluctuated and declined annually
from 1986 to 1988 in US Dollar terms.



- 11 -
6.03     Until the mid-1980s, the number of new projects approved considerably exceeded that
of expansions or additional loans to clients for cost overruns. As shown in the table below, there
has been a significant reversal of this trend, with loans for expansions and cost overruns
exceeding those for new projects up to 1988. Most certainly one of the reasons for the reversal
in trend in the period 1986-1988 and part of the increase in the cost overruns was on the account
of Naira devaluation in those years (para 5.11). There was no new subproject under the loan
after 1989 as all available funds had been committed.
New Proiects vs. Expansions
1983   1984   1985   1986  81987   18   1989.
New Projects                  33    22       32     14    19..  10    12
Expansions/Cost Overruns       12    10      15     16                    4
Total                        45    32      47      30    53      21    16
6.04     While NIDB's area of operation is quite extensive, it generally operates in
manufacturing, non-petroleum mining and hotel industries. In order to diversify its portfolio
adequately, NIDB sometimes does not accept subprojects in these industries either because it
already has a substantial exposure in them (hotels, breweries, and furniture), or adequate capacity
exists in the country in these subsectors (paper conversions, cement blocks, candles). NIDB's
portfolio has a heavy concentration in consumer goods industries including textiles, food, and
chemicals. An analysis of the past few years data indicates that over 60% of the total approvals
made by NIDB in this period have been to these three subsectors.
6.05     Quality of Portfolio and Arrears: The condition of NIDB's portfolio in the early
years of implementation up to 1989 had remained in poor shape for the past several years. This
state of affairs was mainly due to the following: (a) economic difficulties (inflation and
devaluation) affecting the country; (b) the FGN's restrictive interest rate policies such as caps,
limits, etc; (c) NIDB's weaknesses in marketing analysis, assessment of project costs,
implementation and supervision schedules, and poor collection procedures; and (d) inadequate
equity contributions and relatively poor project execution capabilities of Nigerian sub-borrowers.
Annex 9 provides the arrears situation in brief on a comparative basis for years ended December
31, 1983, 1987 and 1989.
6.06     An analysis of the NIDB efforts to collect arrears in 1990 suggests that there is an
improvement in the size of principal affected by arrears (from N 123.0 million in 1983 and
N 150.0 million in 1987 to N 108.0 million in 1990). It appears that the improvement is mainly
due to:
(a)  The authorization by the CBN in December 1987 that all NIDB's foreign exchange
sub-loans prior to September 26, 1986 to receive the concessionary exchange rate of
US$1 = N 1.57 when the market rates devalued to almost three times as much
(para 5.11). Taking advantage of this opportunity, many NIDB sub-borrowers paid
some of their arrears;



- 12 -
(b)  rescheduling of a large number of sub-loans where implementation was considerably
delayed often for reasons beyond the borrower's control;
(c)  increases in the Naira equivalent of foreign exchange loans disbursed after September
26, 1986, at the current market exchange rates while the portfolio affected by the
arrears (relating to pre-September, 1986 disbursed sub-loans) remained the same; and
(d)  transfer of a portfolio of FGN-owned projects to a "Managed Fund" approved by the
FGN in 1984 on which NIDB was to assume no credit risk (para 4.01).
The improvement of portfolio quality and arrears levels, therefore, is not entirely due to
collection efforts as the figures in Annex 9 appear to indicate.
6.07     Loan loss provisions have grown from 3.2% of the portfolio in 1983 to 11.5% in 1990.
The table below summarizes the trend in the cumulative provisions for the years 1983-1990.
NIDB's policy in the past was not to make provisions unless an account went into liquidation or
receivership category, which sometimes took two or more years after the borrower had stopped
making payment of interest or repayment of principal. Following Bank suggestions, NIDB has
started making provisions for losses on a more conservative basis.
PROVISIONS FODOUBTFUL DEBTS    )               Y                    .... ... .
1983 -1984   1985: 198    1        I  l
Lans NMm                 262.4  203.2  208.6  -430    3799   434.8  6l8   869
Provisions Mm              8.5    5.4    5. 9   14, 0:  2.9.32.n4.44.6       0.4
3.2 %   2.7 %   28%   3.3%    0 i  7l5%  JA        .5%
Equty  vetments Nm        46.6   33.9 :37.1   37.8   4.    44.8   5 4    52i I
Provisism                  3.3    3.1    6.4    78t. 4  -1 :0.6 \    14.      8.
6.7%   8.8%  16.4%  19.6%  20.1             7.23.2%   ..7%    1.5.9
Ttal hivetments Nm       309. 0; :-: 237. 1  :245.7  4667431  4796:i?i8 2: 687.2 91.:
Provisionm NM            3.8% W   3.6%   5.0%:, 4.6%        .97.5  % 0%.86% 11.8%
6.08    Financial Condition: A summary of NIDB's financial statements for the period 1979-
1990 are provided in Annexes 10 and 11. Key financial ratios for the same period are provided
in Annex 12. Briefly, while in early to mid-1980s income from loans and debentures was the
major component of total income, it has gradually accounted for a declining share of income.
This reflects NIDB's efforts to diversify its income base in order to enhance profitability. Income
from equity investment has been fairly stable as a percentage of total income at around 10%.
Since it was established, NIDB has always shown profits although, as expected, its profitability
has been substantially below that of commercial banks. Return on average total assets has
increased from 1.1 % in 1983 to 2.9% in 1990. The significant rise of about 165% in net profits
in 1988 and 48% in 1989 were mainly due to concessionary foreign exchange rates provided by
the FGN (para 5.11). The 1990 net profit was about the same level as in 1989. The direct and
overhead expenses as a percentage of average total assets which were around 3 % up to 1987 rose



- 13 -
to more than 4% in 1988 through 1990. Part of the reason for this increase was that employees
received a substantial pay increase subsequent to the revision of pay scales in 1988. The rise in
the level of net profits from 1988 was due to interest savings and earnings from the injection of
equity in cash and debt conversion by the Government (para 6.10), together with a significant
growth in loan income and profits from letters of credit and foreign exchange business.
6.09    Earnings and Cash Flow: In the past several years NIDB's reported income, with
interest accruals, has exceeded the actual collections by a substantial amount - in 1986 it was by
about 50% and in 1989 by about 48%. Bank supervision missions have repeatedly pointed out
to NIDB that its accounting policies in the areas of interest accrual and provisions for accrued
interest on non-performing loans result in overstatement of NIDB's financial position. Some
improvement has begun to show in the end 1990 results. Unless improved performance is
maintained in the near future, NIDB's profitability, described in para 6.08 would not be
sustained.
6.10    An analysis of the 1988 balance sheet indicates a large equity base as a result of the
doubling of NIDB's paid in share capital. The Government increased its equity from N 199
million in 1987 to N397 million in 1988 converting its loan of N118 million into equity and
injecting about N80 million in cash. This strengthened NIDB's financial structure considerably,
with a debt equity ratio of an average 0.4:1 in 1988 through 1990, respectively, and a high
capital adequacy ratio (equity as a percentage of risk assets) of over 100%. As pointed out
earlier, unless NIDB is able to continue its more aggressive collection practices followed in the
recent past, the improved cash situation that NIDB is enjoying at present due to the inflow of new
equity funds would only be a short term gain.
7. Project Sustainability
7.01    NIDB was established with a mandate to provide term finance to medium and large
scale enterprises, particularly in the industrial sector.  During the early years it received
assistance from a number of international and bilateral sources who participated in the company's
equity and were represented on its Board. After NIDB became a wholly Government-owned
institution in the mid-seventies, it received considerable support from the Government in the form
of equity and loans to enable it to carry out its role. While NIDB has managed to maintain its
marginal profitability, it has not until very recently been able to improve its capabilities
adequately in the areas of supervision, loan collections and organizational co-ordination. These
weaknesses have contributed to accumulation of huge arrears of principal and interest in NIDB's
portfolio which would have impacted adversely on NIDB's viability had the Government not
come forward with a massive injection of equity (para 6.10).
7.02    While NIDB's sustainability so far, and in the future, should be considered to be
largely dependent on Government support, it must be said in its favor that in recent years it has
ventured out of its protective shell and is seeking to establish a niche for itself in the widening
and more open financial market in Nigeria. Some of the measures taken are: (a) a successful
debenture issue to mobilize resources from domestic market in 1983; (b) introduction of some
commercial banking activities like issuance of letters of credit; (c) establishment of two new
subsidiaries to undertake management consultancy and leasing operations; and (d) commencement
of implementation of the accepted recommendations of the reorganization program which was
supported by the Bank and carried out by the ICC in 1989 (para 5.03).



- 14 -
7.03    In a desire to give NIDB a commercial orientation the FGN has recently taken two
important steps. Firstly, in May 1990, it appointed NIDB's Board with a membership of 13, of
whom six represent the private sector and five represent the banking sector. Secondly, the FGN
has been keen to divest about 30% of NIDB's shareholding to the private sector. Given these
favorable developments, it appears likely that the Board and the management will be given
adequate autonomy to conduct NIDB's operations without intervention from the Government
except perhaps for broad sectoral policy guidelines.
7.04    In view of the fact that there is still a reluctance on the part of the commercial and
merchant banks in Nigeria to provide medium and long-term finance for industrial development,
except to their well-established investors, NIDB will continue to have an important role to play.
It enjoys strong support from the Government and from some international institutions. The
recent massive injection of capital and strengthening of management and staffing provide NIDB
with a splendid opportunity to reorganize and establish for itself an important place in the
financial market of Nigeria. However, it is difficult to say at this stage whether without
Government support, NIDB would be able to mobilize resources to become fully sustainable
institution in the long-run with a well-defined role in long-term lending.
8. Bank Performance
8.01    Through the fourth NIDB Loan, the Bank has made a positive contribution to the
institutional development of NIDB, particularly on its financial viability. The Bank's strong
support to NIDB during the implementation period of this loan resulted in the Government taking
the necessary actions enabling NIDB to improve its salary structure (especially under the third
NIDB loan), create the Managed Fund (for Government behest investments), and increase the
share capital. Most importantly, the Bank initiated the restructuring of NIDB (para 5.03) by
continuously supporting the effort and by drafting the consultants terms of reference as well as
working with NIDB throughout the study and its implementation period. Table 6 in Part III
presents the "Use of Bank Resources" on the project. Based on the table, a total of 165 weeks
of staff and consultant time were spent on the supervision activities. The field supervision work
represented 12 weeks or about 7% of the total. The Bank supported NIDB when EIB was in the
process of granting a loan to NIDB. Also, the Bank agreed to NIDB requests to reallocate
project funds for the purpose of its MIS development. On the negative side, the slow start of the
project perhaps could have been improved upon by earlier and more intensive field missions.
9. Borrower Performance
9.01    Table 5, Part III provides information on the status of covenants and reviews
performance of the borrower. Except for the delays in submitting audited accounts, and some
minor changes made in operating policies, NIDB's performance was satisfactory. Conditions of
effectiveness were met, though late by several months, and subproject appraisals began thereafter.
However, because of subsequent slow commitments, terminal dates for subproject submissions
and disbursement had to be extended three and four times respectively.
9.02    The borrower has had a poor collection record especially in the earlier parts of the
implementation period. Another area of weakness which negatively influenced the borrower's



- 15 -
performance was that it maintained separate departments for appraisal and supervision with little
exchange of personnel or contact of the staff in the course of day to day business. As a
consequence, officers involved in project appraisal had little knowledge of practical problems
affecting project implementation. This was reflected in their project appraisal reports which were
overly optimistic in areas of market assessment and projections of implementation schedules and
capacity utilization. However, this has now been rectified in the new organization structure
which was put into effect in 1990 (paras 5.03-5.04).
9.03    NIDB's portfolio situation during the implementation period of the project was
undoubtedly improved by the provision of concessionary exchange rate by the FGN (para 5.11).
The FGN assistance not only helped improve the NIDB balance sheet and the related debt and
equity ratios but it also had a favorable effect on collections and the ability of sub-borrowers to
service their debt. The absence of the assistance could have had grave consequences on NIDB
financial situation.
10. Findings and Lessons
10.01    NIDB's performance under the loan has been mixed. During the implementation of
the project Nigeria went through a series economic difficulties which severely affected NIDB as
well as its clients. The situation also brought to surface the NIDB's weaknesses and inability to
cope with the changing environment. The overall impact of these problems was that by 1990
NIDB's portfolio was in poor shape, and its financial position weakened as a result of arrears of
principal and interest. It has taken a lot of commitment and hard work on the part of NIDB
management to cope with this situation.
10.02   The Bank played an important role in assisting NIDB in this area. It supported NIDB
vis-a-vis the FGN in setting up the "Managed Fund". It also formulated and implemented in the
NIDB an Action Program (Annex 1) which involved, inter alia, (a) a comprehensive review of
its portfolio affected by arrears; (b) an upgrade of its MIS; and (c) the restructuring of its
organization, polices and activities so as to be able to meet the challenge of survival in a changing
and competitive environment.
10.03   A few lessons can be drawn from the experience of implementation of this project.
Firstly, following the major Naira devaluation which started from September 1986, the Naira
equivalent of NIDB's portfolio of foreign currency sub-loans increased manifold. This situation
made it virtually impossible for most of NIDB clients including sub-borrowers under fourth NIDB
loan who had assumed the foreign exchange risk, to service their debts (para 5.11). The FGN
subsequently decided to provide a one time safety net by guaranteeing a favorable foreign
exchange rate to NIDB and the rest of the banking system. As a result, the foreign exchange
losses of some of NIDB borrowers were partially alleviated. The FGN action was applicable to
only those transactions which took place prior to September 26, 1986. The sub-borrowers after
that date had to carry the foreign exchange risk in full and at the prevailing rates. The Naira
devaluation continued in subsequent years making it almost impossible for some affected sub-
borrowers to service their loans. It is perceived that the significant Naira devaluation during
1986-1989 has by itself caused most of the unfavorable results in the NIDB operation. The
macroeconomic conditions and the stable foreign exchange rate prevailing at the time of project
appraisal (September, 1982) necessitated the assumption of the foreign exchange risk by the sub-
borrowers. The emergence of SAP and the floating of Naira could not have been perceived in
1982 and early 1983 when the project was approved. The results of the project would have been



- 16 -
more favorable if the sub-borrowers would have had to repay in Naira (without foreign exchange
assumption) but with market based local currency interest rates. It is, therefore, important that,
in the future, NIDB maintain a reasonable balance between the proportion of its liabilities in
foreign and local currencies. NIDB should consider, to the extent possible, hedging against
foreign exchange risks.
10.04   Secondly, institution building is a slow and continuous process and any slackness or
laxity in following appropriate and sound banking procedures and inadequate commitment to
continued staff training, both formal and job-related, can affect the institution's effectiveness, as
appeared in early stages of the project implementation. However, as from May 1990, when the
institutional and organizational changes were implemented (paras 5.03 and 5.04) and as a result
of the Action Program (Annex 1), some improvement in these areas have been achieved.
Certainly, this is a head start and NIDB should seek to maintain the pace and continue its
activities in this important area.
10.05   Thirdly, during the implementation of the fourth project (consistent with the results of
the third project) NIDB was perhaps over-emphasizing its developmental role at the expense of
commercial considerations and was, therefore, unable to maintain a reasonable balance between
loans for new projects and those for expansion/rehabilitation; 80% sub-loans under the project
were made for new subprojects and almost all of them experienced serious implementation delays.
Sound and prudent banking principles became secondary to the developmental role, which was
simply seen as transferring of investment resources to industrial borrowers without adequately
ensuring that the funds lent would support commercially and economically viable activities which,
in turn lead to sustained process of industrialization in Nigeria.
10.06   Lastly, NIDB experience under the fourth project suggests the importance of taking a
critical and deep analytical look at project appraisals before commitment specially when the
economic situation is likely to change to such an extent that original assumptions underlying
projections would no longer remain valid (paras 5.05 and 5.12). Part of the consultants work
carried out and implemented in 1990 (paras 5.03-5.04) concentrated on this aspect of NIDB
operation. some benefits should be expected to come as a result of this work. However, NIDB
should undertake a more thorough sensitivity analysis on all subprojects.
11. Project Documentation and Data
11.01   The Loan Agreement in the case of Loan 2299-UNI was quite adequate and appropriate
for achieving project objectives in the key organizational and financial areas. The appraisal
report of the project provided a useful framework for both Bank and NIDB for review of project
implementation.  However, NIDB did not provide information and data for this Project
Completion Report within the prescribed time. The data are therefore predominantly based on
the Bank's project files.
11.02   It should be mentioned that NIDB has a computerized data system which produces a
fair amount of information on sub-borrowers accounts. However, the quality of the data has not
been entirely reliable. Under the project (para 5.06) a basic MIS has been installed which has
not yet become fully operational.



- 17 -
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
1. The Nieerian Economic and Industrial Scene
1.01    Pre Structural Adjustment Period (SAP): NIDB signed the World Bank Fourth Line
of Credit in July, 1983, when Nigeria was already in the second year of a protracted economic
recession. The gross domestic product (GDP) recorded negative growth rates for several
consecutive years from 1982. The oil glut which started in the second half of 1981 highlighted
the problems of Nigeria's over-reliance on a single export commodity. The sharp deterioration
in the balance of payments and Government budget resulted in an acute external debt problem
and a reduction in the volume of imported machinery and inputs. Existing manufacturing
establishments suffered from low capacity utilization while new plants were slow to set up even
when foreign exchange cover was not required as in the case of the World Bank Line of Credit
because of difficulty in obtaining adequate import licenses.
1.02    Post Structural Adjustment Period: After the introduction of SAP in September,
1986, inadequate funding of the Foreign Exchange Market also prevented industries with enough
local currency from purchasing enough foreign exchange for their operations. Such industries
had recourse to the parallel market to meet part of their need with serious consequences for
production costs in view of the wide gap existing between official and parallel market rates before
March 6, 1992. The deregulation of interest rates and the resulting sharp increase in the cost of
funds added other dimensions to the problems of industrialists.
1.03    The national economic environment became less and less conducive to industrial
investment predictably because of the tortuous bureaucracy surrounding old and new industrial
investment activities, the under-capacity operation and resulting poor financial performance of
most existing industries.
1.04    Although foreign exchange bidding under SAP began the realistic adjustment of the
exchange rate for the Naira, and facilitated access to foreign exchange, the persistent and upward
shifts in the Naira exchange rate complicated financial planning and forced companies to maintain
larger Naira resources than they used to require for the importation of inputs and spare parts as
well as for meeting their foreign currency debt service obligations. This taken along with
measures intermittently taken to squeeze liquidity in order to combat inflation made access to
Naira credit difficult to industries.
1.05    The developments in Nigeria's policy environment during the 1987-91 period were such
as to vitiate the traditional methods and tools used by NIDB and its sub-projects in assessing their
needs, operational efficiency, returns and risks of investments. With the sharp fluctuations in
exchange, interest and inflation rates, it was to be expected that the capacity of the sub-projects
promoted during these changes to absorb and service the foreign currency loans would be
suspect. The enviromment resulting from the changes was radically different from what was
existing in the pre Structural Adjustment period. The fact that exchange rate fluctuations were
continuously getting worse against the Naira and the cost of funds was generally unstable
throughout the implementation period of the Fourth Line of Credit posed major problems to
industrial clients with whom NIDB does business.
1.06    Effects on the Implementation of the Fourth Line of Credit: Therefore, the initial
slow pace of implementation of the Fourth Line of Credit between 1984 and 1987 was mainly



- 18 -
because of the shortage of effective demand for term loans resulting from the negative impact on
industrial investment decision-making of the difficult economic environment.
1.07    The cumulative effect of these developments was that industrial capacity utilization
remained unusually low throughout the period of the implementation of the Fourth World Bank
line. Most of the industries depended on imported spares and inputs despite the considerable
success achieved in backward integration and local sourcing of raw materials. The constant
decline in the exchange value of the Naira, the unstable cost of funds and rising inflation
accentuated the instability and uncertainties of the investment climate. Industrialists became so
obsessed with the fear of the exchange risk that only a few had the courage to contract foreign
currency loans. The negative effect of the prevailing environment on NIDB's investment
portfolio was such that loan recovery became rather low. However, NIDB has sanitized its
portfolio and achieved a substantial improvement in loan recovery as shown in Annex A.
1.08    The improvement in the condition of NIDB's portfolio has been achieved through a
more intensive effort to collect on arrears and follow-up on sick and problematic projects with
the newly established Project Resuscitation Department (PRD) mounting prompt recovery action
in hopeless cases.
1.09    The total portfolio of the bank as at 31st December, 1991 stood at N947 million made
up of term loan of N903 million and equity of N44 million and spread over 322 projects. Out
of this amount, N441 million representing 47% was affected by arrears. The total principal in
arrears as at 31st. December, 1991 was N154 million. From this figure, N67 million (i.e. 43%)
was in respect of projects already put into Receivership under PRD. This large amount arose
because of the foreclosure of the problem projects with the total loan prematurely deemed to have
fallen due. Furthermore, a sum of N21 million has since been realized from some of the affected
projects between January and April, 1992.
1.10    With regard to small and medium enterprises which are funded through the Area
Administrations, the terms for servicing the debts have been observed to be rather stiff and this
has contributed to the low recovery from these projects. Efforts are being made by Management
to review the situation to enable the beneficiaries meet their financial obligations as and when
due.
1.11    As far back as 1985, NIDB had been providing for doubtful investments on a project
by project basis in line with the guidelines agreed between the World Bank, NIDB and our
External Auditors and not when accounts are in receivership or liquidation. Annex B details the
guidelines applied for provisions made between 1985 and 1989. The guidelines were reviewed
by the ICC consultants and suggestions made for even more stringent provisions (Annex C) for
precise cut-off point beyond which interest is no longer taken to profit and any unpaid interest
already taken to profit is provided against, on project under implementation, on valuation of
equity investments and on the responsibility of Management to decide level of provisions for
principal arrears were applied from 1990.
1.12    The fact that NIDB was able to implement the Fourth Line of Credit alongside other
External Lines of Credit (EIB III and ADB I) is a testimony to the effectiveness of its restructured
organization, the policy and operational adjustments and its new marketing strategy. Some of
the credit should rightly also lie with the World Bank and the European Investment Bank whose
matured observations, queries and suggestions which the NIDB closely attended to assisted in
minimizing the effects of the adverse policy environment and investment climate.



- 19 -
2. NIDB'S STRATEGIC RESPONSE
2.01    NIDB learnt a number of lessons from the trauma of the policy environment, lessons
which were destined to influence its future operations for the better. Among these lessons were
that:
(i) continued emphasis on traditional development banking is detrimental to
commercial viability.
(ii) sole reliance on the core activity of term lending could spell disaster in the
prevailing circumstances, and
(iii) the structure of NIDB could not adequately respond to the competitive forces of
the increasingly dynamic financial services industry.
2.02    The first step taken by NIDB in response to the prevailing situation was to reorganize
itself. This began with a critical appraisal of its corporate goals, structure and operations through
a strategic study contracted to the Industrial Credit Corporation PLC of Ireland (ICC). the
strategic study phase was concluded in 1989 and the implementation began in 1990.
2.03    With the reorganization, NIDB's current corporate objectives are the following:
(i) To become primarily a commercially oriented Development Finance Institution
providing efficient and profitable industrial investment services.
(ii) To generate a higher rate of return on shareholders' funds and to keep up with the
trends of profitability in the financial sector.
2.04    The foregoing critical elements of the reorganization have been implemented:
- setting up a new organizational structure;
- orientation of management and staff to imbibe the new corporate ethos;
- adoption of a corporate planning system;
- establishment of a Corporate Planning Division;
- grouping of headquarters banking activities on sectoral basis;
- improvements in the Appraisal Process and Report;
- increasing delegated authority to banking divisions;
- establishment of new criteria for project selection;
- improvement in customer responsiveness and delivery of service;
- sanitization of investment portfolio through stringent provisions for doubtful debts;



- 20 -
- establishment of project resuscitation department;
- closer coordination of the activities of all commercial subsidiaries; and
- improvement in the management information system.
2.05    In the interest of a healthy portfolio, NIDB has shifted its investment priority from
start-up projects to expansion or backward integration projects sponsored by well-established
companies which have good track records and the resourcefulness to withstand the shocks of a
fluid policy environment. The large number of existing NIDB's prosperous client companies
provides a good scope for fruitful investments in this respect. Green field projects are entertained
only when the basic inputs are locally sourced or if the end-products have export potentials. This
strategy, which actually predates NIDB's reorganization, has been paying off handsomely.
2.06    Out of 46 projects financed with the Fourth Line of Credit, 36 are green-field projects
while 10 are on-going projects. However, the 10 on-going projects received more than half
(US$61.6 million or 53.4%) of the total disbursements. The 10 include seven backward and
forward integration projects in the textile sub-sector accounting for 51.8% (US$59.8 million) of
the total disbursements under the loan. Almost all the 10 expansion projects are doing well and
meeting their debt obligations to NIDB. They have also enhanced input-output linkages and
reduced industrial import-dependence. Though few in number, the expansion projects have
contributed immensely to the achievement of the objective of the Fourth Line of Credit.
2.07    Moreover, NIDB has improved the quality of its project appraisal by requiring
promoters to show their commitment to the smooth and effective implementation of their project
by depositing 12 1/2% of the estimated project cost up front in a co-signatured account before
the commencement of the appraisal process. In addition, as a pre-disbursement condition,
promoters are also required to contribute a sizeable portion of the on-shore costs to be met before
the delivery of plant and machinery. These requirements have made for smoother and faster
implementation of approved proposals funded through the EIB and ADB lines of credit.
2.08    Further, NIDB has institutionalized arrangements to sanitize its project portfolio
through regular portfolio review. Approved projects are being more smoothly implemented and
commissioned because problems earlier posed by insufficient counter-part funding have been
neutralized. All projects in Headquarters Banking Divisions and Area Administrations are
reviewed by-annually. The Project Resuscitation Department has become very active in handling
problem projects. The critical importance of that Department's work is reflected in the fact that
it reports directly to the Managing Director. By virtue of the depreciation of the Naira, loan
recovery in cases of foreclosure has in most cases been multiples of the original investment.
3. CONCLUSION
3.01    Through the lessons learnt from the changes in the economic environment, a New
NIDB has evolved which is in a position not only to survive but also continue to improve its
performance in the increasingly dynamic environment. The profitability of NIDB has increased
consistently in the past four years despite its making more provisions on its doubtful investment
portfolio than required of licensed banks under the Prudential Guidelines which came into effect



- 21 -
in 1990. The Bank has over the years been prompt in meeting its debt service obligations on all
its External Lines of Credit and is confident of its ability to maintain its high credit rating in the
future. The strategic reorganization of NIDB has emphasized commercial orientation in its
operations with prospects of improved performance in the foreseeable future.



NIGERIAN INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK LIMITED
COLLECTION PERFORMANCE REPORT FOR THE YEAR 1991
ARREARS AT BEGINNING AIMOUNT FALLING DUE    COLLECTION RECEIVED             LOAN       INrERzST   ARREARS AT THE END   COLLECTiON RATIOS
JANUARY01, 1991         JAN. TO  DEC. 1991       JAN. TO  DEC. 1991       DEFERRED CAPITALIZ    DECEMBER31, 1991            ACID TEST       SOFTER
NO.           SUMMARY Of BAWING GROUPIAFIEA                 PRJNCWAL   INTEREST PRINCIPAL  INTEREST    PRINCIPAL   INTEREST              1991        1991      PNCIPAL  INEREST           BASIS           BASIS
I   AGRO ALLIED DIVISION                                    10,.96         6.459     17,793      27,359       22,477      24,877          0             0        6,212      8,941          76.76        75.76
2   CHEMICAL DIVISION                                       29,198        19,444    31,509       25,688       33,882       27,412          0        2,689       26,825      15,131         57.91        59.36
3   M.E.C. DIVISION                                          9,341        14,7568     7,599      14,898        5,637        5,920          0            0       11,403     23.736          24.59        24.59
4   A-F.M.U.                                                 3,314         4,248      2,761       4,215            0         703           0            0        8,075       7,760          4.U4         4.U
S   P.RF DEPARTMENT                                         40.236        27,628    32,635       45.540        6,441        4,037          0            0       67,430     89,131           6.49         6.49
6   LAGOS AREA ADMINISTRATION                                4,047         5,416      5,352       7,784          527         885           0        4,035        8,872      8,260           6.25         7.61
7   SOUTH EAST AREA ADMIN.                                   9,138         9,221     9,032       11,314        2,280        7,084      4,275            0       11.615      13,461         24.19        24.19
8   SOUTH WEST AREA ADMIN                                    6,210         6.658     2,938        5,625          732        1,489      1.737          115        6,679      10,679         10.36        10.42
9   NORTH EAST AREA ADMIN                                    4,103         3,542       624        1,788          946        1.079          0          717        3,781       3,534         20.14        21.68
10   NORTHWESTAREAADMIN.                                      4,126         5,264      1,263       5,002            0         670           0            0        5,389       9.696          4.28         4.26
11   COMUERCIAL DIVSION                                           0            0          0        3.137            0        3,137          0            0           0           0         100.00       100.00
GRAND TOTALS FOR THE BANW                              120.609       102.638    111,606     152,350       71,822       77,293      6,012        7.486      164,281     170.239         50.1         I10 0
MADE UP OF:
PROJECTS IN OPERATION                                   81,721       53,021     79.322       86,806       63.343      51,279       2.988            0       94,712     88,547          36.10        38.10
PROJECTS UNDER IMPLEMENTATION                           16,266        12,937         0       47,031            0      21,977       3.024        7,456       13,241     30,635          268.3        31.96
PROJECTS WITH SUSPENDED INCOME                               0       27,816     29,382       14,583            0           0          0             0       29,382     42,398           0.00         0.00
PROJECTS UNDER RECEIVERSHIP                             21,722        7,359      2,802        3,931        8.028       3,129          0             0       16,496      6,161          31.15        31.15
PROJECTS UNDER WINDING-UP                                  901         1,506         0           0          451          90w          0             0         450         598          56.46        56.49
120 ,609     102,38    111,6 06     152,350        71,822      77,293      6,012         7,456     154,281     170,239         30.61         31.09



- 23 -
ANNEX B
Page 1 of 2
NIGERIAN INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK LIMITED
PROVISIONS FOR BAD AND DOUBTFUL DEBTS
GUIDELINES FOR MAKING PROVISIONS
Guidelines Set for 1985 Accounts
1. Interest
(a) For *non-performing accounts, interest would be accrued into income and then fully
provided for in the same year.
(b) Interest in arrears from prior years through 1983 (1984 fully provided for), 25% was
provided in 1984 accounts, 50% to be provided in 1985 (along with entire 1985) and
balance of 25% in 1986.
(c) Interest being only partly paid as and when due and progressively falling more into
arrears (no principal being repaid) should be fully provided to the extent of such arrears.
(d) Projects under implementation where interest is in arrears - if the management is
convinced that the project will be profitable once it starts operating, interest in arrears can
be capitalized but with the approval of management.
(e) Where the project is not going to be viable, provide fully for the past interest in arrears,
then appoint a receiver or wind up the company. Future interest not to be accrued.
(f) In those cases where interest and principal are being regularly paid but less than full
amount required (unless information dictates otherwise) no provision. All foreign risk
to be reflected in provision.
2. Equity Investments
(a) For projects in which interest and/or principal has been or is being provided, then provide
for equity in full.
(b) For those projects which are paying interest and/or loans but operating at consistent losses
(e.g. 3 years), such that there is diminution in NIDB's equity, provide to extent of such
diminution.
3. Loans - For non-performing loans
(a) If assets (security) are remotely located or highly specialized such that ready market not
obtainable, then fully provide.
(b) If only partial realization appears likely either due to condition of assets cover which
security exist, or change in economic conditions affecting market for that asset, then
provide to the extent of foreseen loss on realization of loan.
(c) For loans which have been delinquent with no principal payment for three years or more
(notwithstanding interest payments) and if not already rescheduled, then provide in full,



- 24 -                     ANNEX B
Page 2 of 2
and if any eventual recovery from receiver, amount so provided can be written back into
accounts.
(d) In instances where accrued interest in arrears now approach or equate outstanding loan,
then in addition to providing for interest in full, also provide for loan partially (at least
50%) or in full depending upon judgement of auditors.
*Non-performing loans are considered for:
(a) for interest purpose as those with no movement on interest during entire year.
(b) for principal purpose see 3(c) above.
(c) under implementation, see relevant guidelines above.
Additional Guidelines Set for 1986 Accounts
(a) For foreign loans of non-performing clients, provision is to be based on SFEM value of
the investments rather than their book values.
(b) For loans whose book values are already fully provided for, additional provision is to be
made for the exchange differences arising from SFEM valuations.
(c) All foreign exchange losses are to be fully provided for.
(d) For projects in rural areas, if two years loan installments are in arrears, make 25%
provision of loan outstanding.
(e) Provision to be made for contingent liability where there are any.
Additional Guidelines Set for 1987 Accounts
Effective from September 1986, Central Bank of Nigeria granted NIDB the use of Settlement
Rates for making repayment of all its off-shore lines of credit duly certified as at 26th September,
1986. In view of the above, income accruals of September 1986, December 1986, March, 1987,
June 1987, September 1987 and December 1987 were re-worked at settlement rates, which gave
lower income values. Arising from these, therefore, are the following additional guidelines:
(a) For loans whose book values are already provided for using SFEM valuations, revalue
at settlement rates and write back excess provision arising thereon.
(b) For interest provision of 1986 based on billing at SFEM rate, write back over provision
arising from reworking of accrued income on settlement rate.



- 25 -
ANNEX C
Page 1 of 4
RECOMMENDATIONS OF ICC ON POLICIES ON PROVIDING FOR DOUBTFUL
INVESTMENTS EARLIER AGREED BETWEEN THE WORLD BANK/
NIDB/EXTERNAL AUDITORS
The policies for making provisions for investments are set out in the NIDB document
"Guidelines for Making Provisions".
Policies on Providing for Interest
The treatment of interest in the accounts is that it is taken to income and provisions are
made, as necessary, in accordance with the policy guidelines. The main features are set out
below.
"(a) if a loan is non-performing as regards interest, i.e. if there have been no interest
payments during the entire year, interest is taken to income and then fully provided
for in the same year. Where a project is not considered viable by management,
provision is made for all accrued interest and further accrual of interest is suspended.
(b) if interest is only partly paid and the level of arrears is getting progressively worse,
provision is made to the extent of such arrears,
(c) if management is convinced that a project under implementation will be profitable
when operational, it may allow interest arrears to be capitalized rather than provided
for, with the approval of management."
The policy on providing for interest needs to be more precise; a firm cut-off point should
be set beyond which interest is no longer taken to profit and any unpaid interest already taken
to profit is provided against. The treatment of projects under implementation is not sufficiently
specific.
Policies on Providing for Principal
(a) if assets constituting security are remotely located or highly specialized such that a
ready market is not obtainable, then provide fully,
(b) if only partial realization appears likely, either due to the condition of the assets over
which security exists, or change in economic conditions affecting the market for that
assets, then provide for the foreseen loss on realization of the loan,
(c) if a loan is non-performing as regards principal, i.e. no principal repayments for
three years or more (notwithstanding interest payments) and if not already
rescheduled, then provide in full,
(d) in instances where accrued interest in arrears now approaches or equates to the
outstanding loan, then provide for the loan partially (at least 50%) or in full,
depending upon the judgement of the Auditors. The policy in relation to providing
for principal is not clearly stated and could be misunderstood. it appears from the
policy as set out above that loans are reviewed on a regular basis in accordance with



- 26 -
ANNEX C
Page 2 of 4
(a) and (b), but a more definitive review takes place when a loan becomes non-
performing as set out in (c).
Three years is an unduly long period to allow principal arrears to build up before
having a definitive review of the need for a provision. This is particularly true in
projects which have already had the benefit of a principal moratorium. Clause (c)
is open to the interpretation that if a loan is rescheduled, there is no need for a
provision. this is not necessarily so.
In (d), the prime responsibility appears to rest with the Auditors in deciding on the
level of provisions. This responsibility should fall on management initially, with the
Auditors' comments being taken into account in determining the final level of
provisions.
Policies on Providini for Equity:
Equity investments are provided for in full where interest and/or principal provisions have
been made on loans to invested companies.
Otherwise, provisions for equity investments are based on an examination of the value of
the underlying assets as shown by the latest available audited balance sheet. Where it is
considered that a permanent diminution in value has occurred, provision is made.
This policy appears reasonable but the basis of valuation of the investments should be
broadened to take account of other factors including market value and trading performance.
Treatment of Interest
The treatment of interest, as set out hereunder, is intended to give a broad outline of the
principles to be adopted. Detailed accounting procedures would be incorporated in a procedures
manual, the preparation of which is part of the next stage of the assignment.
It is necessary to classify loans to ensure consistent treatment of interest in the accounts.
Various categories of loans could, with some merit, be suggested but, for the sake of simplicity,
only three are proposed. These are set out below:
(a) Under Implementation:
This includes loans to those projects which are within the period allowed in the initial
appraisal report/contract for the projects to be established, and which are being
implemented according to plan. Capitalized interest on these loans, as set out in the
initial appraisal report/contract, may be taken to profit as it accrues, so long as the
projects are being implemented as planned.
Beyond this point, the projects should generate sufficient funds internally to service
borrowings and the loans become either performing or non-performing. All projects
under implementation should be reviewed on a regular basis to confirm that they are
proceeding along the lines previously envisaged. If the project requires re-structuring



- 27 -
ANNEX C
Page 3 of 4
during the implementation period, the initial loan and any additional loan became
non-performing.
Non-Performing
Any of the following characteristics would cause a loan to be classified as non-performing:
-   a project under implementation requiring re-structuring due, for example, to
significant cost overruns, change in market conditions, technical difficulties,
competitiveness in doubt;
-   interest remains outstanding for six months or more;
-   interest being capitalized on a loan (excluding the initial capitalization of interest for
projects under implementation);
-   a provision for principal has been made; or
-   the project is under receivership or being wound up.
Interest arising on a non-performing loan should be taken to profit only to the extent that
interest is paid.
Performing:
Tlhis includes all loans not classified as Under Implementation or Non-Performing. Interest
is taken to profit as it accrues.
Guidelines for Makin2 Provisions on Equity and Loan Investment:
(a) Provisions for Equity:
-   Where there is a diminution in the value of the equity investment due for example to
trading losses, poor prospects for the project, reduction in net asset or market
valuation, provision should be made to the extent of such diminution. A regular
assessment of the value of the equity portfolio should be carried out to determine the
level of provisions required.
-   Equity investments should continue to be provided for in full where interest and/or
principal provisions have been made on loans to invested companies.
(b) Provisions for Loans:
Where there is a diminution in the value of the asset(s)/guarantee(s) representing the
security for the loan or where, for any reason, the Bank is under-secured provision
should be made against any anticipated loss on realization of the security. Foreign
currency loans at market settlement rates should be closely monitored. The trading
performance of the company should be taken into account in determining the level of



- 28 -
ANNEX C
Page 4 of 4
such provision. If the prospects for the company are poor, the loan should be written
down to the current estimated realizable value of the security. The portfolio should
be reviewed regularly to determine the level of provisions needed. All reports for
decision on existing loans should include a section assessing the adequacy of
existing/proposed security. Factors that should be taken into account in determining
the value of the security include the following:
assets remotely located, highly specialized or technically obsolete such that they may
be difficult to sell;
the condition of the assets;
change in economic conditions affecting the market for the assets;
title defects;
change in financial position of a guarantor;
offers already received for the assets; and
any other factors which would have an adverse impact on the realizable value of the
security.



- 29 -
PART m: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
TABLE 1: RELATED BANK LOANS
Year of
Loan                  Purpose             Approval       Status           Comments
NIDB I             Meet the gap in NIDB's       1969           Closed           PCR completed;
(Ln 588-UNI)       foreign exchange resources;                                  Performance: satisfactory
strengthen NIDB's
institutional capabilities
NIDB II            Meet the gap in NIDB's       1970           Closed           PCR completed;
(Ln 705-UNI)       foreign exchange resources;                                  Performance: satisfactory
strengthen NIDB's
institutional capabilities
NIDB III           Provide NIDB with a          1978           Closed           PCR completed.
(Ln 1597-UNI)      portion (about 20%) of its                                   Performance: Overall
foreign exchange resources                                  mixed. While satisfactory
needed to finance industrial                                progress was made in
projects; facilitate NIDB's                                 certain areas,
external resource                                           considerable improve-
mobilization efforts from                                   ment were needed in
other sources; further                                      others
strengthen NIDB's
institutional capabilities
SME I              Provide line of credit to    1984           Problems         PCR completed.
(Ln 2376-UNI)      NBCI to finance SMEs;                                        Performance
train federal and state level                               unsatisfactory.
extension workers; carry
out studies on the
development of the small-
and medium-scale industrial
subsector
Private SMIE II    Stimulate productive         1988           After a slow     Ongoing
Development (Ln   activity in line with                        start because
2995-UNI)          Nigeria's resource                          of interest rate
endowments, and generate                   issues, loan
a sustained supply response                has now been
in private, productive                     modified and
SMEs                                       committments
are rising.
Currently no
significant
problems



- 30 -
TABLE 2: PROJECT TIMETABLE
Item                     Original Date                Actual Date
Identification                 April 11, 1980              April 11, 1980
Preparation                   July 28, 1980                July 28, 1980
Initiating Project Brief      February 19, 1981            February 19, 1981
Appraisal Mission              September 8, 1982           September 8, 1982
Negotiations                  November 8, 1982             November 8, 1982
Board Approval                June 2, 1983                 June 2, 1983
Loan Signature                June 27, 1983                July 28, 1983
Loan Effectiveness             October 27, 1983            April 6, 1984
Loan Closing                  December 31, 1988            December 31, 1991
Date of Last Disbursement     June 12, 1991                April 30, 1992
Comments
1.            Loan Effectiveness Delays: The original date of loan effectiveness was extended
four times from October 22, 1983 and finally April 6, 1984. The first extension was granted to
allow the Federal Government to complete the legal opinion conditionality on Guarantee
Agreement. The subsequent extensions were made to allow the Federal Government and NIDB to
establish the "Managed Fund" which allowed the transfer out of NIDB a portfolio of Government
behest subprojects. The establishment of this Fund was considered crucial for improving NIDB's
portfolio quality and financial condition. Finally on March 30, 1984, the Government approved
the creation of the Managed Fund and, consequently, the Loan and Guarantee Agreements became
effective.
2.            Loan Closing Date Delays: The original closing date was extended four times
from December 31, 1988 to December 31, 1991, because the project suffered unexpected delays
in its initial effectiveness stage and the commitments were slow. The purpose of last extension
was to enable NIDB to disburse maximum balance of the loan.



- 31 -
Table 3: LOAN DISBURSEMENTS
CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL DISBURSEMENTS
(US$ Million)
Estimated          Revised          Actual         Actual
Fiscal Year         Amount            Amount           Amount         as % of
I ------------------Cumulative---------l---1      Estimate
1984                7.00               .89              .89          12.71
1985               20.00              2.55             2.55          12.75
1986               46.00             14.66            14.66          31.87
1987               80.00             48.29            48.29          60.36
1988              112.00             58.95            59.75          53.35
1989              120.00             71.39            79.53          66.28
1990                   --            94.99           106.58              --
1991                   --           120.00           113.14              --
1992                   --               --            118.8             --
LOAN DISBURSEMENTS
CUMULATIVE ESTI1ATED AND ACTUAL DI5BURiE4ENTS
(use h411116ft)
1'c
120 .. ...
100 ............   ...
40.....                ...
20.
1984 8a  86  a7 88  aU  so  n   2
Docb ot Fimal Disbursement: January 13. 199Z
Comments
l.            An extension of the closing date to December 31, 1991 was granted after
receiving requests from NIDB that three subprojects were having implementation delays. The
purpose of this extension was to enable NIDB to disburse almost the full balance of the loan. The
final loan disbursements were US$118.8 million (or 99%).



- 32 -
Table 4: PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
(NAIRA MILLION)
AppraWsal Estimate a/                  Actuals b/
Local   Foreign     Total        Local   Foreign     Total cl
C/
Total NIDB Requirement            80.5      129.5     210.0        575.0     915.0   1,490.0
(on commitment basis)
(a) IBRD Loan                        -      84.0      84.0            -     590.0    590.0
(b) EIB Loan                         -      31.5      31.5            -     225.0    225.0
(c) Commercial Bank                  -      14.0      14.0            -     100.0    100.0
(d) Local Bond Issue              14.0         -      14.0        100.0         -     100.0
(e) FGN (loans and equity)        56.0         -      56.0        400.0         -     400.0
(f) NIDB                          10.5         _      10.5         75.0         -      75.0
(internally generated funds)
80.5     129.5     210.0        575.0    915.0   1,490.0
a/ Average Exchange Rate in 1982 of US$1 - NO.70.
b/ Average Exchange Rate of US$1 - N5.00.
c/ Estimated
AF41EITABLE4                                                                                  21-Feb-02



- 33 -
Page 1 of 2
Table 5: Status of Covenants
$ccion                        Covenant                             Status of Compliance
3.01(a)          Assistance to Borrower to finance productive       In full compliance
facilities to contribute to the economic and
social development of the country.
3.01(b)          Borrower shall carry out the project, Action       In compliance with some
Program, Development Strategy, and conduct         delays.
Operations on the basis of sound financial
standards.
3.01(c)          Borrower may choose to carry out parts of the      Borrower chose not to carry
project through other financial interrnediaries    out.
by October 31, 1983.
3.01(d)          Setting up procedures and guidelines for the (c)   In the abscnce of (c) above,
above.                                             not applicable.
3.01(e)          Borrower to protect the Bank's and its own         In full compliance
interests to carry out the project.                throughout the project cycle.
3.02(a)          Borrower to undertake to require the sub-loans
or other investments entities to:
(i) be operated in sound technical, financial and  In full compliance.
managerial standards;
(ii) purchase goods and services at reasonable    In full compliance.
price with adequate maintenance and that they
should be use exclusively for the project;
(iii) inspect the site, equipment, works and       In compliance, though
plnts;                                             adequacy not fully known,
(iv) require subprojects to buy insurance         In compliance.
policies to cover against hazards;
(v) obtain all information on sub-loans as Bank    In full compliance, but
shall request; and                                 usually latc.
(vi) suspend the sub-borrowers access to funds     In full comnpliance.
upon failure to comply with the above.
3.02(b)          Borrower undertakes to ensure that each sub-
loan will have:
(i) Interest rate of at least 13 percent per       In full compliance.
annum; and
(ii) foreign exchange risk borne by the sub-       Partially not complied (sec
borrowers,                                         Part 1, parm 5.11).



- 34 -
Page 2 of 2
Table 5: Status of Covenants
Section          Covenant                                           Status of Compliance
3.02(c)          Borrower to ensure that sub-borrowers (i)          In compliance.
protect the interest of the Bank and Borrower
(ii) comply with the covenants, and (iii) achieve
the purposes of the project.
3.02(d)          Borrower and Guarantor to annually review the      Though slow and sluggish
interest rate policies and guidelines.             but in compliance.
3.03(a)          Borrower to furnish upon the Bank's request        In full compliance but
any information on sub-loans,                      usually late.
3.03(b)          Borrower to provide within six months of the       Withdrawal will continue
last withdrawal all the relevant information on    thru 4/30/92.
the project for the purpose of PCR.
3.04             Borrower to inform the Bank of any action          In full compliance.
which will have the effect of assigning or of
amending any material provision of the
Govemment Agreements.
3.05             Borrower to establish that if it acquires a        In full compliance.
subsidiary, it will be subject to aU agreements
with the Bank.
3.06(a)          Borrower to employ consultants to carry out the    In full compliance.
tochnical assistance components of the project.
3.06(b)          Borrower shall provide to the Bank (i) details     In full compliance.
of studies, (ii) results of such studies.
3.07             Procurement of goods and services shall be         In full compliance.
governed by the provisions of:
(i) Guidelines for Procurement under World
Bank Loans and Credits; and
(ii) goods and civil works equivalent to US$15     In full compliance.
million or more and other goods and civil
works equivalent to US$3 million or more shaU
be procured in accordance with Part A of the
Guidelines referred to above.
4.01 to 4.10     Financial Covenants                                Except for delays in
submission of audited
accounts, in general
complianee.



- 35 -
TABLE 6: USE OF BANK RESOURCES
StageolProject                  Fiscal    No. of         Total       01 Which       SpecialzatIon      RaFting     FRmarks
Cycle                           Year      Persons a/    Statf Wks    In Field bi    Representd at cI  Status di     Problems et
A.   Pro-appraisal                    1980        1               0.2            -       LOF                    -
Pro-appraisal                    1981       2               4.4            -        OP. EC                 -
Pre-appraisal                    1982       2               6.0           3.0       OP. EC                 -
Subtotal                                                   10.6           3.0
B.   Appraisal through Board          1983        2              47.9          2.0       OP,EC                  -
Approval                         1983       2               9.2            -        EC,OT                  -
1983       1               4.8            -       OP                     -
Subtotal                                                   61.9           2.0
C.   Supervision                      1984        4              11.6           1.0      EC. OP, OT             -              F&M
Supervision                      1985       4              14.7           2.0       EC, OP,FA, OT         -              F&M
Supervision                      199e       10             30.5            -        EC. OP. FA, OT         3              F & M
Supervision                      1987       13             37.5           2.0       EC, OP. FA, OT         3              F & M
Supervision                      1987       -                 -           1.0       EC, OP, FA, OT         3              F & M
Supervision                      1988       11             34.6           2.0       EC, OP, FA, OT         2              F
Supervision                      1989       3               8.3           2.0       EC, OP                 1              F
Supervision                      1990       a              10.4           2.0       EC, OP, FA             1              F
Supervision                      1991       4               4.4            -        EC, OP, FA             2              F
Proj. Completion Report          1992       2               8.0            -        FA                     -
Subtotal                                                  166.0          12.0
TOTAL                                                   237.5          17.0
at   Includes Consultants and reflects staffing for all missions within the year.
bl   Reflects limited and incomplete data due to insufficient
information in the MIS and project files.
ci   Specialization:                 FA-Financial Analyst, EC-Economist
OP-Operation Officer, LOF Loan Officer
OT-Others
dt   Status:                         1-Problem-Free or Minor Problems;
2-Moderate Problems; 3-Major Problems
e/   Types of Problems:              F-Financial: M-Managerial; P-Political;
O-Others






- 37 -
ANNEX I
Page 1 of 4
NIGERIAN INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK
(Loan 2299-UNI)
Action Program
General Organization of NIDB
1.            Organization Review. NIDB will undertake a review of its organization
structure, with assistance from outside consultants, focussing particularly on the span of
control and delegation of authority at senior management levels, with the objective of
improving institutional efficiency and coordination between departments and between the head
office and area administrations. The Terms of Reference for this review will be prepared in
consultation with the World Bank.
2.            Senior financial staff. Without waiting for completion of the above review,
NIDB will appoint a head for its new Internal Audit unit and will recruit a replacement for its
recently retired DGM who will be capable of strengthening is forecasting and resource
planning activities. At least three of four additional accounting professionals will be recruited
to fill other vacancies in each of the Finance and Internal Audit Departments.
3.            Staff planning. After taking into account the results of its organization review
(para. 1) and its staffing requirements, NIDB will reformulate a recruitment plan for the next
three and five years, indicating the number and types of professional positions (e.g. financial
analysts, economists, engineers and agriculturists and agro-economists) necessary to meet
NIDB's operational needs over the period.
4.            Training. NIDB will formulate a 3-5 year training program which will focus
upon strengthening its staff capabilities in the areas of economic research and technical
appraisal; financial, economic and market analysis, accounting and financial controls; and
management information systems. In this endeavor the collaboration of a foreign institution
with experience in development bank training and/or of foreign consultants, if necessary, will
be sought.
Appraisal and Research
5.            Appraisal reports will include a section summarizing problems with existing
projects in the same subsector together with the steps proposed for the project being appraised
to avoid the same difficulties. External local consultants will be employed where appropriate
to supplement NIDB's own technical appraisal capability.
6.            In order to better integrate them with financial and technical analyses of
projects, market analyses of individual projects will be performed by the Appraisal
Department. The Research Department will still be responsible for setting out parameters for
and reviewing market analyses, and will continue to undertake economic analyses of projects,
but it will concentrate new efforts on subsector studies both in problem areas and in priority
areas for identification of new projects.



- 38 -
ANNEX I
Page 2 of 4
7.            Because working capital shortages, particularly as regards foreign exchange,
are constraining industrial production, NIDB will begin financing working capital for projects
in priority industrial subsectors.
Financial Matters and Management Information
8.            NIDB will undertake a review of its equity investment operations in order to:
(a) assess their performance including both economic impact and profitability; (b) outline its
objectives and future strategy for undertaking new equity investments and making timely sales
of shares from its portfolio.
9.            Detailed resource planning and financial forecasting for a multi-year time
frame (3-5 years) will be undertaken at least semi-annually.
10.          With the assistance of external consultants, NIDB will prepare a
comprehensive set of report formats for an improved financial and management information
system, and in that context, will review possible applications of electronic data processing and
mechanical accounting devices. Alternative software and hardware options will be evaluated,
including the option of a pilot program that could result in immediate improvements in the
accuracy, quality, and timeliness of management information. The Terms of Reference for
this program of work will be prepared in consultation with the World Bank.
11.          NIDB will take adequate steps to eliminate the existing foreign exchange risk
on borrowings from CDC (London).
12.          Beginning with the 1982 audit, NIDB will have its audit prepared in the
World Bank's Long Form Format.
Problem Projects and Arrears 1/
13.          Government behest projects. NIDB and government will work out detailed
terms for and then implement the managed fund arrangement to which they have agreed in
principle regarding 13 government projects in NIDB's portfolio, amounting to 185 million of
loans and equity investments outstanding. An equivalent amount of NIDB's liabilities to
government would be transferred to the fund. NIDB would continue to follow up these
projects and make collections for a fee, but the risk of losses would be borne by government.
14.          Private sector project. NIDB will constitute immediately (in any event not
later than the end of February 1983) a special task force (including supervision, Finance and
Legal staff) to carry out an account-by-account review and classification of problem projects
according to (i) projects having implementation problems; (ii) willful defaulters (operating
profitably but unwilling to make payments); (iii) projects operating unprofitably and unable to
repay; (iv) projects no longer in operations (closed down); and (v) those under litigation or
1/    Projects having implementation problems or in arrears for more than 3 months.



- 39 -
ANNEX I
Page 3 of 4
receivership. On the basis of the findings of the task force, NIDB will take any one or more
of the following actions, as appropriate:
-      For projects under (i) above, the Supervision Department will reevaluate the
project (including a detailed assessment of its implementation problems) to
determine what remedial measures (including possible technical or
management assistance, rescheduling and/or additional financing) are
necessary, on the basis of which the task force will make recommendations to
Management.
For projects under (ii) above, NIDB's Legal Department will send out letters
inviting these clients for discussions with the task force on their delinquent
loans. If acceptable arrangements (to NIDB) cannot be worked out with the
client for the repayment of the loan, or the client fails to respond to NIDB's
letter, then within 30 days from the date of the meeting (or the intended
meeting), NIDB will begin legal proceedings for the recovery of the
outstanding amount(s).
For projects under (iii) above similar action will be taken as for projects in
category (i). For those projects where it determined that further assistance
would not result in a return to positive cash flows and profitability, NIDB
should assess the value of company's assets and begin immediate legal
measures for recovery. If the assessed realizable value is determined to be
inadequate to cover the outstanding loan, then appropriate provisions should
be made for possible losses.
For projects under (iv) above, NIDB Supervision Department should
undertake similar steps as in (i) above in order to determine
reactivation/rehabilitation possibilities, and necessary remedial measures.
Should further assistance prove unfeasible, then, similar actions will be taken
as in case (iii) above.
For projects under (v) above, NIDB's Legal Department will proceed
expeditiously and forcefully for recovery. Provisions will be made as
necessary.
15.          Beginning with the 1982 Audit, NIDB's auditors will make specific
recommendations on portfolio provisions to be established, taking into consideration the
recommendations of the task force. The task force will also propose for adoption by the
management, overall collection targets for the next three years, which targets will be reviewed
annually. The initial task force's report should be submitted to NIDB's management May 30,
1983, for action.
16.          The above Problem Project Task Force should be reinstituted on an annual
basis with shorter semi-annual updates. Its report should form the basis of a joint annual
review of NIDB's portfolio by the World Bank and NIDB's management to be undertaken
during World Bank supervision missions.



- 40 -
ANNEX I
Page 4 of 4
17.           NIDB will take the following additional measures to improve future
collections:
(i)    Undertake joint analyses (involving Research and supervision staft) of
problem subsectors (e.g. textiles, oil milling, leather, bricks, etc.)
designed to recommend improvements in future NIDB supervision and
appraisal work, as well as in government policies affecting the
subsector.
(ii)    Establish a Loan Recovery Unit within the Finance Department
responsible only for billings and collections.
(iii)   Establish Rehabilitation unit to assist clients with severe operating
difficulties.
(iv)   Increase its penalty interest rate to at least 2% above the highest of the
or original interest rate on a loan, NIDB's current interest rate, or the
current commercial bank lending rate.
(v)    Automatically revise its initial repayment schedule on loans (based on
the date of plant commissioning forecast in its appraisal report) to take
account of the acLuI date of commencement of production. Later
rescheduling of projects in operation should be agreed to only after
NIDB attaches conditions designed to remedy the project's operating
problems. In such cases the interest rate should also be revised to
NIDB's current rate, if higher.
(vi)    Bill new and rescheduled loans on a quarterly rather than semi-annual
basis.



- 41 -
ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 2
NIGERIAN INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK LIMITED
(Loan 2299-UNI)
Outline of Development Strategy for 1983 Through 1985
1.           During the three-year period 1983 through 85, NIDB will endeavor to
enhance the developmental impact of its operations and increase its contribution to the
Nigerian industrial and financial sector, particularly in the specific areas outlined below:
I. Financial Intermediation
(a)    NIDB will progressively intensify its assistance (both financial and technical)
to state-level financial institutions with a view to:
(i)    helping strengthen these institutions and
(ii)   reaching out and financing more industrial projects in outlying areas
so as to improve the geographic distribution of its portfolio as well as
indirectly assist smaller enterprises.
This apex activity is intended to complement the operation of NIDB's branch
network.
(b)   In addition to its present part ownership and involvement in ICON (Merchant
Bank and Stock Brokers), NIDB intends to continue exploring actively with
foreign partners, the establishment of a merchant bank to be located in one of
the outlying states.
(c)    To increase the catalytic role of its financing, NIDB will intensify its efforts at
loan syndications and joint-financing of projects.
(d)    NIDB intends to explore jointly with international and/or domestic partners,
the establishment of a subsidiary or affiliate company to engage in the leasing
business, focussing primarily, through not exclusively, upon industrial and
construction equipment. This leasing activity would also focus on smaller
entrepreneurs, whose financial conditions frequently do not enable then to
acquire the necessary equipment through outright purchases, as well as those
whose needs are only seasonal.
II. Resource Mobilization
2.           NIDB intends to diversify its resource base and gradually reduce its
dependence on government and official funds, by mobilizing commercial resources from both
the domestic and international markets. On the domestic market, NIDB envisages during
1983, issuing bonds for an approximate amount of N 15 million, to be followed by other
issues as permitted by market conditions and as warranted by NIDB's resource requirements.
On the foreign currency side, NIDB plans to star by actively exploring the Euromarket with a
view to borrowing an approximate amount of US$15-25 equivalent in 1983, to be followed by
increased future borrowings.



- 42 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 2
III. Resource Allocation
3.            NIDB will direct a greater share of its future financing to priority industrial
sub-sectors such as intermediate goods, constriction industries. As a consequence, it is
expected that during the planning period (3-5 years), the combined share of foods, beverages,
hotels and other non-durable consumer goods in NIDB's financing will decline
correspondingly.
4.            NIDB will put greater emphasis on financing private sector project, whose
share in NIDB's financing is expected to gradually rise (on an approval basis) from about
35% in the 1970s to not less than 75% by 1985.
5.            To enable it effectively to pursue the objectives set out in the preceding 2 sub-
paragraphs, NIDB will further intensify its project promotion efforts among other things,
through the more active involvement of its senior management in these efforts and the
strengthening of the operation of the P & D Department.
6.            In its future financing, NIDB will endeavor to expand its technical assistance
to clients and prospective clients in the areas of project formulation, project design, choice of
technology, engineering and project analysis. NIDB will also pay due attention to the
economic merits, particularly foregoing objective, NIDB will strengthen its technical and
research capability.
IV. Consultancy Services
7.                   NIDB intends to explore, with the collaboration of foreign and/or
local partners, the establishment of a private subsidiary or affiliate company to undertake a
broad range of consulting services (engineering, managerial, financing and economic) to
industry at large including NIDB's clients, as well as state level financial institutions.
V. Economic Research and Policy Inputs
8.            A. NIDB intends to strengthen its capability and intensify its activity in
economic research with a view to, among other things, enable it to contribute to the
formulation of government policies in the industrial and financial sectors, as well as
identifying potential areas for NIDB's investments.
9.            B. Specifically, NIDB plans, in cooperation with the World Bank, to conduct
or take part in studies on a number of priority industrial sub-sectors including initially,
intermediate goods, construction industry and agro-industries.
VI. Organizational Arrangements
10.          To enable NIDB to successfully implement the above Development Strategy,
NIDB's management intends to carry out a review of NIDB's organizational structure and
staffing with a view to strengthening them as appropriate. As a part of this effort short-term
technical assistance, where needed will be sought from the World Bank and/or other
international agencies.



NIGERIAN INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK LIMITED
CHARACTERISTICS OF PROJECTS AND COSTS APPROVED UNDER LOAN 2299-UNI
-II 1/            L     1 t          ,E N           -    UL               NOWSAWSTAANCE (LOAN)
IL OYS     -                                                                                        Pr-DI: F     f   LOCAL     foffIEN          _
NO.                        , PBER                              SECTOR            PRSKUCT              SH      IP -HI (%)   P1RJ.    LOitA                         CURWECY - O   - YI2 ,EUY
1  LIUAN ENTEZPRtSE                              A-C0     FOOD               Ice CreanMlk            P            100     New        Kaduna           1.660         176            T24           660
2  MUSTAPHA MED & COI. CO. LTD.                  A-02    CHEMICAL            lntuon Flul             P            100      Exp         Nige          10,963         136          6,683         3.800
3   SLUPERTEX                                    A-03    TEXTILE             Waix Prints              P      P40 I f80     New        Kaduna         39,234         370          3,890         7,971
4   SOFRESID SOFT DRtNKS                         A04      BEVERAGE           Soft Drinks              P      Poo I Ft1     Now        Benue           6,000         248           1.360        1,617
6  ATLANTIC TEXTILE                              A-OS    TEXTILE             Yarn                     P      P40 I FoO     Exp        Lago           30,386
e  GLOBE SPINNWN  UILLSNKIERIA                   A-Ce    TEXTILE             Yarn                     P      P40 I f80     Exp        Lagos          44,421        2,479        21,368        16,197
7  DE-EASY UFE ELECTRONICS CO                    A-07    ELECTRONIC          Transtornern             P           100      New         Ondu           4,260          -            1,099        1,.51
6   STAG INDUST. (NIl) LTD                       A-0O    STEEL               Filtrs                   P           100      New         Ogun          12,206        3,720         7.620         3,700
9  AFPFINT LTD.                                  A-09    TEXTILE             Fabrics                  p      P661 F46      Exp        Lagos          44,421        2,479        21.388        16,197
10  IOWE PHAARMACELUTICAL LAB                     A-o    tCHEMICAL            Inkiuton Fluld          P            100     New          Ino            3.844         423          1.697         1,600
II  JOELiZ HOTELS LTD.                            A-11     HTLS & TOUR       Hotel ServI             P            100     New        Anambia          9,841       2,699             -          1,240
12  KADUNA CHEMICAL IND. PRODUCTS LTD.            A-12    CHEMICAL            Detergents              P            100     New        Koduna              0            0             0             0
13  BEL-PAPYRIS LTD.                              A-13    PAPER               Tssue Par               P            100     New         Lagos         24,782           -          1e,710         7,226
14   DUNLOP NIGERIA LTD.                          A-14    RUBBER              Tire                    a        Pt3/F37      Exp        Lagos         264,900          -          80,000        64.900
16  NIIMA MANUFACTURING INDUST. LTD.              A-16    CARPET              Crpet                   P            100      Exp        Abujla         38.304       6,700             -          6.224
16  UNITED SPINNERS NIGERtA LTD.                  A-1a    TEXTtLE             Yarn                    P            100     New         Lagos         137,900       2,800         34.000        41,400
17  NKO GLASS NDUSTRY                             A-17    CEFRAICS            91_ewore                P        PO0/F20     New          Oyo           10,800        1,931         4.876         3,200
_ t CADBURY NIGERIA LTD.                           A-IS    FOODIBEV.           MaltlFoods              0        P6o0F40     New         Lago               0            0             0             0
19  CONTINENTAL INDUSTRIAL GASES LTD.             A-19      NO. GASES         Aol*tne/Orygon          P            100     New         Lago           13.921       10.293            0          2,e91
20  AGRO-EDISLE OiL NDUST. LTD.                   A-20    AGRO ALLIED         Edible Ol              P            100     New         Lagos              0            0             0             0
21  LEASiNG CO. OF NIGERIA                        A-21    LEASN               Leas, Aseets            a            100     New         Lagos          16,792           0             0             a
22  NIGERN  LAMP tNDUSTRIES LTD.                  A-22    LAMP                Frcent/Tubealarnp       a            100     New         LagUO         66,14e        3,964         33,783        16.009
23  AMWA FOUNDRIES LTD.                           A-23    STEEL/IRON          PVC Hoes                P            100     New        Kaduna          9,716           -           6.120         2.200
24  FOLA FISHING INDUSTRIES                       A-24    FP1mG               Fish fot EXp.           P            100     NeW         Lsgos          17.791          -          11.760         6.444
28  UNITED NIGER. TEXTILES LTD.                   A-26    TEXTILE             FabriO                  Pu       P42/FU6     New        Kaduna         73.400        6.000         32.400        10,.00
26  ALKEM PMG. LTD)                               A-26    TEXTILE             Yarn                    P            100     New         Lagos         87.026        6,000         36,125       22,600
0
l"tl



NIGERIAN INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK LIMITED
CHARACTERISTICS OF PROJECTS AND COSTS APPROVED UNDER LOAN 2299-UNI
'PROL                                                                         QF90:-   O 4 P.-   ,   '     'D   .1L        4  b
NO.                    P ETJ                                       ED T        -         our               map tiP (%,   PR             I L   LOCATIO         OS        aw.            CURb'R13:Y2    EQUITY
27   OLIC INDUSTRtES                                 B-01     CHEMICAL            Poran. Bags              P            100      New         Ikno              774          106            226           300
2t   KIUDL NAIL MFCTRI3                              8-02     METAL               Nab                      P            100      NSw        Bauchli          1,4r0           63            607           427
23   lEJA HOTEL                                      8-03     HOTELlTOURS                                  P                     Exp.      -L-               3,670            0              0 *O
30   JET INTL LTD                                    B-04     FOOD                Bakery Products          P            100      Now         Borno             97S          112            168
31   ADAMS A6tRO                                     B-06     MISC               Anal Feeds                P            100      Now         Kuro              700          200            200           326
32   AOOKO NKiGA LTD.                                B0it    MANUFACTURE                                   P            100                                      0            0 O
33   AMMANM PAPER                                    B-07     PAPER PROD.        Teotb Rolk                P            100      New        Sokoto o60                      126            274           320
34   PEACOCK MOD tNTEROOR                            B-0a     WDOD PROD.          Furniure                 P            100      New          kmn            1.673          196            630           604
36   FtKOS CONFECTK)N                                8-09     FOOD & SEVERAAE  Bakery Product.             P            100      New         Lagos               0            0              0             0
36   SANI CONFECTION                                 B-10     FOOD                Swt.                     P       P06 I F16     New        Plaeau           1.4106         316            662           660
37   SANZOR ANDUSTFIES                               B-11     METAL               Nalb                     P            100      Now          Imor           1,706           72            728           470
36   B. MACALS INDUSTRIES                            B-12     MANUFACTUtRE        Candis.                  P            100      New       Anarbra               0            0              0             0 
3    V YERWA CONSOLIDATED INDUST.                    B-13     BEVERAGES           Soft Drlnk               P            100      New         Borno           1.376          376            246           616
40   NAKGE PRODUCTS LTD.                             B-14     FOOD                Dairy Producre           P            100      New        Gongoa           1.480          1I6            631           6oo
41    AGUOU INVEST. LTD.                             B-16     MANUFACTURE         Toilet PoleP                          100      New        Plteau               0            0              0             0
42   ROLtSCO NIGEFtA LTD.                            S-14     MANUFACTURE         TIbua Papers             P            100     New          Niger           1,160          167            203        360,000
43   LAKE CONCRETE IND.                              S-17     mISC.               Dredging Seryvlo         P            100      Exp       Anambra           4,041                       2.700          1.203
44   OLUFOAM PLASTIC IND.                            B-1     mISC.               Mtic.                    P            100     New          Lagos            f26 *           0              a             0
46   RtETZCOT  111GERIA CO LTD.                      B-19     RJBfSER BASE       Auto Spar Pars            P            100     New          Ogun            4.327        1.002          1.167          1,427
4t   OLALOMI INDUST. LTD.                            8-20     TEXTILE            Carpet                    P            100      Exp        Kwara           17,904           -          10,193          2.694
47   ASSOCtATED UEFCI AND INDUST. CO.                B-21     CHEMICAL            Polyurethane Fm Bilk.    P            100    IExp           Ino            3.926          i65            76f           76a
48   UKOttADU INDUST. PROJ.                          8-22     STEEL              Machat.                   P            100     New           kmo            6,216          664          2.716           769
49   DAO BASH BROTHERS LTD.                          B-23     STEEL               Screws. F1wve            P            100     New          Ogur            6,f06         710           3,030          1.281
60   NEW-SIp                                        B-24      BEVERAGE           Soft Drinkl               P            100     New         Lago            21.36Ea                                    2.962            D
61   JACK-ROSS (NiGERA) LTD.                         -26    MtANUFACTURE        Soapslperfumes            P            100     New          Ogun               0            0               0             0Z
f-D t-I
62   OREDOLA OKEYA AOHESVE 4 CHEM. PRFO.             8-2      CHEMICAAL          Adhelee.                  P            100     New         Kwara            3,436              _         ,900         1.0f6   
63   TOMLZAYl NIGEFIA ENTEIS'IISES LTD.              8-27     STEEL              BuckleslNMal              P            100     New          NIger           4,600                       3.116         1,036        0
64   AGRO PROJECTS LIJITED                           B-26     CHEMICAL            DrugehVtarnn             P            100     New         Kwara            9,190        1,763          3,647         2.62
TOTALS                       _  _  _     __  _  _ _  _  _   _  _  _  _ __  _  _   _ _  _    _  _ _  __                __  _  _     .642 46.4                    364.042        613.106
Iv    P - Prive; a  Government F . ForeIgn
2f    Conveerd baeed on aerage 1967 Exchage Rase of S4.00INalre



NIGERIAN INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK LIMITED
PERFORMANCE OF SUB-PROJECTS FINANCED UNDER LOAN 2299-UNI
_OS-PLETI                                            CM _I': C_          C:r-
FOMNEIAL    EOONOMIC        WESTMENT           MOOt (r400)  .     ONTHS            JOBS CIEATED :0)JOB                           UTTL  Lfl
IL P0l.   FOA (%)       IOt                                             If OLEMENTATiON              -     oiitN  h    -      : o) M            ()
NO.                PROJECT                  MDEF EST   AT.   Ea. |T              EST.      ACT.                  E        A EST(AEl. |AC.  DELAY   EST.   ACT.  U   j    EaT.   ACT.  EST. ACT.
1 LAANI ENTERPRISE                          A-01    22             33                     1e6_0                                          41                               40
2 MUSTAPHA MED & COM. GO. LTD.              A-02    40              lo 1e   =    =       10,953                                           63                              63
3 SUPERTEX                                  A-03    6e   =          192  =_              39,234                                         1000                              14
4 SOFRESID SOFT DRINKS                      A-04    26              16 1                  5,000                                          110                              37
6 ATLANTIC TEXTILE                          A-06    31             23                    39,366 -1                                       162                              36
6 GLOBE SPINNI  MILLSNIGERIA                A-O      27             20                   44,421                                           93                      =       90 _         =    _
7 DE-EASY LIFE ELECTRONICS CO               A-07    60    =        60 =6                  4,260                                          146                              29
e STAG INDUST. (NKG.) LTD.                  A-oS    31             42 ____12,20e                                                          71                                                 _
9 AFPRINT LTD.                              A-O      37            21         1 __44.421                                                  6                              2              7n
10 KtWE PHARMACEUTICAL L                     A-O10    32            30                     3,644                                           6o                              67            66
I JOELIZHOTELSLTD.                          A-11    16             32    =       =        s9.41                                           06   =                  =      104    =
12 KADUNA CHEMICAL IND. PRODUCTS LTD.        A-12    So             60                        0                                      I_  316                               57            76
13 BEL-PAPYRUS LTD.                          A-13    21              10            _      24,782         5_                                 7                             436            so
14 DUNLOP NIGERIA LTD.                       A-14    10              19                  264,900 
16 NIIMA MANUFACTURING INOUST. LTD.          A-16    261             1    =     =        30,304                                          lea_ 106                        203            aS
1  UNrrED SPINNERS NIGERIA LTD.             A-la    22              18    _             137,9000                                         723                              190   _ 0      6
17 NKO GLASS INDUSTRY                        A-17    62              la                   10.600         _        _                       226                                            so_ e0
16 CADBURY NIGERIA LTD.                      A-18    62             27                        0                                                                                           o0
19 CONTINENTAL INDUSTRIAL GASES LTD.         A-19     36            32                    13.021                                          104                              61            76 _el
20 AGRO-ELNBLE OIL INDUST. LTD.              A-20     -              -                        0             _                              _                                _             _
21 LEASING CO. OF NIGERIA                    A-21                                         16,792 'I         _     ==                     =       ==                              _      =
22 NERIAN LAMP INDUSTRIES LTD.               A-22     20             17    =5= 66,140   3_                _       =                        42    =                 =       U164         so
23 AFEWA FOUNDRIES LTD.                      A-23    41              23    =               9,716               I                           s - =  o =_                     141           70
24 FOLA FISHI  INDUSTRIES                    A-24     4  _          21                    17,791                                           82   =                  .        U _    40 _
26 UNITED NIGER TEXTILES LTD.                A-26          4        21                    73,400            _                                                                                 _ -          | 
26 ALKEM (MO. LTD)                           A-28    3        2      21         _7.026                                                    136 e__  _                      645                               X
0



NIGERIAN INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK LIMITED
PERFORMANCE OF SUB-PROJECTS FINANCED UNDER LOAN 2299-UNI
CO9ILE11O                                            COOT Pm    CAP. CAP.
F*:1A1CIAL    EOONOUIC    VNESTMENT oCOt (WOOD)                  MONTHS            JOBS CFEATE3                       00  J  (I:  LmL  UL
I PRtJ.  ROA   )         DA                          ON r  (W         IMPLEMENTATION       ::                                            (- ) L  '(N
NO.                P1JECT                   NL BER EST. ACT.   EST.  ACT.   EST.            ACT.   LJN (-) ()  EST.  ACT.  DELAY   EST.   ACT.  UIRDN (-)  IO   EST.  ACT, Ear  ACT.
27 OLD  INDUSTIFES                            fl-ol    66            27   _                  774                                          104                              21
28 KUDA NAIL MFCTAG                           D-02    44             21                    1.460            =    =       =       =       =       =                 =       47
29 KEJA HOTEL                                 8-03    63             18                       0
30 JET INT'L LTD                              i-04                                          976                                            22                              44
31 ADAMS ACRO                                 9-O6    40             34   _70                                                              40   _5
32 ADOKO NIGEFiA LTD                          B-C0    4e             18                       a                                            31                              26_
33 AMMANI PAPER                               i007    41             23                     9O0                                            37                               t8
34 PEACOCK MOO INTERIOR                       B-0D    43             32                    1,573                                           62_ 62                          30
36 RUKOS CONFECTION                          B-09    3               18                       0           _                                44                              24
36 SANI CONFECTION                            9-10    19             22 __sse                                                             1 102                            20
37 SANZOR INDUSTRIES                          B-11    62             20                    1,_ 1706                                                                        44
38 B. MACALS INDUSTRIES                       9-12    44             17                       0                                                                             l4 1a                        i
30 YERWA CONSOLiDATED INDUST.                9-13    28              21                    1,376                                           be                               26               a=
40 NAAGE PRODUCTS LTD.                        9-14    29             20                    1,480             _    _           .            40
41 BAGUDU INVEST. LTD.                        i-16    36             30                       0           _                                24                               26
42 ROLISCO NIGERIA LTD.                       1-18    46             20                    1,160                                           4 1 _  41=  =__=                 25   =       90=
43 LAKE CONCRETE IND.                         B-i7    66             39                    4,041          _                                24                              168
44 OLUFOAM PLASTIC IND.                        -18                                           ns              ___92
46 FIETZCOT (NIGERIA) CO LTD.                 9-19    66             49                    4,327             _2                                                                          90
48 OLALOMI INDUST. LTD.                       9-20    62             19                   17.904          _                                 163                            117           so6
47 ASSOCIATED MERCH. AND INDUST. CO.          B-21   100             41                    3,926             _    _ _                      41                               96 =8
48 UKOMADW INDtST. PROJ.                      0-22    40             26                    6,216                                           86        I                      is
49 DAO BASH BROTHERS LTD.                     S-23    74             24                    6 6.80_                                         64                              104
60 NEW-SIP                                     -24    49                                  21,38  __                                       218                               96
61 ACK-ROSS (GERIA) LTD.                      9-26    86              8                       0                                            67                               7
62 OEDOLA OKEYA ADHESIVE & CHEM. PROC.   9-28    36                  18                    3,436  __=                    =      =          60 I                    =0
63 TOMiZAYn NIGERiA ENTERPRSES LTD.           9-27    29                                                                                   2 4,8_  2e                      118b   _|
64 AGRO POECTS LMITED                          -28    96             26                    8.190                                           06-                              87                        (D
0
_~~~oas                                                                               10i0  ;0   r t^"l,lXt0 8:0:.,.8  --    - -      6.o  __ __ _ __   _3__  ._8
'I Converted baed on average 1967 xchange ratl of USSI - N4.00.
Source: Ni11 Proqec Fil



- 47 -
ANNEX 5
NIGERIAN INDUSTRIAL DEVOLOPMENT BANK LIMITED
Sectoral Distribution of Projects Financed Under Loan 2299-UNI
Total                          NIDB       NIDB            IBRD a/
Project    Total    Total       Assist.     Assist.         Financing
Sectoral                 Cost    % By    % By          Amount      % NIDB       Amount    % IBRD
Distribution  No.       (N'000)    Numb.   Cost         (N'000)    Amount       (N'000)    Amount
1 AgroAllied       1       17,791         2        2       11,760         3         15,821         3
2 Chemical         9      335,269        20       31       109,558        27        77,993        13
3  Food & Bev.     7       33,834        15        3        5,108          1        31,811         5
4  Hotels/Tours    2        13,511        4        1         2,599         1        12,799         2
5 Manufacture    15        178,672       33       16       99,492         24       158,399        27
6 Textile          8      483,690        17       45       177,472       43        260,496        45
7  Miscellaneous    4      21,461         9        2         3,100         1        24,217         4
Total:  46    1,084,228      100      100      409,089        100       581,536       100
, ...   ==--==-      ----    ----    ....
a/ Exchange Rate: Naira 5.0 - US$1.0



- 48 -
ANNEX 6
NIGERIAN INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK LTD.
GEOGRAPHICAL DISTRIBUTION OF PROJECTS ASSISTED UNDER LOAN 2299-UNI
_____  _ _  .NIDB'S ASSISTANCE
NO     *AOF    (N'000)                 ('000)     % OF         TOTAL
OF    TOTAL    LOAN        (0OOO)      TOTAL      TOTAL      CAP COST
STATE     PROJ. NUMBER  AMOUNT   EQUnIY            LOAN    AMOUNT OF PROJECTS
1.  ABUJA              1        2      6,700     6,224       12,924      1.26         38,304
2.  ANAMBRA            2        4      5,299     2,443        7,742      0.76         13,882
3.  BAUCHI             1        2        670       427        1,097      0.11          1,460
4.  BENUE              1        2      1,598      1,517       3,115      0.30          5,000
5.  BORNO              2        4        920       615        1,535      0.15          2,350
6.  GONGOLA            1        2        720       600        1,320      0.13          1,480
7.  IMO               6        13      8,722     4,319       13,041      1.28         17,036
8.  KADUNA            4         9    48,680    21,221        69,901      6.84        123,999
9.  KANO               1        2       400        325          725      0.07            700
10. KWARA             3         7     17,693     6,187       23,880     2.34          30,529
11. LAGOS             14       30   282,089    192,526      474,615    46.43         792,440
12. NIGER             3         7      9,284    364,635     373,919     36.58         16,903
13. OGUN              3         7    17,238      6,408       23,646      2.31         22,139
14. ONDO               1        2      1,099     1,551        2,650     0.26           4,250
15. OYO               1         2      6,607     3,200        9,807     0.96          10,800
16. PLATEAU            1        2       970        650        1,620      0.16          1,996
17. SOKOTO             1        2       400        320          720     0.07             960
Total            46       100   409,089    613,168    1,022,257      100       1,084,228



- 49 -
ANNEX 7
NIGERIAN INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK LIMITED
Investment Cost Distribution of Projects Financed under Loan 2299-UNI
Total                   NIDB Assistance       IBRD Financing a/
(N'000)                     (N'000)               (N'000)
Total                   Project   % by   % by                 % by                  %by
Cost Distribution      No.   Cost  Number Amount         Amount Amount         Amount Amount
1. Less than 1,000,000      5     4,337   10.9    0.4         1,434      0.4        6,741      1.0
2. 1,000,001 - 5,000,000   17   49,681   37.0    4.6         22,079      5.4       78,100     14.0
3. 5,000,001 - 10,000,000   5    39,567   10.9    3.6        21,368      5.2       19,600      3.0
4. Above 10,000,000        19  990,643   41.2   91.4         364,208    89.0      477,095     82.0
46 1,084,228  100.0  100.0       409,089    100.0      581,536    100.0
.... ......   _  ....  __._,_ ......  ----  -------       -----_ _____-_____
Size Distribution of Proiects Financed under Loan 2299-UNI
Total                   NIDB Assistance       IBRD Financing a/
(N'000)                     (N'000)               (N'000)
Loan                   Project   % by   % by                  % by                  % by
Size Distribution      No.   Cost  Number Amount         Amount Amount         Amount Amoount
1. Loss than 1,000,000      3    11,390    6.5    1.1         6,820      1.7        1,504      0.3
2. 1,000,001 - 5,000,000   21   109,313   45.7   10.1        49,611     12.1       62,485     10.7
3. 5,000,001 - 10,000,000   7    77,278   15.2    7.1        24,344      6.0       46,452      8.0
4. Above 10,000,000        15   886,247   32.6   81.7        328,314    80.3      471,095     81.0
46 1,084,228  100.0  100.0       409,089    100.0      581,536    100.0
at Exchange Rate: Nalra 5.00 - US$1.00



NIGERIAN INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK LIMITED a/
Ust of Cancelled and In-active Sub-Projects Under Loan 2299-UNI
Amount
Sub-                             Total        Cancelled/ al
Proj.                           Approval      In-Active
No.   Sub-Project Name             No.    Economic Activity         By IBRD         (US$)                            Remarks
Cancelled SubProiects
1.    Adoko Nigeria Ltd.           B-06   Tiles Manufacturing        $445,000       $445,000
2.    Rikos Confection             B-09    Food & Beverages          $540,625       $540,625
Total:           $985,625      $985,625
In-Active Subprojects                                                                                                                            
1.    Kaduna Chemical Ind.         A-12    Detergents               8,500,000      8,500,000
Products Ltd.
2.    Cadbury Nigeria Ltd.         A-18    Malt/Food                 6,139,000     6,139,000
3.    Agro-Edible Oil Ind.         A-20    Edible Oil                       0             0
4.    B. Macals Industries         B-12   Manufacturing Candles       128,800        128,800    Promoters inability to implement the project
5.    Bagudu Invest. Ltd.          B-15   Paper Products              167,000        167,000    Promoters inability to implement the project
6.    Jack-Ross (Nigeria) Ltd.     B-25    Soaps & Perfumes           457,500        457,500
Total:         15,392,300     15,392,300
as/_Fnd=      =qly dfo
a/ Funds under the loan were fully committed. These amounts were re-allocated and subsequently used for other subprojects.



- 51 -
ANNEX9
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
NIGERIAN INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK
Comparison of Portfolio Arrears of Over Six Months
12/31/83 a/    12/31/87    12/31/89       2810
--   (N million) -_---
1.    Loan Principal in Arrears             45.2         60.2      70.4            97.0
2.   Interest & Charges in Arrears          26.6         40.0       44.1            75.8
3.    Total Principal Affected by Arrears  123.0        150.0      172.8           108.0
4.    Total Interest affected by Arrears                                            82.9
5.    Total Principal Outstanding
including Capitalized Interest     264.1        310.5     635.6           328.4
Ratios                                                         Percentage -
Arrears to Loan Outstanding                 27.2         32.3       18.0            52.6
(1+2) div. by (5)
Proportion of Outstanding Loans
affected by Total Arrears              -            -          -              58.1
(3 +4) div. by (5)
Aging of Arrears
Principal in Arrears (Naira million)        45.2         60.2       70.4            97.0
-     Between 6-12 months as % of total
due for repayment                                                    29.9
-     Over 12 months as % of total
due for repayment                                                    78.1
a/ Includes loans to be transferred to Managed Fund.



NIGERIAN INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK
COWPARATIVE INCOME STATEMENT FOR 1979-1990
(N MiLlion)
1979     1980     1981     1982      1983     1984     1985     1986     1987      1988     1989     1990
Interest and Dividend Income
Interest and Comitment Fees From Loans  10.9       13.9      18.3     22.3     26.9     19.5     18.6     36.4     40.1      47.1     53.6     62.8
Dividends                                  1.1      1.7       2.1      1.9      2.6      2.5      3.4       4.5      5.0      8.5     10.1      9.4
Interest from Short Term Investments       0.2      0.8       1.9      3.0      2.6      3.9      7.7      8.8      13.2     20.8     33.6     39.9
----  - --   ...       -- -     --.--              - -     - -      ....      - -       - -     - -
Total Interest and Dividend Income        12.2     16.4      22.3     27.2    32.1      25.9     29.7    49.7       58.3     76.4     97.3    112.1                   1
Less: (Financial Expenses)                 2.8      3.8       7.3     10.5     13.2     11.5      11.6    22.7      22.6     19.6     25.8     31.9                   Un
Net Interest and Dividend Income           9.4     12.6      15.0     16.7    18.9      14.4      18.1     27.0     35.7     56.8     71.5     80.2
Less: (Provisions for doubtful Debt)       3.0      1.4       1.3      1.2      1.6     (3.3)      3.7      9.5     10.1     11.1     16.4     40.9
Net financial Income                       6.4      11.2     13.7    15.5      17.3      17.7     14.4     17.5     25.6     45.7    55.1      39.3
Less: Direct and Overhead Expenses:
Adcinistration                       2.8      5.1       7.0     10.7     11.6     12.3      13.1     15.2     21.0     30.5     40.8     49.3
Depreciation                         0.8      1.1       1.5      1.7      1.9      1.8      2.1       2.3      3.3      3.7      5.1      5.6
-- - - -      ...     -- -     -  -       - -     . ..     ....     ---       ---      ---      ---
Total Direct Overhead Expenses       3.6      6.2      8.5      12.4    13.5      14.1     15.2    17.5       24.3     34.2     45.9     55.0
-- -  - -      --   .   --  .   - -   .  - -      ....      -- -      --      - -      .. ..    ----
Net Operating Income                       2.8      5.0       5.2      3.1      3.8      3.6      (0.8)     0.0      1.3     11.5      9.2    (15.7)
Other Income                               1.6       1.9      1.8      3.3      3.0      3.2       4.6      5.1      7.1     10.8     24.7    51.1
-- - -- -    ..  ..   -- -     -  -       - -     - -       - -     - -       -  -     - -      ....
Profit Before Taxes                        4.4      6.9       7.0      6.4      6.8      6.8       3.8      5.1      8.4     22.3     33.9      35.4
Less Taxes                                 1.4      2.8       2.8      2.5      2.5       1.2      0.4      0.5      1.0      2.6      4.7       6.1
NET PROFIT                                 3.0      4.1       4.2      3.9      4.3      5.6       3.4      4.6      7.4     19.7     29.2      29.3
Source: NIDB Amual Reprts



NIGERIAN INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK
COMPARATIVE BALANCE SHEETS
(N MiLLion)
1979    1980      1981     1982    1983     1984    1985    1986    1987    1988         1989     1990
ASSETS
Current Assets                      23.2    54.1       60.6    66.3    58.4    49.0   132.9   155.1   213.4   283.7   272.8   406.7
Investments:
Loans Outstanding                 153    183.4   216.0   241.0   262.4   203.2   208.6   430.9   379.9   434.8   687.2   869.6
Provisions for Loan Losses       (5.6)    (6.3)    (7.0)    (7.7)    (8.5)    (5.4)    (5.9)   (14.0)   (22.9)   (32.4)   (59.4)  (100.4)
Net Loans Outstanding               147.4   177.1    209.0   233.3   253.9   197.8   202.7   416.9   357.0   402.4   627.8   769.2
Equity Investments                   21.3    27.6    30.3    41.6    43.9    31.1    33.7    34.3    39.8    40.8    46.0    52.1
Provisions for Losses                (1.0)    (1.5)    (2.0)    (2.6)   (3.3)    (3.2)   (6.4)    (7.8)    (9.1)  (10.6)   (59.4)    (8.3)
Net Equity Investment                20.3    26.1      28.3    39.0    40.6    27.9    27.3    26.5    30.7    30.2    -13.4    43.8
Sub-Total:
Equity & Loan 0/standing            167.7   203.2   237.3   272.3   294.5   225.7   230.0   443.4   387.7   432.6   614.4   813.0
Investment in and Balances
with Associated Carpanies         4.1      6.4      6.2       8.3     7.9      7.8      7.5    13.0    12.9    11.5    20.7    26.2
Quoted Shares and Debentures
at Cost                           6.0       5.5     4.0       5.8     6.5      2.7      3.4      3.4      3.4      4.0      9.4     12.2
Short-Term  Investments                 -        -        -        -    16.1    61.6         -        -        -        -        -   103.4
Net Fixed Assets                     17.3    18.8    21.4    25.6    32.1    36.0    37.3    43.4    51.3    62.7    69.9    74.4
TOTAL ASSETS            218.3   288.0   329.5   378.3   415.5   382.8   411.1   658.3   668.7   794.5   987.2  1,435.9
---        = an            =====   =====    r =========    ====      ===    tsZ==               z
LIABILITIES
Current Liabilities a/               12.7    14.2    14.2    21.8    32.8    43.2    58.4    82.0   108.0    88.1    102.3   212.6
Long-Term Loans
Goverrnment                     98.9   152.7   187.2   216.3   216.3    72.5    72.5    72.5    72.5              0.0      0.0      0.0
IBRD                             0.5      3.8      8.8    15.7    21.2    24.6    25.7   188.4   129.9   143.3   145.2   140.1
Other                            4.3      7.9       7.1    10.0    27.9    32.2    32.3    90.6    68.2    54.8    47.6   249.7
Sub-TotaL               103.7   164.4   203.1   242.0   265.4   129.3   130.5   351.5   270.6   198.1   192.8   389.8
EOLIITY
Share Capital                       94.4    99.3    99.3    99.3    99.3   188.3   198.5   198.5   198.5   396.9   396.9   396.9
Reserves & Related Earnings           7.5    10.1      12.9    15.2    18.0    22.0    23.7    26.3    91.6   111.4   295.2   436.6
Sub-Total               101.9   109.4   112.2   114.5   117.3   210.3   222.2   224.8   290.1   508.3   692.1   833.5
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND EQUITY        218.3   288.0   329.5   378.3   415.5   382.8   411.1   658.3   668.7   794.5   987.2  1,435.9
====    ====    ====    ======  =======          ===Zz   =man=   z====    =====   =====  UUZ====                         t
a/ Includes sundry creditors, taxes and dividends payable.
Source: NIDB Avnual Reports



- 54 -
ANNEX 12
NIGERIAN INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK
STATEMENT OF KEY FINANCIAL RATIOS 1979-1989
1979   1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985   1986   1987   1988   1989   1990
LongTerm Debt/Equity Ratio           1.0    1.5    1.8    2.1    2.3    0.6    0.6    1.6    0.9    0.4    0.3    0.5
Current Ratio                        1.8    3.8    4.3    3.0    1.8    1.1    2.3    1.9    2.0    3.2    2.7    1.9
Debt Service Coverage Ratio          1.1    1.2    2.0    1.9    N/A    1.7    3.1    2.5    1.6    2.1    0.6    0.7
Profit Before Tax as % of
Average TotaL Assets                2.4    2.7    2.3    1.8    1.7    1.7    1.0    1.0    1.3    3.0    4.0    4.9
Profit After Tax as % of
Average Equity                      3.6    3.9    3.8    3.4    3.7    3.4    1.6    2.1    2.9    4.9    7.4    4.6
Financial Expenses as % of
Average Total Assets                1.5    1.5    2.4    3.0    3.3    2.9    2.9    4.2    3.4    2.7    2.9    2.8
Administrative Expenses as %
of Average Total Assets             1.5    2.0    2.3    3.0    2.9    3.1    3.3    2.8    3.2    4.2    4.6    4.1
Income from Loan Portfolio as
% of Average Loan Portfolio         8.2    8.6    9.5   10.1   11.0    8.6    9.3   11.7   10.4   12.4   11.2    8.2
Return on Average Total Assets    1.6    1.6    1.4    1.1    1.1    1.4    0.9    0.9    1.1    2.7    2.0    2.9
Sources: NIDB Annual Reports



