Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 4273-UNI
NIGERIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
OF
A FOURTH LINE OF CREDIT
TO THE
NIGERIAN INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK LIMITED
May 4, 1983
Industrial Development and Finance Division
Western African Projects Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
CURRENT UNIT   -    NAIRA
US$ 1.00        =    .0.66
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS
CBN   =   Central Bank of Nigeria
EIB   =   European Investment Bank
FGN   =   Federal Government of Nigeria
FMVF   =   Federal Ministry of Finance
FMI   =   Federal Ministry of Industries
ICON  =   Investment Company of Nigeria
NIDB  =   Nigerian Industrial Development Bank
NBCI  =   Nigerian Bank for Commerce and Industry.



FOR GFICIAI tUS GlJz F,
NIGERIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
NIGERIAN INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK LIMITED
Table of Contents
Page No.
Basic Data                                                          iv
I.   ECONOMIC AND SECTOR SETTING
The Industrial Sector                                                1
Industrial Financing                                                 2
Government Policy                                                    3
Bank Group Strategy                                                  4
II. THE INSTITUTION
Background                                                           5
Staff and Oganization Structure                                      5
Activities                                                           6
Financial Performance                                                8
Utilization of Previous Bank Loan                                   10
Action Program                                                      11
Development Strategy                                                11
Prospects and Resource Requirements                                 12
Ill. THE PROPOSED LOAN
Objectives and Justification                                        13
Project Risks                                                       14
Main Features                                                       15
Agreements and Understandings to be reached
at Negotiations                                                     16
ANNEXES
1.  Organization Chart at 9/82.
2. Analysis of Arrears at June 30, 1982
3. Audited Income Statements, 1979/81
4.  Audited Balance Sheets, 1979/81
(cont'd)
This report was prepared by Messrs. Saleeby and Chanmugam (Bank) and Whitesell
and Woods (consultants) on the basis of an appraisal mission to Nigeria in
September 1982.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



(ANNEXES - cont'd)
5. Details on Sub-Projects Financed Under Loan 1597-UNI
6. Action Program
7. Outline of Development Strategy
8. Projected Income Statements, 1982/86
9. Projected Balance Sheets, 1982/86
10. Projected Cash Flow Statements, 1982/86
11.  Estimated Commitments and Disbursements of Proposed Loan
PROJECT FILES.
1. Articles of Association
2. List of Directors
3. Operating Policies Including Recent Changes
4. List of Professional Staff
5. Detailed Institutional Appraisal
6. Sample of Standard Loan and Mortgage Agreements
7. Details of Projects Under Loan 1597-UNI
8. Copy of NIDB 1982 Operating Budget
9. Copies of NIDB's Audited Accounts and Annual Reports for 1979/80/81
10. Details on Portfolio and Arrears
11. Size Distribution of Approved Financing 1979/81
12. Geographic Analysis of Approved Financing 1979/81
13. Subsector Distribution of Approvals 1979/81
14. Economic Indicators of Approved Projects 1979/81
15. Sectoral Analysis of Outstanding Portfolio at June 30, 1982
16. Analysis of Portfolio Arrears By Project Cost
17. Subsector Analysis of Arrears
18. Analysis of Outstanding Equity Investments at June 30, 1982
19. Historical and Forecast Financial Ratios
20. Project Pipeline - September 1982
21. Past and Projected Operations
22. Projection Assumptions
23. Forecast Foreign Loan Commitments
24. Resource Position as of June 30, 1982
25. Forecast Date of Full Commitment of Proposed Loan
26. List of Changes in NIDB's Operating Policies
27. List of Projects to be included in Managed Fund
28. Details on NIDB's Term Borrowing
29. Details and Working Papers on Financial Projections
30. Assessments of NIDB's Agro-Industrial and Engineering Capabilities
31. Correspondence between NIDB and Government on Managed Fund
32. Appraisal Questionnaire and Raw Data
33. List of Projects in NIDB's Pipeline
(cont'd)



PROJECT FILES (cont'd)
34. Consultant's Report on Potential for NIDB's involvement in
agro-industries (1982)
35.  Various Bank Reports and Studies on:
- The Industrial Sector in Nigeria (1980)
- The Manufacturing Sector in Nigeria (1980)
- Development of the Construction Industry in West
Africa - Particular Emphasis on Nigeria (1980)
- Indicators of Industrial Structure
- Building Materials Survey (1980)
- Building Materials Survey (Bank/UNIDO - NIDB-1981)
- The Structure of Industrial Incentives in Nigeria
(1981)
- Industrial Sector Strategy (1981)
- Non-Oil Exports (1981)
- Problems and Prospects on Agro-Allied Industries
(1980)
- Review of the Nigerian Financial System (1980)
- Financial Intermediation in Nigeria (1982).
.



- iv -
NIGERIAN INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK LIMITED
Basic Data
(as of June 30, 1982)
1. Year of Establishment: 1964
2.  Ownership
Issued Share Capital
(N million)!-/            %
Federal Government                           59                  59
Central Bank                                 40                  40
Private individuals                           1                   1
Total                                       100                 100
3. Status of Bank Loans
RUS$ Million as of 8/31/82/
Date     Date         Rate of           2/
Loan No.  Signed   Effective   Interest   Amount-   Authorized  Disbursed  Outstanding
588UNI   3/5/69    5/29/69         6.5        5.6     Fully            5.6
Committed
705UNI   8/28/70   2/26/71         7.0        6.2     Fully            6.2           -
Committed
1597UNI   7/24/78  10/24/78         7.5       60.0     Fully           25.0          25.0
Committed
4.  Operations (Naira million)
1964-77    1978    1979    1980    1981
Loans
Approvals                       236.2      32.4    39.2    49.4    81.3
Cancellations                    20.0      17.3     9.0      0.0    15.2
Commitments                      n.a.     47.0    44.0    65.0    52.0
Disbursements                   105.0      40.6    42.5    40.4    38.5
Collections (of principal)       14.8       8.5     5.7      9.0    12.0
Equity Investments
Approvals                        23.8       5.6     5.3      9.0    11.9
Cancellations                     1.7       1.0     0.3       -        -
Disbursements                    13.3       5.3     4.5      8.7      5.9
Sold or written off               0.3       0.2     0.1      0.1       -
1/ The exchange rate is approximately Nl=US$1.50
2/ Net of cancellations.



5. Earnings Record
1979         1980         1981
Net income as % of average equity    3.6             3.9          3.8
As % of Average Total Assets
Gross Income                            7.2          7.2          7.8
Financial expenses                      1.5          1.5          2.4
Administration expenses                 1.5          2.0          2.3
Net Income                              1.6          1.6          1.4
6. Financial Position
As of December 31
1979         1980         1981
N Million
Total Assets                          218.3        288.1        329.4
Of which: Loan portfolio              157.4        187.3        216.4
Equity portfolio            22.9         29.2         33.9
Term Debt                             103.8        164.4        202.9
Net Worth                             101.8        109.5        112.2
Ratios
Term Debt/Net Worth                     1.0          1.5          1.8
Debt Service              1/over  r  io  1.1         7.2          2.0
Interest cover ratio-                   3.9          3.5          2.3
As % of Outstanding
Provisions an Loan Principal            3.6%         3.3%         3.2%
Provisions on Equity Investments        4.5-%        5.1%         5.9%
Provisions on Interest in Arrears    n.a.           n.a.         38.1%
7.  Interest Rates and Charges (as of September, 1982)
Interest Rates on Loans: 13%  per annum                3/
Commitment Fees: 3/4 % p.a. on undisbursed amount -
Penalty Interest Rates: 2% p.a. on overdues, plus differential between
contractual interest rate and NIBD's current rate.
1/  Where t= tax rate, DSC= net income aftertax  + non-cash charges +
interest expense (l-t) + loan collections to interest expense
(l-t) + repayments on borrowings.
2/ Income before tax + interest expense + non-cash charges to interest
expense.
3/ NIDB intends to shorten the period from six to three months when
commitment fee begins to accrue.






I, ECONOMIC AND SECTOR SETTING
1.01     Although the Nigerian economy grew rapidly in the years immediately
following the quadrupling of oil prices in 1973-74, it is now suffering from
effects of the oil syndrome, the current international oil glut, and
persistent widespread poverty. Real GDP (at factor cost) increased by 6.5%
per annum during 1974-77, but experienced an aggregate net decline of nearly
5% during the succeeding four-year period ending in 1981. Annual domestic
price increases soared to nearly 35% in 1975, then moderated to 12-15% by
1980. The high rate of inflation coupled with an artificially high value for
the Naira had a depressing effect on agriculture and domestic resource-based
industries. As a result, the structure of the economy shifted dramatically in
favor of construction, trade, and services, as well as oil production. Non-
oil exports declined in absolute terms and now represent less than 5% of total
exports. The country's large oil revenues facilitated heavy investment and
current expenditures. These in turn drove up consumer demand for imports. As
a result, Nigeria has had a surplus on the current account of its balance of
payments in only one year out of the last seven. As world oil markets
softened in the second half of 1981, the public finances (both federal and
state) and the balance of payments were heavily strained and foreign exchange
reserves had declined to only two months of imports at the beginning of
1982. As the resource constraints heightened, structural inbalances and the
vulnerability of the economy became apparent.
The Industrial Sector
1.02     Despite a rapid growth rate of about 11% per annum in both value
added and employment during the 1970s, the manufacturing sector still
represents only about 7% of Nigeria's GDP and 10% of total employment.
Manufactured exports have fallen to an insignificant level, while imported
goods have taken an increasing share of booming domestic markets in such
important products as cement and vegetable oils. The performance of the
industrial sector has been constrained by technical and managerial problems,
shortages of domestic raw materials, inadequate infrastructure, competition
from smuggled imports, and the greater attractiveness of investment
opportunities other than in new productive capacity, as well as the economic
recession and deficiencies in the government policy framework.
1.03     According to the limited data available, gross investment in
manufacturing (in 1975 prices) rose dramatically from about NO.5 billion over
the period 1971-74 to N3.6 billion over 1975-78, of which private investment
accounted for about N358 million and N2.0 billion respectively. Since then,
however, new private investment does not seem to have grown as fast, and may
have stagnated due in part to the diversion of funds into acquisitions of
existing assets under the government's indigenization program, as well as a
general decline in the investment climate. During this period, public sector
investment has outpaced the private sector.



- 2 -
1.04     The structure of Nigerian industry remains heavily dominated by
consumer goods (e.g. food and beverages, textiles) which by the late 1970s
accounted for 66% of value added and 72% of employment in the industrial
sector.  Intermediate goods (e.g. metal working, building materials,
chemicals) accounted for 26% and 23%, and capital goods, (mostly vehicle
assembly) for 8% and 5% of industrial value added and employment,
respectively.  There is little reliable data available on the informal
manufacturing sector, but it still predominates in terms of industrial
employment, though its contribution to total output and value added is less
important. Consumer goods (particularly food, beverages and textiles)
represent two-thirds or more of the value-added, employment and gross private
investment in the modern manufacturing sector, with chemicals, metal working
and building materials being the largest intermediate goods industries.
Substantial investments in machinery and transportation equipment (mainly
vehicle assembly) have permitted the capital goods subsector to increase its
share of industrial value added from about 1% to 8.5% during the 1970s. The
large public sector investments in petrochemicals, iron and steel have yet to
impact on production and value-added statistics.
1.05     Manufacturing activity is concentrated in the Lagos area (56% of
investment, 43% of employment and 63% of value added in 1976), and to a lesser
extent in the Kano-Kaduna region (7% of investment, 21% of employment, and 17%
of value added). Mainly as a result of the government's indigenization
policies (Decrees of 1972 and 1977), the major share of paid-in share capital
in private sector manufacturing is now held by Nigerians.
1.06     Prospects.  Subject to the adoption and implementation of appropriate
policy measures which are the subject of ongoing discussions between the
Government and the Bank (see para: 1.10), the Nigerian economy could grow at
an annual rate of 5% over the 1982-87 period. Manufacturing sector output
would grow at about 13% per annum in 1982-87 and its share of GDP would
increase from about 7% in 1981 to about 12% in 1987. Manufacturing investment
is projected at N9 billion (at 1980 constant prices) or 27% of total
investment during 1982-85. Manufacturing exports, however, are not expected
to expand significantly until the 1990s.
Industrial Financing
1.07     Nigeria has a relatively well-developed financial system.  In
addition to a number of merchant banks, state and federal development banks,
savings banks, mortgage banks, and other financial institutions, there is an
extensive commercial banking network that is increasingly spreading throughout
the country. Commercial banks have furnished about two-thirds of term lending
for manufacturing. However, if Nigeria's tight foreign exchange and credit
availability continue, the share of industrial financing by commercial banks
is likely to decline and conversely that of NIDB's to increase.



1.08     The Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) sustained the establishment of such
development banks as the Nigerian Industrial Development Bank (NIDB), Nigerian
Bank for Commerce and Industry (NBCI), and Nigerian Agriculture and
Cooperative Bank. NIDB concentrates on medium to larger enterprises, with
NBCI assisting the smaller industrial projects. CBN has required commercial
banks to establish additional branches in rural areas, and has set sectoral
guidelines for commercial and merchant bank lending. For 1981, these banks
were required to allocate at least 36 per cent and 41 per cent, respectively,
of their total loans and advances to the manufacturing sector. Moreover,
40 per cent of total loans and advances were expected to have maturities of
not less than three years, and banks were required to maintain a minimum
credit allocation of 70 per cent to indigenous borrowers of which 16 per cent
was to be allocated to small-scale enterprises.
1.09     Interest Rates.  CBN also sets interest rate guidelines, subject to
periodic revision. Current guidelines provide for interest rates to industry
ranging from 9.5 to 13 per cent, with a maximum lending rate to preferred
sectors (mainly agro-industry) of 11.5 per cent. Current lending rates for
NBCI and NIDB 1/ are 12 and 13 per cent respectively. These rates compare to
a rate of inflation averaging about 15 per cent in recent years, which is
projected to stay at this level for the near to medium term. Although real
interest rates remain slightly negative, the recent increase has, for the
first time in many years, brought the lending rates to industry to a level
which more appropriately reflects the cost of capital internationally.
Government Policy
1.10     Although the general business environment in Nigeria has always been
strongly private sector oriented, Government has greatly influenced industrial
development, both directly and indirectly. Directly, as in many other oil
economies, Government has undertaken most of the country's investment in large
industries of national importance for which local private capital was not
available or where ownership was considered undesirable. Indirectly, private
sector investment decisions have been affected by a host of government decrees
and regulations aimed at promoting and regulating industrial development.
This, however, was achieved to a larger extent through increased recourse to
tariff and quantitative protection measures, resulting in large distortions in
the domestic price structure and in the pattern of industrial investment.
Mainly as a result of government policy, modern industrial development has
been biased towards large government and foreign-owned industries, many of
which depend on imported inputs, and rely upon excessive protection and
budgetary support. Efficiency, particularly that of public enterprises, is
generally low.
1/   In addition to an interest rate of 13% per annum, NIDB intends to
introduce a one-time appraisal and development fee of 1.25% and shorten
from six to three months the period for commencement of commitment fees.



- 4 -
1.11     The Government's industrial policy and strategy, as outlined in its
Fourth National Development Plan (1981-85), reflect the Government's
commitment to industrial development as one of the main pillars of Nigeria's
long-term development. The Government's aim is to develop industries using
local raw materials (especially agro-related), strengthen intrasectoral
linkages, emphasize manpower and technological development, disperse
investment regionally, promote export-oriented industries, and stimulate
small-scale industries.  Priority is being given to food processing, textiles,
building materials, engineering, chemicals, electrical equipment, and
household durables. Labor intensive industries are also being encouraged. A
more vital role is to be assigned to the private sector, with the role of
Government focussed on infrastructure investment establishment of an
appropriate legal and regulatory climate, and investment in heavy projects
such as steel, fertilizer, LNG, petrochemicals, and cement. Greater
industrial efficiency and competitiveness is to be promoted through imports
and improved product quality.
Bank Group Strategy
1.12     On the whole, the Government's broad policies point in the right
direction but realization of the Plan objectives will require a major and
time-consuming effort on the part of the Government, particularly in
identifying and implementing the specific policy changes and establishing the
appropriate administrative mechanisms. The Government has asked the Bank to
assist in this regard. Accordingly, the Bank is undertaking a major program
of economic and sector work with the objective of providing a basis for a
continuing policy dialogue with the Government on issues affecting the
industrial sector. More specifically, this program aims at making inputs into
current Government efforts at translating its broad industrial development
strategy, described in the preceding paragraph, into concrete policy
changes. An Industrial Incentives Report has been completed, which proposes a
medium-term program of measures (including adjustment of exchange rate and
reform of the incentives and protective system) for restructuring the
incentives system and improving its administration. Preliminary discussions
of this Report were held last October with a Government delegation and its
results were encouraging. A preliminary study on Financial Intermediation has
been completed, with follow-up work to be undertaken in order, among other
things, to (a) identify or develop further mechanisms for financial
intermediation; and (b) help formulate mechanisms for the Government to
productively invest its oil revenues. Our sector work program also includes
studies (at various stages of preparation) on several key subsectors, such as
Construction Materials, Agro-Industries, Basic Metals and Engineerings, Petro-
chemical Industries and Industrial Infrastructure. These subsector studies
also aim at identifying promising investment opportunities for Nigeria and
developing suitable projects for Bank Group financing. A Public Enterprise
Study is also contemplated. A Small-and-Medium-Enterprise (SME) project,
which would be channelled through NBCI, was negotiated in December 1981 but
delays in resolving several outstanding issues by the intermediary and the
Federal Ministry of Industries now require some modifications and updating of
the project before Board presentation. The proposed fourth Bank loan to NIDB
would reinforce the on-going and future sector policy dialogue between the
Government and the Bank. Furthermore, project implementation by NIDB would
support the main objectives of the Government's industrial strategy outlined
in the preceding paragraph, as well as some elements of the Bank's sector work
program described above (see para: 3.05).



- 5 --
II. THE INSTITUTION
Background
2.01      Established in 1964 as a successor to the Investment Company of
Nigeria (ICON), the Nigerian Industrial Development Bank (NIDB) is Nigeria's
only financial institution specializing in the provision of term finance to
medium and large scale industrial projects on a nationwide scale. NIDB was at
first majority privately owned, but became almost wholly government-owned with
the indigenization policies of the mid-1970s. Its present IIOO million share
capital is held by the Federal Government (59%), the Central Bank (40%) and
private shareholders (1%).
2.02     Over the years, the Government (including the Central Bank) has
provided more than two thirds of NIDB's borrowed resources and appointed all
of its eleven Board Directors. Although in its early years NIDB's clients
were mainly private enterprises, it became heavily involved in financing
public sector projects in the mid-1970s. Under its current Chief Executive
appointed in 1980, NIDB has been moving towards greater operational autonomy
vis-a-vis the Government and directing an increasing proportion of its
financing to the private sector. Since NIDB has demonstrated its basic
institutional capacities in performing satisfactorily under previous Bank
loans (paras. 2.18 and 2.19), this report briefly notes NIDB's strengths while
focussing mainly upon those areas requiring further improvements and the
remedies contemplated by NIDB's management in the Action Program (para: 2.20),
as well as the proposed measures for enhancing NIDB's developmental impact
contained in its Development Strategy (para: 2.21).
2.03      Relations with the Bank Group.  IFC contributed 25% of NIDB's
original share capital, and held a seat on its Board until selling its shares
to the government (along with other foreign and private shareholders) in the
mid-1970s. NIDB has previously received three Bank loans: US$5.6 million in
1969 (588-UNI), US$6.2 million in 1970 (705-UNI) and US$60 million in 1978
(1597-UNI). The Bank has also provided NIDB with technical assistance,
including staff secondment, during the periods from 1967 to 1968 and 1970 to
1972, with a view to helping NIDB build up its initial institutional
capabilities, including the formulation of operating guidelines and procedures
which have been codified in a Policy Statement.
Staff and Organization Structure
2.04      NIDB's present Organization Chart appears as Annex 1.  It has about
542 employees, of which 141 are professional staff and 401 are support
staff. Its present Managing Director is a capable and experienced banker
previously with Savannah Bank-Nigeria (a former Bank of America affiliate).
He provides NIDB with strong leadership and is committed to further improving
its institutional capabilities and enhancing its developmental impact. Nearly
all of NIDB's professional staff are university graduates, many with advanced
degrees or training, often overseas; their specializations are in business,
economics, accounting, engineering and law. NIDB is planning to recruit
additional accounting staff and a number of agro-economists to remedy



- 6 -
weaknesses in those areas. The government recently upgraded NIDB's
classification to make it competitive with commercial banks as regards salary
and benefit levels, which should help it attract and keep qualified staff.
One of NIDB's Deputy General Managers (who report to the Managing Director)
retired recently, leaving a gap in the institution's financial forecasting and
resource planning capabilities. NIDB's Management is giving high priority to
the appointment of a qualified replacement, and during negotiations the Bank
received assurances that this position will be adequately filled within the
next 4-6 months (para: 3.15).
2.05     NIDB provides in-house training for orientation of new recruits and
their induction to appraisal and supervision procedures. Senior staff are
generally sponsored for short-term overseas courses and occasional attachments
to advanced development finance institutions (DFIs).These programs have proven
generally effective in the development of NIDB's staff. NIDB plans
substantial new recruitment of professional and support staff over the next
few years, to be based upon a carefully reviewed recruitment and training
program responding to NIDB's existing and prospective staffing requirements,
taking into account the diversification of NIDB's activities envisaged in its
Development Strategy (para: 2.21).
2.06     Since 1980, NIDB's organizational structure has expanded with the
creation of five area offices responsible for appraisal and follow-up of
smaller projects (those requiring NIDB financing of up to N1.0 million); one-
third of its professional staff now work in such offices. These area offices
are intended to enhance NIDB's efforts towards a broader dispersal of its
assistance and national impact . As a means of further broadening its
intermediation role, NIDB has created the nucleus of a Financial Institutions
Department to assist and liaise with regional and state level DFIs in
Nigeria. This step is in the right direction and is in keeping with a
specific recommendation made in the Bank's previous Project Performance Audit
Report (para: 3.05). An Internal Audit Department has also been established
and is expected to be fully staffed by the end of June 1983.
2.07     With the rapid growth in NIDB's organization in recent years, there
has been an increasing need for coordination among departments and area
offices, delegation of authority, and management-by-exception type of
controls. A review of the organization structure, including control and
delegation of authority at senior management levels is included in the Action
Program.
Activities
2.08     NIDB provides term loans and equity investments to industry, and has
begun an apex activity by financing two regional DFIs.l/ It has a wholly-
owned stockbroking subsidiary and is the largest shareholder (owning 45%) of
ICON Merchant Bank of Nigeria. NIDB also offers management consulting
services and prefeasibility analyses for modest fees. It has done limited
sector research and project promotion on its own, but is now expanding these
important activities.
1/   Northern Nigeria Investments Limited (NNIL) and Capital Investment
Company (CIC) in Eastern Nigeria.



- 7 -
2.09      Financing policies.  NIDB's operating policies are generally
appropriate, and are occasionally adjusted to respond to changing local
situations. For example, while recently increasing its interest rate on loans
from 10.5% p.a. to 13% p.a. and reducing its maximum exposure (loan and
equity) in a single project from 30% to 15% of net worth, NIDB also increased
the debt/equity limit for projects from 1.5:1 to 2:1. NIDB normally takes
equity shares to gain a seat on the Board or to strengthen the capital
6       structure of its clients.  It has not, however, systematically used equity
investments as a tool for promoting priority sectors or the securities market
nor has it given sufficient emphasis to the potential profitability of
companies in which it invests. It rarely sells the shares it holds, thus
missing the opportunity to stimulate the capital market, to broaden share
ownership in the country and to revolve its own funds available for
equities. NIDB has agreed to, and included in its Action Program, a review of
its equity investment policy with a view to developing a cohesive strategy for
these operations.
2.10      Volume of financing.  NIDB's financing approvals have grown in
irregular spurts, peaking at N93 million in 1981 (after averaging only N47
million the previous three years). Cancellations after approval, though on
the decline, have averaged 15% over NIDB's lifetime, due in part to legal and
working capital problems of its clients, and also to some premature
appraisals. Although precise figures for total investment in Nigeria are not
available, NIDB's disbursements appear to represent a small share of that
total (perhaps 4% in 1978, although aggregate expenditures on its projects
amount to about four times that level or 16% of total industrial
investment). In relation to term lending to the industrial sector, NIDB's
share is substantially larger, around 15%.1/ Since its inception, NIDB has
approved loans and equity investments aggregating N490 million (US$735 million
equivalent) for about 270 projects.2/
2.11      Characteristics of financing.  NIDB has substantially improved the
geographic dispersion of its financing (only 17% of approvals were for Lagos
state in the 1979-81 period). The proportion of approvals going to public
sector enterprises declined from a 64% average during the 1974-78 period to
30% in 1981 and zero in the first six months of 1982. Three fourths of NIDB's
projects since 1979 have been new ventures. The average size of NIDB's loans
was N1.3 million during the last three years, with 4% of the loans by number
accounting for 20% of the amount of total financing. In recent years, a large
proportion of NIDB's financing has gone to the hotel and beverage subsectors
(30% and 23% respectively of 1981 approvals). Except for building materials
consumer products generally dominate its portfolio. As indicated later in
para. 2.22, NIDB intends to redirect its lending in favor of priority
subsectors (e.g. agro-industry, engineering).
1/   Basis:
Annual average of public investment 1975-79:                 N 706 million
(Average taken because of large annual variations)
Estimated private sector investments in 1978:                N 467 million
(may exclude new projects)
Total                                                        N1173 million
NIDB disbursement in 1978                                    N  46 million
2/   Based upon available data as of June 30, 1982.



-8 -
2.12     Quality of project work.  The standards of NIDB's appraisal are
generally satisfactory, although there is room for further improvements. NIDB
does occasionally influence the design of projects (location, product lines,
scale) submitted to it for financing, particularly smaller private sector
projects. NIDB's appraisal, however, has not enabled the institution to avoid
a large number of problem projects. In large part, this was due to
government-behest projects, although at times, even for private sector
projects, appraisal assumptions have tended to be on the optimistic side (e.g.
regarding market, implementation schedules and capacity utilization).
Forecast ERRs averaging about 19% do not appear to have always materialized ex
post, while forecast average cost per job of N57,400 has probably been
exceeded I/ both of which in part due to delays in implementation and
resulting cost overruns. Division of appraisal responsibility between two
departments, and insufficient use of feedback from supervision activities were
contributing factors. The Action Program contains relevant corrective
measures.
2.13     Over the years, NIDB has developed a full range of supervision
reports and activities, including project completion reports and management
consulting for problem projects, though standards have not been consistently
maintained. A recent division of responsibility within the Supervision
Department for projects under implementation and those under operation should
give more focus to its work. Additional improvements are expected to be
achieved with the introduction of better management information, reviews by
subsector and the assignment of additional staff to the Supervision
Department. The agreed Action Program envisages various measures both for
upgrading NIDB's appraisal standards and tightening up its supervision work.
Financial Performance
2.14     Financial and management information.  NIDB's accounts are audited by
Messrs. Peat Marwick Ani Ogunde and Company. NIDB's auditors have so far
given unqualified reports, and only made minor suggestions for improvements to
NIDB's accounts. Beginning with 1982, the auditors are to enlarge the scope
of their audit in accordance with the World Bank's Long Form Format. NIDB's
management and accounting information systems could be improved, as also its
accounting procedures, internal controls and supervision. Apart from annual
administrative budgets, there is little forward planning of resources or
forecasting. This situation was attributable to rapid organizational growth,
past accounting staff constraints, absence of mechanical or electronic data
processing (EDP) and retirement of a capable DGM (see para. 2.04). Measures
for strengthening these aspects of NIDB's operations are included in its
Action Program and are now already underway.
1/   In comparison with other countries, it should be noted (aside from
local currency overvaluation) that the Nigerian figure often includes
amounts for substantial initial working capital, standby generators and
other infrastructure items.



2.15     Quality of portfolio.  As of June 30, 1982, NIDB's outstanding loan
and equity portfolio stood at N270 million in 190 companies.l/ As of that
date NIDB's arrears (principal and interest) amounted to 17%o of its
outstanding loans (plus overdue interest), and 41% of the loan portfolio was
affected by arrears (See Annex 2).  Excluding projects under implementation
(i.e. in the grace period), 49% of loans outstanding were affected by
arrears. The leather, textile and food sectors had the highest proportion of
loans affected by arrears (100%, 74% and 64% respectively).  More than half of
the amounts (54%) and the number (59%) of loans affected by arrears were
majority government-owned projects, many of which were poorly located and of
excessive scale, which NIDB (under its previous managements) financed largely
at the behest of the Government.
2.16     The main reasons for the relatively high, though not alarming, level
of portfolio arrears are: (a) the general economic slowdow-n which has affected
the repayment capacity of NIDB's clients; (b) the general shortage of
managerial capacity in Nigerian enterprises; (c) the financing by NIDB of
public sector projects largely at government behest and without rigorous
appraisal; (d) NIDB's past tendency to set unrealistically short repayment
schedules; and (e) some weaknesses both in NIDB's appraisal (especially in
project cost estimate) and in its loan collection efforts. While the first
two factors are largely outside NIDB's control, NIDB has taken and is planning
several additional measures for reducing portfolio arrears. Regarding
government-behest projects which are performing poorly, NIDB and the
government have recently agreed to establish a Managed Fund to which 13
government-behest projects (representing N85 million liabilities to NIDB) will
be transferred from NIDB's portfolio, with an offsetting reduction in NIDB's
liabilities to government. NIDB will continue to be responsible for
supervising these projects and making collections on behalf of Government,
with all future gains or losses to be for the account of the Fund. Apart from
effectively removing these 13 projects from NIDB's portfolio, this arrangement
will provide immediate relief to NIDB from the repayment difficulties
experienced with these projects. The removal of these 13 government-behest
projects from NIDB's portfolio resulted in a significant improvement in the
arrears situation, with total arrears (principal and interest) now
representing 14% of outstanding protfolio (as against 17% previously) and the
portfolio affected by arrears now standing at 30% of portfolio outstanding (as
compared with 41% previously). In regard to its future financing, NIDB
intends to apply strict appraisal criteria to all projects seeking its
financing irrespective of their ownership, in line with its increasing
operational autonomy vis-a-vis the government. A more realistic approach to
setting repayment schedules, based on the project's cash flow and actual start
of operations, will be applied. A comprehensive set of measures, contained in
the agreed Action Program, has been devised to address problem projects and
strengthen loan collection efforts. Finally, measures underway to further
improve NIDB's appraisal standards are also expected to result in gradual but
significant improvements in its portfolio quality.
I/   Loans totalled N230 million and equity N40 million,



- 10 -
2.17     Profitability and financial condition.  Because of low cost
government loans and equity, as well as a conservative capital structure (term
debt was only 1.8 times net worth at the end of 1981), NIDB's average cost of
resources has been very low (below 3%) through 1981.  Therefore, despite low
returns on its equity investments (4% in 1981), and rising administrative
expenses (from 1.5% of average total assets in 1979 to 2.3% in 1981), NIDB has
remained moderately profitable. Net profits of about 3.8% of net worth are
satisfactory for a government-owned development institution. The rise in
administrative expenses was in part attributable to the operation of the area
offices, and the 2.3% ratio of administrative expenses in 1981 remains
moderate compared to other DFIs. However, provisions for possible losses
appear low at 3.2% of outstanding loans and 5.6% of equity investments, even
after taking into account the mitigating effect of the Managed Fund (para:
2.16). Accordingly, it has been agreed, beginning with the 1982 Audit, that
NIDB's auditors will make specific recommendations on portfolio provisions to
be established. This will be in addition to the agreed joint annual review of
NIDB's portfolio to be undertaken by the Bank and NIDB.
Utilization of Previous Bank Loan
2.18     NIDB's performance in utilizing the previous Bank loan (effective in
October 1978) has been generally satisfactory, apart from some delays in
commitments and disbursements. By July 1982, the entire loan had been
committed to 25 sub-projects, and US$31.2 million disbursed as of
March 1983. These 25 sub-projects (Annex 5) cover a reasonably broad spectrum
of industrial activities, (8 in food and beverages, 6 in building materials, 5
in chemicals, 3 in textiles, and the balance in hotels, metal and paper
products). The ex-ante weighted average ERR (based upon NIDB's appraisal
estimates) is 14% ranging from a low of 11.8% in paper products to 27.5% in
building materials, while FRRs range from 14.5% in hotels to 47.2% in
textiles. The subprojects are estimated to create about 3,100 direct new jobs
at an average cost per job of US$ 76,000 equivalent, which though on the high
side, is not out of line for Nigeria (see para: 2.12). IBRD financing is
expected to generate additional investment totalling about US$180 million
equivalent.
2.19     A Project Performance Audit report on the first two Bank loans to
NIDB was circulated on October 10, 1977. The report concluded that, although
NIDB had performed satisfactorily as an intermediary in implementing these
projects, the Bank should have endeavored to achieve a more extensive impact
on the Nigerian industrial sector as a whole. In designing the proposed
project, the Bank takes this recommendation into account by urging NIDB to
enhance its economic and developmental impact through the formulation and
adoption of a comprehensive Development Strategy (para. 2.21). More
importantly, at the Government's request the Bank is carrying out a major
program of economic and sector work designed to lay the groundwork for a
continuing policy dialogue with the government, and to provide specific inputs
into policy measures to be taken by the Government in implementation of its
industrial development strategy outlined in para: 1.11. This Report also
recommended that NIDB should, in addition to direct financing, play an apex
role by assisting state-level financial institutions and using them as
channels for financing investment projects in outlying areas. NIDB has made a
start in undertaking such apex banking activities and intends to expand them
under its Development Strategy.



- 11 -
Action Program
2.20     Notwithstanding some institutional shortcomings discussed above, NIDB
remains an effective intermediary for allocating Bank funds to the Nigerian
industrial sector. It is by far the most important development financing
institution in Nigeria. Its management is aware of the problem areas and of
the need for improvements. In consultation with the Bank, NIDB's management
intends to take a number of specific measures detailed in its Action Program
(Annex 6), aimed at notably:
(a) strengthening its organizational structure and recruitment and
training programs; NIDB will seek the assistance of outside
consultants in the review of such aspects as span of control,
delegation of authority and the appropriate grouping of
functions. Based upon the findings of this organizational
review and consideration of the various elements of its
Development Strategy, NIDB will formulate an appropriate
recruitment and training program covering the next 3 - 5 years;
(b) improving its management information systems and internal
coordination; NIDB will engage the services of outside
consultants to review information and reporting needs, including
the benefits and costs of using mechanical or electronic data
processing equipment;
(c) improving loan recovery effectiveness and reducing arrears;
NIDB has reached agreement with the FGN on the establishment of
a "Managed Fund" consisting of those government-behest projects
currently experiencing repayment difficulties. For private
sector projects, NIDB will implement a comprehensive arrears
reduction program including more thorough appraisal and
intensified collection efforts (e.g. account-by-account review
of the portfolio, establishment of a separate loan recovery
unit, increase in penalty interest rate and more frequent
billings); and
(d) reviewing its equity investments operations to determine their
economic impact and profitability, and to set out objectives and
strategy in this area.
The implementation of these measures along with others contained in the Action
Program is expected to result in gradual but considerable improvements in
NIDB's operational capabilities and financial condition.
Development Strategy
2.21     In addition to the short-term remedial measures contained in NIDB's
Action Program, its management is giving considerable attention to the long-
term future and economic impact of the institution. In consultation with the
Bank, it has formulated a Development Strategy (Annex 7) for implementation
over the coming three years. The general thrust of this strategy is to
increase NIDB's contribution to the Nigerian economy by broadening its
activities (including research activities); diversifying its operations and
directing them toward priority sub-sectors; and broadening NIDB's resource
base.



- 12 -
2.22     To increase its contribution to the financial sector, NIDB will
promote greater financial intermediation in Nigeria by gradually developing
its apex lending role vis-a-vis regional and state DFIs, by increasing its
efforts at loan syndication and co-financing of its projects, and by exploring
the possible establishment of (i) its second merchant bank (to be located
outside of Lagos) and (ii) a leasing subsidiary to provide industrial and
construction equipment to smaller entrepreneurs.  As regards resource
mobilization NIDB will endeavor to diversify its resource base and reduce its
dependence on government and official funds. To this end, it has begun
efforts to launch its first domestic bond issue as well as an initial
Eurocurrency private placement during 1983. In terms of resource allocation,
NIDB intends to direct a greater share of its financing (not less than 75%) to
private sector projects, and to priority industrial subsectors such as
intermediate goods, agro-industries and the construction industry. To this
end, it will strengthen its project promotion activities in these areas. The
Bank has already assisted in this regard by undertaking preliminary
investigations of the engineering, construction materials and agro-industry
sectors. Capital intensity analysis is to be incorporated in project
appraisal. In line with its increased operational autonomy vis-a-vis the
government and with the government's support, NIDB will apply strict appraisal
standards to public sector projects presented to it for financing. To further
its development objectives, NIDB plans to strengthen its ability to provide
technical assistance to the industrial sector, in part through the possible
establishment of a subsidiary consulting company, with foreign or local
partners, to undertake engineering, management, financial and economic
consulting services to its clients, regional and state DFIs, and industry at
large. Finally, NIDB is to strengthen and expand its research work to enable
it to contribute to the formulation of government policies for the industrial
and financial sectors.
Prospects and Resource Requirements
2.23     Since NIDB's present share of industrial investment is relatively
small (about 4 per cent; see para. 2.10) the volume of its financing in the
next several years is likely to be determined by resources available to it,
and by its project processing capability,rather than by investment demand. In
September 1982, NIDB had 89 projects in its active pipeline requiring N161
million for private and N35 million for public sector projects. Its financing
approvals are conservatively forecast to decline to N67 million in 1982 (after
the N93 million peak level in 1981), and then to grow at annual rates of 7% to
8% in current Naira until 1986. Annual commitments would grow from N57
million to N80 million and disbursements from N40 million to N71 million over
the 1982-86 period. Because of tightened foreign exchange availability from
other sources in Nigeria, the proportion of NIDB financing required in
foreign currency is expected to increase from the recent 30% to 40% level to
60% in the future.



13 -
2.24     Taking into account available resources, NIDB faced a gap in both
foreign and local currency resources as of June 30, 1982 (N million) as
follows:
Local                Foreign
Needed to Cover                 Currency             Currency
Undisbursed Commitments                     17.1                  7.4
Uncommitted Approvals                       20.0                 16.3
TOTAL                             37.1                 23.7
Against these requirements, NIDB received an additional loan of N20 million
from the government in 1982, and expects to obtain annually about N15 to
20 million in loans and N10 million in equity through 1986. It is preparing
its first local bond issue of N15 million for 1983. Collections and internal
cash generation should then be sufficient to cover the balance of immediate
and forecast local currency financing commitments (Annex 10).
2.25     Foreign currency commitments are forecast to total US$184 million
through 1985. Together with US$45 million equivalent from a recently obtained
second line of credit from EIB and US$20-25 million equivalent in a proposed
private Eurocurrency placement, the proposed US$120 million Bank loan would
cover NIDB's foreign currency financing gap through December 1985.
Alternative assumptions would indicate a full commitment date of the proposed
US$ 120 million loan as early as March 1985 or as late as August 1986.
III. THE PROPOSED LOAN
Objectives and Justification
3.01     The main objectives of the project are: (i) to continue the Bank's
institutional support of NIDB, in particular through assistance in the
formulation and implementation by NIDB of a comprehensive Action Program
(Annex 6) and a Development Strategy (Annex 7); (ii) to support NIDB's efforts
at mobilizing additional resources from the foreign capital markets; (iii) to
transfer needed foreign exchange resources from the Bank to viable industrial
projects in Nigeria.
3.02     The relationship between NIDB and the Bank has been mutually
beneficial. Through NIDB as an intermediary, Bank funds totalling
US$ 71.8 million (para: 2.03) have been allocated to economically and
financially viable industrial projects in Nigeria.  NIDB's association with
the Bank has enabled it to build up its initial institutional capabilities and
subsequently to maintain its operational standards. Through this association
and in particular through the Bank's subproject review process, the Bank has
encouraged NIDB to emphasize economic appraisal of projects including the
calculation of economic rates of return and the analysis of the capital
intensiveness of projects. In the context of this continuing relationship,
the Bank has been encouraging NIDB to take steps for further improving its
institutional effectiveness. These are now embodied in the Action Program.
At the same time, the Bank has been urging NIDB to seek to enhance its
developmental impact by broadening its activities, diversifying its operations
and mobilizing market resources. These are now reflected in NIDB's



- 14 -
Development Strategy for 1983-85. Given the long term nature of the
institution building process, the Bank's continuing support will remain
important in the years to come for NIDB to consolidate past achievements, to
successfully implement the objectives of the Action Program and the
Development Strategy, and to maintain and enhance its operational autonomy.
3.03     The catalytic effect of Bank lending helps NIDB in its current
efforts to mobilize additional foreign resources. The Bank is being
instrumental in NIDB's contemplated borrowings of US$ 20-25 million from the
Euromarket, and has also coordinated closely with the European Investment Bank
in connection with the latter's loan of US$ 45 million to NIDB.
3.04     Subprojects to be assisted under the proposed loan will be
predominantly private sector projects selected with an emphasis on priority
industrial subsectors (agro-industry, engineering industries, construction
materials and other intermediate goods). With the strengthening of NIDB's
appraisal and supervision work, and its increased operational autonomy,
subprojects under the proposed loan, though as yet unidentified, are expected
to yield economic benefits similar to or better than those of subprojects
financed under the previous Bank loan, for which the ERR averages 14% (para.
2.18).
3.05     The Project in Relation to Sector Objectives.  The implementation of
this project by NIDB, along the broad lines of its Development Strategy, would
support the main elements of the Government's industrial strategy as described
in para: 1.11, as well as the Bank's sector objectives mentioned in
para: 1.12. NIDB's intention to direct the bulk of its financing (at least
80% under the Bank loan) to the private sector is in line with government
policy of assigning a more vital role to this sector. NIDB's intended
emphasis on specific priority subsectors (e.g. agro-industry, building
materials) would promote the use of local raw materials, while its emphasis on
the engineering and intermediate goods industries would favor technological
development. NIDB's efforts at expanding its Apex lending role vis-a-vis
state-level financial institutions would help geographic dispersal of
investment as well as relatively small, labor intensive industries. A
specific objective (contained in the Development Strategy) of strengthening
NIDB's research capability is to enable it to contribute to the formulation of
government policies in the industrial and financial sectors. NIDB's increased
research capability would also enable it actively to cooperate with the Bank
in carrying out the sector work program mentioned in para: 1.12, including the
subsector studies (agro-industry, engineering) on which NIDB's collabortion
has already begun. Finally, NIDB's financing, which accounts for about 15% of
total industrial term lending and which is based on generally satisfactory
appraisal (economic, financial, technical), can be expected to exert a
demonstration effect and a beneficial (albeit limited) influence on the
overall pattern of industrial investment in Nigeria.
Project Risks
3.06     NIDB's performance in utilizing previous Bank loans (para. 2.19),
together with the institutional improvements to be expected from the
implementation of its Action Program and Development Strategy, would ensure
the successful implementation of the proposed project.



- 15 -
3.07     One possible project risk, however, relates to the sub-optimal policy
environment for the industrial sector, described in paragraph 1.10, which may
adversely affect the economic performance of investment projects in Nigeria.
This risk is mitigated by NIDB's adherence to appropriate economic appraisal
criteria, which includes the calculation of economic rates of return for
subprojects to be financed under the Bank loan (para. 3.16). Furthermore,
NIDB's present relatively small share of total industrial financing in Nigeria
(about 15% of total industrial term credit but only about 4% of total
industrial investment) should make it easier for it to select among projects
seeking its financing those with greater economic viability.
Main Features
3.08     The proposed loan would be made directly to NIDB, as were previous
Bank loans. The main features would be generally in line with those for Bank
loans to DFIs.
3.09     Utilization of loan proceeds.  The loan proceeds would finance 100%
of the cost of direct imports, 50% of domestically-procured capital goods, and
35% of local civil works. The last two percentages represent the estimated
foreign exchange components. In addition, to develop further its apex lending
role, NIDB will devise guidelines and procedures satisfactory to the Bank for
using a part of the loan proceeds to finance subprojects through state-level
and regional DFIs in Nigeria. Finally, NIDB would be allowed to use up to
US$500,000 to finance the foreign exchange expenditures of technical
assistance for its operations, subject to prior Bank approval. This would
include consultancy services in such areas as: organization studies,
management information systems, training programs, subsector studies,
technical and agro-industrial project work, and rehabilitation of problem
projects.
3410     Public sector projects.  To encourage NIDB's lending to the private
sector, a ceiling of US$24 million (20% of the loan amount) has been set on
financing public sector projects.
3.11     On-lending rate and foreign exchange risk.  NIDB's present interest
rate is 13% per annum (the maximum allowed under current Central Bank
guidelines). In addition, NIDB intends to introduce a one-time 1.25%
appraisal and development fee.  This would permit it a rather tight spread of
about 2.5% on Bank funds (assuming an average 11.5% Bank interest rate).
However, NIDB's average spread on total borrowings and resources would
continue to be ample (about 9.8% and 11.4% or better through 1986
respectively). NIDB would pass through to subborrowers all the foreign
exchange risks. Unless the Bank otherwise agrees, NIDB's on-lending rate
shall not be reduced below 13% per annum. Taking into account the assumption
of the foreign exchange risk by subborrowers, the 13% nominal onlending rate
is expected to represent an effective positive rate in real terms.
3.12     Free limit and subloan ceiling.  The free limit would be increased
from US$650,000 under the previous loan to US$1,000,000, and the aggregate
free limit from US$15 million to US$40 million. It is expected that 45% of
the number and up to about 25% of the amount of subprojects financed will fall
under the free limit. To ensure that loan proceeds go to a reasonably large
number of subprojects, a ceiling on the size of individual subloans eligible
for Bank financing would be set at US$8.5 million (about N5.5 million
equivalent or 7% of the proposed loan).



- 16 -
3.13     Procurement.  Under the previous Bank loan NIDB was required to apply
ICB for procurement contracts above US$3 million, and in the case of turn-key
projects, for contracts above US$15 million. These limits are being
maintained. For those procurements (local and foreign) not subject to ICB,
NIDB's normal practice of requiring alternative quotations (usually three) is
satisfactory and will apply. Requests for disbursement will be fully
supported by invoices and other relevant documents, in keeping with regular
DFC practice.
3.14     Disbursement and amortization schedule.  The forecast disbursement                   W
schedule for the loan is given in Annex 11. As usual with Bank loans to DFIs,
the amortization schedule of the proposed loan would reflect substantially the
aggregate of repayment schedules of subloans made by NIDB. The loan is
expected to be repaid within a period of 15 years inclusive of a 4 year grace
period.
Agreements And Understandings Reached at Negotiations
3.15     During negotiations, agreements were reached on the following:
i.     the timing for the appointment of a qualified Deputy General
Manager (para: 2.04);
ii.    a timetable for implementation of the measures included in
NIDB's Action Program (para. 2.20), and the modalities for the
Bank and NIDB to jointly and annually review progress in its
implementation;
iii.   a minimum share of not less than 75% of NIDB's overall
financing for private sector projects, in line with its
Development Strategy (para: 2.22);
iv.    NIDB carrying out ERR calculations for all projects it
finances whose total capital costs exceed US$1 million, as
well as for all subprojects under the proposed loan
(para: 3.07);
v.     the incorporation of capital intensity analysis in all
subproject appraisal reports (paras: 2.22 and 3.02);
vi.    the financing of 50% of the cost of domestically procured
capital goods, and 35% of the cost of civil works, these
percentages representing the estimated foreign exchange
component of such items (para: 3.09);
vii.   a minimum onlending rate of 13% per annum, with foreign
exchange risks to be assumed by sub-borrowers (para. 3.11);
viii.  a ceiling of 20% (US$24 million) of loan proceeds to be used
for public sector projects (para: 3.10);



- 1 7 -
ix.    a free limit of US$1.0 million on sub-projects with an
aggregate free limit of US$40 million (para: 3.12);
x.     a subloan ceiling of US$8.5 million (para: 3.12);
xi.    the maintenance of the existing ICB cut-off figures of US$3
million for procurement contracts (US$15 million for turn-key
contracts) applicable under the previous Bank Loan
(para: 3.13);
xii.   the maintenance of the debt/equity limit of 4:1 (para: 2.17).
3.19     Subject to the above conditions, the proposed project is suitable for
a Bank loan of US$120 million.
i



NIGERIAN INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK LIMITED
ORGANIZATION CHART AT 9/82
|BOARD (55)
HXNAGING  DIRECTOR ((A)l                           rIN.AUDIT)Y
f (VACANT)  C                                  | DEP. GEN. MGR.|                           rDEP. GEN. MG. (4S)'|
(VACANT)  -~iNS)                                                                             E      mr-ETLEAS)'
_________,   *        I _             I                           | ~~~~~~~~~~~(EXTENDET)lEAVEjj 
LAGOS AREA                                                                            *_
_  (10E.I55)                      FIN./ALMIN               INVESTMENT              PROJECTS              RESEARCH 6              CORP
DIVISION               DIVISIN                  DIVISION              DEVELOPMEN              AFFAIRS
INE AREA                           (IE,3S) S(lE  2S)                               (1EE 3S)                   3S                  (E. 2S)
!9E 265).    _,|  
LEGAL
N-w A-RE-A ---IIN.                                   SU M,SI                                                                         (6E,9S . 
-IOI E,32S)                  DP.          ET           VISION      COSG (4E,12)    TUTIONs                                                          DE0EE20
|(IIE,I14s)   (6E,815)    (12E.10s)  (7EE52                                                                   SEC.    (4E.
& PR
(3E,14s)
(1IE,205)   SECURITY                                                                                                                                RECEPTION
(IE,14S)                                                                                                                               & PREP.
|(9E,315)                                                                                                                                                 2
SUMMARY STAFF POSITION
In Place  Vacancies
E: Executive or         141         50
Management
S: Support Staff        401        147
5~42       19-7
.  n=-       .=F7
4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.



- 19 -
ANNEX 2
NIGERIAN INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK LIMITED                     -
Analysis of Arrears-/ at June 30, 1982
A. SUMMARY
-E---Excluding Projects Under
Total                                Implementation2/
Portfolio       Implementation      Or Rescheduled-
Naira million
1. In Millions of Naira
a.  Loan principal in arrears         27.2                26.4                11.9
b.  Interest and charges in
arrears                          13.9                13.1                 7.0
c.  Principal affected by
arrears                          85.3                78.6                32.3
d.  Total principal
outstanding                     229.4               173.4                99.3
e.  Equity affected by
arrears                          10.8                10.2                 3.2
f.  Total equity ivestments
outstanding -                    39.2               27.4                 18.7
2.  In Percentages                                          Percentages
g.  Arrears to loans outstand-
ing (a+b) - (b+d)                 17%               21%                  18%
h.  Proportion of outstanding
loans affected by arrears
(b+c) t (b+d)                     41%               49%                  37%
i.  Proportion of equity
affected by arrears
(e - f)                           25%               37%                  17%
j.  Proportion of tctal port-
folio affected (b+c+e) -
(b+d+f)                           39%               48%                  34%
3. Number of Loans in Arrears to Total Number
k.  Ratio                             85:190             75:113              63:92
1.  Percent                            45%                66%                 68%
(            B.  AGING OF ARREARS (in N million)
-            Arrears Grouped by Months Overdu.--
Total
Princ.  6-12  MOS.      12-24  MOS.    Over 24 MOS.   Total
Outst.  Princ.  Int.   Princ.  Int.   Princ.  Int.   Princ.  InL
1. Projects under imple- 6.6       0.3   0.7       0.5    -        _       _       0.8   0.7
mentation
2. Operating
profitably            6.5      0.7    0.3      O.l   0.1       -       -       0.8   0.4
3. In loss/difficulty   72.2       2.0    2,2      6.5   1.6      17.1   9.0      25.6  12.8
Total            85.3     3.0    3.2       7.1  1.       17.1   9.0      27.2  13.9
1/ Given NIDB's last semi-annual billing at the end of 1981, all arrears are of
six months or more.
2/ Rescheduled since 1/1/81.
3/ Including 23 investments aggregating N8.0 million in companies that have no
outstanding loans from NIDB.



NIGERIAN INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK LIMITED
Audited Income Statements, 1979/81
(N million)
1979                                   1980                                      1981
Consolidated       Unconsolidated        Consolidated       Unconsolidated        Consolidated       Unconsolidated
INCOME
Interest and charges on loans           12.1                  11.8               15.3                  15.1               19.9                  19.8
Less: provisions                     (0.9)                 (0.9)              (1.2)                 (1.2)              (1.5)                 (1.5)
Dividends                                 1.3                  1.0                2.0                   1.7                 2.4                  2.1
Short-term investments                   0.2                   0.2                0.9                   0.8                 2.0                  1.9
Rent                                      1.5                  1.5                1.7                   1.7                 1.6                  1.6
Miscellaneous                            0.8                   0.1                0.6                   0.2                 0.8                  0.2
Total Income                         15.0                  13.7               19.3                  18.3               25.2                  24.1
EXPENSES
Financial charges                        3.1                   2.8                4.1                   3.8                 7.4                  7.3
Staff costs                            ( 3.5                   1.5              ( 5.4                   2.8                 7.3                   3.8
General administration                  (                       .3                                      2.3               (                       3.2
Depreciation                             0.7                   0.7                 1.1                  1.1                 1.6                   1.5
Provisions on portfolio                   3.0                  3.0                 1.4                  1.4                 1.3                   1.3          C
Total Expenses                       10.3                   2.3               12.0                  11.4                17.6                 17.1
PROFIT BEFORE TAX                            4.7                  4.4                 7.3                  6.9                 7.6                   7.0
TAXES                                       (1.3)                (1.4)               (2.9)                 2.8                (3.1)                 (2.8)
NET PROFIT                                   3.4                  3.0                 4.3                  4.1                 4.5                   4.2



V   >       -                                                                                -
NIGERIAN INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK LIMITED
Audited Balance Sheets, 1979/81
(N mllion)
1979            -        -             1980                                      1981    -
Consolidated       Unconsolidated        Consolidated       Unconsolidated        Consolidated      Unconsolidated
ASSETS
Cash and deposits                        13.2                 11.2                41.6                 38.7                40.1                 36.7
Dealing securities                        1.1                  -                   ].1                  _                   1.5                  _
Net receivables/prepay.                  12.7                 10.0                16.5                  15.4               24.9                 23.8
Current Assets                       27.0                  21.2               59.2                  54.1               *66.5                 60.5
Loans outstanding                       160.8                157.4                189.5               187.3               217.7                216.4
Less:  provisions                    (5.6)                 (5.6)                (6.3)               (6.3)               (7.0)                (7.0)
Equity investments                      25.6                  22.9                 32.0                29.2                36.0                 33.9
Less:  provisions                    (1.0)                 (1-0)                (1.5)                (1.5)              (2.0)                (2.0)
Subsidiary companies                     0.7                   6.1                  1.8                 6.4                 1.8                  6.2
Net fixed assets                         19.1                 17.3                 20.5                18.9                23.0                 21.4
Total Assets                        226.5                 218.3                295.2               288.1               336.0                329.4
LIABILITIES
Dividend payable                          1.5                  1.5                  1.6                 1.6                 1.6                  1.6
Taxes payable                             2.1                  2.1                  3.2                 3.0                 4.9                  4.9
Other payables                          11.7                   9.1                 11.6                  9.6                9.8                  7.8
Current Liabilities                  15.3                  12.7                 16.4                14.2                16.3                 14.3
Borrowings
Government                              98.9                  98.9                152.7                152.7              187.2                187.2
CDC Nigeria                               -                    0.6                  -                    0.6                -                    0.6
CDC London                                7.1                  2.2                  7.0                  3.5                4.7                  1.9
EIB                                       1.6                  1.6                  3.8                  3.8                4.4                  4.4
IBRD                                     0.5                   0.5                  3.8                  3.8                8.8                  8.8
Term Debt                           108.1                 103.8                167.3               164.4               205.1                202.9
NET WORI'H                                 __
Share capital                           94.3                  94.3                 99.3                 99.3               99.3                 99.3
Reserves/retained earnings                8.9                  7.5                 12.2                 10.2               15.3                 12.9
Total  Net Worth                    103.2                 101.8                111.5               109.5               114.6                112.2
TorAL LIABILITIES S NET WORTH   226.21/3._   295.2  288.1  336.0  329.4
TOTAL LIABILITIES 6 NET WORTH              226.~6                2183.25.22881.36.



NIGERIAN INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK LIMITED
Details On Sub-Projects Financed under Loan 1597 - UNI
--(N 000)                --USS-                           (N 000)
No. of       Total    NIDB's Assistance    IBRD              Total Jobs        Average        Weighted          Weighted
SECTOR                Projects      Cost     Loan       Equity      Financing       Created          Cost/Job       Average IRR       Average ERR
Beverages              6          51,827    14,170    1,780       20,014            920            56,330           31.3               22
Building Materials
(mainly, clay
bricks &
terrazo tiles &
ceramics)            5         41,115    10,928    1,463        15,810            664            61,920           21.7              27.5
Chemicals              5           9,770     3,503      -          4,851            420            23,260           34.6               17.0
Textiles               3          15,097     5,172       363       7,145            383            39,400           47.2               18.8
Steel Products         2 2/       6,790      2,498        48       3,545            230            29,500           43.2               22.3
Foods                  1           1,350       673      -            909             86            15,700           46.3               18.3
Hotels                 1          29,000     6,900    1,100        7,200            320            90,600           14.5               14.0
Paper Products         1           1,280       377      -            476             49            26,100           31.2               11.8
Total                 24 -/     N156,229   N44,221    N4,754  US$59,950           3,072
Weighted Average
for sub-loans                                                                                   N50,850           28.6%             13.87%
1/ All of these sub-projects except one, were for new ventures.
2/ One of these would also qualify as building materials.
3/ One sub-project was cancelled.
la       #  ,



- 23 -
ANNEX 6
Page l'of 4
NIGERIAN INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK
Action Program
General Organization of NIDB
1.            Organization Review.  NIDB will undertake a review of its
organization structure, with assistance from outside consultants, focussing
particularly on the span of control and delegation of authority at senior
management levels, with the objective of improving institutional efficiency
and coordination between departments and between the head office and area
administrations. The Terms of Reference for this review will be prepared in
consultation with the World Bank.
2.            Senior financial staff.  Without waiting for completion of the
above review, NIDB will appoint a head for its new Internal Audit unit and
will recruit a replacement for its recently retired DGM who will be capable of
strengthening its forecasting and resource planning activities. At least
three of four additional accounting professionals will be recruited to fill
other vacancies in each of the Finance and Internal Audit Departments.
3.            Staff planning.  After taking into account the results of its
organization review (para. 1) and its staffing requirements, NIDB will
reformulate a recruitment plan for the next three and five years, indicating
the number and types of professional positions (e.g. financial analysts,
economists, engineers and agriculturists and agro-economists) necessary to
meet NIDB's operational needs over the period.
4.            Training.  NIDB will formulate a 3-5 year training program which
will focus upon strengthening its staff capabilities in the areas of economic
research and technical appraisal; financial, economic and market analysis,
accounting and financial controls; and management information systems. In
this endeavour the collaboration of a foreign institution with experience in
development bank training and/or of foreign consultants, if necessary, will be
sought.
Appraisal And Research
5.            Appraisal reports will include a section summarizing problems
with existing projects in the same subsector together with the steps proposed
for the project being appraised to avoid the same difficulties. External
local consultants will be employed where appropriate to supplement NIDB's own
technical appraisal capability.
6.            In order to better integrate them with financial and technical
analyses of projects, market analyses of individual projects will be performed
by the Appraisal Department. The Research Department will still be
responsible for setting out parameters for and reviewing market analyses, and
will continue to undertake economic analyses of projects, but it will
concentrate new efforts on subsector studies both in problem areas and in
priority areas for identification of new projects.



- 24 -
ANNEX 6
Page 2 of 4
7.            Because working capital shortages, particularly as regards
foreign exchange, are constraining industrial production, NIDB will begin
financing working capital for projects in priority industrial subsectors.
Financial Matters and Management Information
8.            NIDB will undertake a review of its equity investment operations
in order to: (a) assess their performance including both economic impact and
profitability; (b) outline its objectives and future strategy for
undertaking new equity investments and making timely sales of shares from its
portfolio.
9.            Detailed resource planning and financial forecasting for a
multi-year time frame (3-5 years) will be undertaken at least semi-annually.
10.           With the assistance of external consultants, NIDB will prepare a
comprehensive set of report formats for an improved financial and management
information system, and in that context, will review possible applications of
electronic data processing and mechanical accounting devices. Alternative
software and hardware options will be evaluated, including the option of a
pilot program that could result in immediate improvements in the accuracy,
quality, and timeliness of management information.  The Terms of Reference for
this program of work will be prepared in consultation with the World Bank.
11.           NIDB will take adequate steps to eliminate the existing foreign
exchange risk on borrowings from CDC (London).
12.           Beginning with the 1982 audit, NIDB will have its audit prepared
in the World Bank's Long Form Format.
Problem Projects and Arrears 1/
13.           Government behest projects.  NIDB and government will work out
detailed terms for and then implement the managed fund arrangement to which
they have agreed in principle regarding 13 government projects in NIDB's
portfolio, amounting to N85 million of loans and equity investments
outstanding. An equivalent amount of NIDB's liabilities to government would
be transferred to the fund.  NIDB would continue to follow up these projects               )
and make collections for a fee, but the risk of losses would be borne by
government.
14.           Private sector projects.  NIDB will constitute immediately (in
any event not later than the end of February 1983) a special task force
(including supervision, Finance and Legal staff) to carry out an account-by-
account review and classification of problem projects according to (i)
projects having implementation problems;  (ii)  willful defaulters (operating
profitably but unwilling to make payments); (iii) projects operating
unprofitably and unable to repay; (iv) projects no longer in operations
1/   Projects having implementation problems or in arrears for more than
3 months.



- 25 -
ANNEX 6
Page 3 of 4
(closed down); and (v) those under litigation or receivership. On the
basis of the findings of the task force, NIDB will take any one or more of the
following actions, as approrpriate:-
-    For projects under (i) above, the Supervision Department
will reevaluate the project (including a detailed
assessment of its implementation problems) to determine
what remedial measures (including possible technical or
management assistance, rescheduling and/or additional
financing) are necessary, on the basis of which the task
force will make recommendations to Management.
For projects under (ii) above, NIDB's Legal Department will
send out letters inviting these clients for discussions
with the task force on their delinquent loans. If
acceptable arrangements (to NIDB) cannot be worked out with
the client for the repayment of the loan, or the client
fails to respond to NIDB's letter, then within 30 days from
the date of the meeting (or the intended meeting), NIDB
will begin legal proceedings for the recovery of the
outstanding amount(s).
-    For projects under (iii) above similar action will be taken
as for projects in category (i). For those projects where
it is determined that further assistance would not result
in a return to positive cash flows and profitability, NIDB
should assess the value of company's assets and begin
immediate legal measures for recovery. If the assessed
realizable value is determined to be inadequate to cover
the outstanding loan, then appropriate provisions should be
made for possible losses.
-    For projects under (iv) above, NIDB's Supervision
Department should undertake similar steps as in (i) above
in order to determine reactivation/rehabilitation
possibilities, and necessary remedial measures. Should
further assistance prove unfeasible, then, similar actions
will be taken as in case (iii) above.
-    For projects under (v) above, NIDB's Legal Department will
proceed expeditiously and forcefully for recovery.
Provisions will be made as necessary
15.           Beginning with the 1982 Audit, NIDB's auditors will make
specific recommendations on portfolio provisions to be established, taking
into consideration the recommendations of the task force. The task force will
also propose for adoption by the management, overall collection targets for
the next three years, which targets wil be reviewed annually. The initial
task force's report should be submitted to NIDB's management May 30, 1983, for
action.
16.           The above Problem Project Task Force should be reinstituted on
an annual basis with shorter semi-annual updates. Its report should form the
basis of a joint annual review of NIDB's portfolio by the World Bank and
NIDB!s management to be undertaken during World Bank supervision missions.



- 26 -
ANNEX 6
Page 4 of 4
17.           NIDB will take the following additional measures to improve
future collections:
(i)    Undertake joint analyses (involving Research and
Supervision staff) of problem subsectors (e.g. textiles, oil
milling, leather, bricks, etc.) designed to recommend
improvements in future NIDB supervision and appraisal work, as
well as in government policies affecting the subsector.
(ii)   Establish a Loan Recovery Unit within the Finance
Department responsible only for billings and collections.
(iii) Establish Rehabilitation unit to assist clients with
severe operating difficulties.
(iv)   Increase its penalty interest rate to at least 2% above
the highest of the original interest rate on a loan, NIDB's
current interest rate, or the current commercial bank lending
rate.
(v)    Automatically revise its initial repayment schedule on
loans (based on the date of plant commissioning forecast in its
appraisal report) to take account of the actual date of
commencement of production. Later reschedulings of projects in
operation should be agreed to only after NIDB attaches
conditions designed to remedy the project's operating
problems. In such cases the interest rate should also be
revised to NIDB's current rate, if higher.
(vi)   Bill new and rescheduled loans on a quarterly rather than
semi-annual basis.



- 27 -
ANNEX 7
Page 1 of 3
NIGERIAN INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK LIMITED
OUTLINE OF DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY FOR 1983 THROUGH 85
During the three-year period 1983 through 85, NIDB will
endeavour to enhance the developmental impact of its operations and increase
its contribution to the Nigerian industrial and financial sectors,
particularly in the specific areas outlined below:-
I. Financial Intermediation
A. NIDB will progressively intensify its assistance (both
financial and technical) to state-level financial
institutions with a view to:-
1. helping strengthen these institutions and
2. reaching out and financing more industrial projects in
outlying areas so as to improve the geographic
distribution of its portfolio as well as indirectly
assist smaller enterprises.
This apex activity is intended to complement the operation
of NIDB's branch network.
B. In addition to its present part ownership and involvement
in ICON (Merchant Bank and Stock Brokers), NIDB intends to
continue exploring actively with foreign partners, the
establishment of a merchant bank to be located in one of
the outlying states.
C. To increase the catalytic role of its financing, NIDB will
intensify its efforts at loan syndications and joint-
financing of projects.
D. NIDB intends to explore jointly with international and/or
domestic partners, the establishment of a subsidiary or
-affiliate company to engage in the leasing business,
focussing primarily, though not exclusively, upon
industrial and construction equipment. This leasing
activity would also focus on smaller entrepreneurs, whose
financial conditions frequently do not enable them to
acquire the necessary equipment through outright purchases,
as well as those whose needs are only seasonal.
II. Resource Mobilization
NIDB intends to diversify its resource base and gradually reduce
its dependence on government and official funds, by mobilizing commercial
resources from both the domestic and international markets. On the domestic
market, NIDB envisages during 1983, issuing bonds for an approximate amount of
N15million, to be followed by other issues as permitted by market conditions



- 28 -
ANNEX 7
Page 2 of 3
and as warranted by NIDB's resource requirements. On the foreign currency
side, NIDB plans to start by actively exploring the Euromarket with a view to
borrowing an approximate amount of US$15-25 equivalent in 1983, to be followed
by increased future borrowings.
III. Resource Allocation
A.  NIDB will direct a greater share of its future financing to
priority industrial sub-sectors such as intermediate goods,
construction industry and agro-industries. As a
consequence, it is expected that during the planning period
(3-5 years), the combined share of foods, beverages,
hotels, and other non-durable consumer goods in NIDB's
financing will decline correspondingly.
B. NIDB will put greater emphasis on financing private sector
project, whose share in NIDB's financing is expected to
gradually rise (on an approval basis) from about 35% in the
late 1970s to not less than 75% by 1985.
C. To enable it effectively to pursue the objectives set out
in the preceding 2 sub-paragraphs, NIDB will further
intensify its project promotion efforts among other things,
through the more active involvement of its senior
management in these efforts and the strengthening of the
operation of the P. & D. Department.
D. In its future financing, NIDB will endeavour to expand its
technical assistance to clients and prospective clients in
the areas of project formulation, project design, choice of
technology, engineering and project analysis. NIDB will
also pay due attention to the economic merits, particularly
the employment impact of its projects. To achieve the
foregoing objective, NIDB will strengthen its technical and
research capability.
IV. Consultancy Services
NIDB intends to explore, with the collaboration of foreign
and/or local partners, the establishment of a private
subsidiary or affiliate company to undertake a broad range
of consulting services (engineering, managerial, financing
and economic) to industry at large including NIDB's
clients, as well as state level financial institutions.
V. Economic Research and Policy Inputs
A. NIDB intends to strengthen its capability and intensify its
activity in economic research with a view to, among other
things, enable it to contribute to the formulation of
government policies in the industrial and financial
sectors, as well as identifying potential areas for NIDB's
investments.



- 29 -
ANNEX 7
Page 3 of 3
B. Specifically, NIDB plans, in cooperation with the World
Bank, to conduct or take part in studies on a number of
priority industrial sub-sectors including intially,
intermediate goods, construction industry and agro-
industries.
VI.  Organizational Arrangements
To enable NIDB to successfully implement the above Development
Strategy, NIDB's management intends to carry out a review of NIDB's
organizational structure and staffing with a view to strengthening them as
appropriate. As a part of this effort short-term technical assistance, where
needed will be sought from the World Bank and/or other international agencies
r-



-30-                                 ANNEX 8
NIGERIAN INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK LIMITED
Projected Income Statements, 1982-86
(N Million)
Actual                      Projected
1981     1982      1983      1984     1985      1986
INCOME
Dividends                   2.0       2.0       2.7      3.4       4.1       5.4
Interest and Charges on
Loans (net)                18.5     22.7      25.1     27.6      30.6      35.4
Interest on Short-Term
Investments                 1.9       3.4       3.8      4.4       5.0       5.3
Rental Income               1.7       2.5       2.7      3.3       3.3       3.3
Total Income               24.1      30.6      34.3     38.7      43.0      49.4
EXPENSES
Financial charges           7.4      10.1       9.6     10.8      12.3      14.8
Staff Costs                 4.7       7.5       8.6      9.9      10.9      12.0
General and Admin.          2.1       2.9       3.2      3.5       3.9       4.3
Depreciation                1.5       1.3       1.4      2.3       3.2       3.0
Provisions for Doubtful
Debts                      1.4       3.0  -  4.0        5.0       5.0       7.0
Total Expenses             17.1      24.8      26.8     31.5      35.3      41.1
Profit Before Tax           7.0       5.7       7.5      7.2       8.2       8.3
Taxes at 40%                2.8       2.3       3.0      2.9       3.3       3.3
Net Profit                  4.2       3.5       4.5      4.3       4.9       5.0
l



-31 -                                ANEX 9
NIGERIAN INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK LIMITED
Projected Balance Sheets 1982 - 86
(N Million)
ACTUAL
1981        1982        1983        1984        1985        1986
ASSETS
Cash and Deposits      36.7        42.7        46.3        57.8         60.0        63.6
Sundry Debtors (net)  23.8         23.8        23.8        23.8        23.8         23.8
Total Current Assets  60.5         66.5        70.1        81.6         83.8        87.4
Loans Outstanding    216.4        237.4       262.4       280.4        305.4       343.4
Less:  Provisions       (7.0)       (9.0)      (12.0)      (15.0)      (19.0)      (24.0)
Equity Investments    34.0         42.0        50.0         58.0        66.0        74.0
Less:  Provisions       (2.0)       (3.0)       (4.0)       (6.0)       (7.0)       (9.0)
Investment in
Subsidiaries           6.2         6.2         6.2         6.2         6.2          6.2
Net Fixed Assets       21.4        28.7        39.5         45.6        47.3        48.1
Total Assets          329.5       368.8       412.2       450.8       482.7        526.1
LIABILITIES
Current Liabilities   14.2         14.2         14.2        14.2        14.2        14.2
Local Borrowing       187.8       217.8        187.8      206.4        217.3       225.2
Foreign Borrowing      15.2        22.5        25.8        34.9        44.4         68.3
Total Liabilities    217.2        254.5       227.8       255.5        275.9       307.7
NET WORT*
Paid-Up Capital        99.4        99.4       168.4       178.4        188.4       198.4
Reserves & Retained
Earnings              12.9        14.9        16.0        16.9        18.4         20.0
Total Net Worth       112.3       114.3       184.4       195.3       206.8        218.4
TOTAL LIABILITIES
AND NET WORTH         329.5       368.8       412.2       450.3        482.7       526.1



- 32 -                            ANNEX 10
NIGERIAN INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK LIMITED
Projected Cash Flow Statements, 1982 - 86
(N Million)
1982        1983         1984        1985         1986
SOURCES
Net profit                        3.5         4.5          4.3          4.9         5.0
Non-cash charges                  4.3         5.4          7.3          8.2        10.0
Loan collections                 11.0         12.0        21.0         23.0        25.0
Local borrowings                 30.0        30.0         20.0         15.0        15.0
Foreign borrowings                8.0         14.0        19.0         20.0        35.5
Increase in share capital          -         69.0         10.0         10.0        10.0
TOTAL SOURCES           56.8       134.9         81.6        81.1        100.5
USES
Capital expenditures              8.6        12.2          8.4         4.9          3 8
Loan disbursements               32.0        37.0         39.0         48.0        63.0
Equity disbursements              8.0         8.0          8.0         8.0          8.0
Local debt repayment               -         60.0          1.4         4.1          7.1
Foreign debt repayment            0.7        10.7          9.9         10.5        11.6
Dividends                         1.5         3.4          3.4         3.4          3.4
Increase in cash                  6.0         3.6         11.5         2.2          3.6
TOTAL USES             56.8        134.9         81.6        81.1        100.5



-33 -
- 33   ~~~~~~~ ~ANNEX 1.
NICERIAN INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK LIMITED
Estimated Commitments And Disbursements
Of Proposed Loan-/
(Amounts in US$ Million)
Commitments                        Disbursements
Amount            z b/             Amount               b/
1983
Third Quarter                   2             1.7
Fourth Quarter                  3             4.2
Sub-Total               5             4.2
1984
First Quarter                  11            13.3                   1             0.8
Second Quarter                 16            26.7                  2             2.5
Third Quarter                  16            40.0                  2             4.2
Fourth Quarter                 16            53.3                  -2            5.8
Sub-Total              59            53.3                   7             5.8
1985
First Quarter                  16            66.7                   2             7.5
Second Quarter                 15            79.2                  3            10.0
Third Quarter                  15            91.7                  4             13.3
Fourth Quarter                 13           100.0                  4            16.6
Sub-Total              56           100.0                  13            16.6
1986
First Quarter                                                      6             21.7
Second Quarter                                                     6            26.7
Third Quarter                                                      7            32.5
Fourth Quarter                                                     7            38.3
Sub-Total                                                  26            38.3
1987
First Quarter                                                      8            45.0
Second Quarter                                                     8            51.7
Third Quarter                                                      9            59.2
Fourth Quarter                                                     9            66.7
Sub-Total                                                  34            66.7
1988
First Quarter                                                      8            73.3
Second Quarter                                                     8            80.0
Third Quarter                                                      8            86.7
Fourth Quarter                                                     8            93.3
Sub-Total                                                  32            93.3
1989
Final Quarter                                                      4             96.7
Second Quarter                                                     4            100.0
Sub-Total                                                   8            100.0
a/  Assuming loan is approved by June 1982, but NIDB commits other foreign resources
before the IBRD loan.
b/ Percentages are cumulative.



