Document of
The World Bank                                 FlLE  OFYt
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3565-UNI
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMEN'
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED FOURTH LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$120 MILLION
TO THE NIGERIAN INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK LTD
WITH THE GUARANTEE
OF THE
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
May 11, 1983
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Calendar 1982      April 1983
Currency Unit =         Naira (N)           N
US$1 =        N 0.55              NO.71
Ni =        US$1.82            US$1.40
Staff Appraisal Report:  Ni = US$1.515
ABBREVIATIONS
CBN  -  Central Bank of Nigeria
ECU  -  European Currency Unit
EIB  -  European Investment Bank
FGN  -  Federal Government of Nigeria
NIDB -  Nigerian Industrial Development Bank
NBCI -  Nigerian Bank for Commerce and Industry
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
NIGERIA - FOURTH NIDB PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower                 Nigerian Industrial Development Bank Ltd. (NIDB)
Guarantor:               Federal Republic of Nigeria
Amount:                  US$120 million, including capitalized front-end fee
Terms:                   The loan would carry the standard variable interest
rate. Its amortization would be over a maximum period
of 15 years, including 4 years of grace, with a final
schedule based on the aggregate of the amortization
schedules of NIDB's subloans.
Relending Terms:         Subloans would be subject to interest of no less than
13 percent per annum with maturities of up to 13 years
and grace periods of up to 3 years. Subborrowers
would assume the foreign exchange risk. NIDB would
charge a commitment fee of 0.75 percent on the undrawn
balance of individual subloans.
Project Description:    The project would provide NIDB with (i) foreign
exchange resources for funding (i) industrial
investment projects and (ii) consultancy services for
further strengthening its institutional
capabilities. A large part of the subloans financed
under the project is expected to be in priority
subsectors such as intermediate goods, agro-
industries, and the construction industry. There are
no special risks associated with the project.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disciosod without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Financing Requirements
and Resources through 1985:                   Local    Foreign    Total
…----US$ Million … ---
Total NIDB Requirements                      115.0      185.0      300.0
(on commitment basis)
IBRD loan                                      -        120.0      120.0
EIB loan                                       -         45.0       45.0
Commercial Bank Loan                           -         20.0       20.0
Local Bond Issue                              20.0        -         20.0
FGN (loans and equity)                        80.0        -         80.0
NIDB (internally generated funds)             15.0        -         15.0
Total NIDB Resources                         115.0      185.0      300.0
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank Fiscal Year            1984    1985    1986    1987    1988    1989
Annual                       7.0    13.0    26.0    34.0    32.0        8.0
Cumulative                   7.0    20.0    46.0    80.0   112.0   120.0
Staff Appraisal Report:        4273-UNI, dated May 4, 1983



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED FOURTH LOAN TO THE
NIGERIAN INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT BANK WITH THE
GUARANTEE OF THE FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed fourth
loan to the Nigerian Industrial Development Bank (NIDB) with the guarantee of
the Federal Republic of Nigeria for the equivalent of US$120.0 milion to help
finance industrial subprojects particularly in the areas of intermediate
goods, agro-industries, and the construction industry. The loan would be
subject to the standard variable interest rate. The proceeds of the loan
would be relent to industrial enterprises at not less than 13 percent per
annum, with terms of up to 13 years. The proposed loan would be amortized
over a maximum period of 15 years, including 4 years of grace, with a final
schedule based on the aggregate of the amortization schedules of the
subloans. The subborrowers would assume the foreign exchange risk. In
parallel with the Bank, the European Investment Bank (EIB) approved a loan
to NIDB in the amount of ECU 40 million (about US$45 million) in December
1982. This loan has a term of 13 years, including about 4 years of grace,
with interest at about 8 percent per annum. NIDB is also expected to enter
into a private Eurocurrency placement for the equivalent of US$15-25 million.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.       A Country Economic Memorandum (No. 3232-UNI) was distributed to the
Executive Directors on April 7, 1981, followed by a Basic Economic Report
(No. 3341-UNI) on August 17, 1981. An economic mission visited Nigeria in
M4ay/June 1982, and the draft report is currently being discussed with the
federal authorities. Selected social and economic indicators are given in
Annex I.
Background
3.       Nigeria, with a population of over 85 million, is the most populous
country in Africa. Among Sub-Saharan Bank members Nigeria accounted for about
45 percent of gross output and more than 60 percent of regional investment in
1980.  Its GNP per capita is estimated at about US$870 in 1980, which is twice
the average for Sub-Saharan Africa. While Nigeria, as a major oil exporter
since the early seventies, enjoyed a substantially improved resource base from
increased oil revenues, it still remains at a very early stage of development
in terms of socio-economic indicators in which it compares with other Sub-
Saharan countries.
4.       Following a civil war and 13 years of military rule, a new federal
constitution was adopted and an elected civilian government came into power in
1979. The constitution vests considerable powers in the state and local
governments while it maintains a delicate balance between regional autonomy



- 2 -
and preservation of national unity. The country now seems to have adjusted
well to the new form of government and to civilian rule, and it is preparing
for the next elections in August 1983.
Macro-economic Developments
5.       Nigeria has been undergoing a rapid socio-economic transformation
since the upsurge of oil prices in 1973-74 which altered the country's
resource picture considerably. During the seventies, Nigeria's development
strategy was based on sustaining a high rate of growth and diversifying the
economy through the resources generated by the oil sector. The principal
objective of the policies pursued by the Nigerian decision-makers was to
absorb the large oil revenues accrued - about US$100 billion in current prices
during the 1973-81 period - and to translate them into investments in
economic, social and physical infrastructure-. While there has been some
investment in "non-economic" projects and elements of waste, significant gains
were made in both economic and social infrastructure. Transport
infrastructure, particularly roads and ports, expanded considerably. Power
generating capacity tripled and refining capacity more than quadrupled since
1973. In spite of a distorted incentive structure, manufacturing grew at an
average annual rate of 12 percent during the 1973-81 period. There was also a
rapid spread of education at all levels; in particular, the primary enrollment
ratio reached well over 60 percent in 1980 from about 35 percent in the early
seventies.
6.       Developments were not as positive in some other areas.  In
agriculture, overall output remained stagnant, with production of grains
increasing slightly, but production of root and export crops declining
substantially. In per capita terms, production of staples declined. Within a
decade, Nigeria became a major food importer (US$2 billion of imports in
1981). This was caused partly by sudden and rapid growth of public
expenditures, which outpaced the growth of public revenue, and which, along
with a dramatic expansion in domestic demand, resulted in high rates of
inflation.  Inflation coupled with an appreciating domestic currency pushed up
domestic costs of production, thus putting the commodity produci'ng sectors at
a disadvantage vis-a-vis imports and non-traded goods. This encouraged
diversion of resources from commodity production to rent seeking activities
such as trade and services. Both agriculture and industry became "high-cost"
producers. Trade and exchange rate policies, which were formulated in
response to frequent swings in oil export earnings, were largely used to
dampen inflationary pressures rather than to provide appropriate incentives to
domestic production. This was partly due to the fact that, as aL result of the
fluctuations in the world oil markets and their impact on the balance of
payments and government revenues, Nigeriarn policymakers have been preoccupied
with short-term crisis management. This has diverted attention from
formulating longer term policies to reduce the country's dependence on oil and
strengthen the domestic productive sector.
7.       The Fourth Development Plan (1981-85) was prepared in 1980 when the
world oil markets again presented a favorable outlook and, accordingly,
reflects an ambitious investment program. It did not envisage, however, the
sudden downturn of the world oil markets in 1981. The sharp decline in oil
production by about one-third to 1.43 mbd changed the short-and medium-term
prospects for the Nigerian economy significantly. The Nigerian Government,



- 3 -
during most of 1981, was reluctant to come to grips with the situation and
continued to count, along with most observers of the oil markets, on a quick
recovery of the oil situation. As the oil market deteriorated further,
imports continued to rise because of a massive speculation against the
Naira. Consequently, the current account balance showed a deficit of about
US$5.5 billion which had to be financed by drawing down foreign exchange
reserves and external borrowing. By the end of 1981, foreign exchange
reserves had declined to US$3.9 billion, almost one-third of the level at the
end of 1980, and equivalent to only two months' of imports. Like the balance
of payments, public finances were also strained since oil revenues account for
more than 80 percent of revenues of the Federal and State Governments. The
Federal Government kept its expenditure level largely intact by deficit
financing to the tune of about US$6 billion.  The State Governments, on the
other hand, which had increased their spending rapidly following a change in
the revenue allocation formula in 1981, found it more difficult to cope with
the sudden shortfall in revenues since they had limited access to domestic
credit. As a result, some state governments resorted to borrowing abroad on a
substantial scale. By the end of 1981, outstanding external debt (including
undisbursed) of the state governments was about US$4.5 billion - slightly more
than one third of the country's total external debt.  Despite the increase in
imports and the attempt to maintain the level of government expenditures,
growth in the non-oil sectors declined considerably. Along with the
substantial retrenchment in the oil sector, real GDP declined by 5.2 percent
in 1981.
8.       In 1982, the oil markets continued to be slack and Nigeria's oil
output declined further to an annual average level of 1.34 mbd. In the face
of rapidly rising imports in the first few months of 1982 and mounting foreign
exchange shortages, the Government, in April 1982, took a series of measures,
including: (i) increase in import duties; (ii) import restrictions through
introduction of an advance deposit scheme; (iii) tightening customs
administration; (iv) about 40 percent cutback in capital expenditures
including a stop of all new projects; (v) 33 percent increase in gasoline
prices; (vi) 2 percent increase in interest rates; (vii) a N200 million
ceiling on each state government's external debt; and (viii) restrictions on
capital transfers abroad. These measures were primarily intended to arrest
the further deterioration in the domestic and external financial situation,
although elements such as increases in interest rates and the price of
gasoline reflect the Government's intention to redress widespread price
*       distortions in the economy.  In addition to these measures, the Government has
pursued a more realistic exchange rate policy during the last 18 months. The
Naira was allowed to depreciate 29 percent against the dollar and 6 percent
against the SDR.
9.       The various actions were not entirely successful in reversing the
trend in imports, in part on account of the high level of import approvals
during the first quarter of 1982 (prior to the April measures). The current
account deficit is therefore expected to have reached US$7 billion in 1982.
Because of a further drawdown of foreign exchange reserves of nearly US$3
billion, reserves are estimated to have dripped to about $1 billion at the end
of 1982. In addition, arrears in payments of short-term trade credits in the
order of US$3-4 billion have developed since late 1981. Although payments on
longer-term borrowing have remained current, this has had an adverse effect on
the availability and cost of external borrowing in general. While the



-4-
Government has taken measures such as establishing priority categories to
ensure systematic payment of these arrears, it has been a cause of concern
among Nigeria's trading partners.
10.      The Federal Government found it difficult to cope with the
deteriorating financial situation, even though the 1982 budget was amended
after the stabilization measures were announced in April 1982. Budgetary cuts
were imposed on capital expenditures, inevitably at a substantial cost to
ongoing development programs. The financial crisis was particularly acute at
the state level, and some of the state governments were even unable to pay
civil service salaries and resorted to the Federal Government for loans.
Consequently, most of their projects were grossly underfunded and some even
had to be stopped. The stabilization measures introduced in April 1982 were
contractionary in themselves and, taken together with an 8 percent decline in
oil sector output, may well have resulted in a 2-3 percent dLecline in real GDP
in 1982.
11.      In its 1983 Budget proposal, the Federal Government adopted a
conservative revenue outlook, based on an oil production level of one million
barrels a day and substantial cutbacks in planned investment expenditures.
Some projects with large foreign exchange requirements such as the standard-
gauge railroad project were deferred indefinitely. In January 1983, the
Government introduced further import restrictions in the form of licence
requirements and higher tariffs to reduce the level of imports from currently
US$1.3 billion to less than US$900 million a month.
Adjustment Policy Issues
13.      At present, the Nigerian economy faces two critical issues: first,
management of the short-run financial crisis and stabilization of the economy,
and secondly, longer-term structural adjustment of the economy by stimulating
productive sectors, lessening dependence on oil, and generating a wider
resource base. The additional measures that the Government has taken in
January 1983 have helped to arrest a further deterioration of the external
financial situation. There is, however, a need to eliminate the payment
arrears in the balance of payments which may require substantial external
borrowing in the near future. While a rebound in oil revenues would help
Nigeria greatly to steer out of the current crisis, it will not resolve the
structural issues facing the economy. More vigorous and consistent policies
beyond the measures taken to restore financial stability will be needed to
bring about structural change. The chief requirements comprise: (i) further
incentives for efficient export promotion and import substitution, including
appropriate exchange rate, and tariff, and credit policies; (ii) complementary
steps to strengthen the balance of payments through judicious management of
foreign borrowing and external reserves; (iii) continued control of aggregate
demand through prudence in monetary, fiscal and wage policies and public
expenditure policies; (iv) restructurinag the composition of public investment
to increase its efficiency; and (v) taking steps such as raising interest
rates and improving tax collection, to increase private and public savings and
investment. The Government is currently discussing all of these requirements
with both the IMF and the Bank.



- 5-
Prospects and Financing of Development
14.      Although Nigeria's exportable crude oil surpluses are expected to be
significantly reduced well before the turn of the century, the bulk of the
foreign exchange resources available to Nigeria will continue to come from the
hydrocarbons sectors during the next twenty years. This will include
liquified natural gas (LNG) for which a major production facility is estimated
to come on stream near the end of the decade, some petrochemical exports, as
well as oil exports as such. To maintain a momentum of growth, major
structural changes are needed for adapting the economy to the diminishing
volume of oil exports.  In the short-run, the volume of Nigeria's oil exports
is likely to be determined by the uncertain conditions of the world oil
markets rather than by the deliberate extraction policies of the Government.
It is projected that oil production would rise to 1.8 mbd in 1985, and
eventually to 2.15 mbd in 1990, from its level of 1.34 mbd in 1982. With
rapidly increasing domestic consumption, the exportable surplus would account
for less than 80 percent of total output by 1990.
15.      Terms of trade are expected to deteriorate somewhat in the short run,
and then to improve beyond 1985. However, gains from terms of trade will not
substantially alter the longer-run resource picture or the need for structural
adjustment.
16.      External borrowing requirements will be substantial in view of
stagnant oil export revenues, the need to clear payments arrears, and
requirements of major projects like LNG. Nigeria benefits from starting from
a light debt burden in relation to its export base; the debt service ratio in
1982 is only 8 percent. Thus, there is room for substantial borrowing without
letting the projected debt service ratio rise above the 15 percent range.
There appears little risk at this time that this ratio would rise to imprudent
levels above 20 percent although, as noted, Nigeria must clear its current
short-term arrears to restore the confidence of lenders. Thus, for Nigeria
the danger is much more slow growth--particularly if steps toward structural
adjustment are not taken--than a debt crisis.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN NIGERIA
17.      Bank and IDA lending to Nigeria as of March 31, 1983 amounted to
US$2,010.6 million (net of cancellations).  The amount of these loans and
credits disbursed as of March 31, 1983 was US$963.2 million, leaving an
undisbursed balance of US$1,047.4 million. Agriculture accounts for about 44
*       percent of total commitments; transport, power, and water supply together for
about 43 percent; and education, industry, urban, and the post-war
rehabilitation loan for the remaining 13 percent of total commitments. There
have been only two IDA credits to Nigeria, for US$35.3 million; both are fully
disbursed. IFC has made five loans to borrowers totalling US$17.3 milion, and
six equity investments totalling US$5.0 million. Of these amounts, US$5.6
million have been repaid, cancelled, or sold. Annex II contains a summary
statement of Bank loans, IDA credits, and IFC investments, as well as notes on
the execution of ongoing projects.
18.      Although annual disbursements have increased from US$52 million in
FY1978 to nearly US$113 million in FY1982, Nigeria's disbursement performance



-6-
has lagged behind that of other countries in the Region.  In fact, in the last
three years, undisbursed balances have progressively increased and now stand
at 52 percent of the US$2.0 billion in loans and credits approved. One of the
reasons for this development is the rapid expansion of the Bank's loan
portfolio since 1979 as well as the fact that a number of large loans were
extended during this period, mainly for agricultural projects. In many cases,
however, long delays in loan effectiveness, administrative constraints and
bottlenecks, management problems, as well as a general and more recent
phenomenon, namely inadequate counterpart funding of projects by Federal and
State Governments resulting from lower oil revenues, have been the principal
cause for slow disbursements. The disbursement record in agriculture has been
mixed.  Disbursements have been generally faster in the case of integrated
agricultural development projects, but substantial shortfalls compared to
appraisal projectons have been registered in the tree crop, forestry, and
livestock subsectors. Similarly, education and power projects have been
particularly slow in disbursing. The Federal Government, with the assistance
of the Bank's Resident Mission, is now carefully monitoring loan disbursements
with a view to early identification of problems and the taking of corrective
action.  Also, the Bank has recently agreed to a series of measures aimed at
accelerating disbursements under both ongoing and new projects, including
reallocating proceeds, revising disbursement percentages, and financing some
local costs. These efforts are beginning to show results.
19.      The main thrust of the Bank's activities in Nigeria in recent years
has been to support agriculture and rural development, with particular
emphasis on institution-building and transfer of technology. These objectives
are in consonance with the Federal Government's priorities under the Fourth
Plan, which places considerable emphasis on agriculture, and its policy to use
the proceeds of Nigeria's oil revenues to increase the productive capacity of
the economy, and thereby raise the standards of living of its population,
particularly the rural poor. In view of the interest which Nigeria has
expressed in greater Bank involvement, an expanded Bank lending program has
been initiated. In developing a broader approach to lending in Nigeria, a
central objective is to encourage the shift (already discernible in the
Federal Government's investment programming) away from the massive and
diffused infrastructure investment, which characterized the two or three years
following the oil boom of 1973/74, towardls a more discriminating support for
growth in the commodity producing sectors. A second objective of Bank lending
is to raise the productivity of the lowest income groups and thereby diminish
the incidence of absolute poverty in Nigeria. This objective has been
actively pursued in recent agricultural projects, which benefit some of the
very lowest income groups. Agricultural lending would continue to figure
prominently in the future lending program.  A third objective of Bank lending
is to support the Federal Government's efforts to diversify the economy, and
reduce the excessive dependence upon petroleum as a source of foreign exchange
and fiscal revenue.
20.      In accordance with these objectives, projects in agriculture and
industry together should account for a large share of Bank lending in the
coming two or three years. Effective support for the commodity producing
sectors will also require strategic investment in production-related
infrastructure, however. There would appear to be good opportunities for the
Bank to make a significant contribution in energy, water supply, and highway
maintenance. Similarly, there is a strong case for continued lending for



- 7 -
education. In this context, it is proposed that vocational, technical, and
teacher training be given special emphasis. Finally, the Bank would support
the Federal and state governments' efforts to spread the benefits of growth to
the social sectors. It is envisaged that some of the pressing problems of
rapid urbanization will continue to be addressed through a number of urban
development projects, along the lines of the ongoing project in Bauchi State,
focussed on the needs of the urban poor. The Bank is also considering a
request from the Federal Government to assist in overcoming the country's
health problems.
21.      However, particularly because of the recent deterioration in
Nigeria's revenue prospects, a Bank lending program along the above lines will
not be fully effective without some changes in the country's macro-economic
and sectoral policy framework. The Bank is therefore considering assistance
of a fast disbursing nature aimed at supporting specific macro-economic and
sectoral policy initiatives; this would include a fertilizer import loan
expected to improve Nigeria's fertilizer procurement and marketing system. On
the institutional side, a loan is being prepared to finance technical
assistance to the Federal Ministries of Finance and National Planning.
PART III - THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
22.      Despite a rapid growth of about 11 percent per annum in both value
added and employment during the 1970s, the manufacturing sector still
represents only about 7 percent of Nigeria's GDP and 10 percent of total
employment. Manufactured exports have fallen to an insignificant level, while
imported goods have taken an increasing share of booming domestic markets in
such important products as cement and vegetable oils. The performance of the
industrial sector has been constrained by deficiencies in the Government's
policy framework, technical and managerial problems, shortages of domestic raw
materials, inadequate infrastructure, competition from smuggled imports, and
the greater attractiveness of investment opportunities in non-commodity
producing sectors such as services and commerce, as well as the world wide
economic recession.
23.      According to the limited data available, gross investment in
manufacturing (in 1975 prices) rose dramatically from about NO.5 billion over
the period 1971-74 to N3.6 billion over 1975-78, of which private investment
accounted for about NO.4 billion and to N2.0 billion, respectively. Since
then, however, new private investment does not seem to have grown as fast, and
may have stagnated, due in part to the diversion of funds into acquisition of
existing assets under the Government's indigenization program, as well as on
account of a general decline in the investment climate. During this period,
public sector investment has by far outpaced the private sector.
24.      Manufacturing is dominated by the traditional sector in terms of
employment and by the modern sector in terms of output. There is little
reliable data available on the informal manufacturing sector; it still ranks
first in terms of employment, but its contribution to total output and value-
added is less important. In the modern manufacturing sector, consumer goods
(particularly food, beverages, and textiles) represent two-thirds or more of
value-added, employment, and gross private investment, with chemicals, metal
working, and building materials being the largest intermediate goods
industries. Substantial investments in machinery and transportation equipment



(mainly vehicle assembly) have permitted the capital goods subsector to
increase its share of industrial value-added from about 1 percent to 8.5
percent during the 1970s. The large public sector investments in
petrochemicals, iron, and steel have yet to make an impact on production and
value-added statistics.
25.      Manufacturing activity is concentrated in the Lagos area (56 percent
of investment, 43 percent of employment and 63 percent of value-added in
1976), and to a lesser extent in the Kano-Kaduna region (7 percent of
investment, 21 percent of employment, and 17 percent of value-added). Mainly
as a result of the Government's indigeniLzation policies (Decrees of 1972 and
1977), the major share of paid-in share capital in private sector
manufacturing is now held by Nigerians.
Government Policy
26.      Although the general business environment in Nigeria has always been
strongly private sector oriented, Government has greatly influenced industrial
development, both directly and indirectly. Directly, as in many other oil
economies, Government has undertaken most of the country's investment in large
industries of national importance for which local private capital was not
available or where private ownership was considered undesirable. Indirectly,
private sector investment decisions have been affected by a host of government
decrees and regulations aimed at promoting and regulating industrial
development. This, however, was achieved to a larger extent through increased
recourse to tariff and quantitative protection measures, resulting in large
distortions in the domestic price structure and in the pattern of industrial
investment.  Mainly as a result of government policy, modern industrial
development has been biased towards large government and foreign-owned
industries, many of wich depend on imported inputs, and rely upon excessive
protection and budgetary support. Efficiency is generally low.
27.      The Government's industrial policy and strategy, as reflected in its
Fourth National Development Plan (1981-85), reconfirm the Government's
commitment to industrial development as one of the main pillars of Nigeria's
long-term development. The Government's aim is to develop industries using
local raw materials (especially agro-related), strengthen intrasectoral
linkages, emphasize manpower and technological development, disperse
investment regionally, promote export-oriented industries, and stimulate
small-scale industries. Priority is being given to food processing, textiles,
buildirg materials, engineering, chemicals, electrical equipment, and
household durables. Labor intensive industries are also being encouraged. A
more vital -ole is to be assigned to the private sector, with the role of
Government focussed on infrastructure investment, establishment of an
appropriate legal and regulatory climate, and investment in heavy projects
such as steel, fertilizer, LNG, petrochemicals, and cement. On the whole,
these plans point in the right direction but realization of the plan
objectives will require a major and time-consuming effort on the part of the
Government, particularly in identifying and implementing the necessary policy
changes and establishing the appropriate administrative mechanisms.  The
Government has asked the Bank to assist in this regard (para. 35).



9-
Industrial Financing
28.      Nigeria has a relatively well-developed financial system.  In
addition to a number of merchant banks, state and federal development banks,
savings banks, mortgage banks, and other financial institutions, there is an
extensive commercial banking network that is increasingly spreading throughout
the country. Commercial banks have furnished about two-thirds of term lending
for manufacturing. Ilowever, if Nigeria's tight foreign exchange and credit
availability continue, the share of industrial financing by commercial banks
is likely to decline.
29.      The Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) sustained the establishment of such
development banks as the Nigerian Industrial Development Bank (NIDB), Nigerian
Bank for Commerce and Industry (NBCI), and Nigerian Agriculture and
Cooperative Bank. NIDB concentrates on medium to larger enterprises, with
NBCI assisting the smaller industrial projects. CBN has required commercial
banks to establish additional branches in rural areas, and has set sectoral
guidelines for commercial and merchant bank lending. For 1981, these banks
were required to allocate at least 36 percent and 41 percent, respectively, of
their total loans and advances to the manufacturing sector. Moreover, 40
percent of total loans and advances were expected to have maturities of not
less than three years, and banks were required to maintain a minimum credit
allocation of 70 percent to indigenous borrowers of which 16 percent was to be
allocated to small-scale enterprises.
30.      CBN also sets interest rate guidelines, subject to periodic
revision. Current guidelines provide for interest rates to industry of 9.5 to
13 percent, with a maximum lending rate to preferred sectors (mainly agro-
industry) of 11.5 percent. Lending rate guidelines for NBCI and NIDB now set
a maximum rate of 13 percent, and NIDB is charging this rate on all of its
loans (para. 56). These rates compare to a rate of inflation averaging about
15 percent in recent years, which is projected to stay at this level for the
near to medium term.
Constraints and Prospects
31.      Industrial development must figure prominently in any strategy which
aims at diversifying the Nigerian economy and at reducing its overwhelming
dependence upon petroleum exports and imported goods.  In addition to domestic
resource utilization, including cheap resources of energy and gas, the main
emphasis will need to be placed on export development and selective import
*     substitution, particularly on intermediate and capital goods.  However, the
Government will have to develop a better policy framework for such an
industrial development strategy, which would have to address the major
constraints and policy issues facing Nigerian industry today, including: (a)
inadequate and inappropriate industrial incentives policies (particularly
exchange rate and trade protection): (b) the need to promote increased private
investment in manufacturing; (c) inefficiencies of public enterprises and the
need to consolidate and rationalize the role of direct public ivestment in
industry; (d) the need for effective public investment to overcome major
supply-side constraints in technical and skilled manpower and infrastructure;
and (e) improved domestic resource inobilization and financial intermediation
for private industrial investment.



- 10 -
32.      Most of the issues facing the Nigerian economy are structural, and
will not be resolved only by a rebound in oil revenues. There is a need for
structural policy adjustments aimed, inter alia, at the redirection of
investment to bring about less dependencze on oil or on imported goods,
broadening the resource base, and expanding exports.  Subject to the adoption
and implementation of appropriate policy measures, which are the subject of
ongoing discussions between the Government and the Bank (para. 35), the
Nigerian economy is expected to grow at an annual rate of more tlan 5 percent
over the period 1982-87. Manufacturing sector output is expec:ted to grow at
about 13 percent per annum in 1982-87; its share of GDP would increase from
about 7 percent in 1981 to about 12 percent in 1987. Manufacturing investment
is projected at N9 billion or 27 percent of total investment during 1982-85.
Manufacturing exports, however, are unlikely- to expand significantly until the
1990s.
Bank Role
33.      The Bank Group has been involved in Nigeria's industrial development
since 1964. At that time, IFC was instrumental in the recapitalization of
NIDB. IFC has since participated in six investments in Nigeria. The Bank has
approved three lines of credit to NIDB of US$5.7 million (Loan 588-UNI),
US$6.2 million (Loan 705-UNI), and US$60 million (Loan 1597-UNI) in 1969,
1970, and 1978, respectively. The latter line of credit is now fully
committed and 45 percent disbursed. A Project Performance Audit on the first
two lines of credit, dated October 10, 1977, concluded that the projects had
been implemented satisfactorily, but that the Bank's impact on the sector as a
whole could have been more extensive.
34.      The proposed project would be an essential and integral part of the
Bank's efforts to stimulate a well-balanced and integrated development of
Nigeria's industrial sector. This approach entails a combination of intensive
sector work, policy dialogue with the Government, as well as Bank assistance
for industrial projects in crucial subsectors. In addition to the proposed
project, the Bank has been requested to provide a line of credit to NBCI for
the development of small and medium-scale enterprises (SME), and has been
approached for possible assistance to the fertilizer and cement subsectors. A
loan for the SME project was negotiated in December 1981, but was delayed
because of slow action by NBCI and the federal authorities in addressing
various outstanding issues; corrective action is now being taken, and the
project is expected to be submitted to the Executive Directors for approval in
the near future. In addition, an industrial manpower and training mission has
visited Nigeria, and a careful review and discussion of its findings by the
Government and the Bank is expected to result in Bank assistance for a project
aimed specifically at overcoming the serious shortage of qualified manpower in
the industrial sector. Project assistance would, of course, take into account
progress made by the Government in facilitating industrial development, and
the Government is increasingly relying on the Bank to assist in identifying
necessary policy changes.
35.      The Bank is currently undertaking a major program of economic and
sector work with the objectives of, first, deepening the Bank's knowledge of
the fundamental macro-economic and industrial sector issues mentioned in the
preceding paragraphs and, second, providing a basis for an intensified sector



- II -
policy dialogue with the Government aimed at achieving the necessary policy
reforms. A study on industrial incentives has been completed and submitted to
Government. It proposes a medium-term program of measures, for restructuring
the incentives system and its administration. Preliminary discussions of this
Report were held with a Government delegation at the Bank in October of last
year. A preliminary study on Financial Intermediation has also been
completed, with follow-up work to be undertaken, among other things, to
identify or develop further mechanisms for financial inte-mediation, and to
help establish mechanisms for the Government to productively invest its oil
revenues. Our sector work program also includes studies of several key
subsectors, such as construction materials, agro-industries, basic metals and
engineering, petro-chemical industries, and industrial infrastructure. These
subsector studies address major policy issues in their respective areas, and
aim at identifying promising investment opportunities for Nigeria and
cdeveloping suitabie projects for Bank Group financing. The currently proposed
project would reinforce the ongoing and future sector policy dialogue between
the Government and the Bank, Furthermore, project implementation by NIDB
would support the main objectives of the Government's industrial strategy as
well as some elements of the Bank's sector work program described above.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
36.      The proposed project would follow up on the Third NIDB project
approved by the Executive Directors in June 1978. Apart from some delays in
commitments and disbursements, NIDB's performance in utilizing the third line
of credit of US$60 million has been satisfactory.   The entire loan was
committed to 25 subprojects by July 1982, and about US$27 million had been
disbursed as of the end of April 1983. The subprojects cover a reasonably
broad spectrum of industrial activities (food and beverages, building
materials, chemicals, textiles, hotels, metal, and paper products), and show
satisfactory economic and financial rates of return.
37.      The proposed project was appraised by the Bank in September 1982, and
the Staff Appraisal Report (4273-UNI) is being circulated separately to the
Executive Directors. Negotiations were held with NIDB and federal authorities
at the Bank in early March of 1983; the Nigerian delegation was headed by
Messrs. Oleghe, Director of the Federal Ministry of Finance, and Abdulkadir,
Managing Director of NIDB. Supplementary data on the project is to be found
in Annex III.
Project Objectives
38.      The main objectives of the fourth line of credit are:  (i) to
el       continue the Bank's institutional support of NIDB, in particular through
assistance in the formulation and implementation by NIDB of a comprehensive
Action Program and a Development Strategy; (ii) to support NIDB's efforts at
mobilizing additional resources from the domestic and foreign capital markets;
and (iii) to contribute to the diversification of Nigeria's economy by
channeling resources to priority industrial projects in the country.
39.      The proposed project would assist NIDB in financing economically,
financially, and technically sound investments. Based on NIDB's present
pipeline of projects, and its intention to focus on the development of
priority subsectors, a large part of the subloans to be financed are expected



- 12 -
to be in the areas of intermediate goods, agro-industries, and construction
materials. Most would be for import sulbstitution, and a substantial number
would involve the processing of local raw materials. No less than 80 percent
of the loan would go to projects in the private sector. The project would
also provide NIDB with some consultancy services for further strengthening of
its institutional capabilities. This would include technical assistance in
such areas as organization studies, management information systems, training
programs, subsector studies, and technical and agro-industrial project work.
The Nigerian Industrial Development Bank
40.      The project would be implemented by NIDB which, with the assistance
of the Bank Group (paras. 33 and 36), has grown into Nigeria's most important
development finance institution, and now accounts for about 15 percent of
total industrial term lending in the country. It is the only institution
specializing in the provision of term finance to medium and large scale
industrial projects on a nationwide scale. NIDB was established in 1964 with
assistance from IFC, and was initially owned mainly by private interests; it
became almost wholly government-owned with the indigenization policies of the
mid-1970s. Its present N100 million share capital is held by the Federal
Government (59 percent), the Central Bark (40 percent), and private
shareholders (1 percent). Over the years, the Government (including the
Central Bank) has provided more than two-thirds of NIDB's borrowed resources,
and has appointed all of its eleven members cf the Board. Although, in its
early years, NIDB's clients were mainly private enterprises, it became heavily
involved in financing public sector projaects in the mid-1970s. Under its
current Chief Executive, appointed in 1980, NIDB has been moving towards
greater operational autonomy vis-a-vis tlhe Government, and is directing an
increasing proportion of its financing to the private sector. In consultation
with the Bank, NIDB has formulated an Action Program containing specific
remedial measures for increasing its institutional effectiveness (para. 50),
as well as a Development Strategy for 1983-85 (paras. 51 and 52).
Organization, Management, and Staff
41.      NIDB's organization comprises a head office in Lagos and five area
offices in Aba, Akure, Bauchi, Kaduna, and Lagos. It has about 540 employees,
with about 140 professional and 400 support staff. Its present Managing
Director and Chief Executive Officer is EL capable and experienced banker; he
provides NIDB with strong leadership, and is committed to increasing its
institutional capabilities and to enhancing its economic impact. The
Government recently revised its regulations governing NIDB's remuneration
guidelines to make it competitive with commercial banks as regards salary and
benefit levels, which should help it attract and keep qualified staff. NIDB
provides in-house training for new staff in appraisal and supervision
procedures. Its Action Program calls for a review of its recruitment and
training programs to adapt them more to NIDB's institutional requirements.
42.      In parallel with the development of its activities, NIDB's
organizational structure has become much more complex in recent years. NIDB
has created the nucleus of a Financial Institutions Department to assist and
liaise with regional and state-level development finance institutions, and
help develop its apex banking role. Although it has done little sector
research and project promotion on its own, it is now expanding these important



- 13 -
activities. As a result, there has been an increasing need for coordination
among departments and area offices, delegation of authority, and management-
by-exception type of controls. The situation will require an early review of
its organizational structure, particularly regarding the control and
delegation of authority at senior management levels, which will be addressed
under its Action Program.
Policies and Procedures
43.      NIDB's operating policies are generally satisfactory.  One policy
area needing revision, as reflected in NIDB's Action Program, relates to
equity investments. NIDB has so far not systematically used its equity
participation as a tool for promoting priority sectors or the securities
market, nor has it given sufficient emphasis to the potential profitability of
companies in which it invests. It rarely sells the shares it holds, thus
missing the opportunity to stimulate the capital market, to broaden share
ownership in the country, and to revolve its own funds available for equities.
44.      The quality of NIDB's subproject appraisal and supervision is
generally good, although there is room for further improvements. NIDB does
occasionally influence the design of projects (location, product lines, scale)
submitted to it for financing, particularly for smaller private sector
projects. However, its appraisals have not enabled the institution to avoid a
large number of problem projects. In large part, this was due to its
involvement in government-promoted projects, although at times, even for
private sector projects, appraisal assumptions have tended to be on the
optimistic side. Division of appraisal responsibility between various
departments, insufficient use of feedback from supervision activities, and
inadequate technical cost appraisals are contributing factors. Although NIDB
has developed a full range of supervision activities, standards have not been
consistently maintained. A recent change in responsibility may help give more
focus to this work. Additional improvements are expected to be achieved with
the introduction of better management information systems, reviews by
subsector, and the assignment of additional staff to supervision work. The
Action Program envisages measures both for upgrading NIDB's appraisal
standards and tightening up its supervision work.
Operations and Performance
45.      NIDB's financing operations have expanded considerably in recent
9       years.  Loan and equity investment approvals amounted to N93 million in 1981,
compared to an average of only N47 million annually during the period 1978-
80. Since its inception, NIDB has approved loans and equity investments
e       aggregating nearly N500 million for about 270 projects.  The average size of
NIDB's loans was N1.3 million during the last three years. In recent years, a
large proportion of NIDB's financing has gone to the hotel and beverage
subsectors (30 percent and 23 percent, respectively, of 1981 approvals).
Except for building materials, consumer products still dominate its
portfolio. NIDB has substantially improved the geographic dispersion of its
financing with only 17 percent of approvals in Lagos State in the period 1979-
80. The proportion of loan approvals for public sector enterprises also
declined from 64 percent on average during the period 1974-78 to 30 percent in
1981 and zero in the first six months of 1982.



- 14 -
46.      A total of about 12,000 jobs were directly related to projects
financed by NIDB between 1979 and 1981. The average cost per job created was
about US$ 85,000. The high capital-labor ratios can be explained by the
nature of NIDB's normal investments (which have been concentrated on larger
industries including public sector investments) and the need for most
entrepreneurs to invest heavily in infrastructure such as access roads and
power and water supply facilities (on average 30 percent of total investment
in recent years). Moreover, there has been a tendency on the part of
entrepreneurs to adopt sometimes overly sophisticated technology. In part,
this was attributable to the fact that Nigeria was a capital-surplus country
for some years,  which influenced economic priorities.  As capital is now
scarce, however, NIDB has agreed to include a capital intensity analysis in
its subproject appraisal reports (Section 2.-03(e) of the Loan Agreement).
47.      As of June 30, 1982, NIDB's outstanding loan and equity portfolio
stood at N270 million in 190 companies. As of that date, arrears in principal
and interest amounted to 17 percent of NIDB's outstanding loans, affecting 41
percent of NIDB's loan portfolio. However, more than half of the amounts and
number of loans affected by arrears were for wholly or partly government-owned
projects, often poorly located and of excessive scale, which NIDB financed
largely at the urging of previous governments. To insulate NIDB from the
financial impact of these projects, NIDB and Government have now set up a
Managed Fund to whicf they have transferred from NIDB's portfolio 13
government-promoted projects in which NIDB's exposure aggregated N85 million,
with an offsetting reduction in NIDB's outstanding liabilities to
Government. NIDB continues to be responsible for supervising these projects
and making collections on behalf of the Government, with all future gains or
losses for the account of the Fund. The transfer of these projects to a
Managed Fund has resulted in a substantial improvement in NIDB's arrears
situation, with arrears of principal and interest reduced by 3 percent to 14
percent of outstanding loans, and the portfolio affected by arrears reduced by
11 percent to 30 percent. Aside from government-promoted projects and general
economic conditions, the main reasons for the relatively high, though not
alarming, level of portfolio arrears are: (a) problems related to technical
appraisals by NIDB (especially in project cost estimates), (b) market and
management problems encountered by subprojects, (c) insufficient working
capital, (d) unrealistically tight repayment schedules set by NIDB, and (e)
ineffective collection efforts, particularly where clients are able but
unwilling to repay loans contracted at interest rates substantially below
current market rates. NIDB is addressing these problems under its Action
Program, which includes provisions for a joint annual review of NIDB's
portfolio by the Bank and NIDB.
48.      NIDB's overall financial position is sound.  Because of low-cost
government loans and equity, as well as a conservative capital structure (term
debt was only 1.8 times net worth at the end of 1981), NIDB's cost of funds
has on average been below 3 percent through 1981. Therefore, despite low
returns on its equity investments (4 percent in 1981), and rising
administrative expenses (from 1.5 percent of average total assets in 1979 to
2.3 percent in 1981), NIDB has remained moderately profitable. Net profits of
about 3.8 percent of net worth are satisfactory for a government-owned
development institution. However,. provisions for possible losses appear low
at 3.2 percent of outstanding loans and 5.6 percent of equity investments,



- 15 -
even after taking into account the mitigating effect of the Managed Fund.
Consequently, NIDB's auditors will make specific recommendations on additional
portfolio provisions to be established.
49.      NIDB's management and accounting information systems also need
strengthening, as do its accounting procedures, controls, and supervision.
Apart from annual administrative budgets, there is little forward planning of
resources or forecasting. Rapid organizational growth, insufficient
accounting staff, and the absence of mechanical or electronic data processing
are largely responsible, and are already being addressed under NIDB's Action
Program.
Remedial Action Program and Development Strategy
50.      Despite the need for further improvements, NIDB remains an effective
intermediary for furthering the development of Nigeria's industrial sector.
It is by far the most important development finance institution in Nigeria,
and has performed satisfactorily under the first three lines of credit. Its
management is aware of the problem areas, and is actively addressing them. In
consultation with the Bank, NIDB's management has initiated a number of
specific measures, detailed in an Action Program agreed with the Bank, aimed
at:
(a) Strengthening its organizational structure, recruitment, and training
programs. NIDB will seek the assistance of outside consultants in
reviewing such aspects as internal control, delegation of authority,
and appropriate grouping of functions; based upon the findings of
this review and consideration of the various elements of its
Development Strategy, NIDB will formulate an appropriate recruitment
and training program covering the next 3-5 years;
(b) Improving its management information systems and internal
coordination. NIDB will engage the services of outside consultants
to review information and reporting needs, including the benefits and
costs of using mechanical or electronic data processing equipment;
(c) Improving its loan recovery effectiveness and reducing its arrears.
In addition to establishing a Managed Fund for 13 government-promoted
projects (para. 47), NIDB will implement a comprehensive arrears
*                reduction program for the other projects in its portfolio, including
intensified collection efforts (e.g. establishment of a separate loan
recovery unit, increase in penalty interest rate, and more frequent
*                billings); and
(d) Reviewing its equity investment operations to determine their
economic impact and profitability, and to outline objectives and
future strategy in this area.
The implementation of these measures, along with others contained in the
Action Program, is expected to result in gradual but considerable improvements
in NIDB's operational capabilities and financial condition.
51.      In addition to the short-term remedial measures contained in the
Action Program, NIDB's management is giving considerable attention to the long



- 16 -
term future and economic impact of the organization. In consultation with the
Bank, it has formulated a Development Strategy, which was recently approved by
its Board of Directors, designed for implementation over the coming three
years. The general thrust of this strategy is to increase NIDB's contribution
to the Nigerian economy by broadening its activities, diversifying its
operations and directing them towards priority subsectors, and broadening its
resource base.
52.      To increase NIDB's contribution to the financial sector, its
Development Strategy calls for a greater financial intermediation role in
Nigeria by further developing its apex lending activities vis-a-vis regional
and state-level development finance institutions, by increasing its efforts at
loan syndication and cofinancing of its projects, and by exploring the
possible establishment of a second merchant bank and a leasing subsidiary to
provide mainly industrial and construction equipment to smaller
entrepreneurs. As regards resource mobilization, NIDB is committed to
diversifying its resource base and to reducing its dependence on government
and official funds; it envisages making its first domestic bond issue as well
as an initial Eurocurrency private placement during 1983. In allocating
resources, NIDB intends to direct a greater share of its financing to private
sector projects--limiting its lending to public enterprises to 25 percent of
its overall financing--and to priority industrial subsectors such as
intermediate goods, agro-industries, and the construction industry. To this
end, it plans to strengthen its sector research and project promotion
activities in these areas. The Bank has already assisted in this regard by
undertaking preliminary investigations of the engineering, construction
materials, and agro-industry sectors. NIDB's increased autonomy vis-a-vis the
Government would enable it to apply the same strict appraisal sitandards to
public sector projects presented to it for financing as it does to private
sector projects. NIDB would also address the issue of the high capital
intensity of its projects by incorporating a proper analysis in its project
appraisals. Finally, to further its deveLopment objectives, NIDB plans to
strengthen its ability to provide technical assistance to the industrial
sector; in part, this is to be achieved through the establishment of a
subsidiary consulting company, with foreign or local partners, which would
undertake engineering, management, financial, and economic consulting services
to its clients, regional and state development finance institutions, and
industry at large.
Prospects and Resource Requirements
53.      The implementation of NIDB's Action Program and Development Strategy
should considerably strengthen its institutional capabilities and development
impact, and the continuing support of the Bank during this period would be
essential to its success.
54.      While total demand for industrial investment is likely to be
depressed until Nigeria's economy recovers and its foreign exchange position
improves, the share taken by NIDB is expected to grow if it can mobilize the
necessary resources. In September 1982, NIDB had 89 projects in its active
pipeline requiring N161 million for private and X35 million for public sector
projects. Its financing approvals are conservatively forecast to amount to
N67 million in 1982, and subsequently to grow at an annual rate of 7-8
percent. Annual commitments are projected to grow from N57 million to N80



- 17 -
million, and disbursements from N40 million to N71 million over the 1982-86
period. Because of the tight foreign exchange availability, the proportion of
NIDB financing required in foreign exchange is expected to increase from the
recent 30-40 percent level to 60 percent in future.
55.       On the basis of the above projections, NIDB would require about N200
million in resources to cover new subloan approvals through the end of 1985.
Of the local cost of about N80 million, N55 million would come from the
Government in the form of loans and equity, N15 million through a first local
bond issue in 1983, and the balance from internally generated funds. To cover
the foreign exchange requirements of about N120 million, or US$185 million
equivalent, NIDB has obtained an ECU 40 million (US$45 million) loan from EIB,
and expects to raise, in addition to the US$120 million loan from the Bank,
the equivalent of US$15-25 million from a private Eurocurrency placement. If
the latter is agreed upon, the managing commercial bank is expected to require
a formal co-financing arrangement with the Bank (Sections 5.01(a) and (f) of
the Loan Agreement).
Terms and Conditions of Proposed Bank Loan
56.       The proposed Bank loan would be subject to the following terms and
conditions:
(a) investment projects in the usual areas of NIDB's operations would be
eligible for financing but preference would be given to subloans in
priority subsectors such as intermediate goods, agro-industries, and
the construction industry. To support NIDB's policy of emphasizing
lending to the private sector, and consistent with NIDB's intention
to limit its lending to public enterprises to 25 percent of its total
financing, the financing of public sector subprojects under the Bank
loan would be limited to 20 percent (Section 2.02(a) of the Loan
Agreement);
(b) there would be an individual subloan free limit of US$1 million and
an aggregate free limit of US$40 million. It is expected that 45
percent of the number and up to 25 percent of the amount of
subprojects would fall under these limits. To ensure that loan
proceeds go to a reasonably large number of subprojects, the size of
individual subloans would be limited to US$8.5 million (Sections
2.02(a) and (b) of the Loan Agreement);
(c) NIDB's onlending rate to clients would be not less than 13 percent
per annum, the current maximum rate allowed by CBN, which, combined
with a one-time appraisal and development fee of 1.25 percent, which
NIDB intends to introduce shortly, would allow for a satisfactory
spread on NIDB's average total borrowings and resources. This rate
would be reviewed annually by NIDB, the Government, and the Bank
taking into account the Central Bank's guidelines on interest rates,
NIDB's average cost of resources, and NIDB's overall competitive-
ness. Subborrowers would carry the foreign exchange risk of the loan
(Sections 3.02(b) and (d) of the Loan Agreement). Combined with the
additional charges and the foreign exchange risk, the nominal
onlending rate of 13 percent is expected to result effectively in a
positive rate in real terms; and



- 18 -
(d) NIDB would calculate economic rates of return on all investment
projects under the proposed loan and on all other investment projects
with capital costs exceeding US$1 million to be financed from sources
other than the loan. All subprojects submitted to the Bank would
have a minimum economic rate of return of 10 percent (Sections
2.03(a) and (d) of the Loan Agreement).
NIDB's term debt to equity limit would be maintained at 4:1 (Section 4.06 of
the Loan Agreement).
Procurement and Disbursement
57.      NIDB's subborrowers would use international competitive bidding (ICB)
procedures for contracts above US$3 million and for turn-key contracts above
US$15 million. For contracts below US$3 million, NIDB's subborrowers would
employ NIDB's normal practice of requiring bids from three local suppliers.
The Bank would finance the full c.i.f. cost of direct imports or services, 50
percent of the invoiced price of domestically-produced capital goods, and 35
percent of civil works expenditures under individual subloans. NIDB would be
allowed to use up to US$500,000 of the loan to finance foreign exchange
expenditures for consultancy services for its operations, subject to prior
Bank approval. Disbursements would be fully documented.
Justification and Risks
58.      The implementation of this project by NIDB, along the lines of its
Development Strategy, would assist in developing Nigeria's industrial sector,
thus contributing to the critically important diversification of the country's
economic base. It would channel foreign exchange resources into viable
industrial enterprises in Nigeria, and act as a catalyst in facilitating
NIDB's additional foreign borrowings from EIB and the Eurocurrency market.
Given the long-term nature of the institution building process, the continuing
support of the Bank is important in helping NIDB in its ongoing efforts at
achieving greater operational autonomy vis-a-vis Government, in implementing
its Action Program and Development Strategy, and in enhancing its
effectiveness and development impact.
59.      With the strengthening of NIDB's appraisal and supervision work, and
its increased operational autonomy, subprojects under the proposed loan,
though as yet unidentified, should yield economic benefits similar to or
better than those financed under the previous Bank loan, for which the
economic rate of return averages 14 percent.  Subprojects would be
predominantly private sector projects, selected with an emphasis on high
priority industrial subsectors, which would promote the use of local raw
materials and favor technological development. Furthermore, NIDB's efforts at
expanding its apex lending role vis-a-vis state-level financial institutions
would help further geographic dispersal of investment as well as relatively
smaller, labor-intensive industries.  Efforts aimed at improving NIDB's
research capability should help the institution to contribute to the
formulation of government policies in the industrial and financial sectors.



- 19 -
60.      The implementation of the project could be affected by the industrial
sector's sub-optimal policy environment. This risk is mitigated, however, by
NIDB's adherence to appropriate economic appraisal criteria, which includes
the calculation of economic rates of return for subprojects to be financed
under the Bank loan. Furthermore, NIDB's relatively small share of total
industrial financing in Nigeria (about 15 percent of total industrial term
credit and only about 4 percent of total industrial investment) should make it
easier for the institution to select projects with greater economic viability.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
61.      The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and the Nigerian Industrial
Development Bank, Ltd., the draft Guarantee Agreement between the Federal
Republic of Nigeria and the Bank, and the report of the Committee provided for
in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement, are being
distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
62.      Special Conditions of the project are listed in Section III of Annex
III.
63.      I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
64.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
May 11, 1983
Washington, D.C.



- 20 -                                                  ANNEX I
Page I of 5
NIGERIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
NIGERIA                             REFERENCE GROUPS (WTEIGHTED AVE AGES
AREA  (THOUSAND S   K- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
TOTAL              92.8                                     MOST RECENT             MIDDLE INCOME              MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL       512.9                1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  NORTH AMERICA 6 MIDDLE EAST
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                     200.0        330.0      868.0*                 1053.2                     1253.6
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)          27.8         46.1       79.7                   610.1                      713.5
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS) 51598.0          66182.0   84732.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 13.1             16.4        20.4                   28.3                       47.2
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                           168.6
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                             528.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                       2105
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                           55.9         71.6       89.4                    54.7                       35.8
PER SQ. EM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    125.0            133.3      161.1                   129.9                      420.9
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                             45.4         46.6       47.6                    46.0                       44.3
15-64 YRS.                             52.3         51.0       50.0                    51.1                       52.4
53 YRS. AND ABOVE                       2.3          2.4        2.4                     2.8                        3.3
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                  2.4          2.5        2.5                     2.8                        2.8
URBAN                                  4.7          4.7        4.7                     5.2                        4.6
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)         52.0         50.7       49.7                    47.2                       41.2
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)         25.3         20.8        17.0                   15.7                       12.2
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                  3.4          3.4         3.4                    3.2                        2.9                                 -
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)           ..          7.6       33.2/c
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..               ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71=100)            100.0         102.0       88.0                    90.7                      100.4
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                      83.5          82.1       83.1/d                  93.9                     108.5
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)             45.2          44.0       45.0/d                  54.8                       71.9
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE           9.5          10.4       I1.1/d                  17.0                       18.0
CBILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE         42.4         34.9        28.4                   23.9                       15.1
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    38.7             43.7       48.6                    51.0                       56.9
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                              183.4        158.0      135.2                   118.5                      104.3
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                   ..            ..         ..                     ..                       59.1
URBAN                                   ..           ..         ..                      ..                       83.1
RURAL                                   ..           ..         ..                      ..                       39.8
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                   ..            ..
URBAN                                   ..           ..         ..                      ..
RURAL                                   ..            ..        ..
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN            73711.4       24667.2   15742.0/e                14185.2                     4015.5
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON         4043.1/f    5073.0    2875.6O/e                 2213.2                     1802.2
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                              3022.7/g    2221.7    1369.5/e                   1036.4                      641.7
URBAN                                501.27?      494.4      373.87e                 430.8                      538.3
RURAL                             25629.1/f   18488.8    5494.7/e                   3678.6                     2403.3
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPlTAL BED               ..            ..         ..                      ..                      25.5
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                   ..            ..
URBAN                                               4 -.. 7/h
RURAL                                   ..           ..
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                   ..            ..
URBAN                                  3.0          2.2/h
RURAL
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                   ..            ..
URBAN                                 81.3         42.4/h        .
RURAL                                   ..            ..



- 21 -                                             ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
NIGERIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
NIGERIA                          REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVEAGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-a
MOST RECENT           MIDDLE INCOME             MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  NORTH AMERICA & MIDDLE EAST
EDUCATIUN
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                  36.0         37.0      79.0/d                 83.3                     88.7
MALE                  46.0         47.0         ..                  96.1                     104.5
FEMALE                27.0         27.0         ..                  80.4                      72.0
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                   4.0          4.0      10.0                   15.3                     39.7
MALE                   6.0          6.0       13.0                  19.4                      49.3
FEMALE                 1.0          3.0        7.0                  11.3                      29.0
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (2 OF SECONDARY)   4.8            8.5       2.7/e,l                4.7                      10.1
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             30.2         34.1        ..                   38.6                      34.1
SECONDARY                           19.1         21.2        ..                   23.4                     23.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         15.4/f         ..       29.9                  35.6                      43.3
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           0.6          0.9        ..                   31.9                     17.8
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           2.8         19.3      66.6                   71.8                    131.3
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           0.0          1.1       5.4                   17.9                     44.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                    5.5          4.8        6.9/e                19.1                      31.5
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..             ..        o.57i                 0.6                       1.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    21788.5       25991.9  31500.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    41.3        40.6       39.8                   36.5                     10.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               71.0         62.0      60.0*                  56.5                      42.4
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  10.0         14.0      18.7*                  17.7                     27.8
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 42.2         39.3       36.4                  37.0                      26.0
MALE                                  50.3         47.3       44.2                  46.9                      46.2
FEMALE                                34.4         31.5      28.6                   27.2                       5.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.1          1.2        1.4                   1.3                       1.9
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..     679.0                  507.0                    279.2
RURAL                                 ..           ..     258.0                  200.6                     178.6
*               ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..    616.5*                  523.9                    403.6
RURAL                                 ..           ..    205.5*                  203.6                    285.6
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..           ..         ..                    ..                      22.1
RURAL                                 ..           ..         ..                    ,.                      30.9
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1978 and 1980.
/c   1974;  /d 1977;  /e 1976;  /f 1962;  /g Including ex-North Cameroon under British administration;
/h 1972;  /i Certain fields of study previously classified under other second level education of
vocational or technical nature are now reported under general education.
* Revised based on recent data from the Federal Office of Statistics and
the Ministry of Planning
May 1982



- 22 -                                                                                ANNEX I
DFNTOSOF SOCIAL. :NOIlATC)O                                                               Page    3 of    5
on. AIthustrch      data ... drawn inns sor            .anaraily lungad It.  -n  aohnia lwad  pa  el,i   h..d alo  wnoe   that charny   to a Itta-
natinall   ouwnat . ta  ona   ofNbalc    faadr led atfibion.  and conta.pta  used by atiff ..nant o-tia  it I ut lotting tha dat-   lA'nh                        oan,tua
thelwan. oaatul to daatttbw  under. of eanitode. toO icana  ttIAto. and oh-r - te .t  cantat  sa)-  nifta-eatw    et.snc. untnt..  .
Th    .    c      ron  an.  Itha a-m  -o-tr   group of tow  cu fc            Iiuon   and (2) a coo             - ;cu   with anmanna  hith-r  anenga  Incom   than  ttctcc   yr-p
oI 1the snje     conr   (aat  o             0iomo           Ottfoorar    gop abate  'OSiodIn   rs   on Al trio  an 4td    Es
an  oclua    ffitit twsf. -  i  the ra ftrac   group data. the  -n-tagn   ar  Ptcpuaton a.JtLbtd a-n heatIt            n  for  -ac   Lndiatro-d  uh-n  ..tIw, a
on Iud   f-nret    i   aag  o  oat          d t  niwnanta groups.-~i 
-Totu   -  ctal a-ra-  a-at c-Wltian   ia-d area a-d ccin tan    979 oat..                                ona.adrrl)oodab   tir  epet                            ruhe    -fopi-al twdc
ng  oloi      a Eats-  of agni-oltorl oras-oaa   neP-taily o- eantty                              ta latl   it potlit  n   -tun         mn    at   pe  a) d hoa:r201-   00cr~-
forcrp -9.    ....ra    men Own ond atien-  aroen   or to Lia  talo;1979 dan.                         tbiItw  a   et.             KcapinaIn.r  we~  tmenc    _e--ann   t   tatfo
FEPSnt  CAPiT. (1051  - IS   a   aniaat aw    t  urc "arat-itse.la-                                      da   esaecnIcloo    uw    apb   n  hoawoe   lot lode Onl
10. ad 1990     a                                                                                    eaditl a..iatant, c....w .ciontiw. etc.) I  hth off te  it-pat-fitcoo--
tNERG  COtS7,9tPONO PtR 47119A - actua                                                                                            hJaatito,o cilewg    ca  il   upneconte  iaa nI .od    Halt priitaIoorof-ciio
ro    iirt.  orlo.ntoo jaodhdr--du.arn    !rcthwnsI nln-                                                 adrt   CcpoIn             oalt-nr  cr itolt or -d noio  thu,a,                 rii
-nIoti) I   iorn   orca   qicli   a   -apita  1960  .1970.00199                                          onor. Iei.iodie  ti   r   tiAld.d  -Ly  -oc -i I-.
(te  icpitala  dicion   ty ',re  -uacw   on cal
PUPpI-ATI)n A"r VITAL SCdTiSTiCS
ctal Pcruiatioa, Mod-heat (tonusadef -A. of Joiy I;960, 1970. -no  1980                             HOUStING
oat.                                                                                                hwnnAtn   of h          eco(inwprh-.nald) -iotal, o--an   -0 c-i.-
Ina    aulto    reca   r  o l-  aio   oniP  ton . portat-                           ;A hahwcI   amat   fasu    tjiltc      i  tco- 1 "oicg,aron
difiewot  af jttOoa  of-r.a  araa nay af-ac t Cow-anotiii   of dat-n   it. it acm    aia.  0tAndt   t dajr   apo  sn  -ot on ir0 loo    it.
a   ... c.tnae .. 960, 1970  ono  1960 don.-                                                       the Ao,amod tarIIntiatta   P.rcas
Poultont  ce-  2000 - Curran.t population  proa-itia             tadon1990                      ha   fpaae  prrnei   l  onhe. andtoaocuod-neioa
toabouainh   c   ndaaadtaewraiy   ad                       nilty nana                     dniLlingw. te          -1tiwy.  Dec11 baa  antluaaooprweatt                    nt
tea,ad  aeaitf   waananyI mtsbtl can   an 77 1pana    Ofapn-Cnetttiosicaat-aec r tly itiltog% q-atet
fatilt  rcdinat  lrn   os   n  pact fa.no - ly planning pard..loirsanta.-l
and fartIlity  t-ada  forprjrtc   p-rpoee.                                                        Adi utad icro leanit toiioa
Itattoawny coccI at Io-lcaai-ory   p         ltc    har  it 0  grol       ht-wbrur -nhoolI   toa.                             .i.tdaawuaton,acnoutt-  
.ie......  rat "is equal tot he daah cas,ad a'L.ctaaaanton   ow-                                       roro1late  fi ali o g.inso  t ha  nsr.cr  o   o                   n
arhacoaro       L. b    iaacieoed  oalp afte  t-'Otly  rte deoida  to, prmt    oalab    ocuio;ooo.pltcnct.iiin   00  u
h.n rer2000. an  th  rate of datIdtacf etIi lity rata  to  -eplue                                   nr.a...c      ttl  oi   rdi l                     Z--ootoa        oe
iroeta  icarnnoolatotlw  anhed - rhe yaa  hban statlaay pouainP-oId-tgnea.  oaionl.o   ern   tr  nttontot oa  o  r
-otu   are; 6lhd  1970 Iso  1979utaicludrrotl .  no-tIa).ootr prgaa   hith  perata ino..pend-
P.r eb-k.  aniciorl  ad - Ccep-nd us   nt  Ion ugrL.i-utua   laudoc1 orudprts aotecdpIstitto.
ony    90   90ad 1979 dt.P-ptl-tah-rei  - ot-wy, and ee-tda-                                                                                  Tat I  tdoawtnlai
.PnLati-a   a    tr rtun   (pr...nn  -Chtilda   (0-14 yearal. )             g-ga(I h-                    pr-l Itwradcac-doy  IwnIl  dliidad hy  -tibw    ofiateain0t
hA psaraf. and retire:d(65 pe.r  and   on   epratgaf  mid-pea  popo-                                   Corr-p-auioe  it-l..
la   96;0bh. 1970.  n   98   aa                                                                 AdulI trc    bn(ati)- lierteacln   atble  to red  -odorte
Pcuitin   Oah   rt   parnt  -tna  -anulbrwnMnawao  tt L od-                         osp rtecag            ofctl  dl  r ltinnd  10 Ysa-  and coe.
Yarpooaiut for 190-hO. 1 -0,ad1970-00.
laioa o  1950-_t,   99-7. od 1977-90.                                                          Ioaoe...1ne   taaopniatoiPtngrCrn;oort    co
Ir-da 3trtt Pate Iran thuaoI              mta     atrt ahououwadaot-ut -IIa                              Cars  eat 19rlI  w   -aoight  -onwu;  -n.,a   ollcot  taonan
Cttpulatton   1990. i90O, aod 11990 acte.                                                               utllcoryoehio -
Irus  Patodc tir yta-ouonege nlutm1 of1   da              --twse   tn    oid har t              Raio Rcwced  .r.ue. In   cnre    n   opwaua   eota   a    f.rai
Panal  n iootuatotenorw   carul  tnusatall1   -       Z000 ,taw    totetr                Vtciec pttuan poutio- P r orre  tot  Ln." In  t
hiw  of      .... Pald 1-bpeetog a       h. Ii-n  awfnhuahtt-otl uwcacNrepr Cinult in  pe Iouad   aoana)-  ho  - W-arrwo n
bcda f PudPdotnra   Caia(997-0)g aa   fprcpt aP                                         ul              t rn  potta          r uttod ..c pe  Capit, e   er-ka    ntec,cr
prodioion  o  all Pnd cu nitYn .  Pod   btanclo-dow.m.    and fad         at-ioea  cl-ono ttayou. icla icgai.wicaato-onhu-io  one
FOODAttOD laaaepou                rc    agte    91h.17.odl                      aa                    totaTIOi.uho lPro  if thausanue-  -I -c notrli  acin   paaadnldo
Pe   a tes only of owotc.mnwto   wotmna-Ieun    rmant  foo    ad   onaapla' ed F                                                    i_  n  oigOuwicw.ntdoa    t
nor-d eolaan   o  tofud  apl e-"aiahc Innntr  par osiacow oduplto   of..Iadi,ce.Ofm   lone anii.. catate.. ontptw   ape
pen doy.  inwilula  aipplias dosriew  aonettc  prdonnioc. lapors  laaw                  not cowaahim; 1990..197  and 19.0.data
quanittd    -pad   hin tuod   draablna   and  loans  00ditnttAn. I.ot. ie-dtnolum(eot        rtfret   asa    aety    unr   n
-aiahld-      wal    ,,du-6,, 1970        h,;191- and 197-dat.-199.                                            21970 and  990-dwtan,
Per cr itocomb of trtoo (ara _er daf-pawncawro   a  captIP'lto tatia   dat  1r-(Wron                                                aa.aa   an  fme                d  Pr ii pai-ro
ost muppp oP fon  per day.  Own aupip 0P fnd 1w da tac  awp- ohoe    t-                    ctntyntearto t d aa toa.uiIadfeaebo    acu
Wol  fn    tiop  ibf-dhO. ibOO and.i9dP.date,                                                to rta total labor forra.
riced  foe naiain oa  FccAO   it ... apa d   an  tS-d. 1970 ucd -197    a.                   01011fDIOfitgItiIf
Chtdlne1i   ,oat  hatei. (on-htm- d-     al        Ideat  pnr thca an   nPnrn.a   fPr--ct  Onion  (ht   iot   n   io)      a ido   it
tniem  dec. isrlced  inns life  tables; 1060.I 1970 and                                                       S..1990 lots-  Pof          I.coaeboia-I.
PlAInt                                                                     POOtOTO 790110M L     I     It PO
an  AirA; 196. 197   to     __9J0 ota_ondatoui h   tot -titbtedI.. COmtarh d fota-l-  .lipI                                                                                         
yoatncmnlt  hate  ca   huud               nIoanao   nut                dr0wpardictiatni Otlrlote Pcuwrt9 Ioon Id                         auel  ItSpe  Cap.ita  II-ohacoota
if0w   e  60nodlc   births   1990  1970 an,d.  i9dOdate-                                        uhaclota96, 170 ocnty  inen   neti  ta  ionlee  tln-Achosim
hame  oiaf Pri,          fi,oo ,hnon  of toalo  ou       otI otn,anTonlh.              u-tti totally gdeuaadi                             lo  essential tat- fod  euiemnr           As  o
oatrnpplfltF         owatret_   i-ni a rts           :    -I aeAeC)uroatrb 1e Out   dR. ototaoar5a maa.nattmPcnt.c   n  ae    lt  w   a ta-rasnatrad
tht  re   otetatrtoe.a.. I             .bdactryeItu.iorlrltuaooryttueis1coo-tidoaers    pnopt
peontdeedlcat  rapttn   ppuaton. lntoobarabili                                               prcttltianofto   oono-    rhn  relicdetodIre  hetoa
Chilne  tog, Lacrat  Itwoonallfr,tnbthiL.orlotlo-d - ttal.-on-a-d-0  total-
Ian. luataIllat                                                                                               h-d b   Ii-oaa.iI
PaRaiornPotIa_         onlttnOoiep0.rtsa  of proctin" iw toa. ph..Ymi-                                                                tronacut1-1,11,11-     -   and  pio -a  rataOtootd
oInf    olfidls  PIdl-o".% nir achh nl_      a      -dnnen    dIwn.                                                                     tctnnoariaanPoe-toanpren
Pc noan to oa  Ourana   aint- Poulaton  dotfa   tpouber od pratle mu                                                                               sapd,  19i.92 .  .. Ii  -f
male on   rel     rau    -tues  a-ir an  ouram   pritoa   tuns00
.ocrmiog auniliRart-nPc.d --



- 23 -                                   ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1981                            ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (%, Constant Prices)
US$ Mln.       %               1975-80          1980           1981
GNP at Market Prices             71471      100.0                 3.5            0.r           -5.1
Gross Domestic Investment        21100       29.5                 1.2           15.7            8.9
Gross National Saving            15530       21.7               -0.6             2.7         -39.8
Current Account Balance          -5570       -7.8                 -               -              -
Exports of Goods, NFS            17872       25.0                 3.6          -2.2          -36.8
Imports of Goods, NFS            22439       31.4                6.0             3.5            7.8
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1981
Value Added                 Labor Force.-!          V. A. Per Worker
US$ Mln.        %            Mln.         %              US $         %
Agriculture                    16515        23.3          18.8        59.7            878.4       39.1
Industry and Mining            25919        36.6           6.0        19.0           4319.8      192.2
Services                       28355        40.1           6.7        21.3           4232.1      188.3
Total/Average               70789       100.0          31.5       100.0           2247.3      100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Government                        Central Government
(N Mln.)         % of GDP                 (N Mln.)         % of GDP
1981 2/   1980 2/   1979/80 2/             1981 2/   1980 2/   1979/80
Current Receipts               12224        37.3         30.6              7850        27.2       22.0
Current Expenditure             9097        17.0         15.9              4438         9.7        9.6
Current Surplus                 3127        20.3         14.7              3412        17.5       12.4
Capital Expenditures           10242        22.2         17.5              8030        18.2       15.1
External Assistance (net)         ..          ..           ..               500         0.4        0.2
MONEY. CREDIT, AND PRICES              1975     1976      1977      1978     1979      1980    1981 2/
(Million N Outstanding End Period)
Money and Quasi Money                 4167      5732      7439      7873     9845    14275    15640
Bank Credit to Public Sector (Nets) -642         551      2309      3779     3296      3577      6897
Bank Credit to Private Sector         1798      2423      3465      4605     5249      6970      9098
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP   19.2        20.7      22.9      23.1     24.3      32.5      35.4
General Price Index (1960=100)       289.6    352.4    423.1    492.5    550.0    604.0    731.0
Annual percentages changes in:
General Price Index                    33.5     21.7      20.1      16.4      11.7      9.8      21.0
Bank Credit to Public Sector             ..       ..    419.1       63.7    -12.8       8.5      92.8
Bank Credit to Private Sector          58.4     34.8      43.0      32.9     14.0      32.8      30.5
NOTE: All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing
during the period covered.
1/ The data is derived from Planning Ministry documents and refers to the number of "gainfully
employed."
2/ Estimates.
. Not available.
May 1, 1983



-24 -                                       ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                   MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1979-1981) 2/
1979     1980 1/    1981 1/                                       US$ Mln.      %
(Millions US$)
Exports of Goods, NFS           17,796    24,758       17,872        Crude Oil                       18271        95.7
Imports of Goods, NFS           15,285    20,723       22,438        Cocoa Products                    476         2.5
Resource Gap (deficit = -)       2,511      4,035      -4,566        Palm Products                      19         0.1
Tin                               18         0.1
Interest Payments (net)           -247        370         702        All Other Commodities             298         1.6
Other Factor Payments             -201       -876      -1,124                 Total                  19082       100.0
Net Transfers                     -388       -576         582
Balance on Current Account       1,675      2,953      -5,570
Direct Foreign Investment          305        340          29        EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31, 1981
Net MLT Borrowing
Disbursements                 1,022      1,138       1,367                                              US$ Mln.
Amortization                    -38       -141        -583
Subtotal                        984        997         784        Public Debt, incl. undisbursed           11754
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt               ..
Other Capital (net)                  10        81         -39        Total outstanding & disbursed              4652
Other items n.e.i.                  388       478         -38
Errors and Ommissions              301       -162       -1506
Increase in Reserves (+)        +3,663    +4,687       -6,340        DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1981 3/
Net Reserves (end year)          5,548    10,235        3,895
Public Debt. incl. guaranteed             4.1
Fuel and Related Materials                                           Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Imports                                                           Total outstanding & disbursed
of which:  Petroleum           378        402         480
Exports
of which:  Petroleum        15,657    22,408       16,748        IBRD/IDA LENDING (November 30, 1982) (Millions $)
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                                                                          IBRD    IDA
1971:  N1.00 = US$1.60                                               Outstanding and Disbirsed            663.0   36.7
1977:  N1.00 = US$1.55                                               Undisbursed                          946.9    -
1978:  N1.00 =US$1.57
1979:  N1.00 =US$1.66                                                Outstanding incl. Undisbursed   1,309.9   36.7
1980:  N1.00 = US$1.83
1981:  N1.00 =US$1.63
1/  Estimated.
21  Estimates for 1980 and 1981.
3/ Ratio of Debt Service to Exports of Goods and Non-Factor Services.
Not Available
May 1, 1983



- 25 -                                        ANNEX II
Page 1 of 7
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
A. STATEMENT OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN NIGERIA
(As of March 31, 1983)
Loan or                                                                        US$ Million
Credit                                                                Amount (less cancellation)
Number      Year       Borrower    Purpose                           Bank        IDA      Undisbursed
Twenty one loans and two credits fully disbursed                    575.5       35.3
929      1973       Nigeria       Education                         54.0                   22.6
1045       1974      Nigeria       Cocoa Development                 20.0                     1.4
x                       1091       1975       Nigeria      Livestock                          21.0                    5.9
1103       1975      Nigeria       Rice Development                  17.5                    2.7
1183       1975      Nigeria      M.W. State Oil Palm                13.0                    0.2
1191       1976      Nigeria       E.C. State Oil Palm               19.0                   11.3
1454       1977      Nigeria      Agric. Dev. Lafia                  27.0                    2.2
1455       1977       Nigeria      Agric. Dev. Ayangba               35.0                    2.4
1591       1978      Nigeria       Nuc. Est. Smallholder Oil         30.0                   11.1
1597       1978      NIDB          Industrial Development            60.0                   33.0
1667       1979      Nigeria      Agric. Dev. Bida                   23.0                    9.6
1668       1979      Nigeria       Agric. Dev. Ilorin                27.0                   14.8
1679       1979      Nigeria       Forestry                          31.0                   16.2
1711       1979      Nigeria       Water Supply - Eaduna             92.0                   82.6
1719       1979      Nigeria       Agric. & Rural Mgmt. Inst.         9.0                    7.5
1766       1980      NEPA          Power Lagos                      100.0                   99.1
1767       1980      Nigeria      Urban Development - Bauchi         17.8                   14.3
1838       1980      Nigeria       Agric. Dev. - Oyo-North           28.0                   27.2
1854       1980      Nigeria       Agric. Dev. - Ekiti-Akoko         32.5                   29.5
1883       1980      Nigeria       Roads                            108.0                   69.5
1981       1981      Nigeria       Agric. Dev. - Bauchi             132.0                  103.2
1982       1981      Nigeria       Agric. Dev. - Eano               142.0                  126.8
2029       1981       Nigeria      Tech. Assistance-Agric.           47.0                    42.3
2036       1982       Nigeria      Water Supply - Anambra            67.0                   65.0
2085       1982      NEPA          Power - Distribution             100.0                  100.0
*   2185       1982       Nigeria      Agric. Dev. - Sokoto              147.0                  147.0
Total                                                  1,975.3       35.3    1,047.4
Of which has been repaid                                 231.1        3.3
Total Outstanding                                      1,744.2       32.0
Amount sold                           16.8
Of which has been repaid              16.8                 0.0
Total now held by Bank 4 IDA 1/                        1,744.2       32.0
Total undisbursed                                                             1,047.4
B.  STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of March 31, 1983)
Fiscal                                                    Type of         Amount in US$ Million
Year                                                    Business         Loan    Equity    Total
1964, 1967,        Arewa Textiles Ltd.                   Textile Mfg.    1.0        0.6       1.6
1970
1964               Nigeria Industrial                    Dev. Fin. Co.               1.4       1.4
Development Bank Ltd.
1973               Puntue Cottonseed                     Veg. Oil          1.6                 1.6
Crushing Ltd.                        Crushing
1973               Nigerian Aluminium                    Aluminium         1.0      0.3        1.3
(                                          Extrusion Ltd.                        Processing
1974               Lifiaga Sugar                         Sugar                       0.1       0.1
Estate
1980               NTM                                   Textiles          6.2       0.7       6.9
1981               Ikeja Hotel                           Tourism          7.5        1.9      9.4
Total Cross Commitments                               17.3       5.0      22.3
Less cancellations                                   1.5      0.1        1.6
Less sold and repaid                                 2.5       1.5       4.0
Total Commitment now held by IFC                      13.3       3.4      16.7
Undisbursed                                            6.5       1.9       8.4
* Became effective on April 28, 1983
1/ Prior to exchange rate adjustments.



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 7
C. STATUS OF PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
(As of March 31, 1983)
Loan No. 929-UNI   Third Education Project:  US$54.0 million loan of August
16, 1973; Effective Date: January 14, 1975; Closing
Date:  December 31, 1982
The closing date of the loan lapsed on December 31, 1982, and the
remaining portion of the loan proceeds will be cancelled after the final
withdrawal applications have been processed.
Loan No. 1045-UNI  Second Cocoa Project:  US$20 million Loan of October 11,
1974; Effective Date: October 15, 1975; Closing Date:
March 31, 1983
The project's planting targets have been fully achieved by all four
participating states. Loan recovery performance, however, surfaced as a major
problem. A tight "action program" was initiated, and updating and
reconciliation of farmer loan records was completed. A project completion
report has been prepared. The closing date lapsed on March 31, 1982, and a
small portion of the loan proceeds is now being cancelled.
Loan No. 1091-UNI Livestock Development Project: US$21.0 million Loan of
March 20, 1975; Effective Date: July 19, 1976; Closing
Date: July 1, 1983
Project implementation has improved. The project is now under good
management which has overcome most of the initial problems. Supporting
services are better organized, and credit is now being effectively channeled
through NACB. The closing date was extended by two years to allow production
investments to be completed.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors
regarding the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to
report any problems which are being encountered, and the action being
taken to remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the
understanding that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 7
Loan No. 1103-UNI Rice Project: US$17.5 million Loan of April 25, 1974;
Effective Date: January 10, 1976; Closing Date: December
31, 1982
Project implementation made a slow start due to deficiencies in
counterpart funding and staffing limitations. The Bank withdrew from the
project component located in Cross River State because of acute problems of
cost overruns and inadequate physical progress.  To expedite project
completion, the balance of loan funds held over from the Cross River State
component was reallocated to Anambra and Imo State components where physical
project progress was better. But development continued to be impaired by
insufficient counterpart funding. A few final withdrawal applications are
being processed, and any remaining loan proceeds will be cancelled.
Loan No. 1183-UNI  Mid-Western (Bendel) State Oil Palm Project:  US$29.5
million Loan of December 31, 1975; Effective Date: October
17, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Appraisal targets for the nucleus estate and smallholder components
have not been met due to delays in land acquisition, and the project has been
facing serious financial and managerial problems. Persistent difficulties
forced the Bank to suspend disbursements under the nucleus estate part of the
Loan as of July 13, 1981. In view of continued progress under the smallholder
component and with the appointment of managing agents for the estate company
and the promise of additional counterpart funding from Bendel State, the Bank
lifted suspension on November 1, 1981. However, after a project review
mission to Bendel State in February/March 1982 reported continued problems,
particularly concerning project funding, the Bank suspended all disbursements
under the Loan as of May 15, 1982. The Bank cancelled the undisbursed amount
under the Loan as of June 16, 1982, except for a small amount to allow for the
processing of outstanding withdrawal applications.
Loan No. 1191-UNI  East Central (Imo) State Oil Palm Project:  US$19.0 million
Loan of February 12, 1976; Effective Date: April 6, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Project implementation was initially delayed due to the creation of
new states and problems with staffing. Even though appraisal planting targets
r       have not been met and the construction of palm oil mills has been delayed, the
project has the best potential for smallholder oil palm development, and
planting rates are now at an acceptable level. The project has, however,
encountered serious problems due to the insufficiency of counterpart funding.
Loan No. 1454-UNI  Lafia Agricultural Development Project:  US$27.0 million
Loan of June 28, 1977; Effective Date: March 3, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
The provision of adequate and timely funding continues to be
problematic, and overall project progress has slowed.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 7
Loan No. 1455-UNI Ayangba Agricultural Development Project: US$25.0 million
Loan of June 28, 1977; Effective Date: March 3, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Project progress has recently stagnated because of local funding and
staff constraints.  Overall, however, the project has already met most of its
physical targets set at appraisal.
Loan No. 1591-UNI Rivers- State Nucleus Estate/Smallholder Oil Palm Project:
US$30.0 million Loan of July 24, 1978; Effective Date:
July 10, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Physical progress of the nucleus estate continues to be satisfactory,
but funding problems persist after some improvement in late-1980. However,
the first 20 ton/hour oil mill is expected to begin operations shortly, and
this should contribute to the funding of the nucleus escate. The smallholder
component faces serious managerial and funding difficulties, and it is
doubtful whether this component should be continued. During 1982, the number
of staff was reduced, and no planting took place.
Loan No. 1597-UNI Nigerian Industrial Development Bank, Ltd.: US$60 million
Loan of June 15, 1978; Effective Date: October 24, 1978;
Closing Date: Decemb,er 31, 1984
The loan has been fully committ(ed and about 45 percent disbursed. A
next line of credit to NIDB has been submitted for approval to the Executive
Directors.
Loan No. 1667-UNI Bida Agricultural Development Project: US$23 million Loan
of September 17, 1979; Effective Date: April 25, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30) 1985
The project has progressed well but funding problems are now
constraining further development.
Loan No. 1668-UNI Ilorin Agricultural Development Project: US$27 million
Loan of September 17, 1979; Effective Date: April 25,
1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
Project progress, impaired at first by delays in the recruitment of
intermediate-level project staff, has now substantially improved. However,
because of recent local funding difficulties, project activities have been
reduced to a minimum.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 7
Loan No. 1679-TJNI Forestry Plantation Project: US$31 million Loan of October
29, 1979; Effective Date: June 30, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1985
Due to a lack of state funding, project implementation has been
affected, particularly the Ondo component which also needs to improve
technical and managerial performance.
Loan No. 1711-UNI Kaduna Water Supply Project: US$92 million Loan of July
16, 1979; Effective Date: July 22, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985
Project implementation is satisfactory, and most contracts have now
ben awarded. The State Government has just approved substantial tariff
increases, and adequate counterpart funds have been made available to date.
Loan No. 1719-UNI Agricultural and Rural Management Training Institute
Project: US$9 million Loan of July 16, 1979; Effective
Date: March 30, 1981; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Management consultants are in the field, and the teaching program
proceeds satisfactorily. However, there are procurement problems that may
lead to cancellation of part of the loan.
Loan No. 1766-UNI Lagos Power Distribution Project: US$100 million Loan of
February 19, 1980; Effective Date: July 22, 1980; Closing
Date: June 30, 1984
The project is now two years behind schedule. The delay has been
caused mainly by tardiness in procurement because of the time taken by
Government to approve the award of contracts. Cost overruns are expected, but
cannot be estimated until contracts are finalized.
Loan No. 1767-UNI  Urban Development Project (Bauchi State):  US$17.8 million
Loan of February 19, 1980; Effective Date: August 12,
1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The project is proceeding reasonably well after largely overcoming
local funding and contractual problems. Execution of civil works is expected
to be completed around July 1983, and the closing date will have to be
extended. The first certificates of occupancy have been issued to beneficiary
households in the sites and services scheme. Technical assistance is being
provided to the Federal Mortgage Bank of Nigeria to review its financial and
operational problems. After recruitment delays, this work was delayed further
by management problems.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 7
Loan No. 1838-UNI Oyo-North Agricultural Development Project: US$28.0
million Loan of August 25, 1980; Effective Date: March 31,
1982; Closing Date: September 30, 1985
After a nearly two year delay in loan effectiveness because of staff
recruitment problems, the project is now proceeding satisfactorily. Procure-
ment of plant, equipment, and vehicles is underway.                                           J
Loan No. 1854-UNI Ekiti-Akoko Agricultural Development Project: US$32.5
million Loan of December 15, 1980; Effective Date:
November 20, 1981; Closing Date: September 30, 1985
The project has slowed down after a promising start. Procurement is
proceeding satisfactorily, but the project faces major counterpart funding
problems.
Loan No. 1883-UNI Sixth Highway Project: US$108 million Loan of August 25,
1980; Effective Date: December 11, 1980; Closing Date:
March 3i, 1985
The road strengthening works are well advanced, and the training
component is progressing satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1981-UNI Bauchi State Agricultural Development Project: US$132
million Loan of September 2, 1981; Effective Date:
December 23, 1981; Closing Date: December 31, 1986
After a good start, the project is now experiencing local funding
problems, which have slowed down project implementation.
Loan No. 1982-UNI  Kano Agricultural Development Project:  US$142 million Loan
of September 2, 1981; Effective Date: December 29, 1981;
Closing Date: December 31, 1986
The project is proceeding satisfactorily in its initial stages, but
is still experiencing some local funding problems.
Loan No. 2029-UNI Agricultural Technical Assistance Project: US$47 million
Loan of September 2, 1981; Effective Date: January 21,
1982; Closing Date: December 31, 1986
With the resolution of several staffing issues, the project is now
proceeding satisfactorily in its initial stages.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 7
Loan No. 2036-UNI Anambra Water Supply and Sanitation Project: US$67 million
Loan of November 13, 1981; Effective Date: March 19, 1982;
Closing Date: September 30, 1987
The project is proceeding satisfactorily in its initial stages with
nine of the eleven major contracts signed. Improvements are already evident
in the managerial and financial operations of the Anambra State Water
Corporation.  A 75 percent tariff increase was implemented from January
1983. The project has started experiencing some local funding problems.
Loan No. 2085-UNI Sixth Power Project: US$100 million Loan of June 23, 1982;
Effective Date: November 17, 1982; Closing Date: June 30,
1987
Three fixed price contracts for Part A of the project have been
signed. The appointment of consultants for Part B of the project is expected
to be finalized soon. Consultants have been appointed to begin a program of
staff training for NEPA.
Loan No. 2185-UNI Sokoto Agricultural Development Project: US$147 million
Loan of January 4, 1983; Effective Date: April 28, 1983;
Closing Date: June 30, 1987
After a good start, using short-term consultants, the project is
facing some problems of local funding.
,



- 32 -
ANNEX III
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
V
(a) Time taken by the country to prepare the project: not applicable
(b) The agency which has prepared the project: NIDB
(c)  Date of first presentation to the Bank, and date of first Bank mission
to consider the project: September 1981 and November 1981, respectively
(d) Date of departure of Appraisal Mission: September 1982
(e) Date of completion of negotiations: March 9, 1983
(f) Planned date of effectiveness: September 30, 1983
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
(i)      Evaluate capital intensity under subprojects (para. 46);
(ii)     Financing of public sector subprojects limited to 20 percent of loan
(para. 56);
(iii)    Size of individual subloans limited to US$8.5 million, individual
subloan free limit US$1 million and aggregate free limit US$40
million (para. 56);
(iv)     Maintain onlending rate to subborrowers of at least 13 percent, and
ensure that foreign exchange risk passed on to subborrowers (para.
56); and
(v)      Calculate economic rates of return of subprojects (para. 56).



