ReoNo.47.a-ES                                                                    FILE  COPY
El Salvador
Appraísal of a
Sites and Services Project
September 7.0, 1574
Transportadon and Uiban >ro¡iects Dcpartment
Not for Public Use
Document of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
International Development Association
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published,
quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept responsibility
for the accuracy or completeness of the report.



Co3.cni2  t+i 1             U SJ$;3.313
S  2  714
WrGHTM 4fl R!EASU?25
'. i."- 1...ce  S.q'< ..=la»rue mete- -~~'  .Sh--*e
. e-.     *:.)iÇ'., 62 flw,leçer-
;:  --  : t er                    ç-               &j i;e q    nrae  -     76
-, iO T.N: ra. ;on,s
<y ,   , ,. - . ,,    l¡ .çs  ,i:±  - d  ACU4dUc:tos y, Ale?az. 5r_ax
;-'\;,8''  <, * -  ecteo de San Sql1.v¿dtr
- '*> ,a-n :orbn4c.4 - nta rS 
AY~~ r~~*-     --lativa         i Mda~ l  try t,j O! rdw -"
-          .~    X               :          .     !;L.' :   ,. nd)
',, ~ ~ ~ -. w r,   a.V--<1z>ç
', , -t 3 1* é*'-*' 2
.i,e.. ~ ~ ~ ~     ~    ~     ~ ~ n .."s,,;.\;,.,w  ezant



EL SALVADOR
SITES AND SERVICES PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
BASIC DATA
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS ..............................          i - iíí
I.       INTRODUCTION           ..................   ........    1
II.       CONTE=I OF TRE PROJECT ...............*....... o......  1
A.   Urbanization .      ................... ....   .. .. ..    1
B.   Shelter Problem ...............  ............     .    2
C.   Government Housing Policy for the Public
and Private Sectors ...... ............ .. ...... .   3
LII.     TRE PROJECT ...............              ........ o...   5
A.  Project Objectives and Description ............     5
B.   Site Selection and Project Design .............   6
C.  Cost Est±nates .....     ..........*...*..... *    11
D.   Procurement ..................    13
IV.      PROJECT ORGANIZATION AND MANAGMENT      ....            14
A.   Implementation Responsibllitíes . .....    14
3.   Executing Agency (?SVM).. ..............    15
C.  Maintenance.       ..........    .........         17
D.   Supervísion and Evaluation ........e*..........   17
V.        FINANCING, COST RECOVERY AND PRICING ...............   17
VI.       SOCIO-ECONOMIC JUSTIM CATION... .    22
VII.      RECOMMENDATIONS.... . .......   23
This report was preparad by Mr. J. Balkind, Ms. D. Hadanne (Transportatíon
and Urban Projects Department), R. Bacarreza (Young Professional), J. Randwer-
ger (Consultant), and MN. Sant' anna (Development Economies Department), with
assistance from Ms. C. Long (Development Economica Department), Ma. C. Tager,
Ma. Kay Kim (Transportation and Urban Projects Department), Mr. E. Wehner
(Consultant), and Mr. J. Freedman (LAC Projecta).



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont'd)
ANNEXES
1.   Urban Background
2.   The Housing Sector
3.   The FSVM
4.   Site Selection and Layouts
5.   Design Standarda and Cost Estimates
6.   Community Facilities
7.   Water Supply and Severage
8.   Financing, Disbursement, and Cost Recovery
9.   Lot Servicing and Development Costs
10. Economic Justification
11. Monitoring and Evaluation
CRARTS AND FIGURES
Chart 1 - Organization of the FSVM
Chart 2 - Service Lavels (Page 9)
Chart 3 - House Plan
Chart 4 - Construction Schedule
Figure 1 - Photograph of Model and Constructed Units
MAPS
IBRD No. 10836 El Salvador - Project Sites
10902 Metropolitan San Salvador - Location of Sites
11002 Secondary Citíes - Location of Sites
10903 Soyapango 1 - Site Layout Plan
10904 Santa Ana - Site Layout Plan



E SALVADOR
BASIC DATA
Arca                                                           20,90  sq km
-P_oulatí c                                                    3.96 udll.on
- Capital cil;;y --San Salvador                              700,000 (18%)
- Four largest seconidary cities:
Santa Ana              110,000
San Miguel              90,000
Sonsonate               60,o0o
Usuilutan             4J  ow                           305,000 ( 8%)
- in other urban areas                                       515,000 (13%)
- In rural areas                                           2,416,000 (61%)
Population  r'owth Rate                                        3.3% p.a.
Annual Nub  New Householda in Urban Areas                       10,000
(including migation) 1960-1970
Annual Urban Housing Production (publiz and pri.vate) 1960-70    2,600 units
G_  (at market pices)                                          US$1,062 m.llion
GMP per capita (Bank Atlas)                                  US$340
Annual Gr(oth of GNP in Real Terra (1960-1970)               5.7%
Literacy Rato                                                  58%
School Enrollet Ratioe (including over-ad)
Basic Educatíon, first and second cycles (grades 1-6)        91%
Basic Education, third cycle (gradea 7-9)                    21%
Secondary Education (grade  10-12)                           10%



1



SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        El Salvador ís Central America's smallest and most densely settled
country. A high birth rate has supplemented migration to produce an overall
increase of 6-7% p.a. in the capital, San Salvador, and 4-5% ín secondary
cities. Unemployment in urban areas ís nearly 12%, and more than 50% for
part of the year in the rural sector due to the off-season in the coffee
crop, stimulating heavy seasonal migration. Rousehold incomes are parti-
cularly skewed.
ii.       All urban areas face substantial deficits ln ho«sing, basic infra-
structure and conmunity facilities, especíally among the urban poor. Approxi-
mately three-quarters of the capítal's population reside in either squatter
invasions, unauthorized sub-divísions, or in crowded courtyard tenements.
Government has been unable to close the demand-supply gap for shelter among
the urban poor due to the rapid growth in cities, lack of resources, arid the
relatively high standard units produced. Consequently, it is in the process
of refocusing its housing policíes with the private sector playing an in-
creasing role. The Five-Year Plan targets the Salvadorean Foundation for
Development and Low-Cost Xousing (FSVM), a private, non-profit organization,
to produce 14,000 units for households earning less than 0 300 (US$120) per
month. The proposed project, with the FSVM as executing agency, dates back
to August 1972 when Government first submitted to the Bank the FSVM's sites
and services program.  Two Bank missions assisted in project preparation.
lii.      The proposed project consists of:
(a)  7,000 lots:  serviced with water, sewerage, stora water drainage,
=mpaved streets, footpaths and optional electricity;
(b)  core unita:  incorporatíng two service levels;
(c)  off-site infrastructure:  for water supply, sewerage and access
roadat
(d)  construction materials financing;
(e)  community facilities:  construction and equipping of five health
clinics, 10 multipurpose comunity centers, 26 sportsfielda
and 12 markets.  The Bank's Second Education Project will
finance six basic schools ín project sites;
(f)  small industries loans:  a pilot loan fund for small industries
developed by FSVM in its serviced site projects;
(g)  Technical assistance and training for FSVM staff, and studies of
Urban Land Use/Squatter Upgrading, mortgage interest rates, and
an evaluation of the socio-economií effects of the project.
The studies will be undertaken by the national planning agency
(CONAPLAN) and will include project preparation for future sites
and services and squatter improvement schemes.



- ii -
iv.       The sites and services project is national in scope, with about 40%
of the lots located in four secondary towns, and the remainder in the capital
where the problem is most acute. The 9 project sites were selected with
particular emphasis on transportation and employment linkages. In San Salvador,
sites are adjacent to existing industrial corridors. Those in secondary cities
are located vithin 10-15 minutes walk of the main square.  The avaflability
of community facilities in areas adjacent to project sites vas exml.ned before
including additíonal facilities in the project. Each site will have at least
one market, multipurpose community canter and sportsfield, and six víll have
new schools.
v.        The estimated cost of the project including land acquisition ls
about ¢ 38.7 (US$15.5) million. The foreign exehange component ij relatively
small, US$3.8 million, or 24% of total project costa due to labor intensive-
designs and extensive use of local materials. Because neither Government
nor FSVM own land suitable for the project, the FSVM must purchase land
for all sites totalling about 120 hectares. Total project costs will be
financed 55% by IDA/IBRD, 24% by FSVM, and 21% by Government. Governinent
would cover total costs of off-site infrastructure, community facilities,
certain technical assistance and related design and engineeríng fees. The
FSVM would cover 100% of expenditures on land, project management and small
industries loana, and-80% of the construction materíals fund. The Bank would dís-
burse 100% of on-site infrastructure and core unit construction, (including
design and engineering), as well as FSVIf training and technical assistance,
and 20% of the construction materlals fund.
vi.       The Borrower wili be the Government of El Salvador.  The Executing
Agency will be FSVM which will be responsíble for lot design, engineering,
construction, and the admínistratLon of materíals and small índustríes loana.
Community facilitles will be the responsibilíty of the various Government
agencies who will also prepare detalled designa. The project would be carried
out in three phases over four years with expected completicn in mid-1978.
Full utilization of the construction materials vlll require two addítíonal
years, and consequently the project closing date will be March 31, 1981.
vii.      The proposed US$6.0 million IDA Credit would be on standard IDA
terms to the Government who would on-lend the full amount to the FSVM at
2% inrerest over 30 years including 6 years grace. The proposed US$2.5 mil-
lion IBRD loan would be made to Government who would on-lend to FSVM at the
IBRD terms. Developed lots will be sold on a freehold basis which is expected
to induce maximum improvemaents by lot recipients. The FSVM's mortgage terms
to households would be at least 6% over 25 years. Construction materials
loans would be amortized over 10 to 15 years at at least 8%, and the pilot
small industries loan component at various rates between 8-12% up to 5 years.
vi£i.     Differential prícing of the lots and crosa-subsídization will make
the project accessible to householda as low as the 17th percentile on the
urban income distribution curve.



- iii -
ix.       The FSVM would be fully able to financially carry the project, even
assuming defaults of 10% The ínternal economic rate of return on the project
is estimated at 20%.
x.        The proposed project is unlque for the Bank/IDA in its use of a
private non-profit agency to execute a large-scale sites and services program.
The FSVM's substantial financial participation exemplifies the type of private
initiative Governnent la encouraging in order to meet El Salvadorls urban
shelter needa. The program should be highly replicable for future projects
in El Salvador and could develop into the country's primary focus for housing
investment. Government's partnership vith a successful private agency should
provide a useful ezample to other countries facing similar ahelter problems.
xi.       Since agreement has been reached on the provisions in paras. 7.01 and
7.02, the project ís suitable for an IDA Credit of US$6.0 million and an IBRD
loan of US$2.5 million. 1/
1/   Because of the blend financing, all references in this report to
"the Bank" include both the Association and IBRD.






EL SALVADOR
SITES AND SERVICES PROJECT
1. INTRODUCTION
1.01      In August 1972, El Salvador's National Planning Agency (CONAPLAN)
submitted to the Bank a financing request for a sites and service project to
be executed by the Salvadoreán Foundation for Development and Low-Cost Rousing
(FSVM), a private, non-profit organízation.  Bank míssions in November 1972
and February 1973 assisted in the preparation of the proposed project.
1.02      The project would be the first Bank operation for urban development
in El Salvador.  It would also be the first example of a private organization
executing and substantially financing a major public sector project, thereby
conserving public resources. To date, serviced site projects have embraced
private participation through indívidual or small group efforta. The proposed
project would be a significant step in the gradual evolution of Government's
role from that of housing producer, possible only in small-scale, to one in
which it coordinates low-income shelter activities which now take place in an
uncontrolled manner.
1.03      This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mssiaon which
visited El Salvador ín November 1973 comprísed of Messrs. J. Balkind (Missíon
Chief), R. Bacarreza (Economist), J. Handwerger (Architect, Consultant), and
Ms. A. Sant'Anna (Sociologist).  Mr. J. Freedman (Sanitary Engineer) and Mr. F.
Kaps (Loan Officer) joined the mission for a few days each to aseist on specific
aspects. Project cost estiíates were revised on the basis of a follow-up mais-
sion ín June 1974, in which No. D. Raldane also participated. MN. C. Long und
Prof. 1.. Clignet (Consultant) participated in this nission in connection vith
the ~oÍitoriug and evaluatiou c~oponenta.
II. CONTEX3 OF THE PROJECT
A. Urbanization
2.01      El Salvador ís Central America's smallest and most densely settled
country with a population of alost 4 million.  Nearly 40% live in urban
areas -- 18% in the capital, San Salvador (700,000), 8% in the four largest
secondary cities (see lMap 10836), with the remainder ín amaller urban areas.
An unusually high natural growth rate of 3.3% p.a. has supplemented migration
to produce an overall annual population increase of 6-7% in the capital, and
4-5% in secondary cities.



-2-
2.02      The country has experienced high unemployment, due in part to
seasonal fluctuations related to the coffee crop. While in urban areas nearly
12% of the labor force is without work, over half of the labor potential in
the rural sector remains unemployed for a large part of the year, st~mulating
heavy seasonal mígration. A severe maldistribution of income typifíes both
urban and rural areas. Approximately 60% of urban households (comprised of
an average family size of aix) earn a monthly income of less than £ 250
(US$100) and 85% fall below £ 600 (US$240) (Annex 1).
B. Shelter Problem
2.03      All of El Salvador's urban areas face substantial deficits in housing,
basic infrastructure and community facilities, particularly among the urban poor.
Preliminary 1971 national census figures estimated the urban housing stock at
about 270,000 units, nearly two-thirds of which were in San Salvador and the
four secondary cities of Santa Ana, San Miguel, Sonsonate and Usulutan. A
Government housing study in 1971 estimated the urban housing deficit 1/ at
147,000 units, representing about 55% of the existing stock. About two-thirds
or 96,000 units applied to households earning less than US$100 per month
(Annex 2). Although most homes (90%) had electricity, 60% lacked individual
water supply and sewerage. The use of low quality materials and poor construc-
tion methods contribute to the rapid physical deterioration of the housing
stock. The problem is exacerbated by severe overcrowding, particularly in
poorly serviced courtyard teneaents (mesones) where densities may reach
1,200 persons/ha.
2.04      Approximately three-quarters of San Salvador's population reside in
either squatter invasions typically located in public rights of way, unauthor-
ized sub-divisions on privately owned land, or in mesones. Squatter settlements
and unauthorized sub-divisions which cover 30-40% of metropolitan San Salvador
(MSS), accommodate nearly half the population and lack all normal services.
Growth ratas in these areas exceed those of the city as a whole and may reach
15-20% in certain locationa, creating a highly profitable market for undeveloped
land.  Most sub-divisions are without services because owners either fail to
apply or are unable to obtain the necessary development permits required for
water and sewage connections.
2.05      Statistics show that from 1960 to 1970 public and private housing
production in El Salvador averaged only 2,600 units a year (Annex 2, Table 2),
during which time 10,000 new households were formed annually in urban areas.
Statistics are unavailable on the growth of popular (illegal) housing which
presumably absorbed the remaining 7,400 households.  Government has been
1/   Recognizing that all families presently reside in some form of shelter,
"deficit" here implies overcrowding, structural inadequacies or lack of
services.



-3-
unable to close the demand-supply gap for shelter amng the urban poor due to
the rapid grovth in cities and the relatively high atandards maintained
in Government housing. The government housing agency, Instituto de Vivienda
Urbana (IVU) and the semi-public Financiera Nacional de la Vivienda (FNV) have,
for the =st part, constructed or financed completad dwellings st unit costa
exceeding US$3,000. Dvefllings in this price range were only affordable to
fa±ílies earning at least US$100 per month, representing the upper 42% of
urban hauseholda (Annex 2). Except for the FSVM, prívate developera have
concentrated on middle- and upper-income uiita.
2.06      Public housing schoes haye traditionally suffered from the lack of
involvement and respons±bilíty on the part of occupants for maintaining or
improving their residential enviro=ment. A senee of community has been 81ow to
develop perhapa in part because of the lack of community facilities and an
integral comaunty development program.
C. Goverment Housing Policy for the
Public and Private Sectors
2.07      Because governaent programe haye been amall and fairly costly, a
private, non-profit agency--ths Salvadorean Foundation for Development and
Low-Cost Housing (FSVM) has come to play a significant role in the provision
of low-income housing. The Five-Year Plan (1973-77) targets the FSVM to
produce 14,000 unita for household earníng less than 0 250 (US$100) per month.
IVU ií targeted to produce 17,000 uníts for similar incowe grOups, requiring
a substantial reorientation of the agency's operations.  IVU's management,
which la currently reorganizing internal operationas (Annex 2), intends to
undertake sites and services projects although detaílad plans are not yet
available. Lf both FSVM and IVU were able to meet their targets, new house-
hold formation within this income group could be catered for. The probles
of existing unauthorizad settlements, however, would remain. Considerable
investigation la required before an appropriate course of action can be
outlined for these areas. CON&FL&N, the goverment planning agency, íntande
to analyze the proble aud develop specific proposals. The project there-
fore includes a technical assistance component for carrying out such a study
(para 3.16). The Study will hava a broad focus on urban land-use problema
and will draw upon the Urban Study (Metroplan) completad by Government and
USAID in 1968 (see Annex 1).
2.08      In June 1973, Governaent creatad a National Housing Fund (Fondo
Social) (Annex 2), an auto»mous goverament agency which finances housing
construction for industrial and commercial workers. Contributions, expressed
as a percentage of the employe«a' salaries, are made annually to the Fund,
the employer contributing 5% of all his employees' salaries and the employee
0.5%. In addition, Governrent will grant US$2.0 millíon per year as equity
to the Fund over the next five years. While the Eousing Fund will be used



-4-
primarily for contributing workers, the statutes do allow on-lending of funds
received from Government or international agencies to be used for low-income
persons who are not regularly employed and, therefore, have not contributed
to the Fund.
The FSVM
2.09      In June 1970 the FSVM was created as a non-profit organization to
provide shelter and related services to households with monthly incomes below
US$120 (Annex 3).  Sites and services projects are currently the exclusive
means utilized by the FSVM to achíeve this objective, though interest has been
expressed in developing aquatter upgrading schemes.
2.10      The FSVM is a small, well-managed organization with a solid technical
staff. To date it has completed about 1,020 fully serviced lots with core
houses primarily in San Salvador costing an average of US$800 per unit.
Construction has been rapid on all schemes. Civil works and basic dwellings
in the largest project of 520 units (Santa Tecla 1) were completed 12 months
after ground-breaking.
2.11      The FSVM has been particularly successful in stimulating community
involvement and rapid consolidation.  Project participants generally assist
in trench-digging, pipe-laying, and construction of core units.  FSVM has had
considerable success with this system in the past, which is termed "mutual help"
Co distinguish it from salf-help which applies to work on one's own house.
The mutual help construction teame are organized iato groups of 15-30 persons
and trained by a FSVM tecinical foreman and social worker.  Participants are
paid through labor credits registered with the FSVM which are later applied
Coward their lot downpayment. The overall conmunity development program
deals with a relatively broad range of related problema such as employment
and savings, attempting to help residents structure effective local organí-
zations capable of achieving continuing improvements. Households in previous
FSVM projects have, for example, organized task forces for the construction
of bridges, clinics and meeting houses, savings and loan societies, and
cooperatives for concrete block production. While the FSVM has provided
technical assistance to several small-scale commercial enterprises producing
hand-woven rugs and construction materials, their growth has been constrained
by difficulties in obtaining start-up capital from traditional loan institu-
tions.  A pilot loan component is included in the project in order to help
bridge this gap (paras 3.13 and 4.08).
2.12      In view of its proven ability to develop very low-cost serviced sites,
the FSVM is considered the most appropriate agency to execute the project. The
Foundationr has evidenced a sincere commitment to the self-help approach and
offers five distinct advantages over other agencies involved in housing in
El Salvador:
(a)  low, realistic standards coupled with an ability to maintain
cost discipline enabling it to reach very low-income families;



(b) the ability to organize communities into effective programa
whích train participants in building skills critical to the
self-help house construction proceso;
(c) relatively unsubsidized pricing policies;
(d) an impressive payment record by participants (para. 4.10); and
(e) an ongoing evaluatíon study which wíll provide valuable
knowledge for improving the execution of future programa.
2.13      The proposed project is unique for the Bank in its use of a private,
non-profit agency to execute a large-seale sites and services program.   The
FSVM's substantial financial participation (24% of total costs) examplifies
the type of private initiative Government is encouraging in order to meet El
Salvador's urban shelter needs. The expansion of the FSVM's currently small
but solid operation into a large-scale national program represents a major
contribution to the housing sector. The project will increase FSVM's con-
struction capacity frol 500 serviced lots a year to 1,800 units.  The program
should be highly replicable for future projects which might be executed by
other agencies. Governaent's partnershíp with a successful private agency
could provide a useful example to other countries facing similar shelter
problema.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives and Description
3.01      The objectivez of the project are to:  (i) demonstrate that a site
and service program with partíally-buílt units is a practical alternative to
conventional fully-built Government housing programs, the costs of which haye
been beyond the means of nearly 60% of urban households; (ii) ease the severe
shortage of low-cost urban shelter by providing units affordable to families
earning US$40-120 per »=nth, reaching down to the 17th percentile of the urban
income distribution scale; (iií) demonstrate the potential role of the private
sector in providing self-financing, low-income housíng, thereby easing the
burden on Govern=ent resources; (iv) encourage provision of adequate community
facilities and effective community development programs as an integral part of
low-cost housing; and (v) generate employment through labor-intensive con-
struction methods and organization of small commercial ventures.
3.02      The proposed project consists of:
(a)  serviced lots:  approximately 7,000 lots serviced with water,
sewerage, storm water drainage, unpaved streets, foctpaths, and
optional electricity;



(b) core unit3: approximately 7,000 sanitary units and 3,500 basic
dwellings;
(c) off-site infrastructure: water distribution and sewer mains, up-
grading of access roads;
(d)  construction materials:  financing for a materials fund designed
to induce self-help extension of core units;
(e) commnunity facilities: construction and equipping of 5 health
clinics, 10 multipurpose community centers, 26 sportsfields,
and 12 markets. The Bank's Second Education Project (Loan
1007-ES of June 14, 1974) will finance 6 basic schools on
project sites;
(f) small industries loans: provision of a pilot loan fund for small
industries developed by FSVM; and
(g) training and technical assistance: short-term technical assistance
and training for FSVM staff, and studies on Urban Land Use/Squatter
Upgradlng, the structure of mortgage interest rates in El Salvador;
and an evaluation of the socio-economic effects of the project.
The studies will be undertaken by CONAPLAN, and will include project
preparation for future serviced site and squatter upgrading schemes.
The project is not intended to serve total housing needs but to demonstrate an
effective and replicable approach to shelter problems. The 7,000 lots are
an appropriate number of units for FSVM to execute over the next four years.
The project would accommodate about one-third of new household formation with-
in the target income group over the construction period--26Z of new households
in San Salvador and 63% in secondary towns (see Annex 1).
B. Site Selection and Project Design
Site Selection
3.03      In order to encourage development of regional centers, project sites
are distributed between the capital and secondary cities in roughly a 4:3 ratio
as follows:
(a) about 4,100 lots in metropolitan San Salvador (MSS - Map 10902):
of which 2,560 are in four sites ín Soyapango (in the northeast),
1,540 in Apopa (in the north).
(b) the remaining 2,900 in the four largest secondary cities (M.iaps
10836 and 11002):



-7-
950 in Santa Ana (population of 110,000),
1,000 in San Miguel (population of 90,000),
550 in Sonsonate (population of 60,000),
400 in Usulutan (population of 45,000).
3.04      Principal site selection criteria were: (i) proximi¿y to employment
opportunities, public transport, and off-site infrastructure (roads, water,
sewerage); (ii) construction suitability regarding topography, vegetation,
soíl and ground water conditions; and (iii) availability of adjacent community
facilities (Annex 4).
3.05      In San Salvador, the sites are well served by public transportation
and are adjacent to the existing industrial corridors on the major east-west
highway. The Apopa site borders the developing north industrial corridor.
Sites in the secondary cities are located wíthin 10-15 minutes walk of the
main square. All sites are well located in relation to off-site infrastruc-
ture, i.e., roads, water, sewerage, and pover mains. The terrain is generally
even with minimal slopes well suited to low-cost infrastructure development.
Site characteristics are su-marized in Table 1 of Annex 4.
Site Layouts
3.06      Site layouts are based on a careful analysis of slopes, natural
drainage patterns, soil quality, and prime buildable areas. Lots per site
range from 450-1,000 yielding sites large enough to achieve economies of
scale, but not so large as to concentrate too many low-income families in
a given area. FSVM's site planning is of high quality incorporating flexi-
bility and innovation. A special feature is the clustering of 14-20 lots
around small parks, thereby reducing the monotony of large residential develop-
ments. Layouts for Soyapango 1 and Santa Ana are shown in Maps 10903 and
10904.
3.07      A grid of pedestrian walkways provides access to each lot and contains
sanitary sewerage pipes and storm water drainage channels. The pathway system
links each lot with other lots and community facilities. Vehicular crossings
of pedestrian walkways have been minimized. Peripheral roads serve parking
areas and cul-de-sacs, providing access for emergency and service vehicles.
Co  unity facilities are generally located in the interior of the site and
are easily accessible, with small comercial zones located at selected
internal points. Larger commercial and market areas are at the site entry
point or bus stops, proviíing easy service access and social links with
adjacent residential communities.
Serviced Lots
3.08      All lots will be serviced to the same level of infrastructure, with
individual water, sewerage and optional electricity connections. Household
surveys conducted by FSVM showed that communal sanitary services were un-
acceptable and individual pit latrines were not recommended because of local
soíl conditions and the likelihood of contamination on the small lots. Street



-8-
lighting will be installed along major access roads and at main circulation
poínts (Annex 5). Lot sizes vary between locations, according to the avail-
ability and price of land and may vary within a given site.  Because of the
extreme scarcity of land, the lot size in MSS is relalively small (about 60 m2),
while most of those in secondary cities will be 120 m . Nevertheless, gross
densities are moderate (27-80 lots/ha), due to open space provisions. Between
40-50% of total site area is allocated to lota, 28-40% to circulation (footpaths,
roada, and parking), and 15-30% to community facilities. Annex 4, Table 2
shows land use profiles for 6 project sites.
Core Units
3.09      Two service levels will be provided (see figure next page).  All
lota on each site will haye an enclosed sanitary unit containing a w.c., shower,
and wash basin (level 1). Half the lots on a given site will also have a basic
dwelling of about 17 m2 (level 2). This structure will consist of an asbestos
cement roof, wooden frme doors and windows, and a concrete floor. The rear
wall and interior partitions vill be built by self-help. The unita are designed
to be earthquake resistant, with reinforced concrete columns, bond beams, and
foundations.
Off-Site Infrastructure
3.10      The necessary water distribution and sever mains will be provided
by the National Water Authority (ANDA) where existing capacity ia inadequate
to serve project requirements.   Major access roads will be upgraded to sítes
where existing routes are not surfaced to an all-weather standard (see Map
10903). ANDA has experienced financial and managerial problems, resulting in
a substantial backlog of water and sewerage services (Annex 7).  Government
assurance was given during negotiations that water and sewerage services vill
be provided to all sites in accordance with an agreed construction schedule.
Construction Materíals
3.11      The construction materials fund is designed to allow:  (i) the 3,500
service level 1 households materíals loans of 0 530 enabling them to build the
basic dwelling provided under level 2; (ii) all households access to loans of
varying amounts up to 0 860 to partition and extend their basic dwellings based
on six model plans designed by FSVM. The detailed materials componente for the
two types of loans are listed in Annex 5, Tables 4 and 5. A sum has been
included for 200 households in the FSVM's completed Santa Tecla 1 project, in
which loans were not originally extended (detaíls in Annex 5, table 6). This
component will provide the FSVM with valuable experience in administering
materials loans sínce the Santa Tecla lots are already occupied.
Community Facilities
3.12      The avaílability of community facilities in areas adjacent to project
sites was examined before including additional facilities in the project. Each
site will have at least one market, multipurpose community center and sports-
field. The nuwber of clinics was determined on the basis of the ability of



Figure.
W1 L]~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
<i  '5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



- 10 -
the Ministry of Health to staff and maintain these facilities. Project designs,
except for health clinics, provide for contractor execution of basic structural
elements and self-help completion of walls. Six schools will be buílt on sites
listed in Annex 6, Table 2 financed by Loan 1007-ES.
Small Industries Loans
3.13      Loan funds in limited amounts would be made available to small-scale
commercial enterprises in project sites to províde start-up finance, the lack
of whích has proven a major constraint to the growth of such enterprises
(para. 2.11).  The fund is small (0.3% of total project costs) and will draw
upon FSVM's experience in its ongoing program of assistance to small business
cooperatives. The fund is intended to demonstrate the viability of small-
acale cooperative ventures with a view toward encouraging local financial
institutions to make credit available for such ventures, (see para. 4.08).
Training and Technlcal Assistance
.3.14      Project costs include the staffing and operating costa of FSVM
employees engaged in this project, since these expenditures are capitalized
into the sales price of the lot. The technical assistance to FSVM will cover
the expenses of four short-term experts in particular fielda. Provision is
made for training FSVM staff in order to increase the agency's execution
capacity (para 4.04). A component for future project preparation is also
included to provide for feasibility studies for future sites and services
and upgrading projects.
3.15      The project includes a study of the structure of mortgage interest
rates to be undertaken by Government. The rates charged by government agencies
(IVU and Fondo Social) and FSVM are considerably below the savings and loan
associations' rates (para. 5.08), Most interest rates in all sectors of
the economy are not market-determined but are either set by the Monetary
Board or by the agencies themselves. Government intends to review mortgage
ratea as a firat step in establishing consistent rates for the entire housing
sector.
3.16      El Salvador is experiencing a proliferation of illegal settlements
(para. 2.04) particularly in the capital. Little reliable data are available,
however, upon which to determine an appropriate course of action and Govern-
ment is reluctant to embark on a major upgrading program without adequate
information. Urban planning data contained in Metroplan has been fragmented
(Annex 1) and a fresh look at urban land-use and zoning regulations is required.
A Study is therefore included in the project to be undertaken by CONAPLAN which
wíill focus on urban land-use problem, as well as a physical and social survey
of squatter settlements and illegal subdivisions. The Study will assess the
economic and social feasibility of varíous approaches to the problem, making
specific recommendations on the following types of questions:
(a) the ressons for the widespread failure to obtain subdivision
permits and steps to alleviate this situation;



(b)  appropriate zoning regulations: identification of settlements
suited to upgrading as opposed to those requiring relocation;
(e)  the types and approximate costs of services needed in such
settlements to: (i) ensure basic public health requirements,
and (ii) meet residents' priorities
(d) the ability and willingness of residents to pay for improve-
ments at various service standards;
(e)  tenure terms and the administrative mechanisms required for
regularizing property rights-
<f)  the appropriate executing a<'encv for an upgrading program: and
(7)  progress made on Metroplan's proposal for the creation of a
Land Bank.
Final terms of reference for all studies under the project will be prepared
bv CONAPLAN in consultation with the Bank.
C. Cost Estimates
3.17      A particularly attractíve feature of this project is its low costs
achieved through labor intensive designs, modest standards and extensive
use of locally-made materials.  Cost estimates (Annex 5, Table 1) are based
on detailed engineering and design for the Soyapango 1 site, preliminary
design and engineering for the other project sites, and on FSVM's construc-
tion experience in similar projects. Physical contingencies (Table 7.
Annex 5) vary between 5-15Z depending on the stage of design and engineering.
In the ten vears preceding 1973 price escalation in El Salvador never exceeded
6% p.a.  However, significant increases have occurred in the construction sec-
tor since September 1973, amounting to about 30% overall. Due to current labor
union pressures for similar wage increases, prices are expected to continue
rising at above-normal rates, estimated at 20% for 1975, and 10%, 9%, and 8%
respectively for 1976-78. Details are presented'in Table 3 of Annex 5. The
estimated cost of the project including land acquisition is about ¢ 38.7
(US$15.5) million.  The foreign exchange component is relatively small,
US$3.8 million, or 24% due to labor intensiveness and the use of local
materials.  Costs are sunmarized in the following table:



Itr-.                          Cnone:: '(C.                     US$ 'CIC(             Forei-n   Prc. ;
Local   PoreJn    Tota         Lo oc a    Forei ..n    Total   Exchange   Cost
1.   ar,                                                      "-)l,    1 983         -       1 . f                 P C
2. Ci.vil '.orks:
a. On-Site Infr?strwuture          4,973       2,131    7,1 lO     1,989         853    2,8h2        3G      16.L
b. O§f-Site Infrastructulre           539        559    1,398         336        223       559      hO         3.-
c. Core Units: /1
(i) 'anitary Units              2,1, 1J      831    3,325         998        332    1,330        25        8.(
(ii) Basic Dwellngs              1,982        661     2,6h3        793        264    1,057        25        6.8
3.  Constru tion N:ateriais Fund        1,37?;       591    1,970         551        237       788       30        5.1
4.  Community Facilities                1,273        h125    1,6981       509        170       679       25        h.l:
5.   la12 Irdustries Loan Fund            125        -         125         50        -          50        0        0.3
6.  Lesign and Engineering              1,775        -       1,775        71C        -         71C        0        1-1
7.  Project !:anagernent;
a. Staff and Operations             £.L5¿X       -       2,15C        980                  980        C        6.3
b. Vehicles and hquipment             -          155       155        -           62        62      1C0'       c.0;
8.  Trainin" and Technical
Assistance                          -       1,225    1,225          -          490       4190      90        3.?
Sub-total                 22,218      6,5781   28,t8?26    H,899      2,631   11,530        21j%     74.5
V.  Contin en'ries:
a. Physical  /2                     1,113        II71    1,590        445        191       636       3C        h.1
b. Price  /3                        5,775      2,I?5    6,250       2,310        990    3,300        36       21.L
TOTAL                     29,136      9,530   38,666    11,654        3,812   15 466        24%    10G.0C
/1  7,C00  sanitary units ( , h7t,;  3,55( basic dwellLngs t    55.
/2  Between 5-1' Y of iterns 2 and 1: (construiction on]y).  See Table 7, Annex 5.
/3  Carluattd cni citems 2, ib and 71).  Lee T'able 11, Ani¡ex ';.



- 13
3.18      Because neither Government nor FSVM own land suitable for the project,
the Foundation must purchase land for all sites totalling about 120 ha. Con-
sequently, land costs represent a major ítem (13%) of total project costs.
FSVM has already acquired two sites and has purchase options on those remain-
ing.  Based on FSVM's previous experience, current negotiations and future 2
market price assessments, land costs range between US$1.40 to US$2.80 per m
or an estimated average price of US$6,700 per acre.
3.19      The breakdown of on- and off-site infrastructure costs for the Soya-
pango 1 site also typical of other project sites, is given in Tables 2 and
3 of Annex 5. Details on the materíals fund are shown in Table 6, and design
and engineering costs in Table 9 of the same Annex. The costs of the various
co=munity facilities include 0 760,000 for 5 health clinics, 0 460,000 for
10 multipurpose community centers, 0 250,000 for 12 markets, and 0 230,000 for
26 sportsfields. Details are presented in Annex 6.
3.20.     Technical assistance totalling 0 1,225,000 would include 0 375,000
for four short-term experts, a trainlng component for FSVM staff of about
1 125,000, an Urban Land Use/Squatter Upgrading Study costing about 0 375,000,
a study of mortgage interest rates costing about t 150,000, and e 200,000 for
future project preparation. Government, the Bank and UNDP are discussing the
possibility of UNDP financing the latter three studies. Government has sug-
gested that ín this case the Bank should act as executing agency. Discussions
are also underway with UNDP and private foundations for technical assistance
grants to cover the costs of the evaluation study.
D. Procurement
3.21      The project would be carried out in three phases over four years with
expected completion in mid-1978.  Full utilization of the construction materials
will require two additional years, and consequently, the project's closing date
will be March 31, 1981. Any undisbursed funds as of the closing date would be
utilized, with prior Bank approval, for a pilot squatter upgrading project or
for additional serviced lots and/or materials loans.
3.22      The FSVM would be responsible for procurement of all on-site vorks
except community facilities.  Off-site infrastructure and community facilíties
would be contracted by the responsible Ministry. A private power distribution
company, CAESS, 1I would handle street lighting and individual pcwer co=nec-
tions.
3.23      Contracts would be tendered by FSVM for those items for which it is
responsible (para 4.01) according to the three phases with separate contracts
for each site. In order to facilitate participation by small contractors in
El Salvador, contracts will also be split according to on-site infrastructure
1/   Reference to CAESS include CLESA, the private pcwer company serving the
Santa Ana area; and CLES, the company serving Sonsonate.



- i4 -
and core unit development.  Large con-ractors vill be able to bid for one
or all of che contracts to be let in a given phase. The FSVM would evaluate
bids and award contracts in accordance wiCh Bank guidelines.   Prequalification
vill take place to assess the capabilicies of firms constructing this type of
project In Central America. Procurement of all civil works over US$50,000
and of construction materials aver US$20,000 would be by ínternational cormpet-
itive bidding (ICB) in accordance with Bank guidelines, with local advertise-ent
and notificacion of embassies. Contracts below US$50,000 for civil works and
US$20,000 for construction materials may be procured locally provided that the
aggregate amounts dn not exceed US$450,000 and US$200,000 respectively.  In
accordance with che Central American Agreemrent, suppliers from Central American
Common Market (CACM) countries would receive a preferential margin of 15% of
the c.i.f. base prices or 50% of the tariff payable by non-CACM manufacturers,
whichever is lower.
3.24      Small portions of on-site civil works and community facilities would
be executed through mutual-help, whfch the FSVN has successfully utilized on
previous projects (para. 2.11).  However, in order to maintain the construc-
cion schedule, it may become necessary to erploy contractors on all aspects.
Progress will be reviewed during supervision missions and the need for con-
tract labor assessed in consultation between the FSVMf, Governnent ard the
Bank.
3.25      Due to che urgent need to catch up with the increasing housing
backlog, Government and FSrM are anxious to proceed with site preparation.
As detailed engineering and land acquisition have been completed on Phase 1
sites, it is recommended that retroacrive financing of US$300,000 be included
in the project covering expenditures inacurred since January 1, 1974 for civ.l
works on Soyapango 1 and Santa Ana.
IV.  PROJECT ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEXENT
A. Implementation Responsibilities
4.01      The borrower will be the Government of El Salvador.  The Executing
Agency wíll-be the Salvadorean Foundation for Development and Low-Cost Housíng
(FSVM>), which wíll be responsible for, inter-alia, lot design, engineering,
construction, and the administration of materials loans.  Community facílities
will be the responsibility of the various Government agencies who vill also
prepare detailed designs. Schools will be construcced by the Ministry of
Education's Direccion Arquiteccura Educativa (DAE). The Ministry of Health
will be responsible for health clinics; FOCCO (the government community
development agencv) for multipurpose communicy centers, markets and spcrts-
fields; and ANDA for all water and sewerage infrastructure íncluding house
connections.  Street lighting and individual power connections will be built
by CAESS.  The aboye arrangements were confirmed during negotiations.



- 15 -
4.02      To facilitate project execution, the Directorate of the National
Planning Agency (CONAPLAN) has established a Project Coordinating Comnittee,
composed of its own senior officials, and representatives from DUA, ANDA, FSVM
and the Financiera Nacional de la Vivienda (FNV, see Annex 2).  CONAPLAN vill
be responsible for ensuring that primary infrastructure and community facilities
are executed according to schedule.  Periodic progress reports vould be prepared
by the FSVM and made available to the Committee and to the Bank.
B. Executing Agency (PSVM)
4.03      In order to execute the project, FSVM will need to expand its staff
(Annex 3). The agency is administratively sound, and with the technical
assistance provided under the project execution should proceed s=othly.
The organization is presently structured around three divisions, Technical,
Social and Admlnistrative (Chart 1). A Rousing Administration Division vill
be established by February 1975 to handle payments on mortgages and material
loans, currently placed within the Accounting Section of the Administrative
Division. The Accounting Section would retain responsibility for all other
financial matters, including the internal audit. Internally audited project
accounts would be sent to the Bank quarterly. Reports of an external audit,
currently carried out by an independent auditor (Annex 3) will be furnished
to the Bank vithin four months of the end of each fiscal year.
4.04      The technical assistance component includes short-term experts to
assist FSVM in the areas of: (i) housing administration; (ii) development of
small industrial and commercial cooperative enterprises; (iii) management,
including monitoring, accounting and budgeting, and (iv) site design. This
staff would act in an advisory/training capacity. The complementary training
provisions will allow staff to attend short-term courses in specific subjects
such as accounting, management or site design, or to visit other agencies
involved in similar work.
Implementation Tasks
4.05      Land Tenure:  Most developed lots (95%) will be transferred to
allottees through tenant purchase, 1/ freehold sale or cooperative ownership;
a maximum of 5% may be rented on a 25 year leasehold. The FSVM will act much
as a private developer, retaining neither land rights nor extended management
responsibilities. These terms are expected to induce maximum improvements
by lot recipients.
1/   A common system of tenure whereby title is transferred on completion of
"mortgage" payments, 25 years in this case. If during this periad, a
household has to vacate for good reason, FSVM will repurchase the lot.



- 16 -
4.06      Selection of Households:  Developed lots will be advertised through
che press, radio, posters, and public meetings.  Tne Social Department of FSVM
will screen and evaluate applicacions excludíng chose with household monthly
incomes exceeding US$120 (O 300) or 0 50 per capita. At least 50% of lots wlll
be reserved for households with monthly incomes less than US$70. Selection
críteria include: (a) residericy in squatter settlements or inadequate housing
conditions for 2 or more years; (b) an individual monthly income of not more
than 0 50, or a household aggregate of not more than 0 300; and (c) intention
to llve on the assigned lot.  Final selection of households will be made by
lottery and ratified by the FSVM Seleccion Comnittee, composed of the heads of
the Social Divisioa and the Social Research Sectiou, the Execucive Director
and a member of the Housing Admoinstration Division.  The allottee wii be
required to sign his mortgage within one month of site completion.  Failure to
make a downpayment in cash or kind 4 months after signature or tó initiate de-
velopment within 24 =nths will constitute abandonment, and result ín real-
locacion of the lot.
4.07      Orientation and Technical Advice:  The co=unity developmenc progran
will consist of, inter-alia, speci.ic orientation co self-help construction
of che various house designs, guidance on the use-and maintenance of facili-
ties provided under the project and the financial responsibilities of indi-
vidual households. Technical assistance for house construction and other
self-help building activities will be available to Darticipants. in addction,
advisory services in comercial accounting, markeciñg and production will be
provided through FSVM co small business cooperacives run by the communities
in order to stimulate income-earning opportunities.
4.08      Small industries Loans:  The experimental small industrías loan fund
will be administered as an intezr.I. Dart of the technical assiztance progran,
under FSVM's Social Department. Loans would be made to on-site registered
cooperatives. Applications vouid be reviewed by the Social Department and
approved by the Selection Committee in consultacion with the small industries
specialíst.
4.09      Building Materials Loans:  :he FSVM wili díscribute materials loans
through on-site depots. Households will be able to withdraw their materla1s
loan in various tranches and che resulitng repayment obligations will be
geared to the participant's actual draw-down. By February 1975 a new section
will be created within che Technical Operations Dívision to administer this
component, but payments will be handled tnrough che Housíng Administration
Division.
4.10      Collections:  Collections will be made at on-sitm offices.  While
the FSVM's projects have noo been completed long enough to have established
daca on payment defaults, arrears exceeding three months are running less tlcan
10%, well below a comparable figure of 26% for IWVI (Annex 2). This is perhaps
due to the fact thac a private agency runs a lower default risk than does
Governrent. Actual defaults (arrearages over 12 mor.ths) in IVU, however, are
only about 3% which compares quite favorably with mnost countries on which
data are available.  Adjusting for che fact that IVU has dealt primarily with



_ 17 -
somewhat higher income groups, defaulta are still not expected to exceed
5Z and would be covered by a surcharge on monthly payments. Should defaults
exceed 5% they would be covered by the 2% differential between the terms at
which FSVM receives ita funda and those given to householda (paras 5.03 and
5.08).
C. Mainte"nnce
4.11      Both on- and off-site water and sewer infrastructure will be main-
tained by ANDA, electrical house connections by CAESS, street lighting by the
Municipality and roads by the Ministry of Public Works.  Schools and health
clinics will be staffed, operated and maintained by the Ministries of Educa-
tion antd  ealth respectively.  Thís vas confirmed during negotiations.  The
operation and upkeep of communíty centres, including day-care services will
be the responsibility of each community.  User-charges will be aasessed for
day-care services to cover full recurrent costs of equipment and materials,
salaries, and feeding. Standards of services will be determined by each
community in consultation with the Ministry of Health.
D.  Supervision and Evaluation
4.12      Project supervision vould require about 60 man-weeks of Bank staff
time. Periodíc progreas reports summarizing key aspecta of project monitoring
and prepared by the FSVM (para. 4.02) would be sent to the Bank in advance of
supervision missions. The El Salvador project has been identified as one of
three Bank site snd service achenes for a detaild socio-econou±c evaluation.
(nes 1 1 .)
Y. FINANCING, COST RECOVERY AND PRICING
Financing and Disbursement
5.01      The total project co0t of ¢ 38.7 (US$15.5) million would be financed
as follows:
Financing
% of Total              Amount
Project Costs    0 million  US$ millon
Government (including CAESS and
UNDP)                      21%               8.1         3.2
FSVM                                    24%               9.5        3.8
IDA/IBRD                                55%              21.2        8.5
Total                             100.0%            38.7       15.5



- 18 -
Government would cover total costs of off-site infrastructure, community
facilities, related design and engineering fees and certain technical assist-
ance totalling t 6.0 (US$2.4) million.  Pover reticulation costs totalling
t 2.0 (US$0.8) million for street lightíng and índividual connections including
related design and engineering would be financed by CAESS.  The FSVM would
finance 100% of expenditures on land, project management, and small industries
loans, and 80% of the construction materials fund.  The Bank would disburse
100% of on-site infrastructure and core unit construction (including design
and engineering), and FSVM  training and technical assistance; and 20% of the
construction materials fund. Details including the disbursement schedule are
presented in Annex 8, Table 1.  The Bank's contributíon would consist of an
IDA credit of US$6.0 million and a US$2.5 mullíon IBRD loan.
5.02      Goverament's share of total project costs vould be financed through
the regular budgets of government agencies and CAESS.  Costs vould be recovered
through mortgage payments, normal rates and tariffs levied by ANDA, CAESS and
the Municipality.  The FSVM would supply 0 9.5 (US$3.8) million of which
US$2.0 million will come from local bank lending (Banco Hipotecario) and
US$1.8 million from its own reserves.  This was confirmed during negotiations.
On-Lending Arrangements
5.03      The proposed US$6.0 million IDA credit vould be on standard IDA terms
to the Government who would on-lend the full amount to the FSVM at 2% interest
over 30 years including 6 years grace.  At the request of Government, paymenta
by FSVM of principal and interest on the IDA funds in excess of the amounts
required to service the IDA credit will be credited to a special goveroment
fund to be established in the Financiera Nacional de la Vivienda (FNV). The
proceeds of the fund will be used exclusively for the purpose of financing low-
íncome housing.  The interest difrerential between the 2% onlending rate and
the household mortgage rate was determined by Govermment in order to cover
possible defaults by households and to build-up the FSVM's reserves for future
projects (see Annex 8 for details). The US$2.5 million IBRD loan would be
made to Government for on-lending to FSVM at IBRD terms (8%, 30 years including
6 years grace).  Government would bear the foreign exchange risk associated
with the credit and the loan.  These on-lending terms vere confirmed during
negotiationas.
Cost Recovery and Pricing by the FSVM
5.04      The costs of land, on- and off-site infrastructure, core units,
construction materíals and small industries loans, and project management
including related design and engineering feas, totalling US$13.2 millíon,
would be recovered by the FSVM from project beneficiarles. (Annex 8, Table 2)
The Ministry of Education usually requires that before a school can be built
on a given site, land with infrastructure up to the school boundary be donated
to the Ministry. Since this policy mitigates againat equal access to educa-
tional opportunities by low-income communities, Ministry officials have indi-
cated a wlllingness to reimburse the FSVM for the costs of land and infra-
structure devoted to schools.  The Ministry's contribution would be in kind



- 19 -
through government workers carrying out some of the related construction.
(See Map 10903 for illustration of costs allocated according to users and
Annex 9 for proposed formula.)
5.05      The FSVM's relatively unsubsidized pricing policies díffer from those
of government on essentially three points.  In previous TVW projects, as well
as many private middle and high income developments, households were often
not charged for (a) project management, (b) interest during construction, and
(c) land and infrastructure costs for roads, footpaths and open space, repre-
senting up to one-third of costs.  In some cases no land charge was made at
all. These practices represent a regressive Government subsidy favoríng the
higher-income groups generally served in IVU projecta.   Assuming IVU inítiates
its own sites and services program, a similarly subsidized monthly charge
could undermíne the pricing practices of the FSVM, the marketability of lots
and the agency's credibility as a non-profit enterprise. IVU policy however
is to eliminate these subsidies on future projects.
Lot Development Costs and Sales Prices
5.06      Lot development costs range from 0 2,145 (US$860) to 0 3,790
(US$1,515) as summmarized below (details in Annex 9). The formula presented
below and in Annex 9 is intended to de=onstrate the principles governing cost
allocation between users. Actual land and construction costs for each site
would be used to calculate final charges on that site. Sales prices would be
adjusted to reflect locational advantages within the site, with commercial
lots sold at market prices. In previous FSVM projects, different service levels
produced a narrow cost differential. As a result, the majority of the appli-
cations were for the highest service level, indicating that the price differen-
tial was lower than the value placed on that unit by households. The FSVM
will therefore price level 2 units 10% above costs, applyíng the differe=ca
to reduce level 1 units on the same site in order to reach lower-income groups.
For example, the development cost of t 2,900 for service level 2 on a 60 m2
lot would be increased by about 10% or 0 290 resulting ín a sale price of
0 3,190.  The t 290 would be applied towards the development cost for service
level 1 on a 60 m2 lot reducing that sale price to about 0 1,855.  The esti-
mated range of sale prices for the various service levels is shown below.
Lot     Development
Service   Size         Cost            Sales Price      No. of        Cumulative
Level      m2    Colones   (US$)   Colones   (US$)    Lots    %           2
Level 1    60      2,145    (860)    1,855    (740)    2,050  29         29
Level 1   120      3,035  (1,215)    2,655  (1,060)    1,450  21         50
Level 2    60      2,900  (1,160)    3,190  (1,275)    2,050  29         79
Level 2   120      3,790  (1,515)    4,170  (1,670)    1,450  21        100



- 20 -
5.07      As shown above, 80% of the units would sell for about US$1,275 or
less. Optional construction materials loans (para. 3.11) would further
extend the range of lot development costs:
Materíals         Cost of lot
Sales  loan for basic       with basic
Service         Price      dwelling          dwelling
Level        (Colones)   (Colones)          (Colones)      (US$)
1 (160)        1,855          530             2,385        (955)
1 (120)        2,655          530             3,185      (1,275)
2 (60)         3,190           -              3,190      (1,275)
2 (120)        4,170           -              4,170      (1,670)
Terms to Households
5.08      The FSVM's mortgage terms to households would be at least 6% over 25
years. Households receiving service level 2 might be charged a higher rate.
The 6% rate is 1% aboye FSVM's existing rate, equal to the IVU and Fondo
Social minimum rate, and 4.5% below the rate charged by the profit-oriented
savings and loan associations. The latter recently increased their rate from
9% to 10.5%.  Because interest rates are increasing, it was agreed during nego-
tiations that should IVU and the Fondo Social increase their minimum rate to
7% prior to lot allocation, the FSVM rate shall be adjusted accordingly.
Should the IVU and Fondo Social íncreases exceed 7%, the FSVM will review with
Government and the Bank the need for further increases in the FSVM rate.  Con-
struction materials loans would be amortized over 10-15 years at rates of at
least 8%. Small industries loans would be at various rates between 8 and 12%
up to 5 years depending upon the recommendations of the feasibility atudies
of FSVM.
Monthly Payments
5.09      Households will be required to make a minimum downpayment of 5% of
the sale price either in cash or through mutual help labor credits (para. 2.11)
which generally amount to 5% of lot development costs. Based on the above
terms, total monthly charges to households would be as follows:



llonthly Chargea (Colones)
Standard Charge                               operational
Servi.«e                                Utilities            Munie. Rates                         Materials
Level         Servicing & /1                               (refuse coll.,         Total           Loans
(Lot size)      Development       Water/Sewerage   Elec.       street        Rent  Std. /2   Basic       Sub
Off -Site  On-Site        lighting, etc.)   Coll. Chqrge   Dwelling  Total
(1)            (2)        (3)    (4)          (5)          (6)    (7)        (8)       (9)
Level 1 ( 60)      11.49          1.50      3.00    1.60         1.05         0.39  19.60      6.6o      26. 20
Leve! 2 ( 6Ó)      19.75          1.50      3.00    1.60         1.05         0.56  28.415       -       28.hS
Level 1 (120)      16.44           1.50     3.00    1.60         1.70         0.4°9  25.55     6.60      32.15
Level 2 (120)      25.82           1.50     3.00    1.60         1.70         0.69  35.60         -      35.60
/1   Minus 5% dowgnpaynent.
/2   Including 5% default surcharg,e on lot servicing and development.
July 1974



- 22 -
aouseholds would pay 0 3.00 for water based on the current tariff schedule.
No separate sewerage tariff is required since sewage is untreated in El
Salvador and represents essentially a drainage service (Annex 7). Pull costs
of off-site infrastructure (excluding roads) would be borne by householda and
repaid to ANDA by FSVM.  Municipal rates based on lot size would be levied
on households, but participants would be exempt from national property taxes
since their property assets fall below the minimum of e 25,000.
5.10      Total monthly payments by participant households for a unit developed
to the basic dwelling atage (column 9 above) range from 0 26.20 to 0 35.60.
Asstuing that low-income households should devote no more than 25Z of their
mothly incoue  to houaing and utilities, 1/ project lota would be affordable
to families earning batween US$40 and US$60 per month. The project ia there-
fore accesaible to roughly 83% of urban households.
The FSVM's Finances
5.11      Since it commenced operation in June 1970, the FSVM has been finan-
ced by private donations, granta and loans from international agencies and
the El Salvadorean Government. The financial statements for FSVM operations
ending December 31, 1973, are given in Tablas 2 and 3 of Annex 3. Operating
expenses have absorbed a relatively small proportion of income and surpluses
have been used to finance site and service projecta. The composition of the
agency s financing ¡a expected to change in the coming years as sources of
financing shift from start-up donationa to greater use of long-term loana.
5.12      The FSVT  would be fully able to carry the project as demonstrated
in che cash flov projections for the agency (Table 4 of Annex 3). As~uming
a 10% default rate among households on mortgage payments and materials loans
(sea para. 4.10), the project would generate an annual surplus of US$180,tCOO
by 1979 leveling off at about US$170,000 by 1985.  Even vith defaults of up
to 20% the project would remain in the black from 1979 onward, with an annual
surplus of US$75,000 in 1979 and US$70,000 ín 1985. The projectiona for the
agency as a whole show an annual surplus for all years up to 1985.
VI.  SOCIO-ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION
6.01      The  project is expected to generate a wide range of benefits
íncluding: (i) improved living conditions and co= unity services for 7,000
households; (íi) increased output in the construction industries and employ-
ment for project households through mutual-help and self-help construction
cechniques, including increased earnings from various conmmercial cooperatives
organized through the project;  (iii) the demonstration of an approach to
housing problems which could enable Goverzient to keep pace with housing
11 Housing at 18-20Z; utilities at 5-7% of »=nthly income.



- 23 -
needs throughout the country;  (iv) a significant expansion in the con-
struction capacity of the private sector for very low-cost housing; and (v)
improvements in Government planning for low-income illegal settlements.
Moreover, the project will have a substantial redistribution effect in
providing low-cost, serviced shelter units to low-income households who are
currently paying excessive prices for unserviced subdivisions of land. In
addition, there are net external economies in that planned housing/community
development projects will enable the Govern=ent authorities to reduce uncon-
trolled urban growth and the study component in particular will help Govern-
ment's urban planning funetions.  People other than project participants will
benefit from the off-site infrastructure and the self-helplmutual-help train-
ing will improve the chances of urban poor in finding stable employment. In
general, there will be an increase in the quality of life for project house-
holds.
6.02      The cost/benefit analysis was perfor=ed measuring total capital and
management costa. Benefits were measured in terms of imputed rental values for
the houses to be constructed under the project. The imputad rental values
were derived by using market rents for comparable housing. Moreover, the FSVM
conducted a survey of likely participant households to obtain the values they
would attr$bute to the proposed houses as they would appear after a 5-year
consolidation period. The analysis of comparable rents and survey revealed
that likely participant householda in the project would pay about 050 per
month for a completely finished house and 030-35 for the initial core unit
and basic dwelling respectively. These figures ware therefore usad to measure
benefits in the rate of return analysis. In the sensitivity analysis, rents
were reduced to 145 to reflect different demand characteristics of the second-
ary cities.
6.03      On the cost side, the full capital value of land for total site
areas was entered as a cost in the first years, and as a benefit at the end
of the 30 year period.  The latter figure was conservatively increased by
30% to include capital gains from land improvements and construction. Con-
struction costs cover on-site infrastructure, core units, and basic dwelling
construction.  The materiais funds costs were spread over five years.   Design
and engineering costs along with project management expenses were included at
their full cost even though the Government will share these costa with the
FSVM.
6.04      The cost/benefit streams for the total project and each phase, which
are shown in Annex 10, Tables 1-4 were discounted over the 30 year project
lífe. The internal rata of return for the total project was 20%.
VII.  RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      During negotiations agreement was reached with FSVM regarding:



- 24 -
(a) its financial contribution of US$3.8 million to the project;
including written confirmation of the Banco Hipotecario
loan of US$2.0 million (para 5.02);
(b) mortgage terms to households of at least 6% over 25 years
(para. 5.08);
(c) materials loan terms to households of at least 8% over
not more than 15 years (para. 5.08);
(d) small industries loan terms of between 8-12% over up to
5 years (para. 5.08);
(e)  the creation of a new division within FSVM to collect mort-
gage and materials loan payments (para. 4.03), and the creation
of a new section within the Technical Division to administer
the construction materials loans (para. 4.09);
(f)  periodic review by FSVM, Gover=rent and the Bank of Che need
for employing contractors, if required, for works executed
through mutual-help (para. 3.24); and
(g) the membership of the FSVM Selection Committee (para. 4.06).
7.02      Agreement was reached vith Government regarding:
(a)  its financial contribution of US$3.2 míllion including the
US$800,000 contributions from the private power companies
(paras. 5.01 and 5.02);
(b)  on-lending terms for the IDA Credit of 2% over 30 years with
six years graca, and the IBRD loan on the same terms at which
it is received by Government (8% over 30 years wieh six years
grace, para. 5.03);
(c) the provision of off-site water and sewerage services to all
project sites according to the project construction sehedule,
and the maintenance thereof (paras. 3.10 and 4.11);
(d) the construction, staffing and operation of community
facilities (para. 4.01 and 4.11);
(e)  the carrying out of an Urban Land Use/Squatter Upgrading
Study, a study of mortgage interest rates, and project prepa-
ration studies to be undertaken by CONAPLAN (paras. 3.15 and
3.16); and
(f) the membership and functions of the Project Coordinating
Committee (para. 4.02).



- 25 -
7.03      Since agreement was reached on the conditions outlined in paras.
7.01-02, the project is suitable for an IDA Credit of US$6.0 million equivalent
and an IBRD loan of US$2.5 million equivalent.






ANNEX 1
Page 1
EL SALVADOR
SITES AND SERVICES PROJECT
URBAN BACKGROUND
1.        Income distribution is particularly skewed in El Salvador, as shown
belcw. A few familíes own nearly all agricultural and most urbanized land in
the country; Coverxment owns little urbanized land and none which is undevel-
oped. Consequently, Goveroment agencies such as IVU must purchase land on
the market for their development projects.
Table 1: Urban Household Income (1970)
Classification          Cols. Per      US$            %             %
of Rouseholds             Month     Per Month    Households   Cumulative
Marginal                Up to  100  Up to  40        17.0          17.0
Low                     100 -  250   40 - 100        40.5          57.5
Middle                  250 -  600  100 - 240        27.5          85.0
Upper-middle            600 -1,000  240 - 400         5.0          90.0
Righ                  1,000 or more 400 or more      10.0         100.0
Source: Rousing study referenced in Annex 2.
As shown above, 58% of households earn less than US$100 per month (the maxi-
mum cut-off level in the project's target income group).
2.        El Salvador's population growth of 3.2% is one of the highest in
Latín America. Table 2 shows 1973 population and projections for 1974-80
for the cities in wich the project is located.
Urban Plans for San Salvador
3.        Since 1950, urban planning in San Salvador has been primarily
physical as evidenced in the series of Plan Reguladores completed by the
Ministry of Public Works. In 1967-68, AID financed a detailed urban plan,
Metroplan, which provides a useful base for examíning the priority of ín-
vestments in metropolitan San Salvador and more specifically, the context
of FSVM projects. Metroplan classified the city into: (i) the metropolitan
region of San Salvador - the larger denomination extending into three of the
country's fourteen provinces or Departamentos (Liberted, San Salvador,
Cuscatlan), and consisting of 22 municipalities; (ii) the metropolitan area



Urowth Ini Projeot Gitíes
1973    Growth late    19 74      1975     1976      1977       1978      1979       1980
San Salvador           700,000        6¿5%    745,500   793,>90   845,560  900,525   959,060  1,021,1400  1,087,790
Santa Ana              110,000 )
San Miguel              90,000 )      4.5%    318,725   333,067   348,055  363,065   380,085    397,190   1415,065
Sonsonate               60,000 )
)
Usulutan                45,000 )
Projeot Execution (X)                                  4
Mid 1974 - Mid 1978
Population
Orowth      Households    Target Population-Households
1974-1978      (@6 ea)    (from US$30-100 or Approx. 45%)
Total Growth¡
San Salvador                    213,560        35,593                   16,017
Secondary Cities (4)            61 ,360        10,227                   _4,602
Total    274,920        145,820                  20,619
ProJect:                         No. of Lote  Growth in Targ. Pop. % Served by the Project
San Salvador                     4,100            16,017                  - 26%
Secondary Cities (4)              2,900            4,6o2                    63%
7,000           20,619                  -34%
Project serves 39% of new households formed among target population
between 1974-1978.



ABNNX 1
Page 3
of San Salvador, comprised of 10 municipalities; 11 and (iii) the municí-
pality of San Salvador, the largest of the 10 municipalities containing about
65% of metropolitan San Salvador (735,000 persons).
4.        Motroplan identified a number of key areas for ínvestment, parti-
cularly low-cost housing and highway construction. The proposed T-shaped
highway (Map 2) was never built because of its controversial concept of cut-
ting the city into four segments as well as the lack of funds for detailed
engineering. The Central America Bank for Economic Integration (CABEI),
however, intends to assist Goverinent in undertaking a detailed feasibility
study of the highway, which thereafter would require international financing,
since the Ministry lacks the resources to build the facílity itself. San
Salvador's arterial road system is already quite efficient particularly in
the east-west direction.  There thus appears to be goad reason to question
the need for a major investment in híghwaya, particularly tn light of pressing
housing needa. Metroplan designated the Soyapango area on the east-west
corridor as well as the northern area above Mejicanos up to Apopa as major
areas for industrial growth. Substantial industrial/co=mercial growth has
taken place tn both locations, particularly in Soyapango (See Map 10902).
5.        Since the completion of Metroplan, planning responsibilities haye
been shared by three agencies, each undertaking detailed planning for dif-
ferent ar¿as of the city: (i) CONAPLAN's Urban and Regional Department; (ii)
the Direccion de Urbanisma y Architectura (DUA), which is the zoning and
regulations Department of the Ministry of Public Works (MOP); and (iit) the
transport department of the MOP. The Municipal Governnent (Municipio), having
no role in the planning or execution of the city's investment programs, pro-
vides basic city services such as sanitation, upkeep of the parks and street
cleaning. These services it performs remarkably well on a limited budget,
making San Salvador one of the cleanest cities in Latin America.
6.        DUA is the gover=ment agency responsible for controlling and super-
visíng urban works programs. It issues zoning regulations and building permits
and is responsible for restraining construction tn areas it feels should not
be developed. It also performs an operational role through the construction
of storm water drainage systens and the maintenance of urban roads and streets.
1/   Throughout thís report, the term metropolitan San Salvador corresponds
to an area slightly larger than Metroplan's definition of the metro-
polítan area, including the Apopa municipality in the north.



ANNEX 2
Page 1
EL SALVADOR
SITES AND SERVICES PROJECT
T8E HOUSTNG SECTOR
Housing Needs
1.        A housing study completed in June 1971 by Government with assist-
ance from the United Nations Center for Eousing, Building and Planning
(UNCEBP) and the Organization of American Statas (OAS) estíimted the hous-
ing deficits in urban areas at nearly 147,000 units, shown in Table 1.
Two-thirds of this deficit, or 96,000 units, applied to households earning
less than US$100 per month. Because the housing deficit concept revolves
around a value judgment by the study team, as to what constituted an accept-
able standard of housíng, the figures are questionable.  All households re-
side in some form of "shelter"-  unauthorized settlements or overcrowded
courtyard tenements (mesones) with tvo or more households in each unit.
Table 1: Urban Housing Deficit by Incae Groups
Monthly
Classification  Household Income       %        Estimated         Z
of Households        (US$)          Famílies  Deficit 1970   Deficit  Cumulative
Marginal              0 -  40         17.0       29,812         20.3      20.3
Low                  40 - 100        40.5        67,921         46.3      66.6
Middle              100 - 240        27.5        35,592         24.3      90.0
Upper-middle        240 - 400          5.0        2,861          1.0      92.8
Iigh               Above 400          10.0       10,573          7.2     100.0
100.0      146,759        100.0
Source:  "Diagnostico de la Situacíon Habitacional de la Republica de El
Salvador, en 1970 - Pronostico y Proyecto de Formulacion de la
Política Nacional Habitacional." San Salvador, June 1971,
prepared by CONAPLAN, IVU, OAS, UN.
2.        Another way of describing housing needs is to consider ne< household
formation. During 1960-70, about 10,000 new households were formed in urban
areas stsmning froa  an annual natural population growth of 3.7% and migration
from rural areas. The majority of these households were low-income.
Housing Supply
3.        The demand backlog for low-income housing is because public housíng
programs have been too small in relation to need and too costly for the



ANNEX 2
Page 2
majority of low-income households. Moreover, developers in the private
sector have concentrated on middle- and upper-incone demand as shown in
Table 2.
Table 2: Housing Supply 1962-1970
(Percentage Composition)
Monthly
Household       Bousehold Income
Classification        (US$)                 IVU      FNV      Private      Total
Marginal            0 -  40                   - -                  -          -
Low                40 - 100                  30         -         10         18
Middle            100 - 240                  50         5        30          36
Upper-middle      240 - 400                  10        25         20         17
High              Above 400                  10        70        40          29
Total                                  100      100        100         100
(Number of houses, 1962-70)             (10,837)  (3,182)   (9,399)   (23,424)
4.        The aboye table shows that only 30% of houses (3,450 units) produced
by the governnent housing agency, Instituto de Vivienda Urbana (IVU), were
for low-inco=e households and none for marginal ones. About 95% of houses
financed by the autonomous govern=ent financial agency, Financiera Nacional de
la Vivienda (FNV), were for households earning more than US$240 per month.
About 82% of total housing production was for families earning more than
US$100 per month, the maximum cut-off of the target income group under the
proposed project. Total housing production during the above nine years was
a meager 23,000 units or 2,600 units a year, representing only one-quarter
of annual household formation during the same time.
Housing Institutional Framework
5.        The Instituto de Vivienda Urbana (IVU) was created in 1951 as an
autonomous government agency to serve low-income households. Hovever, since
the late nineteen-fifties it has produced only a 1,000 units per year at prices
(US$3,000-4,000) which 60% of urban households cannot afford. The Inter-
American Development Bank (IDB), which made two loans to IVU duríng the last
10 years has decided not to proceed with further loans in line with its deci-
sion to withdraw from the conventional housing sector throughout Latin America.
IVU will therefore continue to rely heavily on government budgetary support,
running currently at US$2.0 míllion annually.
6.        IVU's collection record is shown below:



ANNEX 2
Page 3
Table 3: IVU's Arrearages as of 30 April, 1972
(Percentages)
Month of          IDB Progra-s       Lease                 Land
Delinquency        1       2        Purchase   Rental      Sales       Total
1          20.3    18.7          22.9      24.1       25.0        21.8
2          26.9    24.4          29.9      32.1       26.8        27.1
3          16.3    18.3          17.4      15.0       11.0        16.4
4 -  6        17.5    18.8         10.8       13.7      12.1        15.8
7 - 12        8.5      9.1          4.6       6.9        5.0         7.6
12 - 24         1.9     3.6          1.6        1.9       4.2         2.3
24 Plus          .4     1.2           .2         .3       1.1          .5
91.9Z   94.0%        87.3%      94.0%     85.3%       91.4%
Source:  Foundation for Cooperative Hiousing (PCH) Report, Cooperative
Housing an-d Minimum Shelter Approach in Latin America, Volume II,
p.45, September 1972 for USAID.
Although 91% of accounts were in ar-rears, only 3% were lin actual de.fault
(delinquencies lin excesa of 12 months).  Delinquencies of three months or
ovar íni tenant purchase anid rental schemas stood at 36%. A major study of
IVU's operations vas carried out by US consultants (Peat, Marwíck, Kitchell)
to reorient its operatíoxis, trim its staff of 350, and reduce arrearages.
IVU 's management ls currently implementing most of the consultants' recom-
mendationa.
7.        Most of the units buílt by IVU lin metropolitan San Salvador are
stark, four-storey walkups; the rest are síngle-lavel raw houses or s--i-
detached. The largest I.VU project completad lin recent years is the "Zacamil`
complex lin the northern section of the city consisting of 40 four-level
walkup buildings each wíth 16 apartments. The complex houses about 4,000
persons (average family síze of 6). The average cost of the apartment unit
Ls US$3,400. A number of these anid odhar IVU apartments íni the city stand
empty because they are too costly for the neediest segmenats of the population.
8.        In accordance with Government policy, IVU intenids to undertake
sites and services proj ects lin the future, therehy sarving lovar-íncome
groups. However, no detailed plans are available.
9.        The Financiera Nacional de la Vívienda (FNV}_, vas created as an
autonomous government agency lin 1962 to finiance and supervise the savings
anid loan associations. There are five such associations lin operation. Two
USS3.0 míllion AID loais lin 1965 anid 1968 respectively ware initended to
mold FNV ínto a secondary mortgage operatíon similar to the Federal Housixig
Anthiorit,y (FHA) lxi the USA. However, FNV is not conducting secondary mnarket



ANNEX 2
Page 4
operations in the sense of discounting paper from financial institutions
that originate mortgages. Rather, FNV makes short and long-term loans to
the associations with the mortgages serving as collateral.  The maximum
value of houses which FNV can "cover" is 0 25,000 (US$10,000) and until
recently it has been operating primarily at this level (average value of
C 23,000).  But in 1973, the FNV management changed its policy to begin
catering for lower-income needs, which has resulted in a marked increase in
FNV's operations and a decrease in the average house value financed to
C 18,000 (US$7,200).
10.       To atimulate housing construction, Government created in June 1973
a Natíonal Housing Fund (Fondo Social), similar to ones operating in Brazil
and Mexico. 1/ The Fondo Social ia an autonomous goverument agency created to
finance housing construction for all workers in El Salvador.  All registered
índustrial and commercial employees are by law `members" of the system but
Government and agricultural employees are exempt. Contributions expressed
as a percentage of the employees' salaries are made annually to the Fund, the
employer contributing 5Z of all his employees' salaries and the employee 0.5%.
In addition, Government will grant US$2.0 million per year as equity to the
Fuad over the next five years. The resources of the Housing Fund which are
likely to be substantial (cash contributions from salaries already total
t 40 million or US$16 million) will be used primarily to build houses for
contributing workers.
1/   Brazil's Banco Nacional de Habitacao (BNH) has had great success in
mobilizing resources for housing construction through a similar
"housing tax"'. Mexico's system inatituted 2 years ago has met with
similar succesa.  The contribution percentages and proportion differ
to El Salvador - 8% in Brazil and 7% in Mexico, with employees bearing
a greater proportion than they do ín El Salvador.



ANNEX 3
Page 1
EL SALVADOR
SITES AND SERVICES PROJECT
TRE SALVADOREAN FOUNDATION POR DEVELOPMENT AND LOW-COST HOUSING (FSVM)
BACKGROUND, ORGANIZATION AND FINANCING
1.        The Pundacion Salvadorena de Desarrollo y Vivienda Miníma (FSVM) ís
a private, non-profit entity created by Executive Decree No. 768 dated Juae
16, 1970. 1/ The organization's basic objective is to improve the living
conditions of low-income people, especially those living in squatter settle-
ments. Its aim is to provide shelter to households whose incomes are so low
as to exclude them from government and private sector housing projects.  The
FSVM means to achieving this objective ia through self-help sites and services
projects and related programs.
Background
2.        The PSVM's activities date back to September 1968 when a group of
concerned citizeus organized by a Jesuit priest (Padre Ibanez) relocated 69
families (Plan Piloto) who had been left homeless after a flooding of the
Acelhaute Uiver at La Chacra in the eastern section of San Salvador. This
group demonstrated that it could achieve a low-cost solution that could be
afforded by low-income sections of the population -- about US$700 for a 66 m2
serviced lot including land, individual electricity and water supply reticu-
Latíon, individual technícal unit for washbasin, shower and toilet facilities
(pilar and bano), the core house, and related infrastructure.
3.        In November 1971, the FSVM prepared its Five-Year Program for
1972-1976, which almed at the execution of 15,000 serviced lots. In February
1972 the Foundation's Board of Directors hired a well-qualified General
Manager, and expanded the professional staff to about 15 persons.
4.        In October 1972, the FSVM completed the Agua Caliente project of
62 lots in the north-eastern section of metropolitan San Salvador, at costs
similar to Plan Piloto.
5.        The largest FSVM project to date, Santa Tecla 1 consisting of 520
units, was completed in December 1973, an impressive 12 months after first
ground breaking. It provided three service levels to households who had
been squatting on publíe streets and alleys in Santa Tecla (Nueva San Salvador),
the satellite town on the western fringe of metropolitan San Salvador. The
site layout is extremely attractive. The core units were built with brick
rather than concrete blocks as in the first projects.
11 Official Government Gazette No. 11, Volume 2227 of June 19, 1970.



ANNEX 3
Page 2
6.        The FSVM is currently completing two other urban housing projects:
(i) 158 units at El Triunfo, the port in the eastern section of the country.
This was the first project outside metropolitan San Salvador; (ii) 120 units
at Lourdes, in the eastern section of San Salvador near the first project.
In addition, FSVM ia completing a rural housing project of 90 units near to
San Jorge in the province of San Miguel in the north-east of the country.
All these projects (total of 1,020 units), have given the FSVM sound planning
and implementation experience.
Organization of the FSVM
7.        The organizational structure of FSVM is shown in Chart 1.  The
twelve-member Board of Directors is elected by the General Assembly of sub-
scriber members (currently 200 members many of whom are participant house-
holds) to serve for two years. The Board meets bi-monthly to decide general
policy issues as well as specific matters put to it by the FSVI management.
Both the General Manager and the Executive Director attend Board meetings
but do not have a vote. The Board of Directors is comprised of eminent
Salvadoreans drawn from a broad range of economic activities. The General
Assembly members are drawn from a wide spectrum of society including entre-
preneurs, workers and residents of squatter settlements.  The Assembly meets
once a year to elect the Board of Dlrectors and approve the annual financial
statement.
8.        The Technical Operations Division of the FSVM has designed, engi-
neered and supervised the construction of all the units built to date. It
has also completed with its own staff the detailed engineering on the proposed
project's Phase I sites (Soyapango 1 and Santa Ana) and the preliminary designs
on the Phase II and Phase III sites. Because the division will need to
devote substantial time in the future to project execution, it might decide
to sub-contract some of the detailed engineering on the Phase II and Phase
III sites to local consulting/engineering firma. Nevertheless, the Technical
Division ís currently expanding its staff from six to twelve so that it can
carry out as much in-house work as possible. This is in accord with the
policy of the FSVM to handle all management and technical aspects of the
project within its staff. 1/ As implementation proceeds, the Technical
Division will be split into three sections -- Planning, Execution and Con-
struction Supervision. The first section will handle the detailed design and
engineering, the second section will be responsible for procurement and other
project implamantation aspects, and the third section will handle construction
supervision.
9.        The Social Division is presently organized in two sections:
allottees selection and mutual help. FSVM intends to expand the division
into four sections to meet the requirements of the project, creating new
1/   Studies undertaken by the Bank and USAID on selected countries have
shown that many low-cost housing/sites and services projects in the
nineteen-sixties failed because of scant attention to the most critical
aspect-project management.



ANNEX 3
Page 3
sections for Community Development and Project Monitoring/Evaluation. Table
1 presents an estimate of the staff needs of the department for the four
years of project fimplementation.
Table 1: Social Division Staff Needs by Task and Project
Phase:           1               II             II1        Sub-Totals
(1,460 units)  (2,650 units) (2,890 ucita) (7,000 units)
Tasks:                       (man/months)   (man/mnths)  (man/mnthe)  (an/lmnths)
(a)  Registration and            14              25             38           77
screening of
application
(b)  Surveying and               80             136            216          432
selection of
aliottees
(e)  Mutual-help                 36              63             97          196
construction
(d)  Lot occupany and            25              44             67          136
community organiza-
tion
Sub-total (social          155             268            418          841
workers, in.man/
months)
(e)  Management and              13              23             36           72
Supervision
Costs:  /1 (in '000 colones)
(a)  Social workers /2           62.0           107.2          167.2        336.4
(b)  Supervisors /3              26.0            46.0           72.0        144.0
Total                       88.0           153.2          239.2        480.4
/1   Only direct salaries are computed
/2   Average monthly salary of t400
/3   Average monthly salary of 02,000; supervisory tasks include project
monitoring.



ANNEX 3
Page 4
10.       The household surveys associated with the selection of allottees
might be sub-contracted by FSVM to avoid too large an expansion of its perma-
nent staff.  While El Salvador does not have many consulting firms with exper-
tise in this field, the local universities have demonstrated a capacity to
carry out the field work and data processing involved in household surveys.
By sub-contractíng this portion of the york, the socíal department staff wculd
only need to be increased to a maxi== of 14 professionals by the fourth year
of project ímplementation.
11.       A new department for Mortgage Administration would be created.
Previously, the FSVM handled these matters through its regular Administra-
tion Division. The first section will be responsible for legal aspects of
mortgage signing and eviction procedures, whereas the second section will
handle the routine financial aspects of mortgage collection. A staff of about
six persons wíll be hired in 1974-75 to be doubled in the following years.
12.       The Administration Division will concentrate on internal admin-
istration of the FSVM. The Accounting Section will expand its staff in order
to provide support to the future mortgage collection section. The Procurement
Section handles internal procurement for the FSVM and will assist the Project
Execution Section of the Technical Division ín its procurement procedures.
13.       In all, during the next three years the total full-time staff of
the FSVM is expected to grow from 15 professional and 20 support staff to
about 50 professional and 60 support staff. With this staff and the specíal-
ized technical assistance and training included in the project, the FSVM
should be able to execute smoothly the 7,000 units. Because of the smallness
of the country, and its excellent Pan American road network, project execution
ía the secondary towns poses little difficulty for head-office staff who can
visit on-site offices and return to San Salvador the same day.
Financial Position of FSVM
14.       The audited financial position and ancome statement of the FSVM
prepared by US consultants (Price, Waterhouse and Co.) are given in Tables 2
and 3 for the year ending December 31, 1973. In 1973, as in previous years of
operation, the primary source of income has been donations from both domestíc
and international sources. Operating expenses of the FSVM have absorbed a
relatively small share of incone and surpluses have been used to finance
housing projects. By the end of 1973, the accumulated surplus amounted to
02 million of which 1.6 míllion had been used to finance new construction.
Liquid assets amounted to scme 0760,000 as of December 13, 1973, and Accounts
Payable totalled 0600,000. The composition of íncome and expenditures can be
expected to change in the coming years as construction projects recently
completed generate cash flows, and sources of financíng shift predominantly
from start-up donatíons to greater use of long-term loans. Beginning in
1974, mortgage payments by occupants of the Santa Tecla 1 project and other
projects containing a total of 900 units will increase the FSVM's cash flow
by some US$35,000 annually.  Govertment grants to partially cover FSVW's
administration expenses amounted to 0100,000 (US$40,000) each ln 1970 and 1971



ANNEX 3
Page 5
and 0200,000 (US$80,000) in 1972 and 1973. These are expected to increase
to a maxímum of 9400,000 (US$160,000) a year.  The balance of US$194,000 in
grants from the Inter-American Foundation (totali±ng US$626,000) should be
receíved by FSVM by Deceiber 1974.
15.       Cash flow projections up to 1985 for the FSVM project are shown
in Tahle 4. Theie projections indicate that the FSVM should roeover all costs
associated with project execution. Present resources together with new
sources of revenue and grants should be adequate to finance the initial
deficits during the construction period. In addition to the I3A Credit/
IBRD Loan the FSVM will receive loans of up to t2.0 million from Banco
Hipotecario at 7% over 15 years for land acquisition.



ANNEX 3
Page 6
Table 2
The Salvadorean Foundation for Development
and Low-Cost Housing (FSVM)
Income and Exienditure Statement. December 31. 1973
(in thousands of Colones)
Incoe
Donations                           ¢ 1,385
Other income                              72        1,457
Expenditures of FSVM
Salaries                                 203
General expenses                          45
Professional fees                          6
Interest                                   3
Depreciation                               5
Amortization                               5
Representation                             7
Maintenance of housing                     4          277
Surplus for 1973                                    1,180
Source:  Price, Waterhouse & Co., audit of March 15, 1974.



ANNEX 3
?aRe 7
Table3
The Salvadorean Foundation for Development
and Low-Cost Eousing (FSVM)
Balance Sheet at    December 31, 1973
(in thousands of Colones)
Assets
Cash and demand deposits                          B  100
Time deposits                                        540
Accounts receivable (short-term)                      117
Land                                                   18
Construction materials                               107
Construction in progress                           1,476
PTepaid expenses                                  -    3
Accounts receivable (long-term)                       171
Furnituzre, equipment, tools                          67
Miscellaneous                                          29
Total Assets                                             2,628
Liabilities
Accounts payable                                     167
Long-term loans                                      430
Total Liabilities                                          597
Net Assets of Social Fund                                2,031
Source:  Price, Waterhouse & Co., audit of March 15, 1974.



Alma 3
M  SkLVA_  SIT3 Ai23 SZPVICZS PROJB7T                                                e
FBVI4 C^a*k Flow Pro'ectionz, t974i-o5
clX00 ~tiaiso4as), M.a. 1 97L Prices
Cal.ends Tar,          t974   1975   1976   1977   1978   1979   1980   1981   1982   1983   19&¿   1965
Proimal Toar,           1       2      3      4       5      ó       7      a                     11     12
Con>  900ctfiom,      B
I. PROPOSID S!TES            IZ SMV 3CE  POJZCT
Sonrtes of Fundo
Central 3cnk of El Saldor (=fA Credit)                             I400  2,150  2,950    500       -      -
IBRD Locn                                                            _       -      -   1,850    610      20     20      -      -       -      -      -
Baco '8.ypotacario                                                  300   1,000    680         -      -           -
Fayamrs by Houa holdams ¡/
Dcnpqnt (S%)                                                             1 23    225    123    124      -              -
Nortgaga paya~ts  /2                                               _       -     174    491    491    83d    838    338    838    838    838    838
Constructicn  materii; pa   mta3                                   -       -      -      17      33     60     71      83     a3     d3      03     83
Total S=ce                                         700  3,273  4,029  2,981  1,258    918    92M    921    921    921    921    921
Uses of Fuds
Lnd Purch8ae                                                        303  1,OO    680       -       -ó
Desíga and hgizeeríng                                               154    155    155       -      -
Civil Works: I4
Cn-S±te Infratructore                                             193  1,355  1,161    968    194
Cor Inita                                                          -     576  1,536  1,314      385
Conatruotton mater±ala Fund                                          -       -     163    149    258    109    109       -
Pro1ect Mament                                                      1Ch    263    263    210    105       56     50      -
Tra.ni.n  mnd T.chnical Asa±itance                                   67      67     66      -      -      -       -
Amortizatien of FSVH Dbtz
C.etral Bank of El Salmdor (IDA Credit)  /-                                8      51    110    120    120    120    317    317    317    317  ~17
I3RD Loan  /6                                                      19      19      5    148    197    198    237    237    237    237    237    237
Bano 1lippotecuo  /7                                               11     56    115    250    269    258    21>8    237    227    216    205    195'
Tota  Uane                                         851  3,499  4,195  3,209  1,528    741    764    791    781    770    75S    72¡9
Susrplus/Ceficit fro* Projact                                      -151   -226   -166   -228   -270    177    165    130    140    151    162    172
I2.  OT   OP TIONS01OI ? FSVN
Souroes of Funds
fortgBag  paymntS on exiting pr  acta                                35      35     35     35      35     35     35      35     35      35     35     35
3vwerent Granea ($onÁrat.o)                                          80    120    160    160    160    160    160    160    160    160    100   160
Identifted Dcruticn   /8                                            200    200      -       -      -      -      -
óotal Souroa                                       315    355    195    195    195    195    195    195    195    195    195    195
rrae of Funda
Offce Overhad and Salaris - Total                                    25     26      27     25      29     30     32      33     34     35      37     38
Surplu  en Other Operationa                                        290    329    168    167    166    165    163    162    161    160    158    157
CLI. ANNAL SURPL9S/DEFICIT 0l FSVM  OPElUSIO0Y                           139    103       2    -61   -0L4    342    3a3    292    301    311    320    329
Cuu.lative Suplus/Deficit on ?SMt OPUr,tior                         139    242    24L2   183       79    421    749  1,¿41  1,322  1,653  1,973  2,302
/1  Based or &a anvego unit cost o£ W1 ,670 for 7,0CO lota (i6zclvudg lnd, an-site infrastrncture, deoign and efi.ne.ring fees, projct
aagesent, core unIts Sd Intareat durzts conatructlnx).  Lot ccpleticnm  1,4,50 end 1975;  2,650 eund 1976;  2,00  id-1978.
/2  6% ovar 25 years, saauang a 10% default rate  mng hox*sholda, basod on 95% of averaeo onit cost.
/3  Bued on r34736,Mo dibunaed aco=r±n  to  Usas of Funda Soaedule over a 6-year period, on tersa o  93%, 15 yeao, a*ai    a 10% dofault rato.
3 3asai on constructoan s             uLa (Chat 4) of 1 y   (sid-1971. - mid-1978).
D  'J9So. -ai:ion over 30 yearsa t 2% Áth 6 y*s grace.
_   35J2 .5 mllion over 30 years It 8% ¡dth 6 yeare gre.
7  JSS2.0 nil&on cver 15 yeuu at 7% iát.b 2 year  grece.
;  :2clne. .Datch (!3io) grant oLly of Usi400,000.
,.IV 1974



ANNEX 4
Page 1
EL SALVADOR
APPRAISAL OF A SITES AND SERVICES PROJECT
Site Selection and Layouts
Site Selection
1.        Selection of appropriate sites is a critical element in preparing a
successful sites and services project.  The proposed sites were selected after
a careful evaluation of a number of alternative sites. The following criteria
vere given priority in site selection (see detaíled site characteristics in
Table 1).
(A) Location
2.        Location is in relation to employment opportunities, public trans-
portation, existing urban structure and services, and off-site infrastructure.
The San Salvador sites (Map 10902) are easily accessible to present or projected
employment centers and are well served by public transportation at acceptable
costs.  Bus service in metropolitan San Salvador is good and relatively in-
expensive (the fare varies between 4 and 6 US centa) and traffic congestion
is not a significant problem so travel time is relatively short. Off-sLte
trunk infrastructure for water supply and electric pcwer are immediately avail-
able or can be brought to the sitas at acceptable costs. At the Soyapango sites,
6 inch off-site water maina m=st be installed from ANDA storage tanks 2.5 km
distance. However, the large number of units (2,500) that will be served by
this maia substantially lowers the per unit cost of water supply.
3.        The sites in the secondary cities (Map 11002) are located at the
edge of the urbanized area within 10-15 minutes valking time of the city center
providing easy access to central city employmaent, markets, and other urban
services. The San Miguel and Usulutan sites are adjacent to industrial employ-
ment nodes. Since all secondary city sites are at the edge of urbanized areas,
existing urban ínfrastructure networks are close. In particular, all sites
have good proximity to existing sewer mains, or haye reasonable access to
streams with acceptable flows for direct discharge of sewage (see Annex 7 for
explanation of sewage treatment situation).
(B)  Physical Characteristica
4.        Sites were selected with physical characteristics suitable for
low-cost solutions from the standpoint of ease and economy of development.
A large proportion of the land' has even terrain with minimal slopes (generally
leas than 10%) making for ease of grading and low costs in the provision of
on-site infrastructure. Land with broken terrain or slopes greater than 10%
is generally at the periphery of the sites, and is left as open space. The
sitas are well drained. In most cases the sites are vacant and in agricul-
turz_ use (coffee or cotton).



ANNEX 4
Page 2
5.        Site locations have been reviewed by appropriate authoríties (ANDA
and DUA) to determine conformity with existing zoning to assure that develop-
ment approvals and permits can be obtained, and to assure feasibility or
ummicipal services such as trash collection and street lighting.
(C) Acquisition
6.        All land under consideration or negotiation is privately owned,
and there appear to be no obstacles to gaining clear title.  Land prices vary
according to physical characteristics, availability of infrastructure, distances
fro= urban centers, and alternative agricultural uses.
Site Plans
7.        The criteria used in planning sites and services areas can be broadly
categorized into engineering and social concerns. The engineering criteria
include:
(a)  adequate provision of basic services, i.e., roads, footpaths,
storm water drainage, water supply, fire hydrants, sewage
disposal, power supply and stree lighting;
(b) the level of services provided should meet the aspirations of
the residents and, at the same time, be low enough to be
accessible to the target population; and
(e) the design of services should provide for future extensions
and improvements as household incomes permit.
The social criteria include:
(a)  adequate provision of community facilities, ¡.e., community
centera, schools, clinics, markets, police posts, etc.;
(b)  location of community facilities so as to offer convenient
and safe access to the entire commnity;
(e) grouping of these facilities in such a way as to form an
active and viable nucleus for community activities and to
persit multiple use of building and play areas;
(d)  provísion of a safe and convenient system of footpaths linking
plots to bus lines, play areas and co=munity facilities; and
(e) provision of vehicular circulation within the area, which aliows
access to residential, commercial and public areas and provides
easy flow of traffic while protectlng the neighborhoods from
through traffic.



ANNE 4
Page 3
8.        Preliminary site plans and engtneering for Soyapango 2, 3 and 4,
Santa Ana, San Miguel, Sonsonate, and Usulutan sites vere. reviewed, as vell
as the detailed engineering and layout plans- for the Soyapango 1 site. The
layouts are simple and geometric alloving economic construction and servicing;
yet » notony has been avoided by the use of small open spaces-"mitni-parks"-
and through a skillful alternation of the pattern of lot layout (see Maps
10902 and 10904).  Provision is made for veh±cular circulation throughout the
site, allowing easy acceso to the residential, commercial, comnmuity facilities,
and the main road networks, while protecting the neighborhoods from excessive
through traffic. A safe and convenient network of pedestrian walkways is
also provided, linking the lots to comnercial areas,. comiunity facilities,
open space, and public transport stops.. The pedesattan valkways also contain
water pipes, sanitary sewerage pipes, stornavater-drainage channeis-, and
provide access for emergency vehicles. such as fire trucks and ambul-nces.
The achcols and community facilities are grouped.for convenience of use.
Large open spaces haye been provided for schoola and other community facilities
usually in the interior of the sites for easy accesa. The open space provision
of 10 n2/lot resulta in a feeling of spaciousnesa and prevenc U-overcrowing on
sitas with smaller lot sizes. Existing site amenities, such as clumps of
trees, haya been retaíned wherever possible for-parks and open apaces.



cE' SALCADOR
SIT!5 Akm  Sel ICES PROIEC
Choneccerioeice uf Proietc Sitce
CC.eee,tsriee o                         i@,ey pfl   tSOS   SIv 4Odr>                  Sesa Ana                      So-o-nec.                     Sao Iti£19
1.  LCtonh                         .q-reitoetly  7 be fro. City Cencor   he tI. ortheeec cdo. of              SitO  coste  nsothtrn  eds.  At che detmr       d. of   At       *oulb. rn  d.. of
OS *00i055 tít. of iih. osrcoipitan    ch. ptee ..ly ur-bom ed               of  ity. 700 . t. san        -h* p..... cl  ure.-         Ccrrc.n..  Iv urhb----d
t~.  Adjeteoer t. fxceoc expendito         rre.. approxi;etely  1,500 o   opnr.; 1.10  a tue cin to       id cre..  opproíc-          are.  ooroo.rl  900 £
.o &elnridooci&l crea. Aro.    fresC th. .ity .ec..  Ct.d                   M.k.ca. S3~td.  by 6A        C.ly 1.2   k. fr-m          fron  h. ci, c.. Cer.
.i-c.iv 72  h k.ot-h od ch  ---nn-r        -utipel seak- ; to_di.-    A-íid. sur .o   .... .               i -     eque   f 5Sn
ot Sapep         (nity  obne_cor).         t.ly  Janeon Co .i-lnatg         bveded by Rio Cronde d*  Mi%.*L  I          Lttc.iy
rettdotíal 4tl1a.cc              Soneoente on .*&c, agrt-  adjee.t t*o exsttiS
Colon-La   Lsc Pf.. I_ia    clíir1 tod   o o h                 IV0tl    locn _
by Cll  la Períquere on        ind Colonia Oírlo. 2ra        ColonIa lela. An e-
tito north                       videnei st Ch. oorth.         teor_   *o  Ca1lo 13
forn   e-uh baceder
of che etl. Rio Ti.-
cueo ad  Rio (ronde de
len lliguol tcre lncturol
hocmndarlo oc the ocher
2   Areo                            oon; 1          6.4ó   h.                21.4 ha                           16.3 ha                      24 he                       16 Co
Sopapeec.        10.t  ha
3.   erraic                       IxcellonC. COely  .lcptnt;  m11             oed.  Catar-lly  udt.rac,    tC llx nt. _L1 drotead iscd,          llo    W.11 drdtned  foad. Conercíl, f!ac.
dreded. A cll.            em*_py ecrc O     le , ;11 dred. d7   ._er1                    t      v         tocO- n soo   ¡.P:.* te: 0_  gen   1op. gFt.Y    01
la the boynt;e I  *Le   r."   I".  .1p. ;lp    io;                  th-      jlup  tord rh.  -Ch    vwrd rí,*r. Aoproxi-oe-  d---n..d. A. .is ins  _11
fl1lie. AteSol  _c  ofitObrok              eancrn edué. A11  cf Ch           nd teard tho river.           Ity 735  of l1od ía t.   a-tcbllsh.d *nd stahbl
COr ttad     de.a ot stto. CGeera. .         t1  I  nd  t. L.   bvltií e io  tep  'L°P.e aoo;             ulti-iton  eaor            tro.. .1 .h..l c-rrie
r ved.                                     if-_  to0                         ric   hcos.  lenrin,         c0. e   coCeeS. Rtc.ai-   cff..etc .d co-eSte sord
ot Iaed La ocstwvatloa    .l; codv.al"ed   nd           ovter diagocoLly acroas
(so?or  es). lme r ho         c  $t"n"o of ee;°c antd  th. ete. ThO  cheiceL 1í
.10.4i CLvo?.                cconug  creen. Preoí-    bordtred bv Creee. a strooo
mí~.0  deretep~tn             t~mecin  th. ..se cdge od
plano h-v* incorporo.    ch. *te* hac bec d-do
ced reo_ of thieetoco   prro,tdln  a n-t-L.  fsL.-
porfie.                     tít,.   rclieL.iry plano
hov  iLorpor td ch.
ch--a-l ntd ths *mtr.nc
foailley Lo it. opon cs.co
sud ¡>-rk.
*.  tr.teporstetoo   in.kOc       ;n«   bine ab ric c   Soyct eogo           SalRiel k  conce Co cI.ry         ¡a  *tr; no* or cen-cr       GCod lCro-ecty bh.          UIlktcg discate  .o .¡tv
euob-sntr. iiu o.rvitc  frs,               cacer.  lntr.-city bca           ot t1y. Tralo  seotO.    **rtsc. Wflok;g di..    center.
Socpas;o tc  city  tnter 1t                --rc..                            t. port of AnaJota (1<   Can.o   CO t ite   cnn?.
.ooellent.                                                                 .ieatse troto  tr~ l1  Ln
mtChiO 500 e of Che cit.
otlkinp discan   e to  icy
ene.
3   tployec Liína..              Suoy" ;o L  pre.ntIy tbh                    Contral  ir7 e pleynt            Sonoote c-rnIaL               ftCe íe VtchtA  500 e of  Stie t  it dttetlv ar...
lor;efl Intus     i rio roo Co Che          tthtn watlktg 0      nc. n       nciolties.  S      'e,st    a cho?r uf Iduanret.                   ---ktre. --  LCh
on-try   nd la t  .cndt.                                                    opL.totcicc lo                 lu otred  round the        Salv.d.r.a Catnon Cno.-
AosJcctIo porc.              ril-road stacoen, ln.    rct. £        duor,c. Cooerol
dludin  a mejor caon    itv  lob       nt vtthit
41 fcracy  Controt          oolhtco 4to   o
-i hin ytflto 4to-
6.  Off-si.. cUr-t--urre
a) Rosto                     Ceod rod *ew.  Red fro                    Acao.   te fre Calle Lo           Mote  -ea s, froo hA          ColeCtos str.toe uf         Ac.es  te  reoso C011., 
50vooo t no Connor 1  Fesots               *,rrlpccr..  opAVo-d but         A.nid  Sur. u..ovd. buc  Che Obu ct   Iv1 prInes t.Liot   e  norch c ..   de
..tO  O tIte. co mO1  ao meno             50ed ctrect te onorthwcc           cood city  CTr.              cos  Cotmnata dC ehc        ot Che lite.
rosd Cotí. L.e  Pipc. Thc                  dge of Cha  Lt.                                               8ite basdor. 1.3A
cic  Lo "othí  o fe  hodr.d                                                                              Cello Oei,o e p. ovid.
es*r   f :he ptopod                                                                                       ceJar a ne.. alog
OSe trepl$.) ... t-mt fr        ,                                                                          -uh bo--dory of th
Uan   djfet ce tho ~Lt                                                                                    atc..
.rtertil soad thc  mil linx
oroteeho SSoep ynoo te   oy-
(h) Soter bcPplv             2. 5h    of k *     J off--£t.            A n,o o «ion    h Ch.  siat-  A c           tíoC   inth the     CEiotp o-te  n 22A          Exitin; h  d met  at
vee   -in  n    be provId d               10t CcO  ---cr oyetco I.n          t-  ator c.e  ca              ondt  Sur ct .         x    otrth_t co-er  f the
by cha ProJ  e    c too---ct Co           the  -dLotolOl Colonia Loe        b-  sda  Ct ch. heortee   bnun   of Ch. sir                 ite.  2ro       C this
A      sra.   nf.  The                    7tno  r.a=deot.al arco  n0    torno  of Che  it*.                                           potint t   det
tror     C     r    n th. ADA           be -d*   200 o of 60              Y fCr prCOshr  OCt thiO
me mer pla  Es? Ltwrnont; tho             off-ctce cter mla -oeR bh    poiC 1l *doqa-te for
mter aopply apoe= os  ch-                 MaLL400.                           Che c  sere.
59. Th-. cao.  .  preojc       d
mo b. uole%d in 1974. A*
acetoI   lccreootiv  cystme
for teotry eerotee rhrou5h
n11a hoo bco _dO.
Sc      r fmnogo            100  lc      - oS   -- J   te--oe-d       ApprCO.SetCly l.100 o of d"   Ass  xieton; Crupk csr    ECtnio.g 31 J t                     Appt koicly 700 o of
-oneor    ro_r mieto  -s  b-              4  t¿ -iet .o_r mel  -e-t    met -i-  LntoM  Che  oCuh                   thaoo C. ette. ita  10` J piYp  -&e be prn-
I.taled Co C. o AL_.  Ct.                 b  oro-idd                         do-  f ch. sito  Stor-    T---   o   nao  bnd-    ldd    fft
mote con be dit heasd   ary .e. r.eoi.  unt-
dlr ctly Ltoo tho Rio        feilo  fro  on-eiCs Ove-
Gr-Sdo d. So,onote.          teo, Storo  -ter con be
diacherged dire.tly Co-
tC  Rio TI.c.o.
(di Tlltri i                 To bh  pro,idsd byp CACA1. 55 h. prT rdd. by CAESO.                          To b. povide  by CA1ss5  Tra   tectIo  lisosl ad.   To  e orevidd dbv CAESS.
cni t* co bh provided
by CALZS.
Jal, 1474



EL SALVADOR
SITES AND SERVICES PROJECT
SITE LAIID-USE PROFILES
Phase 1                             Phase  II                                     Pbsse  III
Soyapango 1        Santa Ana          Soyapango 2         Sonsonate              San Miguel               Usulutan
(San Salvador)                        (San Salvador)
Hectares   X       Hectarea   I       llectares    X     Hectare                 i Hetárea    1          Hectares      %
1.  Area of Site                                6.45   100        21.8    100        10.4      100       16.4       100         23.9      100           16.9       100
2.  Net Residential Area (lote only)            3.14    48.7        9.3     42.7      4.1       39.5    77.0         43.0        9.3       38.7          6.9        43.0
3.  Coamnunity Facilittes, achocls,              .67    10.3       1.5       6.9       .8        7.8      1.4         8.6        2.1        8.7          9.9          6.2
clínica, etc.
4.  Open Spaces                                  .66    10.2        5.7      26.2     1.1       10.8      1.9        11.3        4.8       19.9          3.2         20.1
5.  Roada snd Parking                            .70    10.8       2.1       9.6      1.7       16.4      2.0        12.1        3.1       13.2          1.8        11.3
6.  Pootpatha                                   1.14    17.7       2.7      12.1      2.4       23.3      3.8        22.9        3.9       16.2          2.3        17.6
7.  Comrercial Arcas                             .15     2.3         .5      2.5       .2        2.2       .4         2.1         .8        3.3           .3         1.8
8.  Number of lote                            510                664 L1             683                550                     725 L1                  400
9.  Size of Lot                                60 sq a           108-120 sq a        60 *q a            120-128 aq m           120-128 sq a            128 *q a
10. Groas Density (number of lote/
total area of site)                     1 79 lote/ha        30 lota/ha        66 lots/ha          34 lots/hs             30 lotalha               27 lotalha
11. Net Density (nuaber of lots/net
residential area)                      162 loto/ha          93 lota/ha        167 lota/ha         78 lota/ha             78 lots/hs              62 lota/ha
12. Stte Population (<a6 persona/lot)    3.060                 3,984              4,098              3,300                  4,350                    2.400
13. Population Densfty                       474                 183                394                201                     182                     142
Li Data fa for partial site area.  The Santa Ana *nd San Miguel sites are being expanded through purchose of additional adjscent land and wtIl sccomaodate
950 and 1,000 lota respectively.
July 1974



ANNEX 5
Page 1
EL SALVADOR
SITES AND SERVICES PROJECT
DESIGN STANDARDS AND COST ESTIMATES
Infrastructure Standards
1.        The design of the infrastructure is based on the standards of ANDA
and DUA.  In order to reach the lower end of the household income scale,
standards were reduced in some cases by initially providing minimum-standard
solutions with provision for future improvements, often through mutual or
self-help. Detailed cost estimates for the varLous sites are shown in Table 1.
A breakcown of on-site infrastructure costs for the Soyapango 1 site is given
in Table 2 and off-site infrastructure in Table 3.
Roads, Parkíng, and Pedestrian Footpaths
2.        Each site will have a network of main and secondary roads providing
convenient vehicular circulation and connections with off-site access roads
while restricting through traffic to a minimum.  Collector roads link access
roads to secondary roads and parking areas. The secondary roads provide access
for private cars and emergency and service vehicles (ambulances, fire trucks,
trash reioval trucks, etc.).  Road reserves are 10 to 18 meters  in width,
wlth carriageways of 7 to 9 meters. Parking areas served by the secondary
roads provide parking in a ratio of 1 space per 10 lots. Parking bays are
3 meters wide and 6 meters deep.
3.        Roads are unpaved but graded and compacted.  Storm drainage is pro-
vided and curbs are installed on main roads.  Final paving is to be accomplished
through mutual-help after project occupancy, and is not included in project
costs.  Road-paving through mutual-help has been acconplished in earlier FSVM
projects supervised by FSVM field technical staff.
4.        Major circulatíon is by a footpath network accommodating pedestrians,
bicycles and emergency vehicles. The footpaths connect all lots vith public
areas and facilities, as well as with adjoining existing streets and footpaths.
Footpath reserves vary from 5 to 7 meters in width. Walkway widths vary from
1.5 to 2.5 meters. Walkways, with the exception of principal routes, are un-
paved but graded, and storm drainage is provided.  Paving is to be accomplished
and is also not included in project costs.  FOCCO provides up to 40% of the
coest of paving in the form of materials and supervision. Paving through
mutual-help and FVCCO aid has been accomplished successfully at Agua Caliente
and Plan Piloto, earlier FSVM projects.



ANNEX 5
Page 2
Water Supply
5.        Individual water supply connections for a water closet, shower, and
pila (dish and clothes washing stand), will be provided to each lot. Water
service will be individually metered and provided by 1/2 inch pipes. The
distribution system follows the road and footpath layout and consists of 2
inch diameter pipes of pvc and 4" and 6" diameter pipes of asbestos cement or
cast iron. The water system is designed to provide 150 to 250 liters per
person per day. Consumption design standards for each site are based upon
specífic ANDA standards for the regional site location, and is therefore attuned
-  l4mate and custom.  Water meters are those specified by ANDA regulations.
The cost of the meter and box is t165 (approximately US$66). Ordinarily, ANDA
supplies and installs the meters and requires full payment by the property
owner over a 36-month term. However, to reduce total monthly payments, the
meter, box, and installation are included as part of the project, and therefore
paid over a 25-year period.
C.        Fire hydrants will be located at convenient points in the road network.
7he maxiium distance from any lot is 150 meters.
D Drainage
7.        The design criteria for storm water drainage is based on a storm
intensity of 2.9 inches per hour.  Drainage is accomplished by a combinacion
of surface run-off and sub-surface piplng network.  The amount of piping
'.tpafnis upon topographic conditions. Natural drainage patterns are retained
as much as possible.  Piping will be of plain and reinforced concrete in
diameters up to 42" as required. Each lot is provided with a patio drain with
piped discharge to the road or footpath drainage system. A minimum-vertical
drop of .40 meters between patio and pathway is maintained to assure the flow.
Paved drainage channels along each side of the footpath walkways carry waste
water from the patios and surface run-off to area drains into the piped drainage
network. Final discharge is ínto existing urban systems where possible or
into streams or adjacent natural water courses by means of protected outfalls.
D.   Sanitary Sewerage
8.        Each lot will have individual sanitary units and individual connec-
tions to the sewege collection network. The sewerage system design is based
on an average daily flow of 80% of the average daily water consumption, with
a peak of twice the average flow, plus an allovance of 0.2 liters per second
per hectare for infiltration. The sewer collection network consists of 4
inch laterals from the lots, and 6, 8, 10, and 12 inch mains of plain concrete
pipe.  Where required ín special cases, steel and reinforced concrete pipe
ís used. Minimum depth to top of pipes laid in roadways is 30 centimeters.
ackfilling of pipe trenches is accomplished by mutual-help.  Manholes are
brick masonry with concrete rings and covers. The overall sewerage specifica-
tions conform to ANDA requirements.



ANNEX 5
Page 3
9.        Sanitary sewerage and storm water drainage are designed as separate
networks since the latter can be discharged into streams with intermittent
flow or into dry ravines, while sanitary sewage must be discharged into streama
with adequate flow. In addition, the separation of the systems allows for
future provísion of sewage treatnent (see Annex 7).
Electricity
10.       Each basic dwelling is provided with a minimal electrical system.
A private company, CAESS, installs the electrical distribution network on
polea along roads and footpaths at no cost to the lot owner. Each lot can
be provided with a metered electric connection on request. No connection fee
¡a charged. Street lighting on poles ¡s also installed by CAESS at a spacing
of approxímately 50 metera. The municipality generally pays CAESS for the
street lighting installation, recovering the co0t through a »=nthly charge to
the lot owner based on lot frontage. Occasíonally CAESS finances installation,
recovering costs directly from the FSVM or users.



1, SAI.VAIM,it SITES AND) SEKVICES PROJECT
nefAILED COST ESTIMATES
.(thomnadn of Colonnal
-PIAer_                                                               __ _ __ _       P    ,han   2           __   _ _  _  ___ __ __      =    1        __  _  _ _ _ _
Síte                           SoVAD-R15O I     nt. Ana   SoyponALO 2   Sonsonata   San Mi¡.ul .         nulutan    Apop         Soyapanad 3                       S.9P9,,o4  Sb
-ís                            Sanbr  Sfalvadors 5;0   Santa Ana   San Sal0ad0     Sons.nat.    g       llsula00n  S.Salvador  S Svd an Salvaorr                    t       Toa
luNboa. nl tl.iní                         530            950            70055                                    400                        son6   ~**'     390        ___         7.000
1.  LAod                                               210            662            500           263            900         600           973          500             330          4.958    4.958
2. CIVil wotrk
A. On-att, Intt.ntructuro¡
(i) tartbwork., maverage, dreinoge,
pathbwya, .atrr, roada                     331            744           521            563         1,201          431        1,253           521             419          5,984
(I)Electricity (.tr..t Ligt5bIni
nd tndividual connaction.)                  82            152            120            88            160          64          246           121              87          1,120
b6  Oft--lta  ltnt. -ruetu..       J.ad,
untar, ovuaragel                                 210            173           248             23             l0          33          297           249              95         1.39I     a 802
c. Core uolta:
(i)  Sanltary uunta (7,000)                      242           451            356            261           47S         190           732           357            261          1,325
<tt)  Ban.. Dlmllinga  (3,500)                    193           359            283            208           377          151          582           283             207         21 43     59
3.  Conatruction  iateríala Pund  L¡                    143           270            197            155           281         111           433           225            155          L.970    1.970
4. Co_unoty Faclilttie:
a.  ñalth olinto                                       -            153             .            113            152         152            -                           152            762
b.  Hultip-rpose co~noIty centers.                    46             46             46            45             46          46            91 62                        46 42           7
C.  línrkata                                          21             21             21             21            42          24            62            20             21            250
4.  Sportafte da                                       -             35              9            35             35          17            62             9             27            229    1.698
5.  S~al lndu.trica  Loan Vvnd                           12            13              6             13            13          12            37             6              13           125       125
6.  D..Ign m.d Engln.arlng  L2                          129           241            17S            139           254         101           390           203             140        _1775    _1775
7.  proj..t Kían... ont)
A.  Stafting ..d oparationa                          17l            333            262           193            350         140           539           263            192          2,450
b.  Vehiles &nd equlpant                               11            11              8             18            17                        35             9             1_ 155    2.605
Sub-total               1,834          3,670          2,755         2,178          4,373       2,086         5,732        2.811           2,162         27,601    27,601
8. Tr.ining and Technical Aaalstanct:
a. Short-tea  exparta                                                                                                                                                                 375
h.  FSVH crainína                                                                                                                                                                     125
c.  Futare project praparatíon                                                                                                                                                        200
d.  Orban land uan/aqoatter npgradino
Study                                                                                                                                                                          375
e,  MoTta.ge Intoreat rete *tody                                                                                                                                                      150    1.225
SuL-t.totl             28,826   2 ,826
9.  3onttngoovlao:   l
a.  Phyitcai - betw.en 5-15  of It.aa  2 mnd 4 (conatru.tio. only)                                                                                                                 1,590
a.  Prica - on Ltt. 2, 4 .nd 7b.                                                                                                                                                    LsO    9 840
TOTAL. PROJIECT COST           - 38 _666
/I  Sea  able, 6
02 on tta.. 2 and 4 (conatorution o.ly). Seo Table 9.
¿3 See Tables 7 *nd S.
July 1974



ANNEX 5
Page 5
Table 2
EL SALVADOR SITES AND SERVICES PROJECT
Soyapango 1 (510 lots)
ON-SITE INFRASTRUCTURE COSTS
1 te                                    Quantity            Uníc Cost  Total Cost
Item                    yuantlty             ~~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~Cols.  Cols.
Earthworks and Roads
Clearing                                                          3.86 Manzanas         3.50       1,350
Removal of topsoil, excavation and grading of streets,
pathways, parking areas, etc.                               8,000 m                   3.33      26,640
Excavation and backf±lling for water supply works             5,036 m3                  3.28      16,518
Excavation vitbout backfilling for water supply works  /1       233                     2.00         466
Sub-total               44,974
Seweraze
Pipes:  6"                                                    2,080 m                   2.00       4,160
8"l                                                   2,443 m                   3.50       8,550
Inspection wells                                                  2 No.               300.00         600
Clean-out boxeas                                                 49 No.               114.29       5,600
Connection boxes                                                260 No.                20.00       5.200
Sub-total               24,110
stoat Water Dratnsae
Pípes:  6" 6                                                  1,120 m                   2.00       2,240
12" J                                                    110 u                  12.00       1,320
15S"                                                     192 a                  15.00      2,880
18" ó                                                    175 m                  18.00       3,150
24" J                                                    188 u                  27.00       5,076
30" `                                                     31 =                  40.00       1,240
36" 0                                                    102 m                  65.00       6,630
Catch basin wtth grílls                                          16 No.               200.00       3,200
Connection boxes                                                520 No.                20.00      10,400
Area drains                                                       7                   200.00       1,400
Pachway curbs                                                 7,040 u3                  2.50      17,600
Protective gravel fill                                           22 m                  35.00         770
Concrete curba                                                1,100 m                   7.00       7,700
Gravel eroston protectton                                       660 m                   6.00       3,960
Sub-total               67,566
Steps in Pathwavs (1.50 meters long)                               60 No.                15.00         900
Water SUPPYI
Special cast-tron ttems Lncluding valves:  2" 6                                                    1,700
3"                                                      1,300
4" 6                                                    1,000
Pipes and apecial p.v.c. itemas:  2" 6                        1,115 m                   6.20       6,913
3" 6                         1,156 m                  11.25      13,005
4" 6                           292 m                  18.84       5,500
Pipes, asbestos cement 3" 6                                      28 m                   5.50         154
Hause connections                                               520 No.                 9.60       4,992
Water meters including installation                             520 No.               160.00      83,200
Fire hydrants                                                     2 No.               700.00       3,440
Sub-total             121,204
Power Suoply
Províded and tnstalled by CASS                                                          - 
TOTAL (Sept. 1973)                  258,754
Price Escalation (Do May 1974)
@ approxímately 28%                   72.451
TOTAL (May 1974)                     331,205
Cost per plot                                                                                          650 (US$260)
L1 3ackfilling done by =utual-help.
July 1974



ANNEX 5
Page 6
Table 3
EL SALVADOR SITES AND SRVICES PROJECT
SOYAPANGO 1
(510 lota)
OFF-SITE IFRASTRUCTURE COSTS
--Unit       Total
Item                    Quantity          Cost         Cost
(Cols)        (Col9)
Roads                                                                 8,397
Water Supply
Pipes, cast iron  6" 6                2,450 m         44.90       110,000
Excavation and backfilling              -                -         15§351
125,351
Sewerage
Pipes, 8" 0                             830 m          3.50         2,go5
Inspection 'ells                         14 No.       371.43        5,200
Gravel f£11                              13 n3         36.90          480
StOrDwater Drainage
Pipes:  36` 6                           154 m          65.00       10,010
42" 6                          130 a          75.00         9,750
Inspection wells                          4 No.      520.00         2 080
21,84
TOTAL (Sept. 1973)                     16>4,182
Price Escalation
approm.zately 28%                      >45,971
TOTAL                                 210,153
Cost per plot                                                            412 (US$165)
Ju.1y 1974



AN-EX 5
Pae '7
Tabie 4
EL SALVADOR SITES AND SERVICES PROJECT
BR3S~DCIN OF CMZ UHIT COSTS ¿1
Cost Per Lot
Item                                      Colones      US$
Sanitary Urit
Plumbing: water and sewer fittings and lines                    125      50.00
W.C.                                                              20       8.00
Fonmdations (reinforced concrete)                                20        8.00
Eloor Slab (plain concrete)                                      30       12.00
Structure: brick walls, wood posts and purlins                  100       40.00
Roof: corrugated galvanized sheet metal                          50       20.00
Docr: wood frame, galvanized sheet metal cover                   20        8.00
TOTAL (Sept. 1973)        365      146.oo
Price Escalation
approx. 30%    110       sL.00
TOTAL                      h 475   190.00
Basic Dwelling
Fcundations (reinforced concrete)                                84      33.60
Floor Slab                                                       70       28.00
Walls: bricks, mortar, steel reinforcing rods                   117       46.8o
Reinforced Concrete: columns and bond beams                      80       32.00
Roof Framing and Poofing: pine purlins and 40 mm
thickness corrugated asbestos cement sheets                   144      57.60
Windows, Doors, and Hardware: wood frames,
covered with galvanized sheet metal, galvanized
butt hinges                                                    50       20.00
Electrical Instnllation: one wall convenience
outlet and one ceiling socket                                  25      1C.00
TOTAL (Sept. 1973)        570      228.00
Price Escalation
approx. 32.5%  185       74.o0
TOTAL                      755     302.00
ZL Estimates include labor and materials costs. Materials are estimated
at 70% of each item, or about 0 530 for a basic dwelling.
,Jls,r1 C k



Awx 5
Page 8
Tabeo 
E LSALVADaR 9ITB AiD SsvICES PROJMT
iatariala Loana
Cost o£ Materiala for  rlten3ion of Basic Dwelling
It    ~      -Cost Per Lot
Colonea    Us$
Concretes  foundationa, col~, floor slab, bond
beam, retaining vall and steps                                           117      70.80
Bainfrcdng Steels  forldation3, coluns, bond
bea, and brick reinforcing rods                                            80     32.00
Brick and mortar: walls                                                    129      51.60
Wood Poot and Roof Fra sing: pipe pi=lina                          -         30     12.00
Doora and 1dow: wood framing material and
galvanized sheet metal                                                     50     20.00
Xlectrical: wiring, bo=ea, awtchea,, covenience
outletl., fixtires                                                         25     10.00
Partitions, ?LceJllansous ?raming Materialsa   lmr,
plnood, na¡l3., etc.                                                       50)    20.00
TO&  (Sept. 1973)       655    262.00
Príce Escalation        205     82.00
approx. 31.3%         -          -
TOTAL                   860    3144.00
.'ulv 1 97L,



ANNEX 5
Page 9
Table 6
EL SALVADOR SITES AND SERVICES PROJECT
Construction Materials Fund
(Colones '000)
L0 50         0
Materials.*4  -    o                        Total
00!  0    0.   0            e        0.
Item                Number        M    a M       U    :    aU
of Lot  200  510  950 1500  55oi154o icoo  h00 550        7,000
Materials Loanis /1
a.  Z 530 loan for 4,000
households at Service
Level 1 to build
basic dwelling of
Service Level 2            -   135  252  398  146 408  265  106 146         1,856
b. Extension loans for
Service  Level 2           601    /2
households                  _   _2
Total               60  135  252  398  146 4086  65  106 146         1,970
/1  Assuming half the occupants on each site are at Level 1 and half at Level 2.
/2 Unspecified between sites except for Santa Tecla 1.
July 1974



ANNEX 5
Page 10
Table 7
EL SALVADOR SITES AND SERVICES PROJECT
Physical Contingencies
Total Cost  Detailed Desigin  Preliminary    Total
Item                           (May 1974)  or Engincering    Design On  Contingency
(Colones)         (5%)        Engirieering  (Colones)
(15%)
2.  Infrastructure
a.  On-site                          5,984                                        865
roads, water,
sewerage,
drainage
Aetailed engrg.      331                     17              -
prelimninary       1,1 20                     -              848
electricity                    1,120            -              168          168
prelimdnary
engineering
b.  Off-site                         1,398
detailed engrg.        210                      t1              -
preliminary engrg. 1,188                        -              178          189
c. Core Units
sanitary unita and            5,968            298             -            298
basic dweLlings
>,  Community Facilities                 1,390                                         70
(Construction only>
Health Clinics           527                      26
Multipuppose Comm=nity  411                       21
Centers
Markets                  250                      13
Sportsfields             202                      10
TOTAL                                                                       1,590
July 19;,



Ta -ee8
Price Contingencies
1 *       IIn view of the 30% price escalation over the 9-month period from
September 1973 through May 1974, and the hefty wage increases being negotiated
by the labor union in El Salvador, prices are expected to continue to increase
over the project period, particularly in the first two years. The following
projections have been used to calculate price contingencies under the project:
Price        % (compounded)on
Escalation         expenditures
Year                     %           during that year
mid-1974 - Jan. 1975         20                   10
1975                    20                  32
1976                    10                  51
1977                     9                  66
Jan. 1978   m mid-1978        4                  76
Total Cost    Year - % Construction -
Item              (Colones)     Amount of Expenditure         Contingency    %
2. Infrastructure
a. On-site roads, water,      5,984      1974  5%   299 x .1  =    30       2830        47
sewerage, etc.                        1975 35%  2094 x .32      670
1976 30%  1795 x 51 =   915
1977 25%  1496 x .66=   987
1978  5%   300 x  76 =   228
electricity                1,120      1974  5%    56x.1  -        6       530       47
1975 35%   392 x .32 =   1 25
1976 30%   336 x  51 =   171
1977 25%   280 x .66 =   185
1978  5%    56 x .76 =    43
b. Off-site                    1,398     1974  5%    70 x .1  =       7      643        46
1975 35%   489x.32 =   156
1976 35%   489 x .51 =   249
1977 25%   350 x .66 =   231
1978  0     - x.76 =    -
e. Core Units
Sanitary Uhits and         5,968      1974  0      -  x .1  =    -       3336        56
Basic Dwellings                       1975 15%   895 x .32 =   286
1976 40%  2387 x .51 =  1217
1977 35d  2089 x .66 =  1379
1978 10%   597 x .76 =   454
L. Conmunity Facilities        1 ,698    1974  0      -  x .1  =    -        889        52
1975 30%   509 x .32 -   163
1976 30%   509 x .51 =   260
1977 30%   510 x .66 =   337
1978 10%   170 x o76 =   129
7b. Project Vehicles and         155      1974 80%   124 x .1  =    12         22        14
Equipment                             1975 20%    31x .32 =    10
TOTAL                     16,323                                         8250       50
. 1'"   1 - "



AN 5
Ta ble 5
EL SALVADOR SITE  AND SERVICS PROJECT
Desidm and frgineeríng Pees
(COlS '000)
Contineycy                  Design
Base    Phgsical  Price    Total       & Dg.  Responsible
Item            Price                        Coet       Pee %       Agency    Amount
2. Infrastructure
a.   --site             5,984       865    2,830      9,679                 FSVm        968
Electricity        1,120        168      530     1,818                  CAESS       182
b. Off-site             1,398       189      643      2,230                 Qovt.       223
Sub-total          8,502     1,222    4,O03    13,727       10%                  1,373
c. Core Units
Sanitary Urdts and
Basic DIellings    5,968        298    3,336     9,602       2%         FSVm        192
14. Commusity Facilities
Construction only -
a.  Health Clinics       527         26      2714       827                 Govt.        83
b. Multipurpose
Community Center    1411         21      213       6145                 Govt.        65
c. Markets                250        13      131       39)4                 GoVt.        39
d.  Sportafields          202        10       20        232                 Govt.        23
Sub-total          1 >390        70      638     2,098      10%                     210
TOTAL                                                                            1 ,775
July t19714.



ANNEX 6
Page 1
EL SALVADOR SITES AND SERVICES PROJECT
COMMUNITY FACILITIES
1.        The construction and management of community facilities is the
responsibility of various government Ministries, with coordinatíng assistance
from FSVM. A detailed analysis of needs was jointly undertaken by the Govern-
ment and FSVM for each project site. The level of project provision was
influenced by the availability of similar facilities in adjacent areas.  The
type and number of facilities programmed for each site, and their estimated
cost, is shown in Table 1. All figures are based on contractor costs, though
self-help will be encouraged for all facilities except health chlnics.
Health Services
2.        The Planning Department of the Ministry of Health and Social Work
(DPSS) is responsible for determining the number and location of health faci-
lities, their detailed design and for the implementatíon of the constructíon
program. The DPSS has completed a survey of the country's health needs, on
the basis of which five health units have been reconmended for project sites.
Each health unit provides preventive, curative, and social health services,
with the support of a clinical laboratory.
3.        Design:  The building covers 400 m2 of constructed area, including
two medical consultation roomas  two dental treatment rooms, a pharmacy, first-
aid room., laboratory, and administrative and sanitary facilities. Detailed
design will be the responsibility of the DPSS, utilizing the Departmento de
Ingeniera y Arquitectura (DIA). Of the five facilities, it is anticipated
that two will be expanded into full health centers of 1,500 m2 within the
next five to ten years. Space requirements based on 50% lot coverage would
therefore be 3,500 m2 for two of the health units and 800 m2 for the other
four.
4.        costa:  The cost of a health unit is estimated at 0 152,550
(US$61,020), of which ¢ 105,300 is construction and 0 47,250 equipment costs.
The Ministry covers these as well as land and infrastructure expenditures
related to health facilities. A unit generates che following annual mainte-
nance costa, also borne by Government:
Personnel                   0 60,000
Utilities                   0  3,000
Supplies                    0 20,000
TOTAL             ¢ 83,000
The construction of the five health units planned for the project ¡a part
of the planned expansion program of the Ministry of Health and Social Work.



CoMMUNITY FACILITIES
Level of Provision nnd Costs (Colones)
-N _4PROJECT   RECURRENT
o  0 o  w            ^     o                   UtIT COSTS               TOTAL       COSTS
Total      41                                             ~ 1 |uipaent &   Unit  IProject
Facility              iímbe          <                          Construction   Materialas    Total               Unit   Total
Site Population                  3 6  9  3       9    6  2  3
(in thousands)3693                               9     6     3
Healtn UJnita              5      - 1  - 1       1        1  1*      105,300         47,250    152,550  762,750  83,000 415,00C
Coimunity Centera with
Day-Care facilities     10     1  1 2  1       2 1  1  1  1         141,080         4,650    145,730   457,300  15,000 150,000
(Average serving
150 children)                                                                                                 1
Markets                   12      1  1 2  1      3     2  1  1        20,800           -        20,800   249,600    -         -
Sports Fields             26     - 4  2 4       7      4  2  3         7,800          1,000      8,800   228,800    -        _
Classrooms                76    10 - 32 6    10        7- 11             - 2/          -          -          -       _ 
1,389,700       308,750       -     1,698,450 o        565,000
1/  Covered through sales or user charges
2/ Covered under the Bank's Second Education Project
* ?roposed for eventual expansion to healtb center.
July 1974.
IPD 



ANNEX 6
Page 3
Multipurpose Community Centers
5.        Multipurpose Comunity Centers will be constructed by FOCCO (Pro-
grama de Fomento y Cooperacion Comunal por Esfuerzo Proprio y Ayuda Mutua),
the community development department of CONAPLAN, with contributio.s of 40%
in eíther labor or materials fro project participants. FOCCO has ample
experience in »bílizing community efforts for a variety of projects.  Day-care
services will be an integral part of the centers program.
6.        A total of 10 comunity facilities will be required for both the
community action program included in the project, and for child-care services
to accommodate the high proportion of vorking women. Approximately 60% of
the total adult female population are employed, roughly half of whom represent
the sole means of family support.  The dístribution of community centers by
project site is shown below:
Pre-school                 Expected              Number of
Site                 population               enrollment in             centers
(20%)            day-care program (15%         Required
of pre-school population)
Soyapango 1              612                         92                     1
Santa Ana              1,140                        171                     1
Soyapango 2              840                        126                     1
Soyapango 3              960                        144                     1
Sonsonate                660                         99                     1
Soyapango 4              660                         99                     1
Apopa                  1,848                        277                     2
San bliguel            1,200                        180                     1
Usulutan                 480                         72                     1
TOTAL       8,400                      1,260                     10
7.        In order to ensure that the maximum number of working mothers with-
in the project have access to day-care facilities, new standards have been
developed for construction, equipment and materials. It is proposed that
facilities be of two sizes, Type A accommodating 100 children and Type 3
accomodating 200.  Detailed designs will be prepared by FOCCO.  Space require-
ments would be as follows:
Design Type:                    A         B
Play area and Office space    100 m   100 m2
Storage and Service             40 r2   40 m2
Total                140 m 2   240 m2



ANNEX 6
Page 4
Land requirements, based on 50% lot coverage would be approximately 500 m2
per center, allowing room to expand the smaller facilities. The provision
of four type "A" facíilities and six type "B" would acconmodate about 20% of
the total pre-school population in project areas.
8.        Costs and User Charges:  Preliminary cosntruction costa were es-
tinated at approximately US$65 (0 162.5) per ~2 based oon school construction
in El Salvador as of September 1973. Construction costa have risen by about
30% since that time, resulting in the following estimates (Colones):
Desígn Type                    A             B
Construction              29,575         50,700
Equipment                  4,000           5,200
Total                33,575         55,900
:hIii1e Government will cover the costs of equipment and construction, the
program and operating costs of day-care and community centers will be the
,esponsibi.ity of project residents. User charges would fully cover recurrent
expenditures such as maintenance on building and equipment, staff and feeding.
The community would pay for the land and infrastructure costs of community
centers.
LMarkets
9.        Public markets will be built in the commercial areas of project
sites.  A simple market shed with open walls of approximately 200 m2 ls
envisaged, at a unit cost of approximately 0 20,800, based on 0 80 per m2,
or half the school construction cost per m2 adjusted to May 1974 prices.
FOCCO wíll be the agency responsible for designing and building this facility.
A total of 12 markets are planned with two or three in the larger project sites,
each requiring a lot of approximately 400 m2. Most land, services and super-
structure associated with markets wii. be sold to individuals or cooperatives
as the FSVM does not intend to retain extensive long-term management respon-
sibilities.
Sports Fielda
10.       FOCCO will also be responsible for the construction of 26 sports
fields, including volley ball, foocball, and basketball courts. An approxi-
mate unit cost of 0 8,800 (US$3,520) for a 600 m2 sport fíeld has been es-
timated including 0 7,800 for construction and 0 1,000 for equipment. The
communíty will cover related land and maintenance costs.
Basic Education
11.       Tle 6 schools (76 classrooms) required by the sites and services
project are included in the Bank's Second Education Project for El Salvador
w.'.hch will be implemented by the DAE (Direccion de Architectura Educativa),



ANNEX 6
Page 5
the school construction agnecy of the Ministry of Education. DAE has imple-
mented two previous programs; the First Education Project fínanced by the
Bank and a USAID project. These basic schools are part of the Ministry's
planned basic education program.  The size and location of each school has been
determined on the basis of project population and on existíng schools in each
area. Planning parameters are presented in Table 3.
12.       Design:  The school design has been determined by the DAE as part
of the Second Education Project. Design standards are based on 40 student
places per teaching area.  All teaching areas will be utilized ií  two shifts.
The average number of students per classroom is estimated at 70. Each school
site requires approximately 4,800 m2.
13.       Costs:  The cost of schools and rrelated equipment will be financed
under the Second Education Project.  While generally land with infrastructure
up to the lot perimeter must be donated to the Ministry before a school is
buílt, in the case of thase low-income communities it is proposed that these
costs be covered by the Ministry of Education.
Small Industries Loan Fund
14.       Business loans in limited amounts would be made available to small-
scale commercial ventures generally organized by FSV1 in project sites.  A
pilot fund of 0125,000 is included to allow the Foundation to experiment with
terms to participants which would cover all related administrative charges and
defaults, in an effort to establish a viable mechanisa of extendíng loans to
such enterprises durlng the crítical start-up phase when they do not possess
traditional securities. Simultaneously the fund should demonstrate the viability
of such loans with the purpose of encouragíng established loan institutions to
initiate similar programs.



EL SA.VADOíI ÁT1   A :D  Ii'.v B PROJECT
EDUCATIOfIAL REQUIREMENJTS*
Location                    Soyapango                    Santa Ana   Sonsonate   Usulutan       San Miguel       Total
Circuit                        01-21       03-15          05-27        06-36       08-74          08-83
Families (number of lots)      2,560       1,540           950           550         400          1,000          7,000
Project population
(& 6 par household)         15,360        9,240          5,700       3,300        2,400         6,000         42,000
School-age population
(age 7-15) approx. 25%
total population.              3,840       2,310          1,425          825         600          1,500         10,500
Anticipated enrollment
grades 1-9                     3,941       2,114          1,312          773         547          1,648         10,335
Total teaching areas
required after adjust¡ment
for expected surplus school
capacity*                         53           10             0            6           0              7             76
*  For additional detalle see Appraisal of a Second Education Project - El Salvaodr,
IBRD Report No. 380-ES, May 16, 1974
July 1 974



ANNNEX 7
Page 1
EL SALVADOR
SITE AND SERVICES PROJECT
WATER AND SEWERAGE
Water Supply
1.        The expansion of water supply services throughout El Salvador which
is handled by the Administracion Nacional de Acueductos y Alcantarillado
(ANDA) has been unabla to keep pace with the country's rapid growth. Approxi-
mately 60% of the urban population and 90% of the rural population are not
served with water through house connections from piped water systems. Even
in the metropolitan area of San Salvador with a population of 560,000 the
service is rationed, pressure is low and approximately 30% of the water is
unaccounted for. A small project to increase the quantity of water supplied
to the metropolitan are is being carried out by ANDA with government funds.
In addition, the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) has recently approved
a loan for a large project to develop additional sources of water and to
ímprove the distribution system.
Sewerage
2.        The lack of adequate sewerage and waste disposal, also ANDA respon-
sibilities, are even more acute.  Only 58 citíes with 40% (553,000) of the
urban population have access to sewerage systems. Another 12% (173,000) of
the urban population uses septic tanks and soakage pits, many of whích are im-
properly constructed and contaminate the groundwater or simply overflow onto
the surface. The rest of the population (both urban and rural) uses pit prlvies
or surface disposal. Municipal sewage is untreated and discharged directly
into streams and other bodies of water.
3.        The receiving bodies of water are further contaminated by the un-
treated strong wastes from over 200 coffea processing plants and 15 sugar
mills.  Thase wastes are many times stronger than the domestic wastes.  The
coffee wastes, because of the wet washing process used in El Salvador, contain
the pulp and wash water used in processing. The processing coincides with tne
dry season, when the flow in the rivers and streams are at their low flow,
thus accentuating the pollution effects. Additional pollution is caused
by overspraying of crops with insecticides and pesticides.
4.        Analyses show that the rivers and watercourses are so heavily polluted
that their water quality in many cases is not even suitable for irrigation use.



ANNEX 7
Page 2
5.        The final disposal of sewage and waste waters is a natíonal problem
and can only be solved by a program on a national scale to reduce stream pol-
lucion. This would require a coordinated effort to provide treatment facili-
tíes for the coffee processing planta, sugar mills, and municipal sewage sys-
tems. A starting point would be a sewer project for the metropolitan area of
San Salvador, which has the largest population and concentration of industry
in the country. A national program for reducing stream pollution and a sewer
study for San S-alvador is being prepared for ANDA by Wallace Evans and Par-
tnera under funding from the Overseas Development Association and ls nearly
complete. The sever project for San Salvador has an estimated cost of US$40
million.
Sewerage for the ProJece
6.        The quantities and strength of the sewage that would be produced
at the various project areas by the 8,000 famfl±es are small as compared to
that produced by the industries and muncipalities. The separata treatment
of wastes from the various project areas would be costly, and would achieve
little improvement in the quality of the water in the strea-a and rivers.
The sever infrastructure in the project areas, wherever possible as connected
to existing municipal sewer systems or designed in such a way that it can be
interconnected at a future date. Thus when the major sewage treatment and
disposal facilities for the-municipalities are built, they will also serve
che sites in the project areas. Parallel to this, however, treatment and
disposal facilities for the heavier polluters, the coffee plants and sugar
mills, should be built in each river basin.
7.        Consequently, it was considered that until a national program could
be undertaken to reduce stream pollution by watersheds, the present practices
of ANDA for the final disposal of sewage be folloved in the project.  A
national program is beyond the scope of this project and would have to be
developed by stages and provide for the financing of industrial and municipal
waste treatment plants.



ANNEX 8
Page 1
Weighted     Use of
Average    Differential
A. Terms to Government
Bank Group
US$6.0 million IDA Credit @ 0.75%, 50 years,
10-year grace                                                 0.9%, to
US$2.5 million IBRD Loan @8%, 30 years,                         Special Fund
6-year grace                            Average    2.9%       in FNV for
low-cost
B.  Term= to FSVM on Project Borrowings                                  housing
Bank Group
US$6.0 million IDA Credit § 2%, 30 years,
6-year grace
US$2.5 million IBRD Loan @ 8%, 30 years,
6-year,grace                                      3.8%
Banco Hipotecario
US$2.0 million ¡ 7%, 15 years, 2-year grvce          7%
Grants
US$1 .0 mrdllion
Average   4.0%
C.  Terms to Households
Mortgage                                                          Reserve
against
6%, 25 years, no grace                              6%          defaults and
build-up of
Construction Materials                                            FSVM
investment
8%, 15 years, no grace                               8%         capital.
Average   6.1% j



ANNEX 8
PTab le -f 
EL SALVAICR SITES 1ND SERVICES PROJECT-
Finazncing and Diaburmeent -Plan
IZEK              ~~~~~~GOVERME5NT  f1             FSVH                  IDA/=Nl              TOTAL
Dísburaewnt              Diabur3erunt              Diablarsement
%_       Aiim~t           %         Amount         %          Amount
1.  Land                                                              (10i%)        1,983                              1,983
2. Civil Works
a. On-Site Infrastructure:
(i) earthiorks, sewerago,
drainage, pathwaya,
water, roada                                                                         (100%)        2,394    2,394
(i) *lectricity (strút
lighting and indctvi-
dual eonr,ections)               (1 00%)        448                                                            448
b. Off-Site Infrastructure
(roada, water, sewerage)             (100%)         559                                                            559
e. Core Unita: (sanitary coro
unita and baaic dwellings)                                                               -(100C%)       2,387    2,387
3. Construction Materials Fund                                         (80%)          630       (20%)           158      788
h. Cormmu±ty Facilities                    (100Z)          679                                                           679
5.  Small Industries Loan Fund                                         (100%)          50                                 50
6.  Design and Engineering                 (35%)           246           (5%)          38       (60%)           426      710
7.  Project Management:
a.   Staffing and Operationa                                        (100%)        1,0h2                              1,042
b. Vehicles and Equipment
8. Training and Technical Asuis-anCe                                                           (100%)           150      490
(le0%)           50
a. Short-Term Experta
b. FSVM Training
e.  Future Project Prparation           (100%)            80
d.  Squatter t¡pgad±ng St(g (1G0%)                       150
e. Mortgage Interest Ratu Study         (100%)            60
9. Contingenciee:
a.  Phyaical                             (27%)           171                                  (73%)          465       636
b.  Prico                                (25%)           825        (0.2%)            9       (75%)         2,466    3,300
TTA.L                (21%)         3,218         (24%)        3,752       (55%)         8,4.96   15,466
/1 Includea CAESS and proponed Uhlted Nationa componenta.
.'uly 197L.



ANDNEX 8
Page 3
Table 2
EL SALVADOR SITES AND SERVICES PROJECT
-Cost Recovery
(USs '00)
b of Total
Agency and Item              Amount       ¿roject             Recovery Source
Costs
Govermnent
Off-site roads (5%)                    28          0.2      General Revenues
Cormnunity Facílities                 679          4.4       General Revenues except markets
which will be sold.
Relited Design and Engineering         89          0.5       General Revenias
Training/Technical Assistance         290          1.9      United Nations
Contingencies:
Physical                             32          0.2            -
Price                               369          2.4            -
Sub-total            1,487           9.6
CAESS
Electricity                           4U8          2.9      Project beneficiaries
Related Design and Engineering         73          0.5
Contingencies:
Fhysical                             67          0.4           -
Price                               212          1.4           -
Sub-total              800           5.2
FSVM
Land                                1,983         12.8      Project beneficiaries (Govern-
Off-site water and sewerage           531          3.4      ment for schools and clinics)
On-site Infrastructure              2,394         15.5
Superstructure:
Sanitary Core Unit.s              1,330          8.6      Project beneficiaries
Basic Dwellings                   1,057          6.8
Construction Materials Fund           788          5.1
Related Design and Engineering        518          3.6
Project Managemnent                 1,042          6.7
- - .  Small Industries Loans                 50          0.3           II
Contingencies:
Pbysical                            537          3.5
Price                             2,71,°        17.6
Training and Technical
Assistance                        200          1.3      General Revenues
Sub-total           13,179          85.2
TOTAL               15,466         100.0
July 1974.



ANNEZ 8
Pace 4
Table 3
EL SALVADOR SITES AND SERVICES PROJECT
Estizated Disbursement Schedule
(Uss million-)
IDAJIBRD                                              Di3bursements
Fiscal Year                                         at end o! Qiarter
and Quarter                                      Amount      Cuwulative
1974/75
December 31, 1974                               -0.3          0.3
March 31, 1975                                   0.4          0.7
June 30, 1975                                   0.4           1.1
1975/76
-September 30, 1975                              o.6           1.7
December 31, 1975    (peak - Phase 1)           0.8           2.5
March 31, 1976                                   0.?     -   3.2
June 30, 1976                                   o -.6         3.8
1976/77
September 30, 1976                              0.5           4.3
December 31, 1976                                0.6          4.9
March 31, 1977        (peak - Phase 2)           0.9          5.8
June 30, 1977                                   0.5           6.3
1977/78
September 30, 1977                               0.5          6.8
December 31, 1977    (peal - Phasea3)            0.8-         7.6
March 31, 1978                                   0.2          7.8
June 30, 1978                                   0.1           7.9
1978/79
September 30, 1978                              0.1           8.o
December 31, 1978                               0.1           8.1
March 31, 1979                                   0.1          8.2
June 30, 1979                                    0.1          8.3
1979/80
September 30, 1979                              0.05          8.35
December 31, 1979                                0.05         8.40
March 31, 1980                                   o.oc         8.45
June 30, 1980                                   0.05          8.5
July 1974.



ANNEX 8
?agne 5
Table Li
EL SALVADOR SITES AND SERVICES PROJECT
Proposed Cost-Sharing By Government/,United Nations
Base Prices - May, 1974 (Colones 1000)
Anount    Total
I. Government
Item 4:    Commity Facilities:
a.  Health Clinics                                762
b. Multipurpose Conmunity Centers                 457
e. Marketa                                        250
d. Sportafields                                   229
- T~~~~~~-
1 798
Related Contingencies:
a.  Physical (Construction only)                   70
b. Price (Construction and equipment)             889                         Y
Related Design and Engineering                    210
1 ,99      2,867
Item 2b:   Off-site Infrastructure:
a. Water mains, access roads,
sewerage mains, storm water drainage       1,398
Related Contingencies:
a.  Physical                                      189
b. Price                                          643
Related Design and Engineering                    223
2,W3       2,1453
Item 2a:  Electricity (CAESS/CLESSA)
street lighting and individual
connectiona to households                       1,120
Related Contingencies:
a.  Physical                                      168
b. Price                                          530
Related Zsign and Engineering                     182
2,000      2,0_0
Sub-total                        7,320 (U$2,928)
II.  United Nations
Item 8:    Training and Technical Assistance:
a. Future Project Preparation                     200
b. Urban Land Use/Squatter Upgrading Study        375
e. Mortgage Interest Rate Study                   150
Sub-total               725        725
TOTAL                            8,o45 (US$3,218)
July 1974¿



ANNEX 9
Page 1
EL SALVADOR SITES AND SERVICES PROJECT
LOT SERVICING AND DEVELOPMENT COSTS
1.        Lot preparation and servicing costs shown below are based on a
straight assignable cost per m2 for land, design/engineering, management and
interest during construction. However, since the cost of providing lots with
on-site infrastructure is not directly proportional to lot size, i.e., the
cost of servicing a 120 m2 lot is not double that of a 60 m2 lot, on-site
infrastructure costa have been shared equally between all lots. This formula
is intended to be indicative of a more equitable cost-sharing formula to be
worked out after construction based on actual lot frontage and the degree of
benefit each lot receives from the infrastructure investment. Land and
servicing costs for open space, roads, fooctpaths, sportsfields, and comunity
centers will be shared by all users.
2
Table 1:  Assignable Area              1,200,000 m  total area (120 ha)
Lot Type                                   Assignable Area  % of total
Residential lots (7,000) *
4,100  x  60 m2 m    246,000
2,900  x 120 m2       348,000
Total     594,000 m2    49.5%
Commercial (1.6% of total area)                      19,200 m       1.6%
Community facilities
No.           Lot size
a. Realth                                 2
Clinics  5:4 at        800 = 2,400 m
2 at     3,500 - 7,000 m2
b. Markets  12   at         400 - 4,800  2
c. Schools   6                   28,600             42,800          3.6%
Total              656,000        54.7%
*    Each site will contain lotsofboth60   and1202   2
Eahsite will contaín lots of both 60 *  and 120 mu



ANNEX 9
Page 2
2.        Based on a total assignable area of 656,000 m , assignable costs
are as follows:-
Table 2: Lot Preparation and Servicing Costs (Colones)
-~~~~~~
Cost per m2
Total                         Residential         Community
Item            Cost        Commercial      60 m¿   120           Facilities
1.  Land           4,958,000          7.55       7.55      7.55             7.55
2.  Design/Engi-
neering /1    1,1oU,000           1.77       1.77      1.77             1.77
3.  Management    2,605,000           3.98        3.98     3.98             3.98
4. Interest during
Construction/21,050,000          1.60        1.60      1.60            1.60
Sub-total      9,773,000        14.90       14.90    14.90            14.90
Lot Cost
Sub-total                      varied      894      1,788             varied
5. On-site
Infrastructure
(excluding
electricity) 5,984,000         9.10       774        774              9.10
per m                                  per I
TOTAL                         24       1,668       2,562             24  2
per n2                                per m
(varied                                (varied
size)                                  size)
/1   Por on-site infrastructure and core uaits only.
/2   Based on an average lot cost of approximately 03,000   0 4Z per annum,
representíng the average cost of FSVM borrowing, over a 15 month construc-
tion period. This estimate roughly corresponda to the projected cash
flow figures.



ANNEX 9
Page 3
3.        The resulting total  development costa for lota under the project
are showc belov:
Table 3: Total Lot Developueat Costa (Colones)
Servía* Level 1 Servíce Level 2
Type of   Lot Size. Preparatiou antd   (Saitary core)  (basic dvelling
User       H2       Serv±cing Cost                       plue sa ±tary
per lot              ( 475)       core) (O 755)
Residential    60          1,668                2,143            2,898
120         2,562                3,037             3,792
Comnerclal   variable         24 per 2
Health Clinic:
a. Local
clinic  800         19,200                 -
b. Eventual
Health
Canter
site  3,500         84,000                 -
Market        400          9,600
School      4,800        115,200                  -



ANNEX 10
Page 1
EL SALVADOR
SITES AND SERVICES PROJECT
ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION
1. *The economic rates of return of the total project and of the three
phases individually are summarized in Table 1. Benefits are based on aver-
age imputed rental values of similar types of housing located in San Salvador
and the four secondary cities in which the sites are located. Cost included
land, construction costs, including labor, for civil works and core units, and
project management and technical assistance for staff of the FSVM. All
on-site infrastructure costs are included. Off-site infrastructure costs were
excluded because the benefits accruing from this component will serve many more
households than the 7,000 in the project. The self-help labor involved in
the extension of basic dwellings after project completion was "shadow-priced"
at zero.
2.        Assumptions together with the cost and benefit streams used in
calculating the rates of return shown in Table 1 are given in Tables 2-4.
Table 1. El Salvador Sites and Services Project
Economic Rate of Return
Number of
Serviced Lots      Internal Rates of Return (%)
Total Project             7,000                  20.0
Phase 1                   1,460                   19.65
Phase 2                   2,650                   19.95
Phase 3                   2,890                   19.95



AN2E 10
Page 2
El Salvador Sites and Services Project             Tabla 2
Phase 1 (1,h60 units>
-(in thousands of Colones)
Yeara
r       2       3       U       5      6       7-29      30
Project Costa
Land /1                        1,036                          __                         -1,347
On-síte Infrastructure /2    1,249         _      __       __      __     _--
Core ait                      1,2243      --      -       --       -
Construction flaterials          -        137     137      136         --  __
Desi,n and E;ngir eer±ng /3      240      --      --                       -       --
Project Managemnnt /U            130      130     130      130      614    63      --       --
Total Costs             3,898       267     267     266      64      63            -1,317
Project Benefits
InFuted Renta! Value
Service Level 1 (730)            263      298     333      368    1403    438      438      438
Service Leral 2 (730)            307      333     359      385     h41   1438    1438       438
Total Benefits            507       631     692     753      814    876     876       876
/1  Based on market value; sale of land after 30 years assuidng 30% appreciation.
/2  Inciudes earthlworks, sewerage, drainage, pathways, water, roads.
/3  Pro rata share of total project cost.
/14 Pro rata share of total proJect cost, including training and technical
assistance.
£5  Iroludes consolidation over years 2-6. Imputed rental value of fully consolida-ted
units estizsted at Z 50 per month, increasing initially from ' 30 and ¢' 35 monthiy
in first year for service level 1 and 2,respectively.
July 1974.



ANNE 1 0
Tabla 3
El Salvador Sites and Services Project:
Phase 2 (2,650 imit3)
(in thousandi cf Colones)
Yeara
1-      z       3      AL      5                        3. 7-9  30
Project Costa
Land                            1,876                                                   24- 24o
On-site Infrastrcturte /2       2, 265    __      __     __       __     _       __       __
Core 1nht                       2,260     --      --     --      -      -- __
Construction Materiala            --      248     248    248      --     --      --       --
Design and Engineer5ig /3         14O     --      --      --      --     --      --       --
Project 'anagement -              235      M       M      235     118    117      -
Total Costs               7,076     483     483    483     118    117      --    -2,l0
Project Benefita
Inputed Rental Value
Serni.c. Levl 1 (730)             477    5141      604    668     731    795     795      795
Ser .,ce level 2 (730)            557    601      652    700      747    795     795      795
Total BenefLits           1,034   1,145   1,256  1,368   1,478  1,590   1,590    1,590
/1  Based on.inarket value; sale of land after 30 years assuming 30% appreciation.
/2  Includes earthworkh, seuerage, drainage, pathways, water, roads.
/3  Pro rata share of total project cost.
/4 Pro rata share of total pro-ject cost, including trainíing and technical
assistance.
!_  Includrs consolidat_on over years 2-b.  Impuled rental value of fully consolidated
units estimated at ' 50 per month, increasing initially from ' 30 and ' 35 nonthly
in first year for service level 1 and 2,respectively.
July 19714.



ANEXX 10
Page 4
Table4
El Salvador Sites and Services Project:
Phase 3 (2,890 unita)
(in thousanda of Colones)
Years
t   Z       ~~3     4               5        ;        30
Project Costa
Land ¿2                           2,046    --       --      __      __       _-2 -           2660
On-site Infrastructure ¿2         2,470    --       --      --      --       __      __        __
Core Uhit                         2,L65    --       --      --      --       --      --        __
Construction MEteL¡a1s              --      272     272    272      --       --      --        --
Desi--n .na Engineering       /3 18o    --          --      --      --       --                --
ProJect Mriange2nent /4             256    257      256    257      1 28     1 29
Total Costs                 7,717    529      528    529      128     129    -       -2,660
Froject Benefits
tiiputed Rental Value 15
..;l-ice Level 1 (730)              520    5,90     659    728      798      867     867       867
Service Level 2 (730)               607    659      711    763      815      867     867       867
Total Benefits              1,127  1,249   1,370  1,491   1,613   1,734   1,734    1,734
/1  Bised on market value; salc of land after 3C years asmur1ng 30% appreci.ation.
/2  Includes earthworks, sewerage, drainage, patiwayH, water, roads.
13 Pro rata share of total project cofst.
/b  Pro r.t_ s?wxe of total project cost, includirg trainir.g and technical
as zistance.
/b  lncludes ccnsolidatio,n over Ve-ar3 2-6.  Imputed lental value 3f fully consoli.dated
i'ni;s estiated at ¢ 50 per month, increasing initial.y- £rom  ' 30 and ¢ 35 rnonthJly
in first year for servi4co level 1 and 2,respeet.ively.
JuJ.y 1974.



ANNEX 11
Page 1
EL SALVADOR
SITES AND SERVICES PROJECT
MONITORING AND EVALUATION
1.        Project m»nitoring and evaluation are deemed essential in order
to: (i) provide sufficient information for efficient management and super-
vision, and (ií) assess project performance in order to improve future project
design.
Monitoring
2.        Monitoring, defined as the periodic recording and analysis of
information on the project, ís viewed as a management tool for effective
control of project execution. The El Salvador project, as all Bank-assisted
sites and services projects, will be monitored throughout execution as part
of normal project inilementation.
3.        The follow:ng information will be provided throuth the monitoring
exercise:
(a) a baseline census of project applicants;
(b) confirmation of lot occuvancy to determine whether partici-
panut were selected and lots occupied in accordance with
the household selection criteria (para. 4.06);
(c)  triíestral reports on the provision of all project
components;
(d)  annual reports on the degree of utilization of community
facilities; and
(e)  rates and reasons for changes in project participants and
for defaults in mortgage payments.
4.        The recording of data will be done by FSVI staff.  One menber
from ench department will be assigned to a special project monitoring group
under the chairmanship of the FSVJM General lanager. Analysis and data
files wíll be organized by household, by site and by Projlect phase ln order
to facilitate feedback into implementation. Quarterly renorts prepared bv
the monitoring grouD will be incorporated into the General ManaRer's repOrt,
and made available to Government aud the Bank.



ANINEX 1 1
Page 2
Evaluation
5.        The Bank evaluation will seek to determine whether the objectives
inentioned elsewhere in this report are being met over time, and whether
project components (both Dhysical and institutional) vield the intended social
and economic impacts on project participants and on associated institutions.
If they do not, evaluation should attempt to provide explanations for the un-
anticipated effects. It should also test assumptions concerning the project's
goals, and thus provide the basis for recommendations on futura project design
and policy for both the Government and the Bank.
6.        On-going FSV?4 projects are being evaluated by a team of researchers
from the Uníversidad Centroamericana "Jose Simeon Canas" under a grant from.
the Inter-American Foundation. This evaluation includes a sample survey of
2,000 households within different types of settlements and studies of physical
condítions in the neighborhoods surveyed. Their evaluation ia expected to be
completed by September 1975.
7.        The El Salvador sites and services project has been designated as
one of the three projects on which the Bank will seek to undertake a detaíled
socio-economic evaluation which would be distinct from the apnraisal, moni-
toring or post-audit evaluations undertaken in other departments of the Bank.
Such an in-depth evaluation should offer the opportunity of studying the
abilitv of a private agency to provide services normally undertaken by
,overnment agencies. The ínterest FSVI has demonstrated in analyzing its
own past experiences and the institutional base offered within the agency for
future studies of a similar nature strengthen the case for undertaking such
an evaluation. The on-going evaluation should serve to provide a basis for
testing the assumptions and hypotheses upon which the Bank will base its own
study. The Bank study has been proposed for UNDP financing under the technical
aseistance program mentioned in para. 3.20, for which'the Bank would serve as
executing agency..
Hathodology
8.        The evaluation will be carried out in three phases:  (i) before
lot occupancy; (ii) during execution; and (íii) after the project's closing
date. Household surveys and apecial studies will be used to gather informa-
tion during each of the phases.
9.        Household surveys will consist of questionnaires administered to
respondents in both project and non-project areas (control groups). The same
households will be interviewed during each of the three study phases. Particí-
pants will be chosen from stratified random samples in both project and con-
trol areas. To the extent possible, the universe from which the samples are
to be selected will be provided by FSVM preselection forms. At the same time
that families are interviewed,''information regarding housing conditions will
be gathered by the interviewers.  Standardized measures and indicators will be
formulated before field work begins.



ANNEX 11
Page 3
10.       In particular, the evaluation will attempt to determine the relation-
shln between the specified objectives of the project and the means chosen within
the project to achieve those objectives. The objectives - the dependent varia-
bles ín the analysis - include, inter alía, the following:
(a)  changes in the economic and social attitudes and behavior
of oroject participants;
(b)  improvement in the living conditions and community
services for 8,000 familíes and reduction of the housing
shortage for the low-íncome population in El Salvador:
(c)  demonstration of a successful alternative shelter solution
to conventional fully built governnent housing projects;
(d)  expansion of employnent opnortunities through the organiza-
tion of small commercial ventures and labor-íntensive con-
struction methods;
(e) changes in the patterns of household expenditures due to
increased capital formation and the inclusion of oarticular
project components such as piped water;
(f)  imnprovement of Government planning for low-income settlements.
11.       The means - material, human and financial - for attaining these
objectives ínclude:
(a) provision of urbanized building lots incorporating two
service levels;
(b)  housing construction based on self-help and mutual-help;
(c) provision of credit in the form of construction materials
loans;
(d)  provision of communitv facilities, including health clinics,
communtit  centers, sports fields, markets and schools.
(e)  Drograms of technical assistance and credits for small-
scale industries.
12.       It will be necessary to see whether the relationship between the
means and the goals are affecterd by certain cultural, demographic or socio-
economic characteristics of the Donulation.  Thus, individual attributes
(i.e., age, sex, education, income level, employment and nigratorv historv)
wiill have to be taken ínto account in determíning that relationship.



ANNEX 1 1
Page 4
13.       A research teai, consisting primarily of local researchers, wíll
be recruited to undertake the evaluation. Their institutional affiliation
till be decided by the FSVM and the Bank. The terms of reference and the
research design for the project evaluation will be agreed between the two
oarties by December 1974.



ORGANIZATION STRUCTURE OF FSVM
BOARD OF DIRECTORSA-
EXTERNAL
AUDITa
GENERAL MANAGER
| TECH-NICAL            ADMN _TRAIO
ASSISTANCE       -        COUNCIL
DIISO.            WA                                                OILHUIGAMNSRTO
OPEVATIONS >  <                                     T       ;     <            t ADMINISTRATION
SECTION:         PLANNING                                              ALLOTTEE                          LEGAL                         SUPPLIES
l  PflOJECT   . ~ ~ ~ ~  ~     ~ ~ ~ ELCTO
EXECUTIONI        -                                  MUTUAL-HELP                     COLLECTIONS   1                 ACCOUNTiNG
PROCUREMENTPe¡nl n  co.                           _________.JANAUT
Will be sPli into 2                                         Poposed New
i ctoIms *s implemen-                                       Divlsid 1N
CONSTRUCTION              ::¡abn proceda.             COMMUNITY
SUPERVISION      ea                            _    OEVELOPMENT   ¡CLi_ACAL
|U  CONSTRIUCTION                                                          1                                                                     -
MATERIALS DEPOTS                                        MON¡TORiNG
L   (Proposed New
Sectijonl                                               Proposed New
Sections                                                      Worid Baímk- 87301.)



CHART 3: Expanded Dwelling
LEGEN O
Sanitary Unit
8asic Dvoiling
Extensioni                                    Worid 8ank-9066



Chart 4
EL SALVADOR
SITES AND SERVICES PROJECT
Construction Schedule
Process                    1974               1975                1976                1977               1978
2
Site Analysis                                  3
1
Land Acquisition                                             3
1 
Detailed Enginesring and                                 3
Final Approvais
2
Bidding and Awards                                            3
Civil Works Construction:
2
Earth works                                                            3
Water                                             -                                     3
Drainage and Sewerage                                                                                 3 .
Sanitary Units                                                                                       3
1             ~~~~~2
Construction of Basic Owellíngs                                                                             3
____                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 2T                              3
Lot Occupancy                                                     1
Notes:                                                              Total Units
1 - Phase 1 Sites   Soyagango 1 (El Pepeto)       510 units
Santa Ana                        950               1.460
2  Phase 2 Sites   Soyapanga 2                     700
San Migúel                     1,000
Usulutan                        400
Sonsonate                        550               2,650
3  Phase 3 Siras   Soyapango 3                    800
Soyapango 4                      550
Apopa                          1,540              2.890
7,000                                    Wordd Bank-8798(R)



EL SALVADDR SITES AND SERVICES P.POJECT - SERVICE LEVELS                                 Figure 1
Service Level (a)                                                        Service Level (b)
mnodels 
1.  Serviced Lot and                                                2.  Lot, Sanitary Core Unit and
Sanitary Core Unit.                                                 Basia Living Structure.
Prjetr.ec aF
(l4ove¡nbe
1973)
4Lots with Sanitary Core Units
3. Close-up of 2 Sanitary Cora                                            and extended house  units.
Units, Back-to-backd



SONSONATE                                                                 USULUTAN
M0s A/,.' //X f ,I -- I
e)~~~~~~~ US UA L  
SAN MIGUEL                               ji                   7          SAN'A AN.   . A
g  r .    -=   l---i- -- :-~-                 !            --  - 
! ,\---.>                                         11    -.>-                     / -  /    /_.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
! \_,-s ', ' ._9 < __ \ .- ., .,. ,- . ._ j | 8! - - / /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ........... .....  
t~~~~~~~~~ Ls  ¡   
..  El   SALVACOR                            '"
SITES AND SERViCES PRO2JECT IGAI _ «95l">'rw»
SECONDARY CITIES j_ .i.b  \_ So-  
locafion of Ploject Sitesi                 f*tsALVAOORQ t:  
~~~~~~~  N ~  ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ 0O
~~~~~'- ~ ~      ~       ~      ~       7
jSTE   AND  oSERVIC         PRQEC                        ....                                  I.. er_-s*t « 51-Z   -_ * r., ,,
Loc.*At~d,o  _f _rjc  _ie                  ", _ SALAO                             S            ¡  
ICAS,4,At ¿ONES  IEV¡U an._- .T,E-                                               -*<- _*-  4 - _. ->_.






t:A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ VA 7  M
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EL SALVADOO\ \/ ,
....... .... IC1SRLS............ o4_-j;O






.--        n~~~~~~i
E a rUi      A L^ Vit A/                                                                                          it 09 4
1 _,0  ,/'k.   :;,a  ".,í- --
,o x  o llm 4.,,r   dwa
-i0'h' &,'L KJ-'¡K  Co¡be                                           ELS LV                 O
- j ,% .owarsr*.>v s. 1 .~4
r;twj*;T5"A8V^vop2^g^^rJv  //    S ITES &  SERVICES PROJ ECT~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
#testieOeern ~~~~~~~~~ cArrrrz   -~~~~~ Jr /   SANTA   ANA  SITE - LA'fOUT  PLAN-N,'.ERCAL .CT
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CE "   J,



