RESTRICTED
FILE    COPY                             Report No. P-398
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATIONS
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON
PROPOSED CHANGES IN
ROSIERES IRRIGATION PROJECT LOAN (NO. 284-SU)
AND
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT (NO. 2-SU)
TO THE SUDAN
August 17, 1964



I
Ii
i
I
I
I
I
i
4
i
i



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOIENDATIONS OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON PROPOSED CHANGES
IN ROSEIRES IRRIGATION PROJECT LOAN (N4O. 284-SU) ADM
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT (NO. 2-. SU) TO THE SUDAN
1.        on June 14, 1961, the Bank made a loan to the 'Sudan of $19.5
million, and on the same day IDA provided a credit of $13.0 million, to
assist the Government in financing the construction of the Roseires Dam.
On July 5, 1961, Kreditanstalt fUr Wqiederaufbau (Kreditanstalt) made a
loan to the Sudan of $18.4 million for the same purpose. Although each
of the creditors had a separate agreement with the Borrower, a four-party
Administration Agreement was signed on June 14, 1961 by the creditors and
the Borrower, to facilitate disbursement and to regulate matters of common
interest in the execution of the project. The description of the project
was set forth in the Administration Agreement and not (as is customary)
in the loan and credit agreements.
2.        The Project consists of two parts.  Part A is the construction
of a dam on the Blue Nile to create a reservoir with a useful capacity
of about 3,000 million cubic meters. The reservoir will more than double
the amount of water now available for use during the annual low-water
season and would bring under production, by irrigation, an additional
1 million acres of land. The dam would be constructed so as to permit
heightening for further expansion of irrigation and for hydroelectric
plant. Part B consists of irrigation works and farm development to enable
water stored at the dam to be effectively utilized. This would include
extension and intensification of gravity schemes and development of new
pump schemes.
3.        Bank, IDA and Kreditanstalt financing is to meet most of the
foreign exchange cost ($50.9 million equivalent) of Part A of the Project;
the remaining portion of the cost (about $37 million) is being met by the
Borrower. Financing of Part B has not yet been arranged.
Progress of the Project
4.        Kreditanstalt, the Association and the Bank are satisfied with
the progress of the construction of the dam. The dam is expected to be
completed in the summer of 1966, one year ahead of the original schedule.
Plans for irrigation work and farm development have had to be expedited
so that suitable land would be ready for irrigation when stored water
becomes available.



-2-
Proposed Reallocation of Funds
5.        Although the costs of the project are running near the estimates,
there has been some shift in the distribution of costs betwfeen foreign
expenditure and local, with the result that there has been a saving in
foreign expenditure of about £Sl.5 million ($4.3 million). The Borrower
has asked each of the creditors to accept a proportionate reallocation of
approximately £S1.3 million of this amount ($3.75 million) for the follow-
ing purposes not included in the original project:
Total               Foreign Exchange
(in '000 £S)      :£S          $ equivalent
(in tOoo)
Foundations for a powerhouse         1,300          700                2,000
Conduits for an irrigation
canal headworks (east bank)            150           80                  230
Soil survey and related
engineering                            800          530               1,520
Total       2, 250       121 30750
This allocation would leave some £S190,000 ($555,000) for further con-
sideration.  It is likely that this amount will have to be drawn on for
agricultural research, additional soil surveys, and related engineering.
If it appears later that this expenditure is desirable, it can be given
effect merely by a change in the list of goods without any further revision
in the description of the project in the Administration Agreement.
Foundations for Powerhouse
6.        Although it was thought that a powerhouse at Roseires might well
be justified in the future and in fact provision for future penstocks were
made in the dam itself, financing for the powerhouse was explicitly excluded
from the project because insufficient studies were available at that time
to determine the economic justification of generating power and because
power requirements had not been studied in sufficient detail.
7.        In 1963, the U.N. Special Fund financed a power survey in the
Sudan, for which the Bank was the Executing Agency   The survey concluded
that the demand for power would continue to rise steadily and that power
facilities (hydro and thermal) would have to be expanded. It also con-
cluded that installation of generating units (7-25 1-fl each) at the Roseires
dam was economically justified and that the development would result in
substantial savings in fuel costs. The Bank has reviewed the findings of
the survey and agrees with them.



-3-
8.        Only the foundations for the powerhouse would be financed from
the existing loans and credit. The Government of the Sudan is negotiating
with the United Kingdom and with Kreditanstalt for finance for the
remaining construction of the poTerhouse as well as for the generating
and transmission facilities. The negotiations are expected to be com-
pleted shortly. The total cost of the powierhouse and related transmission
facilities is expected to be about $25 million.
9.        The main dam contract now being carried out was let after inter-
national competitive bidding.  The foundation work now proposed would be
carried out by the same contractor on the basis of a negotiated contract,
since it would be impracticable and much more costly to bring in another
contractor now or at a later stage. The cost of the foundation work is
estimated at £S 1.3 million. It is estimated that the negotiatted contract
with the present contractor, as against a contract with a new contractor
(even on an international competitive basis), would save as much as
£S 1,0$0o00o
Headworks for Irrigation Canal
10.       The original project provides for a headworks for a future canal
on the west bank. This headwhorks is now being constructed as an irtegral
part of the dam, and had been planned on the west bank because of the
originally expected development of the Kennana scheme between the two
branches of the Nile. Since the loan was made, reconnaissance investi-
gations on the east bank of the Blue Nile indicate that better soils may
be available there than at Kennana and hence should receive priority for
development. Detailed plans for a canal on the east bank must await the
results of the soil surveys (see 5 above). Although the complete con-
struction of an east bank headworks is not warranted at this time, there
seems to be sufficient justification for the construction now of the
minimum headworks which would permit the future building of this canal.
The present proposal would be to provide three conduits through the east
transition section of the dam at an estimated total cost of £S 150,000.
This would avoid building an expensive cofferdam later.
Soil Surveys and Related Engineering
11.       At the time of the loans and credit negotiations, the need for
systematic engineering and soil surveys was fully recognized and it was
agreed that in order to select the best land and soil for irrigation from
the stored water at the Roseires dam, the Government would arrange
immediately for a soil survey. The financing of the foreign exchange
cost of this work was not included in the loans and credit for the dam but
was to be arranged by the Government. Originally most of the areas which
were to be investigated had undergone preliminary sampling (such as
Managil V and part of the Kennana scheme - both on the west bank of the
Blue Nile), but subsequent more detailed surveys have shown that there is



-4-
less land suitable for development on the west bank than had been expected.
During the past year, the Government soil consultants have, as a result of
preliminary investigations, discovered large areas of land now called
Rahad and Roseires on the east bank of the Blue Nile, suitable for irri-
gation. The soil consultants are optimistic about these areas and,
subject to detailed survey work, it seems that soil and land on the east
bank might be more suitable than on the west bank. In order to determine
the priority for developing the most suitable area, the program of soil
surveys and related engineering work has become more urgent.
12.       A ilemorandum on Recent Economic Developments in the Sudan,
dated August 17, 1964, is attached (Annex 1).
ReGommendations
13.       A draft Supplementary Administration Agreement incorporating
the proposed changes in the project is attached as Annex 2. It has been
approved by Kreditanstalt and the Sudan. I recommend that the Executive
Directors of the Bank and IDA
(a) approve the Supplementary Administration Agreement
(Annex 2) and
(b) adopt a Resolution to that effect in the appropriate
form attached as Annexes 3 or, 4.
George D. Woods
President
By
J. Burke Knapp
Vice President
Attachments
Washington, D. C.
August 17, 1964



I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      I                          I



