Vui CRI    TO- 277
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and the Association  It
may not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views
The Bank and the Association accept no responsibility for the accuracy or
completeness of the contents of the report
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
APPRAISAL OF THE ROSEIRES IRRIGATION PROJECT
REPUBLIC OF THE SUDAN
June 7, 1961
Department of Technical Operations



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
6S 1.00       = US$2.872
US$1.00       = LS.345
US$lminion = LbS345,000
ifeddan = 1.038acres = .42hectares
1 seed kantar = approximately 312 lbs. seed cotton = 110 lbs. lint
1 lint kantar = approximately 100 lbs. cotton lint



REPUBLIC OF THE SUDAN
APPRAISAL OF THE ROSEIRES IRRIGATION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY                                                             i - iii
I.  INTRODUCTION                                                    1
II.  GENERAL INFOQMATION                                             1
III.  THE PROJECT                                                     3
A. General                                                      3
B.  The Dam and Associated Works                                3
C.  Construction of the Dam and Associated Works                4
D.  Use of Roseires Water                                       5
E. Irrigation Works and Farm Development                        7
IV.  COST AND FINANCING OF PROJECT                                   7
A.  Cost                                                        7
B. Financing                                                    9
V. OPERATION AND MANAGEMENT OF IRRIGATION SCHEMES                  10
A. Existing Schemes                                            10
B.  Expansion of Irrigation from Roseires Storage              11
VI.  VALUE OF PRODUCTION                                            13
VII.  ESTIMATED BENEFITS FROM THE INVESTMENT                         15
VIII.  CONCLUSIONS AMf RECOMENDATIONS                                 17
ANNEXES
1.  Gross Area Commanded by Nile Water Irrigation Schemes
2. Crop Rotations
3. Average River Flow of Blue Nile
4. Technical Details of the Dam
5. Schedule of Construction of Dam
6. Cost of Dam and Associated Works
7. Cost of Irrigation Works and Farm Development
8.  Crop Yield Expectations, Forward Price Assumptions
and Production Costs
THREE MAPS



S U M M A R Y
i.        The Government of Sudan obtained a Bank loan of US$15.5 million
equivalent in June 1960 to assist finance the Managil Irrigation Scheme.
It has now requested a loan for the Roseires Irrigation Project as a further
stage of its irrigation development program.
ii.       The project comprises:
a) the construction of a dam 60 m in height on the Blue Nile near
Roseires, 106 km downstream from the Ethiopian border and of the
necessary works to regulate the release of stored water; and
b)  the development of new pump irrigation schemes along the banks of
the Nile and of the extension and intensification of the Gezira-
Managil gravity irrigation schemes supplied with water through the
existing downstream Sennar Daam canal network.
iii.      Irrigation has proved most successful on the lands adjoining the
Nile River in Sudan. Expansion has been restricted by irrigation water
shortage during the season of low river flow (January 1 to July 15). An
agreement has been negotiated between Sudan and the United Arab Republic
regarding allocation between those two countries of the Nile waters and for
the claims, as and when agreed upon, of other countries having riparian
rights. It authorizes Sudan to construct storages to conserve water to
supplement irrigation supplies during periods of low river flow.
iv,       The dam would impound a net 2,-724 million m3 per annum for irriga-
tion use. This water would be used to permit year round pumping for currently
seasonally restricted pump irrigation schemes; intensification of the crop
rotation on the two million-feddan Gezira-Managil gravity irrigation scheme;
development of about 670,000 feddans additional pump irrigation and 200,000
feddans additional gravity irrigation; making good the deficiency in require-
ments for full irrigation in existing irrigation schemes in years of excep-
tionally low river flow; and the expansion of sugar cane production at Guneid
by 3,000 feddans annually. An amount of about 800 million m3 would initially
remain as a reserve for future allocation.
v.        Engineering for the dam has been performed by Sir Alexander Gibb &
Partners and MM. Andre Coyne and Jean Bellier as joint consultants. Eight,
contracts for preparatory and associated works comprising the building of a
township, airfield, roads and bridges have been placed following international
competitive bidding. Tenders for the main civil contract have been obtained
from qualified contractors on an international basis. The consulting engineers
have reviewed the six offers received and have submitted their recommendations
on the award. Due to climatic conditions and the type of structure, the con-
struction program would cover six years. It would be supervised by Sir Alex-
ander Gibb & Partners as engineering consultants.
vi.       Gravity irrigation works required would comprise minor canals and
field laterals only. These would be constructed, maintained and operated by
the M4inistry of Irrigation. Farm development including land clearing and
leveling, the extension of light railways for cotton transportation and pro-
vision of ginning facilities would be undertaken by the Sudan Gezira Board,
which would manage the scheme.



- ii -
vii.      New pump schemes would involve the supply and installation of pumps,
canalization of the areas to be commanded and clearing, leveling and ditching
for farm development. It is not yet certain hou much of the pump scheme
development would be undertaken by private enterprise and how much by the
Government. Pump schemes would be subject to the Sudanese Nile Pump Control
Regulations.
viii,     The total cost of the project is estimated as follows:
Local Currency     Foreign Exchange          Total
millions            millions            millions
Us$l               US$                 US$
£'S    Equiv.      £S      Equiv.      £S     Equiv.
Preparatory &
Associated 1orks   2.55       7.3      1.42       4.1      3.97      11.4
Roseires Dam         8.80     25.2     14.95      42.9     23.75      68.1
Irrigation Viorks &
Farm Development  17.29      49.7     13.63      39.1     30.92      88.8
Interest during
Construction        -          -       3.42       9.9      3.42       9.9
Total        28.64      82.2     33.42      96.0     62.06    178.2
ix.       The Sudan Government would provide from its own resources the
cost of preparatory and associated works and the local currency cost of
dam construction. Irrigation works and farm development would only require
to be commenced two to three years prior to completion of the dam. The ex-
ternal loan now sought, accordingly, is only the foreign exchange costs of
the construction of the dam and of engineering consultants' fees paid since
July 1960 in connection with the dam construction. The amount is US$43.2
million equivalent plus interest on the loan during the construction period
which, under the proposed financing arrangements, amounts to US$8.3 million,
making a total of US*51.5 million equivalent.
x,        The German Government has agreed to participate in the financing
by enabling a loan to be made by the Kreditanstalt fuer Wiederaufbau.  This
corporation proposes that its loan be US$15.1 million, plus interest during
construction, US$3.9 million - a total of US.19.0 million equivalent. The
term would be 20 years, including a grace period of seven years with interest
at 5A per cent.
xi.       A Bank loan is proposed of US$15.1 million, plus interest during
construction US$4-4 million, or a total of US$19.5 million. A suitable term
would be 25 years including a grace period of seven years.



- iii -
xii.      The remaining US$13 nillion is proposed for an International
Development Association credit for a period of 50 years, including a grace
period of 10 years, carrying a service charge of three fourths per cent per
annum on the unpaid balance of the drawn down amount of the credit. The
credit would be repayable by annual installments of one per cent from the
eleventh through twentieth years and three per cent from the twenty-first
through fiftieth years. The service charge during construction would be met
by the Sudan Government.
xiii.     As part of the project, an agricultural research program would
be undertaken to determine how the Gezira-ihIanagil cropping pattern could be
profitably further intensified.  Provided this program   is implemented
vigorously and without undue delay, means could be found within the next
decade for the use of the presently unallocated 800 million mJ of stored water
without additional capital investment in irrigation facilities and with
benefits comparable to those conservatively estimated for the presently
planned intensification. Assuming that uses are developed for all stored
water in irrigation, the gross output investment ratio of the project would
be about 50 per cent, the annual net benefits about 23 per cent of the in-
vestment and the combined direct net return to the Government and pump licensees
on their investment over 13. per cent.
xiv.      Pending development of these additional uses for water, only 70 per
cent of that available would be used for new irrigation. During this period,
the gross output/investment ration would be 42 per cent, annual net benefit
17 per cent and the net return on investment about 10 per cent, which vwould
adequately justify the project.
xv.       The system of irrigation farming which has been developed in Sudan
enables tenant farmers, unskilled in modern farm practices to produce effi-
ciently under supervision and is particularly well adapted to prevailing con-
ditions. The llinistry of Irrigation and the Sudan Gezira Board are experienced
and have proved they are fully capable to execute and operate the project.
xvi.      Successful completion of the total project is necessary to ensure
adequate economic benefits from the investment. Construction of the irriga-
tion works and farm development would not need to start until three years
after commencement of the dam. Assurances would be given in connection with
the present financing that Sudan's ability to provide and obtain the future
financial requirements for completion of the project will be safeguarded.
xvii,     Subject to the Banrk and IDA being satisfied on this point, the
project is suitable for total borrowings of US$51.5 million, including a
Bank loan of US319.5 million and IDA credit of US$13 million.



REPUBLIC OF THE SUDAN
APPRAISAL OF THE ROSEIRES IRRIGATION PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.        At the request of the Sudan Government, a Bank mission visited the
Sudan in October 1958 to examine the technical and economic aspects of the
Managil and Roseires irrigation projects. The mission reported favorably on
both projects but recommended that Managil should be given priority. The
Sudan Government was informed, however, that before the Bank could consider
participation in financing these projects, adequate arrangements would need
to be made with regard to the riparian interests of other countries on the
Nile River.
2.        In December 1959 the Government informed the Bank that agreement
had been reached with the United Arab Republic allocating the waters of the
Nile between Sudan and Egypt, with provision for the deduction in the future
from this allocation of the requirements of other countries that had claims
for water as and when these were agreed upon.
3.        Concurrently, the Government renewed its application for assistanoe
to finance the Managil scheme as the first stage of its irrigation program
and the Roseires project as a subsequent stage. As a result and following a
further appraisal of the proposal, negotiations were concluded during June
1960 for a Bank loan of US$15.5 million equivalent to assist financing the
Managil scheme.
4.        Technical missions visited Sudan in March and May 1960 for further
examinations of the Roseires project. This report covers the appraisal of
that project based on the findings of these missions and of that of 1958, and
on information supplied by the Sudan Government.
II. GENERAL INFORMATION
5.        Sudan is an agricultural country; 86 per cent of its population and
98 per cent of its export income depend on the land. Of about 17 million fed-
dans that have been cultivated at various times, scme 2.8 million feddans will
be under command fkr irrigation on ccmpletion of the extension of the Managil
scheme in 1962. Particulars of the areas under command and of the cropping
pattern practiced in irrigation areas are given in Annexes 1 and 2.
6.        Irrigation of these areas has proved most successful.  About 1.6 mil-
lion feddans of the commanded land are cropped each year and of this area
0.7 millicn feddans under long staple cotton produce some 70 per cent of total
export income. The long staple cotton is of excellent quality and costs of
production are highly competitive. Moreover, should market trends compara-
tively favor shorter staple cotton production, there could be some changeover
to these types. Markets are available for the other crops grown in rotation
with the cotton. The system under which the irrigation schemes are operated
permits efficient production by comparatively unskilled labor, provides a
living standard for the tenants above the national average, and allows a satis-
factory return on the investment.



7.        In comparison, except for the far southern area in the tropical
rainfall belt, the remainder of Sudan comprises semi-arid country used for
extensive grazing and marginal dry farming, mainly on a subsistence basis.
Some improvement in productivity of significance to the economy is taking
place and can be expected to increase over the long term in these areas,
largely as a result of the promotion of large-scale mechanized farming now
being sponsored, and by improvement in animal husbandry methods and breed
selection.
8.        Nevertheless, the immediate and major possibilities for expansion
of commercial agricultural production lie in the development of irrigation.
Prospective tenants capable of farming under the system that has been estab-
lished are available for additional projects. Suitable land is plentiful
and Nile water is available during the flood period. The principal limita-
tion to expansion is the amount of water available during the season of low
river flow (January to July).
9.        The new Nile-Water Agreement of November 1959 between the United
Arab Republic and Sudan provides that, when the reservoir at Saad el-Aali
is in full operation, the regulated flow of the Nile will be shared on the
basis of 18,500 million m3 for the Sudan and 55,500 million m3 for Egypt.
The requirements of other countries having claims to the water will, when
finally agreed, be deductible equally from the Sudan and UAR allocations.
10.       Pending the construction and operation of the Saad el-Aali reser-
voir, Sudan is entitled to use a total of 1,925 million m3 during the period
of restricted river flow (January 1 to July 15). This is made up of the
water stored in the Sennar Dam (791 million m3), historic abstractions frcm
the Nile flow (284 million m3) and the equivalent of the release to Egypt of
stored water from the Jebel Aulia Dam (850 million m3, when the current rais-
ing of the level of that dam is completed in 1962/63). The amount may be
increased only by additional storage of flood flow.
11.       Furthermore, on completion in 1963 of the M4anagil Irrigation Project,
present physical water availabilities on the Blue Nile during the first four
months of the restricted period will be fully committed (see Annex 3). Any
further expansion of irrigation activities and hydropower generation on this
river is dependent on the construction of storage. Though the earliest sug-
gestion for a storage reservoir on the Blue Nile at Roseires was made by
Sir William Garstin in 1904 up to the present the only storage development
on the river is the Sennar Dam which was built in 1925 to supply the Gezira
area. The Nile-Water Agreement authorizes the construction of a dam at
Roseires to augment the amount of storage.



- 3 -
III. THE PROJECT
A. General
12.       The project comprises
a) the construction over a period of six years of a dam on
the Blue Nile near Roseires, 106 km downstream from the
Ethiopian border, and of the necessary works to regulate
the releases of the stored water; and
b) the development over the final three-year period of the
dam construction of new pump irrigation schemes and the
extension and intensification of the Gezira-Fianagil
gravity irrigation schemes supplied with water through
the existing downstream Sennar Dam canal network.
13.       The gross storage in Roseires reservoir is estimated at 3,024 mil-
lion i3, which !fter an evaporation allowance of 300 million m3 would provide
2,724 million m per annum for irrigation uses and thus somewhat more than
double the amount of water available for use during the annual season of
shortage.
14.       The dam would be constructed so as to permit future heightening by
10 m, which would increase the reservoir capacity by an additional 4,600 mil-
lion m3 for further expansion of irrigation ard for the possible generation
of hydroelectric power.
B. The Dam and Associated Works
15.       The dam would consist of a buttress type concrete center section
with earth embankments on each end. It would have a maximum height of about
60 m and an overall length of 16.1 km, of which 15.0 km would be earthfill.
The total volume of concrete and earthfill would approximate 610,000 m3 and
5.2 million m3 respectively. Technical details of the dam are given in
Annex 4.
16.       The design for the dam and the associated works was made jointly
by the consulting engineering firms of Sir Alexander Gibb & Partners and
1N1I. Andre Coyne and Jean Bellier. The Bank requested a review of the spill-
way capacity and as a result this has now been increased to 17,350 mi per
second. With this change the design of the dam is satisfactory.
17.       The consulting engineers have made extensive subsurface ezo;lora-
tions of the site and have established that the geology is satisfac; iy.
They hc-re aL6o performed tests to determine the silt load in ti ri;r,; and
have estimated that with proper operation the annual depletion cI s-torage
due to sedimentation would not exceed one half of one per cent of the reser-
voir volume.



- 4 -
18.       Major power facilities or canal headworks would not be constructed
at Roseires at this time, but intakes for additions of both a future irriga-
tion canal and a future powerhouse would be provided. A small generating
installation would be furnished initially, however, to provide power for
operation of the gates and for miscellaneous needs at the projedt.
19.       The associated works comprise a township which would initially be
used as a construction camp for about 2,500 people, an airfield with an all-
weather landing strip, and a bridge downstream Of the dam which would initi-
ally provide construction access to both sides of the river and would later
be converted to a rail crossing.
20.       The equipment and material required for construction will have to
be transported from Sennar junction to the site over a single track railroad
with light-weight rails and an unballasted bed. The Government has issued
instructions to the railroad that all goods for the Roseires and Khashm el
Girba projects shall have priority and the railroad foresees no difficulties
in meeting these requirements. The contractor would establish offices in
both Port Sudan and Khartoum to expedite unloading and transshipment and to
provide close liaison with the Sudan railroad. In order to assist the rail-
road in planning the routing of its rolling stock, the contractor would sub-
mit an annual schedule of his transport requirements and would revise this
schedule quarterly.
C. Construction of the Dam and Associated Works
21,       The complete construction program has been divided into ten con-
tracts. The first nine covering the associated works comprise the township,
airfield, roads, and bridge. Eight of these nine contracts have been let to
the successful tenderers and the work covered by the ninth, including clear-
ing and drainage of the site, will be performed by the Ministry of Irrigation
with its own forces. The associated works are scheduled for completion in
two years.
22.       Construction of the dam (Contract No. 10) is planned to start in
the latter part of 1961 following the annual flood and to be completed by
June 1967. The contract is of the unit price type with provision for changes
due to fluctuations in the cost of materials. The construction schedule is
given in Annex 5. Construction will be supervised by the engineering consul-
tants, Sir Alexander Gibb & Partners.
23.       Pre-qualification of prospective bidders was made on an open, inter-
national basis. The factors considered in the selection of bidders for the
main dam contract were caliber, financial responsibility, and capacity to
handle large quantities of concrete and earthwork, In addition, emphasis was
placed upon previous experience in dealing with the contrrl of large rivers
and experience in working under conditions similar to those found in the Sudan.
24.       Copies of the drawings and specifications for the dam have been
issued to 17 groups of contractors; the closing date for the submissien of
bids was April 15, 1961. Proposals were received from six bidders and the
award of the contract is expected to be made no later than July 1961. The
bids have been analyzed by the engineering consultants and submitted to the



- 5 -
Bank for review. The dam would be able to store water to the maximum reser-
voir level from the falling flood in 1967. If construction proceeds on or
ahead of schedule, useful quantities of water could be stored in 1966, a
year before the final completion of the dam. The estimated cost of the dam
construction is given in Para 40 and totals US$88.2 million equivalent.
D. Use of Roseires Water
25.       Water for gravity irrigation requirements released from the Roseires
reservoir would be diverted downstream through the intake of the existing canal
network at the Sennar Dam. Requirements for pump irrigation schemes would be
pumped direct from the river flow. The stored water would normally be released
starting in December or January and, depending upon the magnitude of the natu-
ral flow, would continue until as late as May.
26.       The use of the water stored in the Roseires reservoir, as presently
planned by the Government, would be/;:
Million m3
a) Conversion trestrictedt" pump schemes
to unrestricted pumping                            255
b) Intensification of cropping Gezira area             700
c) New Pump Schemes                                    601
d) Extension of Gezira-4ianagil area                   162
e) Increasing supplies for existing schemes            161
f) Expansion sugar cane production, Guneid area         34
Total           1,913
27.  Use (a)   Approximately one million feddans are irrigated from pumps
licensed and operating on the Blue, White and Main Nile Rivers.  On 341,000
feddans of this area, irrigation is not permitted at the present time beyond
early January owing to restricted availability of water. Investigations have
shown that this limitation to watering reduces cotton yields by upwards to
20-25 per cent. It is proposed to avoid this loss by providing from Roseires
the 255 million m3 of stored water required to permit the conversion of these
"restricted" pump licenses to unrestricted pumping.
/ Water would not be available for the proposed Kenana Scheme (see report
T.O. 2084a, April 1959) from the storage currently proposed. Consideration
would be given to the development of that scheme only in conjunction with
proposals in the future to increase the height of the dam.



- 6 -
28.   Use (b).  Under the present crop rotation at Gezira and Managil, only
40 per cent anl 66 per cent respectively of the land commanded for irriga-
tion is under crop each year, The single crop produced annually on this
area of land is grown during the flood season with stored water used during
the restricted season only to extend the growing period of the cotton crop.
This cropping pattern was adopted originally to make maximum use of the
flood season water, supplemented by the limited quantity of restricted
season water available. The long period of fallow in the rotation was in-
troduced to minimize difficulties of disease and weed control but with
modern techniques these difficulties could nowJ be overcome more economi-
cally. Accordingly, with more water during the restricted season and with-
in the limits of present technical knowledge, an additional crop (other
than long staple cotton) could be grown on 290,000 feddans after October
hien peak water requirements of the existing rotations tax the capacity of
the irrigation canals. The amount of water which it is planned to supply
from Roseires for this purpose is estimated at 700 million in3.
29.  Use (c).  Blue Nile Pump Licenses covering about 164,000 feddans have
been approved but are not operative until additional supplies of irrigation
water are available. Further substantial areas on both the east and wJest
banks of the Blue Nile downstream from Roseires have topography and soils
equivalent to those now under irrigation.  It is proposed, therefore, to
increase the operative area now under pump schemes by 670,000 feddans by
an allocation of water from the Roseires storage of about 601 million mn.
30. Use (d). Surveys have shown that approximately 200,000 feddans ad-
joining the existing Gezira area on the northwest comprise soils equal in
quality to those of the successfully developed area and are suitable topo-
graphically for gravity irrigation. It is proposed that this area would
be developed and brought into production when the necessary water, estimated
at 162 million m3 during the restricted season of the year, is available
from Roseires.
31. Use (e). The water requirements for existing pump and gravity schemes
during the restricted season are about 2,086 million   , or 161 million in3
in excess of the amount currently permitted to be used under the Nile Waters
Agreement until additional storage is provided. Furthermore, availability
of even the permissible quantity is dependent on substantial abstraction
from the river flow, which is not practicable during sorm years of below
average flow. Another function of the Roseires storage, therefore, would
be to make good the deficiency for the existing schemes and provide some
reserve against years of subnormal river flow in the Blue Nile.
32.  Use (f).  It is planned to expand sugar cane production on the Guneid
Pump Irrigation Scheme from 12,000 feddans to 15,0CO feddans annually. The
water required from Roseires storage for this purpose Tould amount to 34
million3.
33.       These proposals would re uire about 1,900 million m3.  The
balance of more than 800 million    has not yet been specifically allocated.
Less reasonable provision for sedimentation, it would be used for further
irrigation when firm plans have been developed. The Government would give
assurances that an adequate research program be carried out to determine
the most economic irrigation uses for this balance.



E. Irrigation Works and Farm Development
34.       No additional capital expenditure would be required for the in-
tensification of the cropping pattern in the Gezira-Yanagil area for the
conversion of the currently restricted pump schemes to unrestricted irriga-
tion, or for the expansion of sugar cane production at Guneid.
35.       The additional area to be irrigated by gravity adjoins the exist-
ing Gezira-Managil Scheme and can be supplied from the main canals already
constructed for these areas. The additional works required would be minor
canals and field laterals, some drainage, land clearing and leveling and
extension of existing light railways for cotton transportation to ginneries.
36.       The new pump schemes would involve the supply and installation
of pumps, canalization and drainage of the areas to be commanded and farm
development, including clearing, leveling and ditching.  Reconnaissance
surveys have shovmn the availability of ample suitable land for these schemes.
A program of soil survey is required, however, in sufficient detail defi-
nitely to determine the location of the areas most suitable for development.
The survey would involve about twelve months field work. As part of the
project, soil surveys would be undertaken during the early years of the dam
construction either by the employment of foreign contractors or by an ex-
pansion of the Sudanese Soils Division, depending on the availability of
experienced technicians.
37.       Irrigation works and farm developxrnt would not need to comrmence
until three years after the start of the construction of the dam. Their
planning in detail has not yet been completed, but design of the gravity
irrigation works is in progress. Designs for pump schemes w7ould be under-
taken when the sites are definitely selected.
IV. COST ATD FINANCING OF PROJECT
A. Cost
38.       In conjunction with the engineering consultants, up-to-date esti-
mates of the costs of the dam have been prepared based on the average
prices of the two lowest bids received. The bid prices include some allow-
ances for contingencies and to these sufficient amounts have been added to
bring the total contingency provision up to 15 per cent of the direct cost
of the dam. Details of the costs of the dam and associated works are shown
in Annex 6.
39.       Plans of irrigation works and farm development have not yet been
worked out in detail. The estimates of their cost are, therefore, not so
firm but have been assessed on the basis of costs currently being incurred
for similar work in Sudan. They include a provision of 15 per cent for
contingencies. Details are given in Annex 7.



- 8 -
40.       The following table shows separately the estimated local and foreign
exchange cost of "Dam Construction" and "Irrigation Works and Farm Development."t
Dam Construction (Including Preparatory and Associated Works)
Local Currency      Foreign Exchange         Total
millions             millions            millions
US$                  US$                  US$
T'S   Equiv.         TS   Equiv.          LS   Equiv.
Preparatory and
Associated Works     2e55     7.3         1X42     4.1         3.97    11.4
Roseires Dam          8.80    25.2        14.95   42.9         23.75    68.1
Interest on IBRD
& KFW loans during
construction          -        -          2.89     8.3         2.89     8.3
Service charge on
IDA credit during
construction          -        -          0.14     0.4         0.14  0_4
Total           11.35    32.5        19.40    55.7        30.75    88.2
Irrigation Works and Farm Development
Gravity Irrigation
& Farm Development   5.50    15.8         4.00    11.5         9.50    27.3
Pump Irrigation &
Farm Development    11.79    33.9         9.63    27.6        21.42    61.5
Interest during
construction          -        -          0.39     1.2         0.39     1.2
Total           17.29    49.7        14.02    O.3         31.31    90.0
Grand Total - Dam,
Irrigation & Farm
Development         28.6h    82.2        33.42    96.0        62o6   178.2



-9-
B. Financing
41.       Excluding uS$350,0Co equivalent paid between July 1960 and July
1961 for consulting engineering fees in connection with the contract for
the dam, both local currency and foreign exchange expenditures for prepara-
tcry and associated works would be met by the Sudan Government from its own
resources. The Government would also provide the service charge on an IDA
credit and the local currency expenditure for the "Dam Construction". Ex-
penditure on "Irrigation Works and Farm Development" would not commence
until three years after the commencement of dam construction and would be
expected to be spread over the following six years. The external loan
required at this stage, therefore, is to cover the foreign exchange costs
of dam construction, and the reimbursement of consulting engineers'fees.
The amount is US$t3.2 million equivalent, plus interest during construc-
tion US$8.3 million = a total of US%51-5 million.
42.       The major expenditure of the loans would be spread over six
years. The expected rate of disbursement is shovn in Annex 6.
43.       During August 1960, the Bank sought to enlist the support in
financing the Roseires Project of individual member countries of the Bank
interested in the development of Sudan. As a result, the German Government
has agreed to participate by enabling a loan of US%19 million equivalent
for construction of the Roseires dam to be made by the Kreditanstalt ftUr
Wiederaufbau (MIF), a corporation ander public law of the Federal Republic
of Germany.  This represents a capital sum of US$151 million plus in-
terest during the construction period.  The MW loan would carry interest
at the rate of five and one half per cent and would be for a term of 20
years, including a grace period of seven years.
44.       It is proposed that a loan of a similar capital sum, plus in-
terest during construction (total L%S$1905 million equivalent) be made by
the Bank. An appropriate term for this loan would be 25 years, including
a seven-year grace period.
45.       The balance required to finance the foreign exchange component
of the dam construction costs and the engineering fees, US$13 milli-on
equivalent, is proposed as an DA credit with a term of 50 years, including
a grace period of 10 years. Amortization would be one per cen-x  annu-lly
from the elcventh through twentieth years and three per cent annua. y from
the t-wenty-first through fiftieth years, with a service charge of three
fourths per cent annually on the unpaid balance of the drawn-down arnount
of the credit.
46.       The total borrowings under these proposals vwould be US$51.5 mil-
lion equivalent.  The borrower would be the Republic of Sudan.
47.       It is proposed that the two loans and the credit would be dis-
bursed pari passu. The expected rate of disbursement is shown in the fol-
lovwing table. Disbursements for 1961/62 to 1966/67 correspond to the six-
year construction period and disbursements for 1967/68 represent mainly
release of retention sums.



- 10 -
Estimated Disbursements - Loans for Dam Construction
(millions of dollars)
1961/62  1962/63  1963/64  1964/65  1965/66  1966/67  1967/68  Total
KFW        2.94     2.54      2.73     3,22      3.33     2.49      1.74   19.0o
IDA        2.47     1.98      2.03     2.30      2.23     1.37      0.62   13.00
IBRD       3.o5     2.63      2.83     3.29      3.37     2.52     1.81   19.5o
Total      8.46      7.15     7.60     8.81      8.93     6.38      4.17   51.50
BS million
equiv.    2.95     2.49      2.65     3.07      3.11     2.22     1.46   17.95
48.       Construction of irrigation works and development of farms are essen-
tial to obtain adequate economic benefits from the iJivestment in the Roseires
Dam. Sudan should therefore be required in connection with the present finan-
cing to undertake to carry out those parts of the project, as well as the dam,
Although Sudan would thereby in effect be committed to provide or obtain the
additional financing when required, to what extent it would implement the
obligation from its own resources and to what extent from further borrowing
or other sources would necessarily be left open. (For example, although it
is expected that some of the pump scheme development would be uadertaken by
private enterprise, the extent to which funds would be provided from this
source is not now clear.)  It is reasonable to assume, however, that the local
costs could be financed out of Sudants nion resources (see Economic Report,
kS-86, may 1961), whereas recourse to further external financing for a sub-
stantial part, if not all, of the foreign exchange costs is highly probable.
Assurances would be obtained in connection with the present financing that
Sudan's ability to provide or obtain the future financial requirements of the
project will be safeguarded. Even so, the very real probability would remain
that the Bank and IDA would be asked later to finance at least part of the
foreign exchange costs of the other parts of the project.
V. OPERATION AND IANAGE&'ENT OF IRRIGATION SCHEMES
A. Existing Schemes
49.       Government-controlled irrigation schemes in Sudan are operated and
managed under a system which has proved successful over a long period.
50.       The gravity irrigation schemes (Gezira and Managil) are managed by
the Sudan Gezira Board, which develops farms, allots tenancies, provides cot-
ton seed and fertilizer and undertakes the heavy land cultivation and pest
control programs as a charge against the crop, and transports, gins and markets
the cotton produced. The Ministry of Irrigation undertakes the execution,
operation and maintenance of the irrigation works. The tenant supplies the
labor for the production and harvesting of the crop. The costs of the cen-
tralized services provided by the Board are a first charge against the proceeds
from the sale of the cotton crop and the remainder is divided as follows:



- 11 -
Ministry of Irrigation         2
Social Development Fund         2
Local Government Councils       2    46%
Sudan Gezira Board                   10%
Tenantst Collective Account   42
Tenants' Reserve Fund           2    44%
Total       100% net crop proceeds.
The tenant is permitted to crop annually without charge for land or water an
area equal to that under cotton. The tenants receive the full proceeds of
such crops but have to undertake all aspects of production and marketing
themselves.
51.       Government Pump Schemes are operated and managed similarly to the
Gezira and Iinagil Schemes by boards established for this purpose.
52.       Private pump schemes are olerated by the licensee under Nile Pumps
Control Regulations, which prescribe relationships between licensee and
tenant in detail. The licensee is responsible for functions like those of
the Ministry of Irrigation and the Gezira Board(except for cotton ginning)
under the Gezira Scheme and operations are supervised by District Agricul-
tural Inspectors of the 11inistry of Agriculture. Tenants in most circum-
stances receive 40 per cent of the proceeds of the cotton crop (plus full
proceeds of other crops) and the licensee receives 60 per cent. The Govern-
ment makes no direct charge for water or land rental. In lieu it receives,
from the licensee's share of the returns, land tax equivalent to 4 per cent
of gross cotton proceeds.
B. Expansion of Irxigation from Roseires Storage
53.       It is intended that the gravity irrigation works of the Roseires
Project would be constructed, operated and maintained by the Ministry of
Irrigation. Farm development, allotment and operation would be managed by
the Sudan Gezira Board.  Pump schemes would be subject to the Nile Pumps
Control Regulations. It is not yet certain how much of the pump scheme
development iwould be undertaken by private enterprise and how much by the
Government but preference would be given to privately operated schemes.
Under the Loan Agrenemtt, the Bank vould be given the opportunity to exchange
views with the borrower on any proposed amendment to the Gezira Ordinance
or the Nile Pumps Control Regulations prior to any such action being taken.
54.       The IIinistry of Irrigation is well equipped and organized to under-
take efficiently the construction, operation and maintenance of irrigation
-works. Though a number of expatriate engineers are still employed, the level
of output of trained nationals is sufficiently high for the present shortage
to be progressively overcome.
55.       The Sudan Gezira Board was established in 1950 to take over the pre-
vious responsibilities of the Concession Companies which had developed and
operated the Gezira Irrigation Scheme. The operations of the Board are
efficiently managed and it maintains staff training programs designed to meet
replacement and planned expansion requirements.  Farming supervision by the
Board is at present mainly confined to the cotton crop and is responsible
largely for the high standard of production of this crop. Comxparatiively, t,Ie



- 12 -
production of other crops is at a much lower standard. There would be a
need, therefore, for an expansion and strengthening of the agricultural
advisory services to implement satisfactorily the intensification of the
cropping rotation in the Gezira area proposed in the Roseires Project.
This would best be done by recruitment to the Board's staff of additional
trained agriculturists. As the Board receives no revenue from non-cotton
crops, the additional costs might be met from the charge which the Govern-
ment should make for the water supplied, above existing requirements, for
intensification of the present cropping pattern. Suitable qualified tech-
nicians are now becoming available in increasing number under the arrange-
ments that have been developed for graduate and postgraduate training in
agriculture.
56.       The standard of farming on the pump schemes is not as high as of
tbat under the supervision of the Gezira Board. Operations are overseen by
District Agricultural Officers who are unable to have the same degree of
contact with the tenants as the Boardts decentralized inspectors have. Any
substantial expansion of privately operated pump schemes as envisaged under
the Roseires Project would require a considerably augmented District Agri-
cultural Officer staff to obtain optimum results. This would be the res-
ponsibility of the 14inistry of Agriculture and, if sufficiently wJell planned
in advance, t-a ould be possible owing to the graduate and postgraduate train-
ing opportunities now available.
57.       Existing irrigation areas carry large numbers of sheep and goats
and saaller but substantial numbers of cattle.  Very little extension work,
however, is done on animal husbandry.  After successfully reducing the inci-
dence of some of the more serious stock diseases, the Department of Animal
Industry, which is separate from the MIinistry of Agriculture, is cor.cen-
trating its activities on breed improvement. There is obvious scope for
considerable improvement and rationalization in livestock management and
production in conjunction with the cash cropping undertaken. It would,
therefore, be necessary for greater attention to be given to the promotion
of improved techniques in livestock management and, to this end, better
coordination of the activities of the Departments of Agriculture and Live-
stock would be required. The employment of persons trained in animal hus-
bandry to work alongside agricultural extension officers would be needed to
evolve a properly balanced farm productirn program. Plans for the recruit-
ment and training of the personnel required w ould be worked out so that
this service is operating by the time that additional water becomes available.
58.       There would be no shortage of tenants to cultivate the new lands.
The Managil Extension now under construction will not fill the demand for
tenancies from villagers within the general Gezira area and there would also
be a strong demand from suitable villagers in surrounding districts. At
present, these men work for a low wage as seasonal labor and produce their
bare subsistence needs from dry-land farming.
59.       Tenancies for the new irrigation lands would be of 15 feddans.  The
farm family can provide most of the labor for holdings of this size and there
should be little or no difficulty in finding the relatively small amount of
additional seasonal labor required.



- 13 -
VI. VALUE OF PRODUCTION
60.       Crop yield expectations, forward price assumptions and production
costs are reviewed in Annex 8.
61.       As stated in ParagraPh 31, during the restricted season there is
under the Nile Waters Agreemfnt a current shortage of 161 miUlion m3 of
irrigation water for existing schemes.  The provision of stored water from
Roseires reser-voir to meet this deficiency w!uld ensure that all cres on
these areas could obtain their full water needs even in dry years.  The
honefit from this water use (Para 31) could be substantial, but cannot be
evaluated specifically in terms of additional production. No figure is
included for it in the foll-ieing caleulation of benefits.
62.       The coiwersion of restricted pump liconse schemes to unrestricted
pwuping (Parm 27) can be expected to increase  'ottn crop yields by the
20 per cent by which they are now reduced wheu watering ceases at the end
of December. This would le equivalent to the production from an additional
22,000 feddans (20 per cent of 110,000) of cotte  crep.
63.       Ineorporation into the exis-ting crop rotations in the Gesira-
Managil schemes of an additional crop on 290,000 feddans (Para 28) is a
miniix assumption of the degree of intensification practicable withini
existing technical knowledge. There is sufficient evidence that at least
wheat and grounenuts would yield profitable returns. Even the linited
amount of research eurrently being u,d-taken on crops other than cotton
will find means of increasing yields of wheat and groundnuts and can be
expOeted to develop even more remunerative crops by the time Roseires water
becoMes available. The assumption in this appraisal that the increase in
annual production from the use of this water will come from 145,000 feddans
each of wheat nd groun:z9uts, at existing crop yields, is therefore
conservative@/.
2 Given sufficient water during the restricted season, there is no agrono-
mic reason why the crepping patter;i assumed above should not be further
intensified. A greatly expanded program of research would be necessary
fully to explore possible variations in crop rotations and to develop
additional crops and fit them into the farming system. Since a substan-
tial volume of stored water would remain narilable for additional irri-
gation use (see Para 33), the Goverzewnt *.%u1d give first priority in
its research program to this question and make available the small
amount of restricted season water necessary for this purpose. If such
a research program were pushed vigorously, it could within a decade find
means for the profitable use of this additional water within the Gezira-
Managil Schemes. The benefits would be comparable to those estimated
from the present intensification and would be obtained without additional
capital in estment in irrigation facilities.



64.       The production from the 670,000 feddans of new pump schemes, based
on the present three-course cropping pattern for pump schemes of one third
of the irrigable area under cotton, one sixth under dura and or.e sixth under
lubia annually, would be about 220,000 feddans cotton, 110,000 feddans dura
and 110,OCO feddans lubia.
65.       Similarly, by adoption of the current three-course rotation used
in the Managil Extension Project, the annual production from the 200,0C0
feddans further extension of the Gezira (Para. 30) would comprise 66,000
feddans cotton, 33,000 feddans dura and 33,0C0 feddans lubia.
66.       The expansion of sugar cane production at Guneid consists of the
growing of an additional 3,000 feddans of cane annually, which would be ex-
pected to increase the annual production of sugar by about 16,500 tons.
67.       The volume and gross value of the annual agricultural production
resulting from the use planned to date by the Government of the water stored
in the Roseires reservoir would be in summry:
Area of Crop
(Feddans '000)                       Gross Value
Ground-           Production
Scheme           Cotton Dura  Lubia Wvheat   nuts    Sugar   ZS Millions
Conversion of t"res-
tricted" Pump
Licenses to "un-       1/
restricted"          22-                                              1.36
Intensification
Gezira cropping                           145                          2.54
i45                3.48
Pump Schemes:         220                                              13.64
110                                      1.21
110                               0.60
Gezira Extension      66                                                h.28
33                                      0.36
33                               0.18
Expansion Guneid
sugar cane production                                        3        0.57
Total     308     143    143   145                3        28.22
1/ Crop equivalent for 20 per cent increased yield from 110,000 feddans.



- 15 -
VII.  ESTIfATED BENEFITS FROM THE IMVESTIVENT
68.       The 1958 Bank Mission recommended that a charge of not less than
£S h per feddan be made for vwater supplied to intensify the cropping pattern
beyond the currently practiced rotation. The Sudanese Government has
approved this in principle but considers the actual figure should not be
decided until just prior to the additional water becoming available, when
it would be fixed on consideration of the profitability of the crops to be
grown and the cost to the Government of the supply of the water. In this
appraisal a charge of £S 4 per feddan has been credited to the Government
for water supplied for the additional cash crops to be produced by intensi-
fication of the cropping pattern on Gezira.
69.       Based on the pattern of water use as presently planned by the
Government and on present operating and production costs, current yields,
conservative fonrTard price assumptions and the present allocation of crop
returns between the Governnent and its agencies, the tenant farmers and
irrigation pump licensees, the estimated net return from the investment in
the Roseires Project and its division among the interests concerned would be:
£S Millions
Gross Value     Costs         Return      Return        Return
of            of            to          to    2/       to
Scheme         Production    Production-/  Tenants   Government-'  Licensees
Conversion pumps
to "unrestricted"     1.36           0.75          0.18        0.16          0.27
Intensification                                                    3/
Gezira cropping       6.02           1.96          2.90        1.16-          -
Pump schemes         15.h5           8.86         3.11         1.67          1.81
Gezira Extension      4.82           2.49          1.00        1.33
Expansion Guneid
Sugar                0.57           0.42           -          0.02          0.13
Total      28.22          14.48         7.19         4.34         2.21
1/ Excluding water charges, and license fees and land tax in connection
with pump schemes payable to the Government and excluding tenants'
return for their own labor.
2/ Including cotton export tax.
I/ Water charge of £S 4 per feddan for additional non-cotton crops.



- 16 -
70.       These benefits are calculated on the uses of the Roseires water
that have been planned to date.  There is, however, a further 800 million m3
(less reasonable provision for reservoir siltation) of water available for
additional irrigation uses (see Para 33). Nore land is available for the
development of pump schemes than now planned but, as stated in Para 63 foot-
note, there is also scope for further intensification of the cropping pattern
of the Gezira-Managil schemes.
71.       The loan documents would provide assurances that all stored water
would be used for irrigation when uses have been developed. As part of the
project, the Government of Sudan would undertake research to determine how
the Gezira-Managil cropping pattern can profitably be intensified to a greater
extent than currently planned. The cost of the research would be borne by
the Government but some assistance might be required in obtaining the services
of senior officers with experience of research into the production of the
crops concerned. The Bank would at an early date reveiw with Sudan the re-
search program and its organization with the object of ensuring agreement as
to the adequacy and effectiveness of the work that would be undertaken.
72.       Provided the research program is implemented vigorously without
undue delay, means could be found within a short time after the completion
of the project for the profitable use of the additional available water with-
out further investment in irrigation facilities. There is little doubt but
that the benefits would be comparable to those conservatively estimated for
the present planned intensification.
73.       Assuming this rourse is followed and that the use of the additional
water would give similar benefits to those estimated for the present intensi-
fication, the gross value of increased annual agricultural production would
be MS 34.2 minlion or 50 per cent of the total investment of _S 67.2 milliAn.;
which is a favorable relationship. The annual net benefit of the project
would include the return to the Government (LS 5.5 million), the return to
pump licensees (LS 2.2 million) and the increased return to the tenant farmers
(Es 8.0 million)2/ , who provide the labor but no capital, for production of
the crops. The total net benefit, therefore, would be about LS 15.7 million,
which represents about 23 per cent of the investment. Since the tenant would
invest no capital in the project, the combined direct net return on the capi-
tal investment of the Government and pump licensees would, within a few years
of completion of the dam, be LS 7.7 million, or over 11 per cent of the invest-
ment (Government 12%, licensees 10%).
1/  For the calculation of economic benefits, LS 5.14 million has been added
to the cost estimate of Para 40 to cover interest during construction an
the IDA credit at conventional Bank terms and on costs met from Govern-
ment revenues. The opportunity cost of Government capital has also been
taken as 5-3/4 per cent.
g  The estimated return to the tenants of LS 6.0 million from intensification
of the Gezira cropping pattern and from conversion of pumps to "unrestricted
would be over and above the present return for their labor. It would be net
of their cash costs of production and represent an increase in their net
cash incomes. The return to the new tenants who would work the new pump
schemes and the Gezira extension would be ES 4.1 million. On the reasoniable
assumption that their present subsistence livelihood in the surrounding vii.-
lages would represent about half of this amount, their increased retuvr.
resulting from the prcject wiould be about LS 2.0 million. The net, benefit
to the eccnomy via the tenants would, t,herefom-e, be about ES 8.0 milliorn.



- 17 -
74.       Until additional uses of this water materialize, at a minimum the
gross value of increased annual agricultural production (£S 28.2 million)
would represent about 42 per cent of the total investment. The annual net
benefit would include Government £S 4.3 million, pump licensees £S 2.2 million,
and tenants about £S 5.1 million, and total about £S 11.6 million, or about
17 per cent of the investment. The combined direct return on the capital
investment of the Government and pump licensees would be about £3 6.5 million,
oralmostlO per cent of the investment (Government 9.5%, licensees 10%).
These benefits, while derived from the Lise of only about 70 per cent of the
stored water, would adequately justify the project.
VIII. CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMiENDATIONS
75.       The irmmediate anld major scope in Sudan for expansion of agricul-
tural production for commercial markets is in the development of irrigation.
Suitable land is available and there is ample water during the flood period
of river flow.  The principal limitation to irrigation expansion is the
amount of water available during the period of low river flow from January
through mid-July each year. The increased storage following construction
of the Roseires dam would somewhat more than double the amount now available
during that period.
76.       The proposed dam is well designed.  The construction cost estimate
for the present design is realistic and includes adequate allowances for
contingencies. Satisfactory arrangements are being made for the construction
of the dam by qualified contractors and supervision of the construction wlill
be provided by the firm ijhich made the design. The detailed planning of the
proposed use of the water will not be completed for about three years, but
is sufficiently advanced to show that the proposals are sound.
77.       The system of irrigation farming which has been developed in Sudan
enables tenant farmers, unskilled in modern farming practices, to produce
efficiently under supervis4.on ard is particularly well adapted to prevailing
conditions. The organizatiions to undertake the execution, maintenance and
management of irrigation schemes are equipped, experienced and well capable
of handling the proposed expansion.
78.       Under the proposals, new lands would be brought into production,
the productive use of existing irrigat"Lon facilities within the area would
be further improved and  1he cropping pattern would be more diversified.
Satisfactory local or export markets exist for the proposed production. It
has been demonstrated that Sudan can produce extra long staple cotton prof-
itably at the conservative forward price assumption of £S 11 per kantar lint
f.o.b. Port Sudan, used in this appraisal, or at even lower prices.
79.       74hen all the stored water is used for irrigation, the gross output/
investment ration would be 50 per cent. The annual net benefit from the
project would be 23 per cent of the investment and the direct return on in-
vestment would be over 11 per cent.  Pending the development of additional
uses for water, only 70 per cent of that available would be used for new
irrigation. During this period the gross output/investment ration would at
a minimum be 42 per cent, annual net benefit 17 per cent ard the iiet return
cn investmentalmostlO per cent, which would adequately justify the project.



- 18 -
80.       Subject to the Bank and IDA being satisfied concerning Sudan's
ability to provide or obtain the future financial requirements for comple-
tion of the project (Para 48) the project is suitable for total borrowings
of US$51.5 million equivalent, including:
a) A Bank loan of US.519.5 million for a term of 25 years including
a grace period of seven years; and
b) An International Development Association credit of US$13 million
for a term of 50 years including a grace period of ten years.



GROSS AREA COMMANDED BY NILE WATER IRRIGATION SCHEMES
(in Feddans '000)
1959/60 1960/61 1961/62 1962/63 1963/64
Gezira Gravity                  978      978       978      978      978
Managil Gravity                 427      567       712      793       793
Pump Schemes
a) Year round                  642      642       642      642      642
b) Restricted                  341      341       341      341      341
c) Guneid Sugar Scheme          34       34        34       34     .-3A
Total           2,422    2,562    2,707    2,788    2,788
DETAILS OF LICENSED PUMP IRRIGATION SCHEMES
(in Feddans '000)
Blue Nile  White & Main Nile  Total
Operative
a) Year round                    125             517           642
b) Restricted                    195             146           341
c) Guneid Sugar Scheme            34              -             34
Total              354             663          1,017
Not,Operativel/
a) Year round                      3              34            37
b) Restricted                    161             356           517
Total              164             390            554
1/ License approved but not operative until water
available during period of low river flow.



ANI'EX 2
CROP ROTATIONS
The Four-Course Rotation
The four-course rotation (actually eight-course), practiced in the
Gezira since 1933/34, operates as follows:
1st year - cotton
2nd      - - resting
3rd  "   - dura
4th  "   - resting or lubia
5th  -1  _ resting
6th  "   - cotton
7th  "   - resting
8th  "   - resting
In this rotation, dura always follows a resting period and cotton follows two
rests or lubia and a rest. It is not compact; although cotton is confined to
the four fields of a tenancy, the dura and lubia range over the eight fields
of two tenancies. In some smaller areas which practice the four-course rota-
tion, the cotton also ranges over eight fields in such a way that the cotton
fields of twn neighboring tenants adjoin each other. This was instituted for
blackarm control, with the incidental feature of easier supervision. In
practice it has no effect on blackarm and, while excellent for concentrating
labor, it suffers from lack of compactness.
The four-course rotation was introduced in 1933/34, following the
disastrously low cotton yields of the 1930/31 and 1932/33 seasons. Holdings
were then increased from 30 to 40 feddans and each year the tenant farmer was
allowed to grow 10 feddans of cotton, five feddar.s of dura and up to five
feddans of lubia. This rotation is wasteful with regard to the use of land,
but it makes maximum use of flood  as against restricted, season water and
has minimized difficulties in controlling weeds and diseases.
The Three-Course Rotation
The three-course rotation (actually six-course), currently in use
on the Managil Project and practiced in the Gezira until 1930/31, operates
as follows:
1st year - cotton
2nd  "   - dura or lubia
3rd  "   - resting
4th  "   - cotton
5th  "   - lubia or dura
6th  "   - resting
Tenancies are of 15 feddans at i4anagil and the peasant farmer each
year is permitted to grow five feddans of cotton, two and one half feddans of
dura and up to two and one half feddans of lubia. In practice, each tenant is
allowed a free feddan on which he may grow a crop of his choice, vegetables,



AMN\TEX 2
Page 2
groundnuts, etc., in place of lubia. The three-course rotation has the
advantage of compactness as regards tenancies (although tenants still must
share land for the dura and lubia crops), but the yield of dura is somewhat
reduced. This is not regarded as a serious disadvantage, however, and, if
necessary, it could be overcome by the use of nitrogenous fertilizers on the
dura crop. Variants of the three-course rotation are in use on pump schemes -
Government and private. All of them plant one third of the land to cotton
each year but the amounts of dura and lubia grown are highly variable. In
some the rotation consists merely of cotton, resting, resting.
In considering the three-course rotation, it should be borne in
mind that only two thirds of the land grows one crop each year, which is a
low intensity of use compared with perennial irrigation. In Egypt all the
land carries one crop and much of it carries two or more crops each year.



ANNEX 3
AVERAGE RIVER FLOW OF BLUE NILE AT ROSEIRES PND WAD EL AIES
for Period 1912-1952 in millions m3 per day
Days of Month      Jan.    Feb.    Mar.    Apr.    May       June    July    Aug.    Sept.   Oct.    Nov.    Dec.
1-10            29.4    18.C    12.6    10.0)   12.3   39.2        114     46o     489      284    111.0   53.3
11-20            24.8    15.7    11.3    10.3    19.3    54.5       190     512     430      215     84.5   43.0
21-end           21.C    14.3    10.9    10.1   28.9    72.5        321     521     367      148     86.5   35.0
Mean            24.9    16.2    11.6    10.1    20.5    55.4       212     499     428      213     87.3   43.6
Total for Month   722     456      359     305     634   1,660      6,570  15,500  12,800   6,620  2,620  1,330
Note: A net amount of 791 million m3 is stored in Sennar Dam during period surplus flow
to augment availability for irrigation during months of restricted flow.
WATER REQUIREMENTS GEZIRA, NAANAGIL STAGES 1-4, AND OPERATIVE LICENSED PUMP SCHEMES
ON BLUE NILE AT JUNE 1960, in millions m3
Jan.     Feb.     Mar.     Apr.      May     June     July      Aug.     Sept.     Oct.      Nov.    Dec.
786      671      610      319       322      305      498      812       916     1,170    1,122      987
Note:  Requirements above also include allowance cf 8 million m3 daily to pass down Blue Nile below Guneid.



AVE,X h
TECHNICAL DETAILS OF THE DAM
Location
The damsite is located on the Blue Nile about 265 kilometers
upstream of the Sennar dam and about 106 kilometers downstream of the
Ethiopean border. In its first stage the backwater surface of the reser-
voir at elevation 480 would extend to about 15 kilometers from the border.
The site is in the Damazin rapids which have a length of about 4 kilometers
and are located above the town of Roseires. This section of the river is
the only area Mhere a dam can be constructed to store a large amount of
water completely within Sudan territory. Throughout this section of the
river the normal bed is confined to a width of a few hundred meters, but
the adjacent terrain consists of gently sloping plains. For this reason,
the total length of dam would be approximately 9 kilometers.
Geology
At the location of the dam rock is visible in the river bed.
It consists of gneiss, granite, and pegmatite and is largely unweathered.
On the banks of the river, the rock is below the surface and weathered.
The left bank has an almost continuous bed of clay at about the 470 ele-
vation which will effectively eliminate underseepage. However, there are
some sections of the flanks where there is no impervious cover and the
urderlying rock could allow leakage. To prevent seepage, the embankment
sections of the dam would be constructed with an upstream clay blanket.
Except where rock is exposed in the river channel, the entire reservoir
area is covered by beds of clay, silt, sand, and gravel. This type of
material in combination with the exrected deposition of silt should
effectively prevent seepage losses through the floor of the reservoir.
Hydrology
The flow in the Blue Nile at Roseires is due almost entirely
to the rainfall on the Ethiopian highlands. This rainfall has a well de-
fined pattern but varies in intensity from year to year, causing the same
type of variation in the river flow. Although rainfall records of the
drainage area have not been made, a continuous record of flow in the river
*          at Roseires since 1903 is available.  The record shows that for an average
year the flow is very low in January, drops to an absolute minimum by
ilarch or April, then starts to increase gradually during I"ay and June.
Around the middle of July the rate of flow increases sharply, reaching
a peak by the end of August. From September through December the rate
of flow decreases rapidly to the relatively low values of January.  These
average flows for period 1912-1957 are tabulated in Annex 3. The follow-
ing table is a summary of data based on 10-day mean flows during this
same period.



ANOEM 4
Page 2
Summary of Blue Nile Discharge at Roseires
Description                     Date                 Discharge
im3/s  .7iMfillion mJ)
lIaximun (10-day mean) discharge      August 1946       10,078       -
hiinimum (10-day mean) discharge     YHay 1914              38        _
Maximum annual discharge              1917 - 1918         -        70,580
Laxinum but one annual discharge      1929 - 1930         -        66, 30
Minimum annual discharge              1913 - 1914         -        20,100
liinimum but one annual discharge     1912 - 1913         -        37,210
hean annual discharge                 1912 - 1957        1,588      50,100
Dam
The Roseires Dam would consist of three main elements, a buttress
concrete center section tied into left and right bank earthfill sections.
The concrete section would have a length of 1,110 meters with a maximum
initial height of about 60 meters.  The earthfill sections would be ap-
proximately 9,000 m long on the left bank and 6,ooo m long on the right
bank with a maximum initial height of about 30 meters. Both the concrete
and embankment sections of the dam have been designed so that they may be
raised an additional 10 m without interference with normal reservoir
operation.
The concrete center section would be composed of massive-head
buttresses founded on rock. Provision would be made for passing the flood
discharge through a combination of low level sluiceways and high level
spillways. The center section would also contain the intake structure
for the future Kenana irrigation canal and intakes for a future power
house.
Deep sluices would occupy the five bays at the lowest portion
of the river bed. Each sector type sluice gate would be 10 m high by 6 m
wide and be hydraulically operated from the downstream side. A reinforced
concrete apron w-ould protect the river bed against scour. The apron will
be constructed with a deflector at the downstream end in order to induce
an hydraulic jump at flood discharges. The highlevel spillway would be
sevenbays wide located closer to the left bank.  The spillway would have
an ogee shape and would be hollow. Control would be by means of electri-
cally operated sector gates 12 m high by 10 m wide. During the initial
stage the spillway discharge would be of the free,overall ty e but after
the raising of the dam the discharge will be of the orifice type.
The future powerhouse would be located in seven bays adjacent
to the spillway. In this area the buttress spacing iwould be increased
to provide sufficient space for the turbine intakes.  For the first stage,
the intakes would have temporary concrete bulkheads and would be con-
structed so as to provide easy connection to the future penstocks. The
present plan is to ultimately install seven generators with a capacity
of 25,000 kw each. The generators would be driven by vertical Kaplan
turbines. During times of very low flow in the river, the station output



ANN1EX a
Page 3
would be limited by the availability of water and during times of flood
the output would be limited by the reduced head due to the high tail-
water. Based on an average year, the energy available from the instal-
lation would be approximately 1,000 million kwh. In a single bay between
the spillway and the future powerhouse, two small 1,000 kw generating
units would be installed initially to supply power for operation of the
gates and for the offices and living quarters of the operating personnel.
The intake structure for the proposed Kenana canal eould be
located near the left end of the concrete section. It would consist of
five bays controlled by electrically operated sector gates. Construction
would be similar to the deep sluice section except that the discharge
would be at a higher elevation.
Nieither the intake for the future irrigation canal nor the intake
for the future powerhouse are necessary for the present development. How-
ever, a minimum of construction for both of these appurtenances -Vould be
performed initially because of the impracticability of doing this work
after the reservoir is in operation.
The embankment sections would be comprised of zones of compacted
sand and clay with a central core of impervious material.  The upstream
face would be protected by rip-rap and have a vertical wave wall at the
top. Including the wall, the embankments would have a total free board
above maximum flood level of 2.2 meters. *,,here required an impervious
horizontal blanket would be used upstream to minimize under-seepage.
Provisions for Raising
Each section of the dam could be raised at a later date to the
proposed final height without the use of coffer dams. The typical but-
tresses would be constructed in the first stage with all work complete
up to elevation 445 so that the extensions could be made on the downstream
side above the tail-water level during the dry season. The sluice section
and spillway would have all the required ultimate construction below the
maximum flood level performed with the first stage. In the same manner,
the canal intake would be completely constructed up to the command level.
The flank embankments are also laid out to permit economic future heighten-
ing. Below the first stage water level, all material to be added would be
on the downstream side, thereby leaving the original upstream face undis-
turbed. The future raising would also result in a considerable lengthen-
ing of the embankments. The topography indicates they would require ex-
tension from 5 to 16 km on the Iest bank and from 6 to 8 on the East bank.
Total final dam length would then be about 25 km.
Materials, Labor and Transportation
The maior bulk of the dam would be made up of materials avail-
able at the site. Suitable quarry sites have been located for the supply
of aggregate and rip-rap within reasonable haul distance and soils in-
vestigation indicates that no difficulty would be experienced in providing
suitable materials for the flank dams.  However, cement, steel, dimensional
lumber, finished products and fuel would all have to be transported to the
area.



ANNEX 4
Page 4
Reservoir Operation
Following the completion of the i-gh Aswan Dam (Saad el-Aali) in
Egypt, it is planned to fill the Roseires reservoir during the month of
September when the river is in the falling flood stage. In this manner the
quantity of silt deposited in the reservoir would be minimized. After fill-
ing, the reservoir would be kept at the maximum level for as long as possible
with the irrigation needs being met by the natural flow. Before the end of
the calendar year, it Twill be necessary to start withdrawing reservoir water
to supplement the flow in the river. Depending upon the variation of flowi in
the river, the reservoir would be drawn down by February at the earliest and
April at the latest. By the middle of May all the gates would be fully open
and would remain so until after the maximum floods have passed. Any necessary
maintenance on the gates or aprons could be performed during the May-July dry
period.
Snillway Capacity
The maximum flood of record for the Blue Nile at Roseires is calcu-
lated to have been 10,800 m3/s in August 1946. The combined capacity of the
sluices and the spillways as originally designed was 15,000 m3/s, which is
less than 1F times the 47 year record flood.  The Bank had questioned whether
the flood used for design was not too low, especially since the dam contains
very long earth embankment sections where any over-topping would prove
disastrous.  In order to be certain of obtaining an adequate spillway capacity,
the Bank requested that the magnitude of the design flood be checked by an
International Board of Consultants. This board, which consisted of a meteor-
ologist, hydrologist, and geologist, was appointed in October 1960 and reported
its findings in May 1961. The board has estimated that the probable maximum
inflow to the reservoir would be 18,750 m3 per second. Based on the findings
of the board, the spillway capacity will now be increased by the addition of
two more high level spillway gates and the maximum rate of outflow will be
17,350 m3 per second.
Evaporation
Evaporation losses from the reservoir at any given time are related
to the area of the water surface, which in turn depends upon the operating
regime. Using an average year's flow and an assumed schedule of operation, the
losses due to evaporation from the reservoir are estimated to be 300 million m3
during the drawdown period from December through May. This average annual
evaporation loss amounts to about 10 per cent of the gross storage.
Sedimentation
Based upon actual measurements made in 1954 and 1955 at Wad el Ais9
a method of estimating the quantity of suspended matter was developed by the
consultants. This method indicates that the average annual silt load of the
river is 133 million tons. A study of the assumed reservoir operation, which
provides for the filling of Roseires late in the falling flood, shows that the
average annual volume of storage depletion due to sedimentation would be about
15 million m3 which is about one half of one per cent of the gross volume.



ANNEX 4
Page $
Engineering
Engineering for the project has been performed by Sir Alexander Gibb &
Partners and SM. Andre Coyne & Jean Bellier as joint consultants.  The consul-
tants have conducted subsurface investigations including permeability tests and
core borings, aerial surveys with ground control, and hydraulic model tests of
the dam. Contract drawings and specifications for the dam and associated works
are completed and were issued to potential bidders in November and December of
1960. The consultants' agreement includes provisions for supervision during
construction, The contemplated arrangements covering engineering supervision
would be adequate to ensure proper execution of the project.
Future Development
Raising the storage level of the Roseires Dam to elevation 490 would
provide an increase of 4,600'Lillion m3 of water which could be used for both
generation and additional irrigation. Although cost estimates have not been
prepared for raising the dam, it can be assumed that the cost per cubic meter
of water for the incremental volume would be substantially lower than the ini-
tial unit cost. The average annual amount of energy available from the hydro-
electric development would be about 1,000 million kw-hrs before raising and
proportionally more after raising. When the system demand reaches the point
where large blocks of energy could be absorbed, the construction of the gen-
erating station could easily be justified. Additional study would be required
to determine which schemes offer the best possibility for the further develop-
ment of agriculture and the timing for the installation of the generating units.



AMNEX 5
SCHEDUIE OF CONSTRUCTION OF DAM
Project studies, including model experiments, indicate the work-
ing season on the river bed will average only about eight months a year
due to the July-October floods. Work on the flank dams during the wet
season would be interrupted by the rain and saturated soil and, in addition,
it may be difficult to retain local labor during the rainy season when food
crops are sown.  Starting irwediately after the floods of 1960, the project
construction is scheduled to take seven dry seasons. The construction of
the associated vorks would extend over two seasons with work on the main
contract for the dam cormencing the second season.
(a)  First Season:   (1960/61)
Site work, housing and airstrip
All-weather roads
Bridge construction.
(b) Second Season: (1961/62)
Diversion channel excavation
Cofferdam foundations
Completion housing and airstrip
Completion of roads and bridge.
(c)  Third Season:   (1962/63)
Cofferdams and excavation
Flank dams started
(d)  Fourth Season:  (1963/64)
Concreting
Flank dams continued.
(e)  Fifth Season:   (1964/65)
Concreting (deep sluice section
completed)
Flank dams continued.
(f)  Sixth Season:   (1965/66)
Sluice gates installed
Spillway completed
Flank dams continued.
(g) Seventh Season: (1966/67)
Concrete complete
Flank darms complete
Mechanical equipment complete.
The schedule is shown diagramatically in Table 1.



-      -   -    .  - - -                                 -
ir)            C~~N  C1)
-H -                              -
- -    - - - - - - -X                                                   
NO                                                          N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
CO~~~N C
H   ;
*                                                                                                    N~~~~~~~~~0\
- ~   ~         ~        ~         N --          
S   1    H   > 
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - --
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -    - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
-     - -~~~~~~~~-     ----
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- --
h                               -     -     -     -     -     -  -   -    -
H       t                          
-   - : -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -                      
Cl)  m Ai  -1 x t .  k   [            *,    o  O   C3
o   Cd~~~~~~~~~~~~~V       - 0       -   o      C.
CO  - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4       O C3Pd0 Ap                 '
ON  C)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 0C 
H   :~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~p0            r
-i   N.                          r 
-4r      >.i  -         -
H--~~~~~4. dS  .0-i       - k      f-      iO- 
NO~~~~~~Wk L       4()         C 4         ) ()c 4c
ON   C)    d                          r
H  ~~~~~o-                                ,~.,-                  ,
lpp    CO                    I                                U <



ATNEX 6
COST OF THE DAM AND ASSOCIATED WORKS
An estimate of the cost of the dam is shown in the attached Table 1.
This estimate is based upon the average of the two lowest bids for Contract
No. 10 which were opened on April 15, 1961. Contract No. 10 which covers the
dam is of the unit-price type. The bid prices are subject to adjustment only
for changes in the cost of the three basic materials - cement, reinforcing
steel, and structural steel - or for changes in the statutes and ordinances
of Sudan. The estimate includes an amount to cover the two spillway gates
which have been added since the tenders were received. It also includes total
contingency amounts equal to 15% of the direct cost of the dam. The total
cost of the dam including interest and service charges during construction is
TS26.78 million, of which ITS17.98 million (US$51.55 million) is foreign
exchange. Estimated disbursements (excluding preparatory and associated works)
are shown in Table 2.
The Sudanese Government is financing the associated works from its
own resources. These works have been started and should be completed in 1962.
The disbursements will be made by the Government in accordance with the several
contracts. The total associated works expenditures including all moneys
previously spent on the project by the Government amount to TzS3,97 million of
which the equivalent foreign exchange portion is 1S3.42 million. The previous
expenditures are listed below:
LS million
Soil investigation and aerial survey       0.07
Engineering fees and supervision           0,37
Gauging station, rest house,
additional surveys                       0.20
Land and compensation                      0.15
Total           0.79
The expenditures to be made in the next two years covering the work
included in the first nine contracts are listed below. These are the actual
bid prices.
bS million
Site clearance and drainage                0.05
W4ater supply, electricity, airport,
roads                                    0.82
Temporary and permanent housing            0.97
Hospital, offices, post office, schools   0.22
Bridge                                     0.64
2.70
Contingencies                              0.41
Engineering and supervision                0.07
Total           3.18



AINEX 6
Table 1
COST ESTIMATE OF DAM
(Excluding Preparatory and Associated Works)
(in million Es)
Local    Foreign   Foreign Exchange Equiv.
Item              Total  Currency  Exchange        in US$ millions
Contract #1!             2/  21.15     7.74      13.41           38-43
Additional Contingencies-    1.60      0.76       o.84            2.41
sub-total         22.75      8.50     14.25            40-84
Engineering and            3/
Construction Supervision- 1.00       0.30       0.70            2.01
sub-total         23.75      8.80     14.95            42.85
Interest on IBRD & KFWf
Loans during construction: 2.89         -       2.89            8.30
Service Charge on IDA       I
Loan during construction-  0.14         -       0.14            0,40
Total         26.78      8.80     17.98            51.55
1/ Average of two lowest bidders. Includes provision for some contingency
allowances.
2/ Additional allowance to provide a total contingency amount equal to
15% of the direct cost excluding customs.
3/ Fee after July 1, 1961.



ANKlEX 6
Table 2
ESTIMATED DISBURSEM9ENTS - DAM1 CONSTRUCTIONI/
(in millions)
Local Currencyz/    giD   Crge2/  Foreign Exchangel/        Total
Us$                U,$                US$               US
Year       ES     Equiv.       IS     Equiv.     ES     Equiv.        ES   Equiv.
1961/62   0.79     2.27      0.00      0.01     2.95     8.46        3.74  10.74
1962/63   1.53     4.39       0.01     0.02     2.49      7.15       4.03  1156
1963/64   1.78     5.11       0.01     0r04     2.664     7.60       4.143  12.75
19614/65   1.66    14.76      0.02     o.o6     3.07     8.81        4.75  13.63
1965/66   1.51     4.33       0.03     0.08     3.11     8.93        4.65  13.34
1966/67   1.28     3.67      0.03      0.09     2.22     6.38        3.53  10211t
1967/68   0.25     0.72      0.04      0.10     1.45    14.17        1.74   4.99
Total   8.80    25.25      0.14      0.40    17.93    51.50       26.87  77.15
1/  Excluding disbursements for preparatory and associated works but including
US$0.35 million reimbursement for engineering fees between July 1, 1960
and July 1, 1961.
2/ Payable by Sudan Government from own resources.
3/ Proceeds of the three loans.



ANNEX 7
COST OF IRRIGATION WORKS AND FABT DEVELOPMENT
The conversion of "restricted" pump schemes to unrestricted pumping,
the intensification of the cropping pattern in the gravity areas, and the
expansion of sugar cane production at Guneid would not involve additional
capital expenditure in irrigation works or farm development.
New pump scheme development would involve the supply and installa-
tion of pumping plants, canalization of the area and the clearing, leveling
and cultivation of the farm lands. In Report No. T.O. 204, the cost of this
development to be undertaken by pump licensees was calculated at from LS 22
to IS 33 per feddan and averaging ES 27.5 per feddan. Since that time, costS
have risen particularly as a result of increased import duties and the esti-
mate of the average developmental cost for pumping schemes, including a pro-
vision for contingencies of 15 per cent, is now about IS 32 per feddan.
The investment in the proposed new pumping schemes development is
estimated, therefore, as follows:
670 feddans at IS 32 per feddan - LS 21.42 million
The foreign exchange component would be about bS 9.63 million equivalent.
Plans for development of the 200,000 feddans new gravity irrigation
proposals have not yet been worked out in detail. The existing Gezira and
Managil canals would convey the water to the edge of the area. New irrigatioh
'works would be confined to minor canals and distributory channels in the area
and the necessary regulators and bridges. These works would be carried out by
the Ministry of Irrigation. Costs have been assessed on the basis of thQse
being incurred for the Managil Extension Scheme, Stages 3 and 4, and include a
provision for contingencies of 15 per cent. The costs of land preparation,
extension of light railways for transport of cotton, and provision of ginning
and storing facilities that would be undertaken by the Sudan Gezira Board, are
estimated on the same basis. The total cost fir the 200,000 feddans gravity
irrigation, therefore, is estimated at LS 9.5 million. Approximately IS 4.0
million equivalent would be foreign exchange.
The portions of both gravity and pump schemes developed during each
year would be placed in production in the subsequent year. The total cost of
the irrigation works and farm development for the Roseires Project, including
interest on the foreign exchange component during construction, is estimated
as follows:
(in ES million)
Local       Foreign
Currency     Exchange        Total
Pump Schemes                  11.79        9.63          21.42
Gezira Gravity Extension       5.50        4.00           9.50
Interest during constr.         -          0.39           0.39
Total         17.29        14.02         31.31



ANNEX 8
YIELD EXPECTATION, FOrIARD PRICE ASSUMPTIONS
AND PRODUCTION COSTS OF CROPS
The irrigation areas included in the Roseires Project have soils
and operating conditions similar to those of existing irrigation schemes.
The crop yields and production costs of the established areas used in the
following review are considered to be applicable, therefore, to the Roseires
Project.
Cotton
The present price for Sakel G 5S cotton is about 44 cents per lb.
c.i.f. Liverpool and the forward price assumption of LS 11 per lint kantar
f.o.b. Port Sudan, that is used in this appraisal, is conservative (see state-
ment of Bank Economic Staff, attached hereto).
a) Gravity Irrigation Schemes
The average yield of cotton over the last 12 years is 4.6 kantars of
seed cotton per feddan. At the price assumption of IS 11 per lint kantar
(LS 12.1 per seed kantar) and allowing the value of seed (LS 2 per seed kan-
tar of cotton), the gross return is LS 14.1 per kantar seed cotton or IS 64.8
per feddan.
The cost of production chargeable to joint account is estimated at
LS 16.3 per feddan and LS 5.0 (LS 1 per lint kantar) export tax is payable to
the Government.
The net proceeds of bS 43.5 per feddan is divisible as follows:
Ministry of Irrigation           42%     LS 18.27
Social Development Fund           2%         0.87
Local Government Council          2%          0.87
Gezira Board                     10%         4.35
Tenants' Collective Account      42%        18.27
Tenants' Reserve Account          2%          o.87
Total           100%      IS 43.50
Based on Gezira experience, the Ministry of Irrigation's costs approxi-
mate ES 5.0 per feddan cotton and those of the Gezira Board ES 2.5 per feddan
cotton. Tenants' cash costs are estimated at ES 10 per feddan cotton and the
return for his labor LS 9.14.
b) Pump Irrigation Schemes
The average yield of cotton from pump schemes is 4.4 kantars of seed
cotton per feddan. At the forward price assumption of LS 11 per kantar lint,
the gross proceeds are IS 62.0 per feddan. Export tax of LS 4.8 per feddan
(bS 1 per lint kantar) is payable to the Government. Of the net proceeds
(LS 57.2 per feddan), the licensee receives 60 per cent (LS 34.3) and the ten-
ant 40 per cent (LS 22.9).



ANNEX E
Page 2
The cash costs payable by the tenant are estimated at LS 14.7 per fed-
dan and those of the licensee LS 19.3. The remaining LS 8.2 per feddan
received by the tenant represents the return for his labor. From his remain-
ing LS 15 per feddan, the licensee has to pay land tax of four per cent of
gross return (LS 2.5) and license fee (TS 0.3) and make provision for deprecia-
tion (ES 2.8) and interest on working capital (LS 1.2). The LS 8.2 remaining
to the licensee represents the net return on his investment (before business
profits tax).
rura
The average yield expectation is 13 cwt. grain per feddan, which has
a normal market value of about LS 15 per ton. This gives a return of LBS 9.75
per feddan. The residual fodder value of the plant is estimated at LS 1,20
per feddan, giving a gross return of 1,S 11 per feddan. Tenants' cash costs
are estimated at IS 3 per feddan, so that the return for tenants' labor is
LS 8 per feddan.
Lubia
The average expectation of yield is 5 cwt. pods per feddan. The
normal price of IS 12 per ton gives a gross return for pods of LS 3 per feddan.
The grazing value of lubia is valued at LS 2.4 per feddan. The gross return
from lubia is thus LS 5.4 per feddan.  Cash costs of production are estimated
at LS 1.5 per feddan, so the return for the tenants' labor is LS 3.9 per feddan.
Sugar
The expected yield of sugar cane is 50 tons per feddan of 11 per cent
cane.  This would give 5.5 tons sugar per feddan, which at the present price
of LS 35 per ton delivered Sudan would return LS 192.5 per feddan. Production
costs of cane under pump irrigation are estimated at LS 14.4 per ton sugar and
the processing costs at LS 12.7 per ton sugar - a total production cost
(including all labor) of about LS 27 per ton, or LS 148.5 per feddan. The
margin of LS 8 per ton, or LBS 44 per feddan, represents the return on invest-
ment in land and pumping plant and irrigation works.
Groundnuts
The average yield of groundnuts is 1,700 lbs. per feddan which, at
a price of LS 30 per ton, gives a return of LS 23 per feddan.  Fodder value
of straw is estimated at LS 1 per feddan. The gross return for groundnuts is
therefore estimated at LS 24 per feddan. Experience at the Experimental Vil-
lage Farm shows that cash cost of production, excluding any land rental or
water charge, averages about LS 5 per feddan and the return to the tenants in
these circumstances LS 19 per feddan.
W4heat
The average yield of wheat is 12.5 cwt. per feddan. The current
price of LS 28 per ton delivered Sudan gives a gress return of LS 17.5 per fed-
dan. Cash costs of production, excluding any land rental er water charge, at
t'he Experimental Village Farm are approximately LS 8,5 per feddana,and LS 9 per
feddan would represer.t tne return received by the tenant in these circumstances.



ANNEX E
Attachment
EXTRA LONG STAPLE COTTON
Recent Price Movements
The price of extra long staple cotton continues at a relatively high
level, primarily because of substantial consumption growth in the free world
which began during the l959/60 season and which appears to be continuing during
the current season. At the same time, sizeable demand for extra long staple
cotton by the Soviet Bloc appears to be continuing and even growing.
Sudanese extra long staple cotton (G5S) has been selling at over 40
cents per pound in Liverpool for the last twelve months, and for most of this
period it was selling at around 44 cents or higher. A similar situation has
prevailed for the higher-priced Egyptian Karnak Fully Good and for Peruv-an
Pima No. 1.
At the same time, the price spread between extra long staple cotton
and American Upland cotton has widened as the latter has remained relatively
stable for more than a year. The attached table summarizes these price move-
ments.
Supply-Demand Developments
Consumption of extra long staple cotton in the free world during the
1959/60 season, which ended last July 31, was over 20% higher than during the
preceding season and over 50% higher than daring the textile recession season
of 1957/58. Exports to the Soviet Bloc, including Communist China, represented
over one third of aggregate exports of Egypt and the Sudan during the 1959/60
season. This ratio had been one fourth of aggregate exports as recently as the
1956/57 season. The Sudan's exports of extra long staple cotton to the Soviet
Bloc increased from 4 per cent of its total exports in 1957/58 to 18 per cent
in 1959/6o.
Production of extra long staple cotton reached an all-time peak of
about two million bales during the 1958/59 season, declined by 5 per cent dur-
ing the 1959/60 season, and may remain at about the same level during 1960/61.
The International Cotton Advisory Committee reports that the current crop in
the Sudan has been adversely affected by various insects and, despite increased
acreage, yields may be materially reduced.
Long-Term Problems
Despite the recent favorable developments, several long-term problems
appear in the offing for extra long staple cotton.
First, the US, the worldts fourth largest producer of extra long
staple and probably the largest holder of surplus stocks of extra long staple
cotton, announced in December 1960 that it would sell for export some 60,000
bales from its stocks on a competitive basis. The US does not normally export
this type of cotton. Since the domestic price and the purchase price of the



ANNEX 8
- ii -                    Attachment
stocks which the US is selling are higher than the world price, this action
will mean the subsidization of these exports. Although in itself the export in
this way of 60,000 bales of cotton will not make a major impact on the world
price, what is more important is that the US is holding in addition at least a
quarter of a million of bales of surplus extra long staple cotton, most of which
is of foreign origin, having been procured for its strategic stockpile some
years ago.
The capacity of the US to increase its production of extra long staple
cotton is substantial. What is not known at present is to what extent the
recently announced policy of subsidizing exports of extra long staple portends
the further disposal of unsold stocks by the US and the expansion of domestic
production.
A second problem in this field is the increase in output which can be
expected from the San Lorenzr Project in Peru, when it is settled and the land
cultivated, and from the Managil Extension and the Roseires Projects in the
Sudan. The recent growth in consumption of extra long staple cotton has been
substantial, but the long-term growth rate has been more modest. What is not
known at this time is whether the anticipated large growth in output from proj-
ects now in sight will be absorbed by anticipated growth in consumption.
This growth in output intensifies a third problem, namely, the grow-
ing dependence of Egypt and the Sudan on the Soviet Bloc as an important outlet
for their extra long staple cotton crops. There are major uncertainties for
extra long staple cotton built into this growing dependence on a market which
may be subject to arbitrary curtailnment.
Conclusion Regarding Long-Term Price
Although the short-term situation regarding extra long staple cotton
has been favorable, the long-term uncertainties suggest continued caution in
the long-term price forecast.  Therefore, a price of around 34 cents per pound
for Sudanese Sakels, c.i.f. Liverpool, is recommended.  This is 10 cents per
pound below the current price and is equivalent to LS 11 per kantar, f.o.b.
Port Sudan.
ECONOMIC STAFF
February 1961



AN'T]EX £
- iii -                   Attachment
RAW COTTON PRICES, C.I.F. LIVERPOOL, 1957/58 TO 1960/61 SEASONS
(US cents pet pound)
Season                 Karnak FG      Sakel G5S    :US Middling 1-inch
(beginning August)
1957/58                  49.57          48.51             30.73
1958/59                  35.70          34-59             28.18
1959/6o                  44,77          41.63              26.45
1960/61
August                   48.30          44.36              26.88
September                48.77          44.17             27.09
October                  48.85          44.93              27.26
November                 49.29          45.96              27.50
December                 48.56          45.71             27.67
January                  47.58          45.24              27.66
February                 47.62          44.81              28.29
March                    46.54          43.87              28.93
Source: International Cotton Advisory Committee



0
Omdurman        0
SUDAN                 KHART M         Q0   0°   20  30  40   50Km
ROSEIRES                       00              o
IRRIGATION PROJECT  0g   0oO
JIEBEL AULIA DAM               Re        
0  0 ~ ~ ~  
RESERVO~~IR                                              a                     4'
0 00t
04
W okr
oOk          UTR   nw  CEEA
0 c
~~~~A  
U-       Geziro irrigation
- -- Manogil irrigation
Proposed entension ot gravity irrigation
Canals 
4        Enisting gon.rnm.nl pump schemnes                                   Rxi 
0       EVIting privat pump scmes
Exising railway                                                    OSESITE D
MAY 1961                                                                    tBR0-SOSR



SUDAN
ROSEIRES DAM
AND
ASSOCIATED WORKS
>1~~~~~~~~~~h
I   0            1             ~~~~~~~~~~~2 KM
X We~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~st S'ioX 
S ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ t 
RoiIL 1961                                        I6RD 806 is_a  q+ 3    ,  MC
APRIL 1961                                                                                                                                                     IBRD 806



SUDAN
GEZIRA AND MANAGIL SCHEMES
c       E G  Y Py T      r 
s    .-.-*    *-< J a                                                            MANAGIL     GEZIRA
Irrigation conols
4,                 ~~~~KHARTOUM                                         ___
Irrigable areas
_!  KHARTOuMAv*d    gravity irrigation
dAni                                            Rciilway     ~       -4I--4
Ar covered-7 \     j.                                                                     "
.v map    go                                           to   0   10  20  30  40  50/ gm
JEBEL A  LIA                                        *   * .
'C'I
CONGO  RiP         ~    ~     
Govt, Pump
Hasaheisa
Jebel Auli                                                                   Wd Medani
Reser vol6       z
r                                     c~~~~~~~~~~~~Srakat
4~~~~~~
MAY 1961                                                                                    ISRD-677RI



