RETURN       TO                                            R E S T R I C T E D
REPORTS DESK
WITHIN                                                       R e p o r t N o.T.O. 204a
ONE     WEEK                CIRCULATING CGPY
This report was prepared for use within the Bank. In making it
available to others, the Bank assumes no responsibility to them for
the accuracy or completeness of the information contained herein.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT OF THE TECHNICAL MISSION
ON SUDAN IRRIGATION
April 17, 1959
FILE COPY
Department of Technical Operations



CONVERSION FACTORS
£ S 1.00      -    I $U.S. 2.872
1 Feddan      -       1.038 acres  -  .42 Hectares
1 Seed Kantar -  Approximately 312 lbs. seed cotton - 108 - 110 lb. lint
1 Lint Kantar -   Approximately 100 lb. cotton lint
I Milliard  -   1,000 million cubic meters of water



REPORT CIF TE2 :-CFl. IiOAL 1rIISSION
ON SUDAhN  TI  I:T1
TABLE OF COQTTENTS
Page
Surnr.ary, Reccmmendations and Conclusions        i - vi
I.     Introduction .............,.,              .       1
II.      Economic Background to Irrigation
Development ....... * .......    2
III,     E1xisting Irrigation from Nile Water ........      5
IV.      Existing Irrigation Schemes            .          10
V.      The Hanagil Extension      .      .16
VI.      Roseires Project       .        .27
VII.      Agricultural Research      .       .414
A-1 l 1 i ,.Z_
I.     Forward Price Prospects for Sudan Cotton
II.     Regime of Sennar Reservoir and 1929 Nile laters Agreement
III.      Description of Existing Irrigation Schemes
IV.      Sudan Irrigation - Requirements and Supply of Tenants
and Labor
V.      Technical Annex:   Agricultural Research and Production
VI.      Technical Features of the Roseires Dam
VII.      Analysis of Various Uses of Roseires Water
KAP



i.
REPORT OF THE, TECMi-ICAL ,10SION
ON SUD1N IRRIGATION
SiJLT'!1RY, CONCLUSIONTS i, l r. L2 'D-__TlO.JS
i.        At the request of the Sudanese Government, a Bank mission went
to the Sudan in October 1958 to appraise the soundness and feasibility of
the engineering, agricultural and economic aspects of the NIanagil irriga-
tion project and of the proposed major storage dam at Roseires.
ii.       Prior to departure of the mission the Government had been in-
formed that the Bank could not consider finarncing any irrigation project
affecting international rivers unless adequate arrangements had been made
with regard to the riparian interests of countries concerned.
iii.      Up to the present, Sudan has observed in practice the restric-
tions contained in the File Wiaters Agreement of 1929 betweein Britain and
Egypt although the Government contends that the Agree;ent is not legally
binding on independent Sudan.   The Agreement limits the use of Nile water
in the Sudan primarily during the low season of Nile flow (January 1 -
July 15), when, with strictly limited exceptions, the water requirements
of the Sudan must be met from storage in the existing Sennar reservoir.
During the flood season, The only restriction on the Sudan is that the
total canal offtake at Sennar may not exceed specified maximum amounts.
The Agreement also stipulates that the Sudan may not, -rrithout Egyptian
consent, build any structure-s that would adversely affect the amount or
timing of w-ater arriving in Egypt.  Both parties accept the need for a
newv agreement, but negotiations to this end have not yet been successful.
The missio2 s appraisal of proposals for irrigation development assumes
that adequate arrangements will be made regarding the use of Nile waters.
iv.       Sudan is an agricuiltural country; 86% of its population and
98% of its export incomae depend on the land.  There are about 180 mil-
lion feddans of land suitable for some form of agriculture including
about 2.4 million feddans under corenand for irrigation. AbouLt 1.3 mil-
lion feddans of the commanded land are cropped each year, and, of this
area, 0.5 million feddans under long staple cotton produce some 60% of
total export income. The imnediate and major possibilities for expan-
sion of conmercial agricultural production lie in the development of ir-
rigation.
v.        Suitable land is plentiful, and Mile wrater is available during
the flood season (July-December). The principal limitation to expansion
is the availability of water during the restricted season or season of low
river flows (January-June).   Practically all of the present availabilities
are earmarked and used for existing schemes, including Stage 1 of hianagil.
vi.       The iZianagil project is an extension of the existing Gezira gravity
irrigation scheme to an adjoining area of 800,000 feddans of irrigable land.
It is to be developed in four stages.   Stage 1 is now in operation and Stage
2 is scheduled to comr.e into production this year.  Duie to the present econ-



ii.
omic difficulties in Sudan, completion of Stages 3 and 4, originally con-
templated for 1960 and 1961 respectively, has been deferred for at least
one year.
vii.      The Roseires project consists of a dam, to be constructed at
Roseires on the Blue Nile, which would store flood water for use in the
restricted season and would ensure adequate supplies for major expansion
of irrigation. Cnce satisfactory arrangements have been arrived at among
the several riparian countries for the division of Nile water, the limit-
ing factor to expansion of irrigation would become the availability of
financial resources. Sudan's own resources will be determined largely by
the course of long staple cotton prices.
viii.     Long staple cotton prices have declined sharply in the past two
years from about the equivalent of 70 US cents per lb, c.i.f. Liverpool
to a current level of about 30 US cents per lb. If, as seems probable,
demand and supply adjustments over the next few years result in a more
balanced situation, prices for Sudanese long staple should average about
34 US cents per lb in the next decade. Owing to Sudan's comparative ad-
vantages, production would be profitable at these or even lower prices
and cotton would return considerably mre than alternate crops. Even so,
there is a definite need for more diversification of irrigation produc-
tion, which could best be accomplished by the introduction of additional
crops into the cotton rotations.
ix.       The planning of the Managil and Roseires projects has been based
on the results and experience of the existing Gezira gravity scheme and
pump schemes. The Gezira scheme, constructed during 1919-1925, comprises
the Sennar Dam, impounding 0.9 milliards of water, and a canal and distri-
bution system, now serving nearly one million feddans. Twenty-five per-
cent of the commanded area is cropped to long staple cotton each year and
a further 18% is under supplementary crops. The balance of 57% is fallow.
Farm holdings, leased to tenant farmers, are mainly of 40 feddans.
x.        The scheme is operated as a partnership among the Government,
the Gezira Board and the tenants. The Ministry of Irrigation operates the
dam and distribution system efficiently. The Gezira Board (an autonomous
governmental body) also carries out efficiently its responsibilites of
management and financing of cotton production, transport, ginning and market-
ing.  The tenants, who have invested no capital in the project, provide farm
labor. They produce cotton well under supervision of the Board, but their
production of supplementary crops, which is not supervised, is much less
efficient. The net proceeds of the cotton crop are divided among the part-
ners in set proportions. The gross value of production at average yields
and anticipated prices is about LS 16 million. The net return, above op-
erating costs, to the Government and the Board is about LS 5 million,
including LS 1 million as cotton export duty. The tenants andtiheir hired
laborers receive about L.S 6 million.



iii.
xi.       An additional area of more than one million feddans of irrigable
land is commanded by pump schemes. Ninety percent of this area is operated
under private license and 10% is operated by the Government. The operation
of private pump schemes is similar to that of Gezira with the licensee re-
placing the Government and the Board in the partnershio with the tenants.
Operating results are also comparable. While the Government makes no direct
charge for water, it receives about ES 7 per feddan under cotton from a
special land tax and cotton export duty.
The Managil Project
xii.      Stage 1 of the project, now watered from the Gezira main canal,
was commissioned in July 1958, and by November it was promising excellent
results. Stage 2, scheduled for completion in May 1959, will drawwater
through a new M4anagil main canal. After completion of both stages, plan-
ned re ervoir withdrawals during the flood season would exceed the amount
(168 mIs) specified in the Nile Waters Agreement for gravity extraction.
No irrigation water would be available during the restricted season (Janu-
ary-June) until additional storage is provided. This would also be the
case for Stages 3 and 4.
xiii.     The project has been planned and will be operated as an exten-
sion of the Gezira scheme, Cne-third of the area will be under cotton each
year and one-third under supplementary crops. There is strong demand for
tenancies, which will be of 15 feddans. Both the Ministry of Irrigation
and the Gezira Board are well staffed and equipped for planning and execu-
tion; however, staffing would have been strained for operation if Stages
3 and 4 had come into production as originally scheduled.
xiv.      Because of the shortage of stored water (and because of wider
marketing opportunities), the mission has concluded that at least Stages
3 and 4 should come into production under shorter staple cotton varieties,
which could mature on flood water only. The delay in completion of these
stages will give further time for the development of the most suitable
varieties and for planning and providing ginning facilities suitable for
shorter staple cottons.
xv.       The capital cost of completion through   Stages 1 anid 2 will be
IS 20.5 million. The estimated cost of completion of Stages 3 and 4 is
Ull million, including lS 6 million equivalent in foreign exchange. The
mission's appraisal of operating results after completion of all four
stages indicates a direct return of nearly 12% on invested capital; addi-
tional accruals to the Government from cotton e2;port duty would increase
the return to 16% on the investment. Some 53,000 tenant families would
receive an average return of about LS 90 for their labor, after payment
of about L 2 million annually for hired labor.
xvi.      Operating results while only Stages 1 and 2 are in production will
be less satisfactory because most major canals for all four stages will have
been constructed. The mission's appraisal indicates a direct return on in-
vested capital of about 9%, plus a further 3.4% from cotton eriport duty.



iv.
xvii.      The mission concludes:
a) That the development of the Managil project to the
completion of Stages 1 and 2 should prove a sound
investment;
b) That the benefits from completion of Stages 3 and 4
as compared with additional investment should be much
higher than those from Stages 1 and 2;
c) That delays in completion of Stages 3 and 4 will slightly
increase total investment costs, but there will be compen-
sating advantages to delaying completion for one or two
years.
xviii.     The mission accordingly recommends:
a) That priority as between irrigation projects be given
to completion of Stages 3 and 4 of the Managil project.
b)  That high priority be given to staff recruitment and
training; to research into the development of shorter
staple cotton varieties and the bulking of seed of
those varieties found most suitable; and to the plan-
ning and development of ginning and marketing require-
ments for shorter staple cotton;
c) That the Gezira Board should be made responsible for
technical advice and supervision of the production of
other crops as well as cotton, starting -ith Stages
3 and 4.
The Roseires Project
xix.       The proposed dam would be constructed in two stages.  Stage 1
would impound 3 milliards of water and would be constructed to permit
future heightening to impound an additional 4.6 milliards. The plans
provide for future power installation and for canal headworks for gravity
irrigation at Kenana. The cost estimate of ZS 35.2 million, including the
equivalent of &S 19.9 million in foreign exchange, is realistic.
xx.        While other engineering aspects are satisfactory, the mission
considers that sedimentation in particular, and spillway design and the
proposed provision lor future power require further study. The mission
does not agree that sufficient evidence has yet been adduced to assume
that the reservoir would have an acceptable economic life and considers
that further serious study is necessary before the project can be ade-
quately appraised. Pending the results of further study, the mission
has assumed, for purposes of economic analysis, that Stage 1 will make
possible 2.5 milliards of usable storage.



V.
xvi.      The  mission has appraised seven proposals for the use of the water
to be made available by Stage 1 of the dam. The combined requirements of
stored water of these proposals vuld substantially exceed 2.5 milliards and
a selection has to be made. The mission's priority for water usage, within
the supply of stored water to be available,is as follows:
First   - providing normal restricted season requirements to Managil Stages 2,
3 and h and Pump Schemes now operating under restricted license;, and
intensification of the cropping pattern on the Gezira, Managil scheme!
(without remodelling canals).
Second - development of new Pump Schemes (750,000 feddans).
Third   - expansion of the Gezira, Managil area by an additional 200,000
feddans.
xxii.     The mission considers that the proposed Kenana gravity scheme,
which would cost about A-S 80 million, use 1 milliard of stored water and
require much further study, should be deferred for the time being.
xxiii.    New crops would be introduced into the rotation in proposals in-
volving intensification of the cropping pattern. The mission considers that
technical services for the production of other crops as well as cotton should
be provided. The mission also considers that the tenants should be charged
not less than IS 4 per feddan for water to produce these new crops.
xxiv.     The capital investment in the dam and in the development of the
above proposals for irrigation is estimated at about 1S 60 million. Bene-
fits are asse3sed as follows:
Annual gross value of increased production of nearly ;S 29 million
would represent 47% of the overall investment which is a very
favorable ratio.  The direct net return of ES 4.0 million to the
Government and licensees would represent 6.8% on the capital in-
vestment. Other direct returns to the Government would amount
to la 3.9 million making the total return to the Government and
licensees LS 7.9 million, or 13% on the investment.
In addition, the tenant farmers benefitting from intensifica-
tion of the cropping system would receive ES 3.8 million in
increased net income (after deducting the suggested water charge
of LS 4 per feddan) above their present labor remuneration. More-
over, some 63,000 new tenant families would receive about IS 4.4
million in return for their labor.



vi.
DXcV.    The reoort has indicated that further research and study will
be necessar7 before a final appraisal could be made. WSith this reserva-
tion, tho missionts conclusions and recommnendations concerning Stage I
of the Roseires Project are that:
1. Subject to:
a) adequate arrangements being made with regard to the use
of Nile waters;
b) furthler sedimentation studies leading to tlhe conclusion
that the useful life of the reservoir woulc be satisfac-
tory;
the project as described above uould be a sound invest-
ment and should be proceeded with when financial resources
are available.
2. The Government should charge the tenant farmers not less than
4S b per feddan for water used to intensify the cropping
pattern beyond the traditional rotation systems.
3. The tenants should be provided with adequate technical ser-
vices lor the procuction of other crops as well as cotton.
xxvi.     The mission has not considered it necessary at this tnie to ap-
praise Stage 2 of the Roseires dam.
Agricultural Research
xxvii.    An adequate program of agricultural research will be necessary
for the successful implementation of these proposals for irrigation ex-
pansion. Long staple cotton research has contributed greatly to develop-
ment to date and adequate work in this field is continuing.  Howiever,
during recent rears there has been a lac: of flexibility in: research plan-
ning and the program has not been adapted to changing needs for irrigation
expansion. The research program has been reviewed by the mission and a
general indication has been given of the directions in wThich it should be
improved.  To this end, and also to strengthen Sudants planning of general
agricultural development:
the mission recommends that a suitably qualified and experienced
agriculturalist should be appointed as Agricultural Adviser.



REPORT OF THE TECHNICAL MISSION O\j SUDAN IRRCIGATION
CH{APTZR I
INTRODUCTION
1.         At the request of the Sudan Government a technical mission was
sent to the Sudan in the second half of October 1958 to examine the tech-
nical and economic aspects of the Managil and Roseires irrigation projects.
The Government was informed that "Ithe mission will not be authorized to
deal, at this stage, with the question of participation by the Bank in the
financing of these projects, in view of the Bank's concern .... that in cases
affecting international rivers adequate arrangements first be made with
regard to the riparian interests of other countries affected".
2.         The Maiagil project is an extension of the existing Gezira
gravity irrigation scheme to an adjoining area of 800,000 feddans of irri-
gable land. This land, which is ccmmaided by Sennar dam, is to be brought
under gravity irrigation in four stages, each of approximately 200,000
feddans. Stage I came into production in June 1958 and irrigation of Stage 2
is scheduled to commence in June 1959.  The ti-ning of completion of Stages 3
and 4 is as yet uncertain.
3.         The Roseires project consists of a dam to be constructed at Rosei-
res on the Blue Nile, making water available for the irrigation of new land
and providing additiQnal water supplies to certain existing irrigation
schemes.
4.         The dam site is 266 kms upstream from Sennar dam and 106 kms
downstream fromn the Ethiopian border (map).  The dam would be constructed
in two stages; the first stage would impound three milliards 1/of water
and would include provision for subsequent heightening to increase the
reservoir's capacity by an additional 4.6 milliards. Proposals under con-
sideration for the use of t he water include the development for gravity
irrigation of some 1.2 million feddans at Kenana and a further 200,000
feddans adjoining the Gezira and Nianagil schemes; the development of some
750,000 feddans of new pump schemes; and increasing supplies of water for
about 2 million feddans of existing schemes. Since the combined water
requirements of all these proposals would exceed available supplies from
Stage I,priorities in water usage remain to be determined.
5.         The Terms of Reference of the mission were to appraise the
technical soundness and feasibility of the engineering, agricultural and
economic aspects of the proposals, leading to an assessment of the compara-
tive costs and benefits for various alternative ways of using the water
which would become available at different stages of the projects' execution.
6.         The mission, in presenting its report, would like to acknowledge
with special gratitude the able and ready co-operation received from officials
of the Government and various Government agencies as well as from several
private sources.
1/ 1 _rilliard = 1000 million cubic meters of water.



CHAPTER II
ECONOMIC BACKGROUND TO IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT
7.        The Sudan is basically an agricultural and pastoral country and
about 86% of the country's population of 10.3 million (1955/56 census) are
dependent on the land. Know7n mineral resources are insignificant and
manufacturing as yet plays only a small role in the economy, but the country
has vast potential resources of land and vater.  It is thought that an area
of about 180 million feddans has soil and rainfall adequate for some type
of cultivation.  Only about 7 million feddans are yet cultivated under dry
farming. A gross area of about 2.4 million feddans is under command for
all forns of irrigation. This irrigated area supplies the country's major
export crop - cotton.
8.        The importance of irrigation to Sudan's foreign exchange earnings
is shown in the table below:
Sudan - Value of Domestic Exports
4-Year Average Ending 1957
;S million             p
Irrigation products
Cotton products                    29.7
Other products(estimated)           1.3  31.0             62
Dry-faming products(incl. rain-grown
cotton)         8.h             17
Livestock and products                      3.8              8
Forestry (gum arabic)                       4.6              9
Miscellaneous                               1.9              4
Total          49.7            100
9.        Exports of cotton and cotton seed declined to ;S 23.5 million in
1958 as the result of exceptionally low crop yields and marketing difficul-
ties. Of the gross area of 2.4 million feddans under command for all forms
of irrigation about 1.3 million feddans are actually cropped each year.
Some 0.5 million feddans of this area was under cotton in 1957/58. At
average yields and forward prices assumed in this report, the export value
of cotton and seed from the area cropped in 1957/58 would be about TS 27
million.
10.       Most of the potentially agricultural land is used only for grazing,
if at all. It now supports some 22 million head of livestock but animal
husbandry does not make a proportionate contribution to the economy of the
country because long-standing social traditions in many regions discourage
the commercial sale of cattle.
11.       Dura (a grain sorghum) is the principal dry-farming crop followed
by groundnuts, sesame and short-season cotton. Dry-faming crops provide
the subsistence livelihood of a big sector of the population and some food-
stuffs for the cities but contribute only about 17 percent of total exports.



12.        Dry-farming is undertaken mainly on a subsistence basis, but
some 600,000 feddans are now under mechanized cropping as large-scale
commercial operations. The Government has been increasingly active,
recently with ICA assistance, in promoting mechanized farming. There
is undoubtedly considerable scope for expansion but the rate of
development is limited by environmental conditions and the primitive
status of the population in these areas.
13.        The immediate and major scope for expansion of agricultural
production for commercial markets is in the development of irrigation.
The system of irrigation farming which has been developed in Sudan
enables tenant farmers unskilled in modern techniques to farm efficiently
under supervision and is particularly well adapted to prevailing condi-
tions. There are large areas of highly suitable land and ample wx1ater
is available from the Nile rivers during the flood season (July-
December).
14.        The principal physical limitation to the expansion of
irrigation is the present availability of water during the restricted
season or season of low river flows (January-June). The present
availabilities are already practically all earmarked and used for
existing schemes. Roseires dam would store flood i.rater for use in the
restricted season and vould ensure adequate supplies for major expansion
of irrigation. Assuming that adequate arrangements can be arrived at
for the division of Nile water (para. 28), the limiting factor to the
expansion of irrigation would become the availability of financial
resources.
15.        Sudan's financial situation in the coming few; years ill be
most difficult.  Due to a world overproduction of long staple cotton,
prices in 1958 declined and Sudan encountered serious difficulties in
disposing of its existing cotton stocks (some 260 000 bales of 400
pounds as at December 1958). Prices have declined further during the
early months of 1959. As a result, Government revenues for the budget
years 1959/60 and 1960/61 will probably provide very little margin
over normal recurrent expenditures.
16.        Prospects for subsequent years are more favorable, how-rever.
Once more balanced supply and demand relations on the long staple
cotton market are restored, as expected in the next few years, the
Sudanese balance of payments and fiscal position are likely to recover
quickly, enabling the country to generate public savings on a satis-
factory and growing scale, as in the past.



i7.        luture market prospects for long staple cotton are so vital to
the expansion of Sudan irrigation that conaiderable attention has been
devoted to this question.  The mission's review of the price outlook for
Sudanese cotton, based on recent studies within the Bank, is giveit in
Annex I. The extent to which the production of long staple cotton in
Sudan will expand over the medium term is an important consideration to
this review.
18.        The mission has concluded that if Managil Stages 3 and 4 come
into production during the early sixties, they would grow shorter rather
than long staple varieties of cotton. The facts which have forced the
mission to this conclusion, (and alsD that Stage 2 is likely to revert
at least temporarily to shorter staple varieties as experience is gained
and tested becomes available) are briefly as follows:
a) Shorter staple varieties require water only during the
flood season, July-December. Long staple varieties
require water through March for full yield.  Rospires
dam is unlikely to be in operation before the late
sixties. Until then there will be no water available
after December 31 for Stages 3 and 4 and very little
for Stage 2 unless the watering season for the whole
Gezira/Mvanagil area is curtailed.
b) The 1958/59 long staple cotton production, assuming
normal yields, will be nearly .9 million bales (of
478 pounds, above the level of world consumption in
1957/58 of 1.1 million bales. (In addition, stocks
in producing countries amounted to 700,000 bales in
August last). Each further stage of Managil that
should come under long staple production would in-
crease world production by some 65,000 bales or by
about 3.3 per cent.
c) For shorter staple cotton, on the other hand, an in-
crease in production by some 70,000 bales from an
equivalent area woula only increase world production
by about .17 per cent, which can hardly have any
influence on world market prices. These prices are
expected to remain on the level of about 30 cents
per pound c.i.f. Liverpool for qualities of shorter
staple cottons likely to be grown in Sudan (see
Annex I). This would represent about ES 10 per
kantar f.o.b. Port Sudan.
d) Although research data on potential yields o4 shorter
staple varieties are unfortunately inadequate for
firm conclusions, they suggest that returns per
feddan from short staple should be at least equal
to, and probably above, those from long staple.



19.       Assuming that the later Stages of the Managil project are under
shorter staple varieties, and that Egyptts recently announced intention of
substantially reducing the area under long staple is not reversed, Sudan's
long staple cotton should during the mid-term move into consumption at
prices averaging about LS 11 per kantar f.o.b. Port Sudan. This price would
be comparable to about 34 cents per lb. c.i.f. Liverpool. ,
20.       It is, of course, even more difficult to attempt to forecast longer
term narket prospects and no firm conclusion would be warranted.  There is,
hcwever, some reassurance in that world consumption of long staple is expec-
ted to increase at a compound rate of around 2.9 percent per annum and that,
if the price differential over short staple remains narrow, this rate ray
well be exceeded. This rate of growth would more than take care of contem-
plated expansion under Roseires development, but Egypt and perhaps U.S.A.
may also expand production. Consequently, plans for Roseires development
should be based on flexibility between the relatively restricted special
market for long staple and the much wider market for shorter staple cottons,
and greater attention should be given to crops other than cotton.
CHAPTER III
EXISTING IRRIGATION FROM NILE WATER
A. Historic
21.       The dependence of Egypt and Sudan on Nile water has led to inten-
sive studies of the river and its tributaries, based on records of stream
flow which, for the most part observed in the last 80 years, date back in
the case of one flood gauge near Cairo to A.D. 641. The river is charac-
terized by a regular flood cycle with the rise taking place in Egypt during
July and August. Usually the peak is reached in early September, after
which the river falls to minimum flow the following May. Flow varies not
only widely during the year but also from year to year, As an illustration,
recorded discharges at Aswan for the 51 year period following 1903 when
accurate measurement was started, averaged 83 milliards.  During the period,
however, the stream fluctuated widely as shown by the following table:
Annual
Discharge
Condition          Year     (in milliards)
Maximum            1916         113.0
Maximm but one     1917         111.0
Minimum            1913          45.5
Minimum but one    1941          63.4
22.       Flow of the main Nile eozinaie White and Bluae Nile and River Atbara
discharges, all of which agaih vary widely in character.  Twenty-four hour
peak and  low flows, referred to Astan, are compared as follows:



P e a k             Minimum
106 m3/day    %     10 6 m3/day   %
White Nile         70       10       37.5       83
Blue Nile         485       68        7.5       17
Atbara            157       22        0          0
Total       712      100       45.0      100
23.       The largest quantity is contributed by the Blue Nile and the
least by the Atbara, which is dry from February through May; however,
during the period of low flow from February to June, the White Nile provides
the largest contribution. On an average, 84% of the Main Nile flow comes
from the highlands of Ethiopia through the Blue Nile, Atbara and Sobat, and
16% through the White Nile originating in the Equatorial Lakes of Central
Africa. In addition to a major portion of Nile water, the Abysinnian high-
lands also contribute practically all the solid material transported by the
Nile. This has proven both a blessing and a problem. Over the centuries
it has built up much of the cultivable land in Egypt, but on the other hand,
is a constant and serious problem affecting design and operation of Nile
reservoirs due to the necessity of providing for or circumventing reservoir
sedimentation.
24.       Annual suspended and bed load of the Main Nile is estimated at
some I0l million tons measured at the point where the Nile enters Egypt.
Its concentration roughly parallels the annual hydrograph, peaking and fal-
ling off with the flood.  Existing Nile dams are, therefore, operated to
pass flood and silt crests with minimum obstruction or ponding and are not
filled tntil waters have become relatively free of suspended matter.  Over
the years this has prevented serious loss of reservoir capacity.
25.       Nile development and apportionment of benefits and costs resulting
therefrom have been the subject of engineering studies for over 60 years.
Although Sudan and Egypt are the prime users, the Nile basin also encompasses
Uganda, one third of Ethiopia, parts of Kenya, Tanganyika, Ruanda-Urundi and
the Belgian Congo. Due to the wide political and economic implications of
the subject, each proposal or study has created considerable controversy.
26.       As mentioned earlier, the average discharge of the Nile over the
51 year period 1903 through 1953 has been 83 milliards measured at Aswan.
The average for the same period would have been about 85.9 milliards if
effects of upstream abstractions and reservoir losses were removed. Sudan's
present use, including Sennar evaporation loss, is approximately 5.4 mil-
liards which, measured at Aswan, would be equivalent to about 4.9 milliards.
Including evaporation loss of the Jebel Aulia reservoir, Egypt's present use
is estimated approximately at 51.4 milliards. Adding the two and subtracting
from 85.9 leaves a theoretical unutilized divisible balance of 29.6 milliards.
27.       Various proposals based on ratios of population, cultivable land,
past usage, etc. have been advanced over the years as a basis for just
allocation of the remainder. At present Egypt seems to favor division of
those waters which would remain after accounting for evaporation of the
proposed High Aswan Dam. Sudan, on the other hand, appears to favor per-
centage division of the total with evaporation losses for future schemes to
be debited to the respective country allotment in proportion to benefits



- 7 -
derived. Although present abstractions upstream of Sudan are insignifi-
cant, future Nile development will certainly include sizeable pover
undertakings and probably some irrigation development in other riparian
countries whose interests must be considered.
28.        Technical studies aimed at determining the riverts ultimate
controlled characteristics are well advanced.   The further discussion
and recommendations concerning various irrigation developments in the
Sudan assume that adequate arrangements will be made with regard to
water allocations which will permit a technically and economically
sound development plan to be implemented.
B. Present Use of Nile Waters in the Sudan
29.        A tabulation of existing irrigation schemes draw-Ting water
from the 1,Thite, Blue and Main Niles is given in Table I (page 9). The
figures for pump schemes include only pumps now in use. Those approved
but not yet working are excluded from the Table.
30.        Empahsis is placed on the fact that irrigation supplied from
the Blue and Vhite Niles, mostly in Blue Nile Province, is all based
on growing long staple cotton in rotation with dura and lubia1/and that
the irrigation season starts with the rising of the flood in July and
finishes at the end of March each year. The month of peak water use
is October w,hen the three main crops - cotton, dura and lubia - are
being heavily irrigated. Cnly long staple cotton, growing on one third
to one fourth of the gross irrigable area, is irrigated in the January
to March period.
31.        Perennial irrigation is practiced on any appreciable scale
only on the Main Nile in Khartoum and Northern Provinces. In the July-
December peiiod some of the water is used to irrigate short staple
cotton grown on a three-course rotation with dura and lubia. The
January to July irrigation period is partly for winter wheat crops and
partly for orchards of dates or citrus and mangos w.hich require perennial
irrigation.
32.        It should be noted that the table does not include small
areas of basin irrigation on the Main Nile, the area of which varies
widely from year to year according to the heigktof the flood. The
average total area watered in basins each year is less than 80,000
feddans and this form of irrigation is not very effective in the Sudan.
33.        Table I can be summarized as follows:   the present gross
irrigable area is about 2.2 million feddans, of which about half is
irrigated in the flood season (July to December) and about one quarter
is irrigated in the dry season, January to July. The total irrigation
water abstracted from the Nile for this purpose is 5.16 milliards.
All water used in the flood season, amounting to 3.684 milliards, is
abstracted directly from the natural flow of the rivers. Of the 1.473
milliards used in the restricted season, 0.284 milliards is from the
natural flow of the river, 0.789 milliards is from Sennar Reservoir,
and 0.400 milliards is available, by agreement of Egypt, in return for
raising Jebel Aulia Reservoir by 20 cms.   Present usage as shown by the
following "M1ater Balance" is within 0.01 milliard of the maximum amount the
1/ Lubia is a leguminous fodder crop.



- 8 -
Sudan can abstract during the dry season without affecting riparian in-
terests downstream, as defined in the 1929 Nile 14aters Agreement and
subsequent working arrangements. There will, therefore, be practically
no water available after December 31 for Managil Stages 2, 3 and 4, or
for new pump schemes until flood season water provided by upstream
storage becomes available.
Water Balance
(in millions of m
Credits
Sennar Reservoir                         929
Flow January 1-18                         141
Compensation in connection with
Jebel Aulia Reservoir                   400   1,470
Debits
Sennar evaporation                       130
Use in Gezira                   600
Use in M,anagil Al              170
Use by pumps                    703
,IT77
Less: Pre-1929 pump use            143     1,330   1,460
34. A brief outline of the provisions of the 1929 Nile Waters Agree-
ment under which the Sennar Reservoir has been operated is given in
Annex II,



TABLE  I                                                                   Page 9
EXISTING  USE OF   NILE WATERS   IN THE   SUDAN
Flood Season Irriga-   Dry Season Irrigation
tion July to December     January to July
Gross      Maximum     Total      Maximum       Total    Total Water
Irrigable   Irrigated    Water     Irrigated      Water      Used in
Are&        Area       Used        Area         Used   Irrigation YrL                    R  e  m  a r k    s
(Feddans)   (Feddans)  Million m)  (Feddans)  Million m3   Million m)
A  Gravity Schemes                                                                            The Gezira is mostly a 4-course cotton rotation. Of the total
1. Gezira          978,200     436,100    1,400       245,200      600                     area 44% is irrigated Aug-Oct; 31% Nov-Dec; and 25% Jan-March.
2. Managil I       211,000     140,700      460        70,300      170                    Managil is mostly 3-course cotton rotation. Of total area 67% is
irrigated Aug-Oct; 50% Nov-Dec; and 33% Jan-March.
Total A :     1,189,200     576,800    1,863       315,500      770         2,630
Blue Nile
B. Pumps All Year                                                                             Govt: 3-course cotton rotation with lubia reduced.
Blue Nile-Govt.     34,200      22,800       73        11,400       30                     Private: 3-course cotton rotation without lubia. 50% Aug-Oct;
-Private   124,800      62,400      200        41,600      111                              33% Nov-March.
White Nile
White Nile-Govt,    41,500      27,700       89        10,400       27                     Govt: Special 3-course rotation: cotton 25%; dura 25%;other 18%
-Private   239,800     119,900      385        79,900      213                     Private: 3-course cotton rotation without lubia.
Main Nile & Atbara
Main Nile)-Govt.    32,300      20,400       66        10,500       44                     July-Dec. mostly 3-course cotton rotation.
& Atbara )-Private 203,600     135,700      435        67,500      278                     Jan-July mostly perennial.
Total B :       676,200     388,900    1,248       221,300      703         1,951
C. Pumps Restricted
Blue Nile          195,500      97,700      314             -        -                     These estimates are based on the assumption that 50% of the
White Nile         143,300      71,700      230             -        -                     irrigable area is irrigated each year.
Main Nile            2,100       1,000       32             -        -
Total C :       340,900     170,400      576             -        -           576
Tctal B & C:  1,017,100     559,300    1,824       221,300      703         2,527
I/
GRAND TOTAL A,B & C 2,206,300   1,136,100    3,684       536,800    1,473         5,157-
1 Basin irrigation on Main Nile (80,000 feddans) omitted. There is a further 120,000 feddans of flush irrigation on Tokar and Gash River deltas.
Data provided by Ministry of Irrigation & Hydroelectric Power.



- 10 -
CHAPTER IV
EXISTING IRRIGATION SCHEMES
35.       The forward planning of proposals for irrigation development in
Sudan has been largely based on the results and experience of existing
schemes. A brief description is given in this Chapter of the principal
features of the Gezira Gravity Scheme and of Pumping Schemes which have
guided the mission in their appraisal of projects now under consideration.
A. Gezira Scheme
36.       The Gezira scheme is described in some detail in Annex III.   Main
features relevant to the assessment of new projects are briefly as follows:
General Description
37.       The Gezira scheme covers 980,000 feddans of irrigable land com-
manded by Sennar dam and forming part of a vast clay plain of some 5 mil-
lion feddans. This plain lies between, and extends southwards from, the
confluence of the Blue and White Niles.   The soils of the irrigated area
are fertile heavy clays of excellent granular structure but somewhat high
in alkalinity and soluble salts. Good crop yields are obtained under care-
ful management.
38.       The land is either owned by the Government or held under long term
lease by the Government at an annual rental of 10 piastres(29 US.) p.feddan.
The land is leased free of rent to tenant farmers. Tenants who farm their
land unsatisfactorily may be evicted. Holdings normally cover 40 feddans
but with passage of time many tenancies have been subdivided and now almost
half are of 20 feddans.  The land is farmed under a       "one in four"
rotation.  Each year 25 percent is under cotton, 121 percent under dura
(sorghum) and 6 percent under forage crops (lubia and others). The area
not cropped is in weed fallow (resting).
39,       About half a million people live in the Gezira area.   These include
about 30,000 tenant families who employ about 200,000 hired -workers during
the cotton harvest (see Annex IV for analysis of potential labor supply
for new schemes).
40.       The Sennar dam, which was completed in 1925, has an effective
capacity of 0.929 milliard. The canal system is unlined because of the
impervious nature of the soils; the capacity of the main canal is 168 m3/s.
L1.       About two milliards of water, including 0.6 milliards of stored
water, are used to irrigate each year some 245,000 feddans of long staple
cotton, 123,000 feddans of dura and 61,000 feddans of lubia and also for
household uses. The gross value of agricultural production at average
yields and current prices is about MS 16 million.



Operation
42.       The scheme is operated as a partnership among the Government,
the Gezira Board and the tenant farmers under which each are allocated
specific shares of the net proceeds of the cotton crop in return for
specific responsibilities and obligations.
43.       The Government receives 46 percent of the At proceeds of the
cotton crop. In return it provides land and water. The iinistry of
Irrigation, operates the dam and the distribution of water.   The Ministry
of Irrigation suffered serio' s loss of engineering and administrative
staff during "'ucdanization't begirning in 1954; consequently qualified
and experienced senior staff are thinly spread. However, its operations
are carried out efficiently. Other departments provide special social
and local Government services and receive 4 percent of cotton net pro-
ceeds (indluded in the 46 percent above) to meet the cost of these ser-
vices.
44.       The Gezira Board, which receives 10 percent of net cotton pro-
ceeds, has assumed the previoLs responsibilities of the Concession Com-
panies. Its major functions are to provide management, and also finance
and facilities, for cotton production, transportation, ginning and mar-
keting. The Board supervises the cotton cropping activities of the ten-
&ntsand provides them with a number of centralized services, costs of
which are charged to a "joint account", and deducted from gross returns
to arrive at net cotton proceeds. It handles all cotton activities from
farm collections points to shipment.
45.       The Board is efficiently managed and has high standing in Sudan.
A successful recruiting and training program is helping to make a good a
serious losE of senior staff in recent years.
46.       The tenants receive 44 percent of net cotton proceeds.   Their
duty is to provide farm labor for the cotton crop. They have contributed
no capital to the joint enterprise and have made negligible investments
in farm equipment. Their working capital requirements are met by ad-
vances from the Board.
47.       The tenants produce cotton efficiently under the supervision
of the Board. This supervision does not extend to crops other than
cotton and the standard of farm culture of dura, lubia and other crops
is much lower. The cost of provision of land and water for the full
crop rotation is charged against and more than covered by the net cotton
proceeds. For crops other than cotton all costs (other than land and
water) are borne by the tenant who receives the entire gross returns.
Oreratin- Results
48.       Operations in general have been most profitable but results have
varied quite widely from year to year depending on cotton yields and prices
and, more recently, cotton disposal difficulties. The estimates below are
for average yields (4.6 kantars seed cotton per feddan) and assume that
the crop will be marketed at the forward price estimate adopted for this
report (tS 11 per lint kantar f.o.b. Port Sudan).



- 12 -
Gezira Irrigation Scheme
Estinated Operating Results
245,0oo Feddans Cotton   Per Feddan Cotton
(in ItS million)         (in IS )
Gross Returns
Cotton and seed, etc.             1h.65                  59.8
Other crops                        1.60                   6.5
Total                       16.25                   66.3
Less Costs:
Government costs                   1.63                   6.7
Board's costs                      0.56                   2.3
Joint Account costs                4.00                  16.3
Farm Labor costs                   6.29                  25.7
Total Costs of Production (incl.
Govt. services and tenant labor)         12.48                   51.0
Direct Return to Invested Capital           3.77                   15.3
Add Cotton Export Duty to Government        1.24                     5.0
Total Return to Invested Capital            5.01                   20.3
Analysis of Benefits
49.       The partners, as stated earlier, receive specific proportions of
the "net proceeds" of the cotton crop while the tenants receive, in addition,
the full returns from other crops. The distribution of returns and costs
works out as follows:
(in IS million)
A   1   1   o   c   a   t   i o     n
Government     Government
TOTAL  (Land & Water)    Services    Board   Tenants
Gross Returns Cotton       14.65
Less Joint Account tosts    4.00
Net Proceeds Cotton      10.65        4.47            .43      1.06     4.69
Gross Returns Other Crops                                                 1.60
Less Operat-ng Costs                    1.20            .43        .56     2.91
Net Retur2'                             3.27          nil          .5o    3.38
1/ Costs of services assumed equal to financial provisions.
Tenant's cash costs for hired labor and certain machinery services.
3/ Net return to invested capital of the Government and of the Board and to the
labor of the tenant family.



- 13 -
50.     l E^>^aGovernment receives, in addition to the operating surplus of
LS 3.2f   @ty on cotton exports amounting to about ;S 1.24 million.  The
total return to the Government is, therefore, about RS 4.51 million. The
Government's investment of some AS 14 million in the Sennar dam and the
Gezira distribution works remain vexy profitable even at present cotton
prices.
51.       The Board has an operating surplus of about LS 5co,o00. An
approximate measure of the rate of return on capital investment can be
obtained from the present day replacement cost of fixed and moveable assets
plus normal requirements of working capital.  This is estimated at about
iS 8 million and the estimated rate of return would be about 6 percent.
52.       The return to the tenants of LS 3.38 million represents an average
labor reward of about IS 110 per family.
B. Pump Schemes
53.      Pump schemes and their operation are described in more detail in
Annex III.
General Description
54.      More than a million feddans of irrigable land are commanded by
pump schemes. Some 90 percent of this area is privately operated; the
balance is operated by the Government.
55.      Pump schemes operate under license, granted after careful study,
by a Sudanese Nile Pumps Control Board.  Works must be constructed to
approved specifications. Financial assistance is frequently arranged
privately. The scheme is then operated by the licensee under Nile Pump
Control Regulations which prescribe relationships between licensee and
tenant in detail. Operations are supervised by District Agricultural Inspec-
tors. Tenants in most circumstances receive 40 percent of the proceeds of
the cotton crop (plus full proceeds of other crops) and the licensee receives
60 percent. The Govermment makes no direct charge for water. In lieu it
receives, from the licensee's share, Land Tax equivalent to 4 percent of
gross cotton proceeds together with a license fee and business profit tax.
56.      Pump schemes on the Blue and White Niles are almost all operated
under a one in three rotation; one third under cotton, varying proportions
under dura and lubia and the balance fallow. The levels of management and
farning practices are more variable than those of the Gezira scheme. The
average cotton yield is about 4.4 seed kantars per feddan as against 4.6
seed kantars per feddan from Gezira. Water usage per feddan under cotton
is similar to that at Gezira.
57.      Present day costs of establishment of private pump schemes are
estimated at from IS 22 to ES 33 per gross (irrigable) feddan, or IS 66 to
IS 99 per feddan cropped to cotton each year.



Operating Results
58.       Costs and returns have been estimated for a private scheme of
15,000 feddans (gross), of which 5,000 fedclans are under cotton each year
on the one in three rotation. The estimates assume average yields and a
cotton price of LS 11 per kantar, f.o.b. Port Sudan.
Estimated Operating Results
5000 Feddans Cotton   Per Feddan Cotton
(in ;6f'003      ~     (in T.S3
Gross Returns
Cotton and seed, etc.                 285                  57.0
Other crops                            30                   6.o
Total Returns                      315                   63
Less Costs
Licensee's Costs (incl. deprecia-
tion, interest on working capital
and Land Tax)                        121                  24.2
Farm Labor Costs                      144                  28.8
Total Costs                        265                   53
Return to Invested Capital
(before Business Profits Tax)                  50                   10
Analysis of Benefits
59.       Licensee. - Assuming the estimated average cost of establishment
of LS 82.5 per feddan cropped per year, the licensee would have invested
ES 12,500 in the development of 15,000 feddans of irrigable land.   The above
return of LS 50,000 (before Business Profit Tax) would represent some 12
percent on this investment.
60.       Tenants. - The return to the labor of the tenants and their
families works out as follows:
5000 Feddans   Per Feddan    Per Tenancy of
Cotton        Cotton     5 Feddans Cotton
(IS '000)     T(S              (S
Returns
Cotton Returns (40%)                     114         22.8             l14
Other Crop Returns (100%)                 30          6.0              30
Total          714          28.8            -iz
Less Cash Costs
Share "Joint Expenses" (40%)              40          8.t              40
Other Cash Costs(hired labor, etc.)       39          7.8              39
Total                       l5.3              79
Return to Tenant's labor                    65         13.0              65
The estimated labor return to the tenant family (LS 65) is smaller than at
Gezira (.S 110) mainly because the size of tenancy is smaller than the
average size at Gezira (8 feddans cotton).



- 15 -
61.       Government. - The Government makes no direct charge for water but
receives benefits from private pump schemes approximately as follows:
50C0 Feddans Cotton   Per Feddan Cotton
(in ESto0o)            (in TS)
Land Tax                        11.0                 2.2
License Fee                      1.5                 0.3
Export Duty on Cotton           24.0                 4.8
Total (excluding                36.5                 7.3
Business Profits Tax)
62.       A comparison of the relative advantages and disadvantages of pump
and gravity schemes given in Annex III concludes that there is not much
difference between the two types of operation.
63.       The preceding estimates for pump schemes apply to private schemes
with unrestricted water license. Schemes with restricted license have no
right to use water between December 31st and July 15th, but, while Sudants
restricted season quota under the "water account" has not been fully used,
watering in many cases has been carried on after that date. This will not
hold now that the quota is almost fully committed and yields of long staple
cotton can be expected to be considerably reduced. Under these circum-
stances, financial results of restricted license schemes would not be com-
petitive until it is shown that shorter staple varieties give at least equal
returns and seed is available. Private capital is at present not interested
in developing new schemes under restricted license.
C. Agricultural Research
64.       The cotton research program has contributed greatly to the success-
ful development of irrigation in Sudan. A high standard of long staple
cotton culture has been achieved and an adequate research program in this
field is continuing. However, during recent years there has been a lack of
flexibility in research planning and the program has not been adapted to
changing needs. For instance, research into the development of varieties
of shorter staple cotton has lagged badly and relatively little work has
been done on the possibilities of improving existing rotations, including
the introduction of new crops.
65.       A review of the agricultural research program is given in Annex V
and the mission's views concerning the changes necessary to meet the needs
of irrigation expansion are summarized in Chapter VII of this report.



- 16 -
CHAPThR V
THE AIvMAGIL EXThiNSION
Introduction
66.       This project, wrhich will cover a gross area of 800,000 feddans to be
brought into production in four stages, is a southwesterly extension of the
Gezira scheme. Stage 1 -ras brought into production in July 1958, and the
mission was most favorably impressed with the highly competent operation of
some 211,000 feddans (gross) of new land in its first season. Canals, structures
and farm ditches vwere of excellent standard, irrigation was proceeding smoothly,
and tenants seemed already to have grasped the main requirements of cotton cul-
ture. The smooth and efficient first season operation of such a vast area re-
flects excellent planning, organization and administration on behalf of the
Gezira Board and the Department of Irrigation.
67.       Stage 2, scheduled for completion in May 1959, will draw water through
a new 1MIanagil main canal. After completion of both stages, planned reservoir
withdrawals during the fXood season (when pump extraction is unrestricted) would
exceed the amount (168 m-P/s) specified in the Nile Waters Agreement for gravity
extraction. There vill be insufficient surplus water under the "water account"
to meet more than a small fraction of requirements after December 31st. Stages
3 and 4 were originally scheduled to come into production in 1960/61 and 1961/62
respectively but, in view of the difficult economic situation, the previous
Government decided to discontinue construction work for at least one year.
68.       In these general circumstances, the main attention of the mission was
directed towards assessment of the overall merits of the scheme, the timing of
its completion and the irrigation and cropping policies vrhich should be adopted
during the period of restricted use of wrater prior to further upstream storage.
Additional benefits to be derived from subsequent use of Roseires water for
L,1anagil are di,^ussed in Chapter VI.
General Description
69.       The project is situated in the Southern Gezira District of Blue Nile
Province.  In the North the Managil lands are a tivestward extension of the Gezira
Scheme lands. To the South they lie on the Western side of the Managil Ridge
and extend Soutlwvards to within 15 kilometers of the WMhite Nile at Esh Showal.
These lands have been selected folloaing a rather broad reconnaissance soil
survey by the Department of Agriculture's Research Division, carried out about
1950. This survey set the Western boundary of the Managil lands at the places
where the good irrigable land of the Gezira Plain gives place to a zone of in-
tractable saline-alkaline clays associated wvith lWfhite Nile lacustrine beds.
70.       After studying the date from this survey and examining some representa-
tive soil profiles, the mission agrees that the I,anagil lands, on the average,
can be expected to equal the productivity of the Gezira lands. Stage 1 appears
to be the best land, folloved by Stages 2 and 4 in order of merit. The Southern
part of Stage 3 contains soils vwhich lack the good granular structure of the
typical Gezira and Managil soils and some modifications to cultivation and sow-
ing techniques may be lound necessary here.



- 17 -
71.       The greater part of the Managil area is occasionally cultivated
grassland with only a few isolated trees. As a result, preparation for
irrigation requires only the levelling of the earthen banks used for rain-
fed dura cultivation.  In the extreme South, however, there is no cultiva-
tion, an absence of villages, and the vegetation is savannah and grassland
with fairly dense acacia bush in places. At present this is used as grazing
land in the wet season by nomadic tribes who move back to the White Nile in
the dry season.  The clearing of this land, however, would not be so costly
as to preclude its development for irrigation.
72.       In the North of the area good quality bore water is obtainable
for stock and domestic purposes at reasonable depth. West of the D1anagil
Ridge, however, there is an outcrop of basement rocks at Jebul Wad el Maturi
and good supplies of ground water are not found. This part of the project
area will probably need a special supply of canal water for stock and domes-
tic purposes in the January-July period.
73.       The Managil scheme is planned to bring into cultivation an area
of 802,000 feddans gross in four stages of 211,000, 225,000, 227,000 and
139,000 feddans.
74.       The project will use a three-course cotton rotation as at Abdel
Magid and some pump schemes. Under this rotation a cotton crop is taken
from one third of the land every year; a dura crop is grown on one sixth
of the land, and lubia and other crops are grown on one sixth of the land.
The remaining one third is resting (fallow) land. Tenancies will be of 15
feddans with 5 feddans under cotton and 5 feddans under other crops each
year.
75.       Water Requirements. - Requirements which have been estimated on
the basis o' Gezira experience adjusted for 3:1 rotation, are estimated as
2.4 milliards for all four stages.  Normally, 1.75 milliards vould be from
flood water (prior to December 31) and the balance, or 0.65 milliards,
from storage. Expected usage by stage is shown in the following table:
Annual Water Requirements (million m3)
Flood   Storage   Total
Stage 1         460      170      630
"   2         h90      184      674
"   3         4h9      186      680
It  h         302      113      415
Total         1,746      653    2,399
Sennar storage is presently utilized to within 10 million m3 of capacity and
this is all the stored water likely to be available for Stages 2, 3 and 4
until Roseires dam is in operation. Several alternative schemes to utilize
available water during the interim period are being investigated in the
Sudan and are discussed in paras. 85 and 86 of this report. Regardless of
the system followed, the irrigation rorks will be capable of handling peak
demands which, for any of the alternatives, would occur in October and will
also be capable of handling demands for subsequent intensification of the
cropping pattern.



- 18 -
Planning. Execution and-Operntion
76.      Flanring and L-xecutior. - Tiis is the responsibility of various
Government bodies, mainly the irrigetion Ministry and Sudan Gezira Board.
The Irrigation Ministry is responsible for main and subsidiary canaliza-
tion, irrigation structures, land clearance and buildings. The Gezira
Board has the responsibility of providing ginning capacity., storage and
transport between collection points and ginneries. The lMidnistry of Agri-
culture is responsible for agricultural aspects such as soil classification
and seed preparation. Other departments are responsible for communications,
village siting4 land registration, distribution of tenancies and administra-
tive and social services. A Joint Committee is responsible for co-ordina-
tion of planning and execution.
77.      Irrigation Works. - The Irrigation Ministry is well-staffed, or-
ganized and equipped to plan and undertake major construction work. The
fact that water was supplied as scheduled for the first stage, in itself
indicates the competence of the organization. This stage is currently
being watered from the main Gezira canal but, after completion, the Managil
system will be completely separate from Gezira. Water will be supplied
from Sennar Reservoir through a new head regulator to a new main canal being
constructed parallel to and slightly la5ger than the Gezira canal. Total
length will be 57 km and capacity 186 n Is vs. 168 m3/s for Gezira. Main
canal construction is being handled by foreign contract and is scheduled
for completion early in 1959.  At km 57, i4anagil water will be diverted to
the 76 km "Managil Branch" and in turn to 136 km of other branch canals.
Total branch canal excavation will be approxinately 35 million m3, of
which 27 million m3 is covered by the main canal contract. The remaining
excavation is being done by the Ilinistry. Structures and buildings are also
being provided by the Irrigation Ministry under local contract where
necessary.
78.      The irrigation layout and system of distribution follows the same
principles employed in Gezira which consist essentially of holding constant
level pools at all distributary points and controlling the water by means
of vertical lift gates, movable weirs and valved pipes.
79.      The Gezira Board is equally well staffed and equipped for the
efficient planning and execution of its sector of the project. Light rail-
ways will be extended into the area for transportation of cotton and ferti-
lizers, etc. to anc from the main railway system. Existing ginning factories
are being modernized to handle cotton from Stages 1 and 2. Additional capac-
ity will be required for Stages 3 and 4 and this will probably be provided
at a new ginning center. It would seem necessary for these new factories
to be equipped with sawgins to handle shorter staple varieties. Since,
however, there will be need for greater flexibility between long and shorter
staple cottons in future, these factories should, as far as is feasible, be
designed so that they could be converted to roller gins if this should later
prove necessary. The mission is not competent in ginning factory design but
considers that the Board should seek expert advice on this question. Housing
and office buildings for administrative staff and expansion of agricultural
machinery fleets will also be provided.
80.      Other departments responsible for communications, social services,
village sitings, land registration and distribution of tenancies, have
adequate experience to perform their duties satisfactorily.



- 19 -
81.       Operation. - The extension will be operated in the same manner
as the Gezira Scheme which has been described in Annex III, paras. 12/28.
82.       The early operation of Stage 1 has been most competent but it
must be remembered that both the Ministry and Board suffered serious loss
of experienced staff during "Sudanization". Fully qualified and experi-
enced officers at top level are thus thinly spread. Staff training and
recruitment programs should cover needs for Stage 2 but would have been
overtaxed if Stages 3 and 4 had come into operation as planned earlier.
A delay of two years or so, as seems likely to be necessary for financial
reasons, should materially improve prospects for equally competent oper-
ation of these Stages. It will also give more time to organize the supply
and selection of tenants and hired labor requirements.
83.       Consideration should also be given during the interim to a fur-
ther change in the system of operation and management to give much more
technical advice, supervision and some degree of control to tenants' farm-
ing practices in the production of crops other than cotton (see Annex III,
para. 20). It is likely that unit yields of these crops could be about
doubled in this way. In the case of Managil, other crops will have a
more important role in the tenants' farming operations than under the
Gezira rotation and this role will be further increased when Roseires
water permits intensification of the Managil rotation. Stages 3 and 4
would provide a convenient opportunity to introduce such a change. An
early start should be made to expand staff training to cover this need.
If, as expected, results show that the innovation is warranted, this ser-
vice could later be extended to other stages of Managil and also the
Gezira project.
84.       The Mission, therefore, concludes that the Gezira Board should
be made responsible for technical advice, supervision and some broad measure
of control in relation to the farm production of crops other than cotton
on Stages 3 and 4 of Managil and that the additional costs of this agri-
cultural service should be met by the Government.
85.       A major operational decision will have to be reached during the
early years of Stage 2, whether to stop watering of long staple cotton on
this Stage at December 31 or to spread the shortage and stop all Gezira/
Managil watering at the end of February. As stated in para.51 of Annex V,
scanty evidence suggests a reduction in yield of about 5% in normal crop
years from cessation at the end of February. This would represent a re-
duction in cotton returns (at tS 10 per kantar excluding export dutyl!)
from Gezira and Managil Stages 1 and 2 of about tS 1.1 million.   There is
even less evidence from which to assess reduction in yield of long staple
cotton from cessation of watering Stage 2 at the end of December but it
seems unlikely to be Less than 15% in normal crop years. This would re-
present a reduction in cotton returns of not less than %S 0.6 million.
lJ Export duty of kS 1 per kantar is deducted from the f.o.b. market
price in arriving at gross returns from cotton.



- 20 -
86.       This evidence is too unreliable for the mission to make any recom-
mendation in this regard, but the mission has already supported in the
field suggestions that controlled trials should be made this year of the
influence of stopping watering at February 28 on portions of Stage 1 and
understands that this is to be done. The trials may help in reaching a deci-
sion but for the purposes of this report it has been assumed that watering
of Stage 2 will stop by December 31.
87.       It has also been assumed that Stages 3 and 4 will come into produc-
tion, at least initially, under shorter staple varieties of cotton.
88.       Cost Estimates. - Stage 1 involved about 15 million rm of earth-
work and some 3,000 appurtenant structures or items. Stage 2 involves about
the same amount of work plus completion of the main canal and main branch,
which will carry water to the third and fourth stage areas. This work is
scheduled for completion in May l959. Stages 3 and 4 will require construc-
tion periods of about one year each. Construction of these Stages has been
deferred although final layout and design will be completed. Despite some
slight increases in maintenance and other costs as a consequence of deferring
Stages 3 and 4, total investment will not be increased appreciably if the
necessary mechanical equipment is available when work is resumed. Summarized
project cost estimates are shown below:
(in MS million)
Local     Foreign
Currency   Currency   Total
Direct Costs
Irrigation Department        10.4        12.7      23.1
Gezira Board                  4.1         3.7       7.8
Post and Telegraph             .1          .1        .2
Total Direct Costs           14.6        16.5      31.1
Other Costs
Working Capital Gezira Board   o8           .8      1.6
Sudan Railways Extension      2.0         1.8       3.8
Total Costs                  17.4        19.1      36.5
The above estimates of direct costs are based on actual costs of more than
half the project. Although detailed layout and design of the distribution
system for Stages 3 and 4 are not yet completed, conditions are so uniform
that there should be little margin of error and the estimates are realistic.
89.       Of "Other Costs", it is considered that the Board's working capital
should be recoverable in the ordinary course of operations and should, there-
fore, not be chargeable to the capital cost of the extension against which
benefits are to be assessed. Instead, interest at 6% for six months will be
debited as an annual cost of operation.  Similarly, the cost of extending the
main railway system (construction of which has been deferred) should be re-
coverable from charges and not debited to capital costs. The case of Post
and Telegraph is somewhat different in that special facilities are needed to
operate the project and charges are unlikely to meet full service ccsts. For
this reason the provision of Post & Telegraph is treated as a direct cost.



- 21 -
90.       Construction is expected to be interrupted after completion of
Stage 2 and costs for Stages 1 and 2 and Stages 3 and 4 are shown sepa-
rately below:
(in IS million)
Stages 1 & 2        Stages 3 & 4
(436,000 Feddans)   (366,000 Feddans)    Total
Irrigation Dept.        16.1               7.0             23.1
Gezira Board             4.3               3.5              7.8
Post & Telegraph          .1                .1                .2
Total         20.5              10.6             31.1
Interest during construction has not been included in the above estimates
because expenditures have so far been met from budget appropriations.
However, it seems likely that the Sudan Government will attempt to obtain
the funds for financing at least the foreign exchange costs of completion
of Stages 3 and 4 (about LS 6 million) from abroad. In that event interest
during construction on these costs should be added. Interest at 6% would
amount to about LS 350,000.  This would increase the costs of construction
of Stages 3 and h to about LS 11 million and total costs to LS 31.5 million.
This is equivalent to LS 39.3 per feddan irrigable (gross area) and LS 118
per feddan cotton (net area).
Operating Results
91.       Operating costs and returns have been estimated from Gezira
experience adjusted for the different cropping pattern.
92.       Governmental Costs. - The Ministry of Irrigation's costs at Gezira
of operation and maintenance of the irrigation system, plus land rent,amount
to IS 1.2 million for 245,000 feddans of cotton, or about LS 5 per feddan.
Cotton at Hinagil will be grown under a 1 in 3 rotation (instead of 1 in 4
at Gezira), and this greater concentration, plus the shorter watering season
for shorter staple varieties on Stages 3 and 4h,should result in lower costs
per feddan. However, this would be offset by a considerably greater propor-
tion of other crops also requiring water and the cost per feddan should be
about similar. For 267,000 feddans of cotton the cost would be about BS 1.32
million.
93.       Governmental costs of providing social and local Government
services has been taken as their allocated share of net cot-ton proceeds, or
LS .I3 million.  Total Government costs are, therefore, ES 1.75 million, or
LS 6.6 per feddan cotton.
94.       Board's Costs. - The Boardts own costs of operation at Gezira are
LS 560,000 and the equivalent figure for 267,000 feddans cotton at Managil
would be BS 610,000. Working capital is regarded as recoverable in the
following analysis and interest on working capital, estimated at 6% on LS 1.6
million for six months has,been added. This amounts to LS 48,000, making
the Board's costs approximately LB 660,000 or LS 2.5 per feddan cotton.



- 22 -
95.       Joint Account Costs. - These costs at Gezira, for an average yield
of 4.6 1antars/feddan, are approximately LS 4 million. For Managil Stages 1
and 2 there will be a longer haul to cotton gins and a likely lower yield on
Stage 2 because of water shortage. These should be, however, compensated by
greater concentration of production, resulting in approximately similar
costs per feddan. For Stages 3 and 4 under shorter staple cotton, costs per
feddan can be expected to be higher. While yields are expected to be some-
what higher, additional difficulty and expense will be involved in keeping
the shorter staple cotton harvest entirely separate from the long staple.
Additional costs for Stages 3 and 4 are assessed at 10%. Joint Account Costs
should, therefore, be:
Total       Per Feddan Cotton
IS million         L S
Stages 1 & 2 (145,000 feddan cotton)    2.37            16.3
Stages 3 & 4 (122,000   "      "   )    2.20            18.0
Total managil(267,000 feddan cotton)    4.57            17.1
96.       Farrors' Costs. - The tenants have invested no capital in the
scheme and the full Ti-irn to the tenants can be taken as the farm labor
cost of production.  This is estimated at ,S 4.76 million for cotton
(para. 104) plus LS 2,19 million from other  crops (para. 101), or a total
of ;S 6.95 million (;S 26 per feddan cotton).
97.       Estimates of the Value of Agricultural Production. - Average yield
estimates, giveni adeqaate water - discussed in para, 76 of Annex V - and
forwTard price estimates - discussed in Annex I - are the same as those used
in the forward estimates of Gezira results (para. 48).
98.       Estimates of returns must, however, be adjusted because of the
shortage of water in the restricted season for Stages 2, 3 and 4. This
applies only to cotton as yields of other crops should not be affected.
99.       It has been assumed that watering of long staple cotton on Stage 2
will cease by December 31st and that this will depress cotton returns by
about IS 600,OC0 (para. 85).
100.      Stages 3 and 4 are assumed to come in under shorter staple cotton
varieties. Evidence, again scanty, suggests average yields of 5.5 seed
kantars (Annex V). At a price (after deduction of export duty) of LS 9 per
lint kantar, as against IS 10 for long staple, cotton returns, including the
value of the cotton seed, would be about LS 64.3 per feddan as compared with
IS 59.8 for long staple, with full water supply. Because of the inadequacy
of research evidence of yields, however, the returns per feddan from shorter
staple are in this analysis taken as LS 59,8 as for long staple.



- 23 -
101.      Estimates of crop retuxns on the above basis are set out by stages
below:
(in LS million)
Other
Cotton   Crops   Total
Stage 1 (70,000 feddans cotton)        14,8       .57    4.75
Stage 2 (75,000 feddans cotton)         3.90      .62     4652
Total Stages 1 & 2                      8.08     1.19    9.27
Stages 3 and 4(122,000 feddans cotton)  7.30     1.00    8.30
Total Managil     15.38     2.19   17.57
The mission considers that, over the longer term, the above estimates will
prove to be conservative, particularly in regard to assumed yields for
shorter staple cotton. However, development of suitable varieties to the
stage of commercial production may take longer than anticipated. Yields of
other crops could well be doubled with better cultural practice but this
also is likely to take time to achieve.
Estimated Returns on Capital Investment
a) The Managil Extension as a Whole
102.      This covers the project after completion of the development of all
four stages, giving 267,000 feddans of cotton and a similar area of other
crops. The financial results of operations may be estimated as follows:
267,000 Feddans Cotton   Per Feddan Cotton
(in 1S million)           (in TS)
Returns
Cotton                                      15.38                  57.6
Other Crops                                  2,19                   8.2
Total Returns                                 17.57                  65.Q
Less Costs:
Government Costs                      1.75                6.6
Board's Costs                          .66                2.5
Joint Account Costs                   4.57               17.1
Farm Labor Costs                      6.95               26.0
Total Costs of Production                     13.93         52.2
(incl.tenantsf labor & Govt.services)
Total Direct Return to Capital                 3.64                  13.6
Add:  Cotton Export Duty to Govt.              1.33                   5.0
Total Return to Capital                        4.97                  18.6
103.      The direct return represents 11.6% on the investment of LS 31.5
million; including cotton export duty accruing to the Government, the total
return on the investment is equivalent to 15.8%.



- 24 -
Analysis of Benefits
104.      Benefits to the various partners would be as follows: gross cotton
proceeds would be LS 15.33 million, less Joint Account Costs IS 4.57 million,
rtknig net cotton lVoceeds tlQ 10.31 ni1llion. These would be distributed:
(in ES million)
Govemment 42%                                 4.54
Government Services 4%                         .43
Board 10%                                     1.08
Tenants 44% (incl. tenants' Reserve Fund)     4.76
10.81
105.      Benefits to the Government. - The ministry of Irrigation's invest-
ment in the project will be about LS 23.3 million. The return on this
investment should work out as follows:
(in TSmillion)
Share cotton pxoceeds               4.97
Less: Costs, incl. services         1.75
Direct return to capital            3.22  or 13.8%
Add: Cotton export duty to Govt.    1.33
Total Return to Capital             4.55  or 19.5%
106.      Benefits to the Board. - The Board's investment in the project
will be abTn; S 8 million. The return should be:
(in ;S million)
Share cotton proceeds               1.08
Less: Costs                          .66
Return to Capital                    .42  or 5.3%
The Government is expected to provide the Board's capital at 6% interest
without statutory amortization. The Board's surplus as estimated would fail
to meet this interest charge. Further, if, as appears probable, the foreign
exchange component for completion of Stages 3 and 4 is borrowed from over-
seas, the Board could not meet debt service on its share. The Government
should consider relieving the Board of part of this obligation or increasing
its share of cotton proceeds.
107.      Benefits to Tenants. - The tenants will receive IS 4.76 million of
cotton proceeds plus LS 2.19 million from other crops or LS 6.95 million.
108.      The tenant's cash costs must be deducted to give the return to the
labor of the tenant family. Cash costs for hired labor, etc. were estimated
for Gezira tenancies of 4o feddans (10 of cotton) at IS 10 per feddan cotton
at LS 3 and ;S 1.5 respectively per feddan dura and lubia. For Ianagil



tenancies of 15 feddans(5 of cotton) the tenant family will undertake much
more of the cotton labor and cotton cash costs are estimated at LS 6 per
feddan. The area of dura and lubia per tenancy would not be greatly dif-
ferent and Gezira cash costs for these crops are assumed. The return to
the tenant's labor would be:
267,000 Feddans Cotton Per Tenancy of 5
Feddans Cotton
(in LS million)          (AS)
Returns                                          6.95               130
Less: Cash costs(mainly hired labor)
Cotton                              1.60               30
Other crops                          .60   2.20        10      4O
Return to Tenants' Labor                         4.75                90
Summary of Benefits
lO9.      Benefits as estimated, would be a direct return of nearly 12% on
invested capital; additional accruals to the Government from cotton export
duty equivalent to 4% on the investment; and a return for their labor of
about E-S 90 to some 53,000 tenant,families, after the payment of about LS 2
million annually on hired labor.21 These benefits would certainly justify
the investment. Hawever, consideration should be given to increasing the
allocation of cotton proceeds to the Board.
b) Managil Stages 1 and 2
110.      Operating results will be less satisfactoxy during the new fer
years when only Stages 1 and 2 are in production, pending completion of the
full project. Construction work to be completed at the present stage in-
cludes the major canals to serve all the area and the capital cost at the
break-off point will be about LS 141 per feddan under cotton, as against
TS 118 for the completed project. In addition, Stage 2 will, at least until
seed of shorter staple varieties is avfaable, be growing long staple cotton
with inadequate water fully to mature/c8p and this is expected to reduce
gross revenue on the average by about LS 600,000 per annum.
1U.       Allowing some increase in costs of maintenance for irrigation works
completed but not in use and for some decrease in Joint Account Costs and
farm labor costs because of lower yield, operating results of Stages 1 and 2
in average years should work out about as follows:
LS millions
Total returns                           9.27
Less:  Total costs of production        7.37
Direct Return to Capital                1.90
Add: Cotton export duty to Govt.         .70
Total Return to Capital                 2.65
1/ If long staple cotton prices were to average LS 9 per kantar ex duty, in-
stead of TS 10 ex duty as assumed, and prices of shorter staples were also
proportionately lower, the rate of return on the Govt's and Board's invest-
ment would fall by slightly over 2%. The return to the labor of the tenant
family would fall by about 1S 7.



- 26 -
112.      Estimated investment cost to the break-off point is LS 20.5
rnillion so that the direct return on the investment would be 9.3% and
the total return, including cotton export duty, 12.7%.
113.      These results are well below those anticipated for the com-
pleted project, but the deferment of completion will not be without
advantages. More time can be given to the recruitment and training of
staff for irrigation operation and agricultural supervision and manage-
ment, including the additional agricultural staff required for the farm
supervision of production of crops other than cotton.
114.      In addition, more time will be available for the development
of suitable varieties of shorter staple cottons and the bulking of seed
of the best varieties. Any unexpected delay in the development of new
varieties, or in the tightly scheduled program for multiplying proven
seed until there is sufficient for commercial production, could still
be critical to early operation of Stages 3 and 4. A delay of one or
two years will also allow more time for planning and construction of
processing and marketing facilities for shorter staple cotton.
115.      The mission concludes:
a) That the development of the Managil project to the completion
of Stages 1 and 2 should prove a sound investment;
b) That the benefits from completion of Stages 3 and 4 as compared
with additional investment should be much higher than those
from Stages 1 and 2;
c) That delays in completion of Stages 3 and 4 will slightly in-
crease total investment costs, but there would be compensating
advantages from delaying completion for one or two years.
116.      The mission accordingly recommends:
a) That priority as between irrigation projects be given to
completion of Stages 3 and 4 of the Managil project;
b) That high priority be given to staff recruitment and training;
to research into the development of shorter staple cotton
varieties and the bulking of seed of those found most suitable;
and to the planning and development of ginning and marketing
requirements for shorter staple cotton;
c) That the Gezira Board should be made responsible for technical
advice and supervision of the production of crops as well as
cotton starting with Stages 3 and 4 of Managil.



- 27 -
CHAPTER VI
ROSEIRES PROJECT
Introduction
117.      The mission agrees with the generally accepted view that any
further major expansion of irrigation is dependent on additional storage of
flood water for use during the restricted season. It could be argued that
stored water vould not be essential for further expansion if production of
shorter staple cottons, which would not require watering after the end of
December, prove to be as profitable as expected. The mission, however, does
not believe the argument would be valid. In the first place, major expan-
sion of shorter staple cotton could increase demands on stream flow, already
dwindling by December, to the extent that the date for unrestricted with-
drawal would have to be advanced from December 31st. Secondly, although
prospects for shorter staple production currently appear good, neither the
agronomic nor market position can be accepted as static. Expansion plans
should allow for flexibility between cultivation of long and shorter staple
varieties and for greater diversification of the cropping pattern.
118.      The Government has now proposed that a major dam be constructed
on the Blue Nile to meet Sudan's stored water requirements. The site is in
a stretch of river known as the Damazin Rapids, approximately 106 km down-
stream from the Ethiopian border and near the village of Roseires. Although
a storage reservoir in the general area had been suggested as early as 1904,
planning was deferred in favor of the Sennar project and was not reactivated
until early 1952 when the Government engaged Sir Alexander Gibb and Partners
to investigate and recommend on the feasibility of a dam in the area to have
at least one milliard storage capacity. Gibb's studies indicated that a dam
impounding a reservoir to elevation h715 (meters above sea level) would
store a volume of 1.2 milliards, but as the Roseires area provided the only
site on the Blue Nile within the Sudan practical for large scale storage,
site investigations were extended to evaluate effects of a reservoir at
level 480. In 1955, Gibbs and 114. Andre Coyne & Jean Bellier were retained
to act as joint consultants for a project impounding water to a reservoir
level of 480 meters (R.L. 480) with provision for future 10 meter heightening
to R.L. 490.
119.      The Roseires project consists of the dam and facilities for using
the water to be made available for the irrigation of nev land and for
providing additional supplies to certain existing irrigation schemes. Engi-
neering aspects of the dam and proposals fcr Stage I construction are des-
cribed in Annex VI. Main features are outlined in the followAing paragraphs
and comment is made on three aspects, which the mission believes require
further consideration. The later sections of this Chapter analyze the rela-
tive merits of the various uses which could be made of the water to become
available from Stage I and appraise the economic benefits to be derived.



- 28 -
The Dam
120.      The proposed dam would have a concrete central section and earth
embankments on each flank, would be about 9,100 meters in total length  and
60 meters in maximum height a3d have a volume of approximately 610,000 m3
of concrete and 4.2 million m of earthfill.
121.      Approximately 3 rilliards of water wiould be impounded by the dam
at R.L. 480 and 7.6 milliards at R.L. 490. At elevation 480 the reservoir
would cover an area of approximately 190 square kilometers and extend up-
stream approximately 90 km. The selected site utilizes most effectively
natural topographic conditions and from geological considerations is the
best of three investigated. In the opinion of the consultants, the site is
the best that can provide the desired storage wholly within Sudan.
122.      The dam would be initially planned and constructed to permit
future 10 meter heightening to R.L. 490. At the date of future heightening
it would be possible to carrn out necessary construction without inter-
ference with normal reservoir operation and without need for coffer dams.
Initial gate openings and mechanical installations would be adequate for
control of the larger reservoir and concrete work would be so designed to
bring above low water level all components needing future extension. Future
concrete work would, therefore, be relatively simple and inexpensive.
123.      The flank embankments are also laid out to permit economic future
heightening. They would be raised by addition of materials downstream and
above first stage construction, leaving the original upstream face undis-
turbed. Future heightening would involve a considerable lengthening of the
flanks.   . Contour maps indicate they will be extended from 5 to 16 km on
the West and from 3 to 8 km on the East. Total final dam length would then
be 25.1 km.
124.      The initial installation would include seven penstocks, so arranged
that future power facilities could be added without disturbing the normal
operation of the reservoir, and also include, on the left bank, headwTorks
for control of a future gravity irrigation system.
125.      Contract drawings and specifications are complete and could be
issued to potential bidders for first stage construction bid at any time.
Hydraulic model tests have been carried out in England and experiments
have been conducted to assess the proposed diversion channel and dam by
means  of a scale river bed model constructed in the laboratories of Societ6
Grenobloise d'Etudes et dtApplications Hydrauliques in Grenoble. The con-
sultant's agreement includes provisions for engineering supervision during
construction. The contemplated arrangements covering engineering super-
vision would be adequate to ensure proper execution of the project.
126.      The consultants estimate that the construction program would take
seven years and that, due to climatic conditions, the construction season
would be limited to about eight months each year. A bar chart construction
schedule is shown in Annex VI.



- 29-
127.      The reservoir would be operated to reduce effects of sedimentation
as much as possible. Without providing for power or gravity irrigation the
reservoir level vould be kept as low as possible during the rising and
peaking flood. Filling would be from the falling flood during September.
Full level would be maintained until inflow became insufficient to meet re-
qouired doinstream discharge, after which storage utilization would commence.
The reservoir would be gradually emptied and remain empty, apart from un-
avoidable flood fluctuations until the time of filling the following Septem-
ber.
128.      Including 20% contingencies, provisions for future heightening,
future power installations, a canal headworks and interest during construc-
tion, the project is expected to cost the equivalent of LS 35.2 million
($101 million), of which the equivalent of LS 19.9 million ($57 million)
would be in foreign exchange.  The estimate is realistic.  The project is
described in more detail in Annex VI.
Comments
129.      The mission suggests that three aspects of the proposed dam and
reservoir warrant further review and consideration. They are:
(a) Sedimentation
130.      In an average year, it is estimated that some 110 million metric
tons (dry weight) of suspended solids are carried by the Main Nile where it
enters Egypt. The consultants have assumed that 110 million tons would
represent 70 million cubic meters (3,460 lbs/m3) and that the annual sus-
pended load of the Blue Nile referred to Roseires would not exceed that
amount. One curve prepared by the consultants from data collected by the
Sudan Irrigation Department at Wad El Ais in 1954 generally supports this
assumption with reference to weight of the suspended solids. It was the
only evidence made available which would indicate actual conditions at
Roseires. The mission agrees that the suspended matter passing Roseires
should not exceed that passing Wadi Halfa but does not agree that 110 wil-
lion tons when consolidated would necessarily be equal to 70 million m?t.
In the United States for instance, the dry weight of one cubic meter of
deposited silt has been found to range between 1,770 and 3,180 pounds (50 lb.
to 90 lbs. per ft.3). Taking the average of 2,475 lbs/mi3 (70 lbs/ft.3) and
applying it to 110 million metric tons would indicate that the volume of
sediment erntering Egypt might be in the order of 98 million cubic meters.
Simaikats2/ studies, based on wet mud samples collected upstream of Aswan,
in fact indicate that dr, weight to wet volume of Nile depositions range
between 38 to 79 lbs/ft.3.
131.      The annual suspended load is largely carried during the period
July-November. During the balance of the year the river is fairly clear
and sedimentation, as substantiated by the adapted regime at Sennar, can be
disregarded. Sennar reservoir has been operated without serious sedimenta-
tion for years, due mainly to the fact that it is not filled until concen-
trations have dropped to relatively low levels in October and November.
1/ Y.M. Simaika "The Suspended Matter in the Nile"t, Department Paper no. 40,
Cairo 19h0.



- 30 -
Roseires operation will differ, however, as it is planned that filling will
occur in September, a period during which suspended load concentrations are
much heavier.  Considerable deposition is, therefore, inevitable.  The con-
sultants anticipate that a large proportion of the incoming sediment will
be passed by low level sluices during filling and in addition that a certain
portion of that deposited will be removed by the scouring action of the fol-
lowing year flood. How successful the proposed sluicing/scouring action
would be is difficult to determine; it is not a subject that lends itself
to model study.
132.      The consultants have not expressed a firm opinion as to the rate
at which useful Roseires storage would be reduced by the cumulative effect
of sediment deposition but anticipate that "it vould not be such as to
seriously detract from the value of the reservoir, even after a long term of
years". The mission believes that a definitive estimate of useful reservoir
life is basic to economic analysis of the project. The very meager data
available, both as to quantity and effect of the suspended sediment, invitc
rather extreme views concerning useful reservoir life. The mission, for
example, does not agree that there is sufficient evidence to assune the
reservoir would have an acceptable economdc life and believes that effects
of sedimentation could be quite critical and that further serious study of
the problem is necessary before the project can be fully evaluated in terms
of benefit to Sudan.
133.      The mission does recognize, however, that future Nile control
projects will tend to eliminate the present distinction between surplus and
restricted water.  in these'c6icuxrstances the regime of Roseies ;my be
adapted to allow storage of water relatively free of suspendod solids which
would nmturtlly lessen the r.7te of scdiment deposition-in the rcservoir.
134      kAs stated earlier, a definitive estimate of useful reservoir life
is basic to economic analysis of the project.  Pending the results of further
study leading to this estimate, it has been necessary Lor the mnission to
make some assumption in this regard. For the purpose of economic analysis
and comparison of various alternative uses which could be made of Stage I
Roseires storage, the mission has assumed that the final regime will make
possible 2.5 milliards of usable storage during the period of analysis. It
should be emphasized that the mission is far from satisfied that storage of
2.5 milliards would be feasible at the end of the 30 year period analyzed,
if the reservoir were operated as presently contemplated.
(b) Provisions for Power
135.      Future power demand may justify transmission cost to utilize a
hydro power installation at Roseires.  For this possibility the  dam
is plahned  to initially include seven intakes so arranged that they can
be connected to turbines in the future without disturbing normal reservoir
operation. The site of the future powerhouse has been located left of and
adjacent to the spillway with discharge to the spillway channel.  The power-
house has been admirably located to take advantage of downstream conditions
and if warranted in the future could be installed with minimum excavation
cost. The intakes would Bach be adequate for 22.5 lMiW power installation with



- 31 -
reservoir level 480. The same installation wvould provide 35 NW peak after
the dam was he-fghtened. Study of hydrographs for the period 1912-1957
indicate. however, that power output would be highly seasonal; for instance,
two sets could generate at rated capacity five months of the year; three or
four sets for 4-1/2 months; five sets for four months and six sets only 2-1/2
months. A period of up to three months would normally occur when power out-
put might be reduced to less than the rated capacity of one set regardless
of the number installed.            Future storage developments upstream of
Roseires (as at Lake Tana, for instance) could largely regulate the river
flow and would, of course, reduce the unregulated variation in power output
that must be presently expected.
136.      In the circumstances, the mission wTould consider it prudent to re-
examine and further explore the economics of the proposed power provision.
The estimate includes LS 380,000 ($1.09 million) for this feature.
(c) Spillway Design Flood
137.      Since 1912 the maximum flood recorded on the Roseires gauge was
calculated to have been 10,800 m3/s. The consultants have ass med that &
flood of 12,000 m3/s ould only be exceeded in the most exceptional circum-
stances and that, since Sennar was designed to safely pass 15,000 m3/s, it
would be safe to also design Roseires for the same value. In view of the
short period of record and magnitude of the 1946 flood it appears to the
mission that the margin of safety, particularly for a structure composed
primarily of earth, should be much greater. Further investigation of the
flood potentialities of the stream should be made including a search for
evidence of past flood levels along the canyon walls upstream of Roseires
in Ethiopia.
Water Nade Available
138.      The relatively small volume of vater stored at Sennar for dry-
season use has made extraction of large volumes of flood water economically
feasible for use on long staple cotton rotation. (The ratio of stored to
total water usage has been 0.6 : 2.18). The consultants have assumed that
the existing ratio of stored to flood water would continue after Roseires
storage was available. Quite obviously, some assumption must be made in
regard to the agricultural pattern that would be followed before assessing
the future use of water to be made available. For convenience, the consul-
tants assumed that a 3:1 crop rotation would be adapted throughout the new
area irrigable from Roseires as well as on existing schemes, including
Gezira (1 million gross feddans presently under 4:1 rotation), Managil
(800,000 gross feddans) and existing pump schemes around Sennar (200,000
gross feddans).
139.      Stream flow records at, Roseires covering the period 1912-1952 indi-
cate that the preceding 2 million gross feddans plus another 17 million
could have been successfully irrigated with the above assumption. Irriga-
tion would have been possible up to and beyond the end of February in 30
years, and beyond end of March in 10 years, of the 40-year period.



- 32 -
140.      The assumed relationship between Sennar storage and extraction
is valid for a long staple cotton rotation but would not hold for short-
er staple cottons which will not require stored water. However, the
stored water not required for early maturing cotton would no doubt be used
for winter crops and the mission agrees that this is probably the most
rational methiod of estimating total water usage.
141.      Following the above reasoning, the mission has assumed that
Roseires Stage I storage of 2.5 milliards would, therefore, theoretically
permit irrigation requiring about 9 milliards.
Cost of Water to be Made-Available by Roseires Dam
142.      Seven different proposals heve been advanced for the use of the
water to be made available following completion of Roseires dam to Stage I.
The combined annual requirements of stored water of these proposals amount
to about 3.5 milliards as against the usable capacity of Stage I of the dam
of 2.5 milliards tentatively assumed by the mission for purposes of econom-
ic analysis (see para l34). I-t is necessary, therefore, to select a prefer-
red pattern of usage in conformity with the assumed supply of stored water.
Appraisal of the overall merits of the very many possible combinations of
water usage proposals would be most difficult. Consequently an assessment
is made of the relative merits of the various proposals. The overall costs
and benefits of the preferred pattern of usage are then appraised.
143.      In order to assess the relative merits of the various proposals
of water usage it is necessary to determine the theoretical charge which
should be made for the use of water provided by the dam to cover the op-
erating and capital costs of the dam. Capital costs are discussed in para
145. Annual costs of operating the dam are taken in account in the assess-
ment of operating results of the various proposals.
144.      Variations of two methods of determining the theoretical unit cost
of water have been considered. In the Sudanese report presented to the mis-
sion the approachlaken was to ap-oortion the capital cost of the dam over
the total of stored plus flood water to be used. The main arguments in
favor of this approach are that it is only the combination of stored water
plus flood water that makes irrigation, as currently practiced, economic;
and, that developments in the future towards controlling the year-round
flow of the river will largely remove the present distinction between stored
and flood water.
145.      The second approach, which has been used by the mission, is to ap-
portion the capital cost of the dam to stored water only. The main considera-
tions favoring this method of costing are that the function of the dam is t',
provide stored water; ilood water could already se used witho,ut storoge cost
if such use were sufficiently profitable; and, because the most beneficial



- 33 -
pattern of water usage would require all the stored w& er but only about
half of the flood water theoreticallyo made available.J
146.      The estimated cost of the dam, tS 35.2 millions, does not cover
the cost of land to be flooded and the compensation for this, which the
mission has assumed to be tS 1 illion.   Deduction of extra costs associ-
ated with provision for power, J future heightening and canal headworks
(tS 4.1 million plus a proportionate share of interest during construc-
tion, say 1S 4.9 million) from tS 36.2 million leaves tS 31.3 million
as the capital cost of Stage I water storage. Unit cost of water is
therefore 31.3/2.5 or %S 12.5 million per milliard: amortized over 30
years at 6% the annual cost would be about tS 900,000 per milliard.
147.      This theoretical unit cost of 1S 900,000 per milliard of stored
water has been applied in assessing the relative merits of alternate means
of using Roseires water. After the preferred pattern of water usage has
been selected, this theoretical cost of water has been disregarded. The
capital costs of the overall project of dam plus preferred usage have at
that stage been appraised against the total benefits expected to be
derived.
J The mission's findings concerning the relative ranking of the various
proposals for water usage would not have been changed if the Sudanese
approach to the costing of water had been followed. In no case would
the estimate of net benefits have been changed sufficiently to alter the
order of priority.
?/ The mission has suggested that the proposed provision for future power
should be reviewed.



- 34 -
ASSESSNENT OF VAR1IOUS JSES OF ROSE IES WATER
148.      Sir Alexander Gibb and Partners have estimated that the water
to be available from Roseires Stage I would be sufficient for an addition-
al 1.7 million feddans, less any used for intensifying existing schemes
beyond the assumed one in three rotation. Studies by Gibb and other
authorities have already located 3.5 million feddans of suitable land so
that there is ample scope for selectivity in determining optimum usage.
The rmost promising possibilities are listed (not necessarily in order of
merit) below:
a) Gravity irrigation (from the Roseires dam) of the Kenana
project,
b) Providing normal restricted season requirements to Stages
2, 3 and 4 of Managil.
c) Providing normal restricted season requirements to pump
sche,aes now licensed to irrigate only until December 31st.
d) Deveiopment of new pump schemes.
e) Expansion of Gezira and Managil projects within existing
main canal capacities.
f) Some intensification of irrigation of Gezira and Managil
without remodelling canals.
g) Some degree of intensification of Gezira and Managil after
remodelling canals.
149.      Ihe mission's analysis of the alternative proposals is set out
in Annex VII. The main feqtures of the results of this analysis are sum-
marized in Table II (overleaf).
150.      It should be noted that operation of both Proposal (e) (Expan-
sion of Gezira/Managil area) and Proposal (g) (Remodelling Gezira dis-
tribution canals to permit major intensification) would be beyond the
combined capacity of the iMain Canals. It is not proposed to enlarge the
Main Canals so tac-t only one of these Proposals can be included.
151.      Cmitting Proposal (g), which would require more water, the remain-
ing six proposals would require 8 milliards of water including 3.2 milliards
of stored water. Total storage by Roseires dam before siltation would be 3
milliards of which the mission has assumed that 2.5 milliards will be avail-
able during the period of analysis.
152.      The main considerations whicn the mission has taken into account
in selecting the preferred pattern of water usage (within the availability
of water) are the amount or investment involved, additional to the cost of
the dam; the rate of return on this investment; and, additional benefits
to the Government and the tenants. In assessing these additional benefits
the mission has assumed - and later recommends - that teniants should be
charged not less than ZS 4 per feddan for additional water to intensify
the cropping system beyond the trE>ditional rotations on which existing
labor returns to tenants hav6 been determined. (see Annex VII, para. 5).



TABLE II
MAIN FEATURES OF ANALYSIS OF ALTERNATIVE PROPOSALS FOR USING ROSEIRES WATER
1 /
Scheme        New Area         Water Required          Gross Value     Net Value-    Government     Private     Rate of-'    Other2'
Flood    Stored    Total     Increased       Increased     Investment     Invest-     Return on    Direct
Production      Production    SXcludlng       ment        Invest-     Return to
Dam                       ment       Government
Gross Fdns,      M i 1 1 i a r d s         1S Millions     LS Millions   LI' Millions  LS Millions     %        LS Millions
t000
a) Kenana        1,200        2.3       1.0       3.3         27.3             5.1          80              _         6.5           2.0
b) Completing
normal supply
Managil        Nil         Nil        .5         .5         2.4             1.2          Nil            Nil        n.a.          .6
c) Completing
normal supply
"flood" licence
pump schemes   Nil         Nil        .2        .2          .6                .1         Nil            Nil        n,a.          .1
d) New Pump
schemes         750        1.7        .6       2.3        1 5. 6                         Nil          20.6        12            1.3
e) Expansion of
Gezira/Managil
area4/          200         .4        .2        .6         4.6               .8           7.5           Nil       11             .3
f) Some intensi-
fication of
Gezira/Managil
without remodel-
ling canals    Nil          .3        .7       1.0         5.2              3.4          Nil            Nil        n.a,         1,2
g) Some intensi-
fication of
Gezira after
remode1 ing
canals./       Nil          .6        .4       1.0         7.5              2.9          8.0            Nil       10            1.0
Totals        2,150        5.3       3.6       8.9        63.4             16.0         95.5           20.6       n.a,,        6.5
1/ Additional costs include provision of water except under (d) where the cost of water is debited from other direct return to Government.
2/ Excluding export duty on cotton.
3/ Including export duty on cotton, land  tax on pump schemes and water charges of LS 4/Fn for new cash crops.
4/ Only one of proposals e) and g) could be undertaken without enlarging the main canals which is not under consideration.



- 36 -
153.      The mission's conclusions are that priorities should be as follows:
Proposal b). Providing normal restricted season
requirements to Stages 2, 3 and 4 of Managil.
Proposal c). Providing normal restricted season requirements
to schemes now licensed to irrigate only until December 31.
Proposal f). Some intensification of irrigation of
Gezira and Managil without remodelling canals.
Proposal d). Development of new pump schemes.
Proposal e). Expansion of Gezira/Managil area
within existing main canal capacities.
154.      First priority should be given to Proposals b, c and f.
Proposals b and c would give existing schemes normal water supplies.
No additional investment would be involved in all three proposals.
Combined benefits would be an increase of about LS 8 million in the
gross value of production or about LS 5 million in the net value of
production. The return to the Government would be about LS 2 million
as against a cost of stored water of LS 1.2 million.
155.      The mission's conclusion concerning Proposals b and f is contin-
gent on the tenants being required to pay an appropriate charge for addi-
tional water to intensify traditional rotation systems and on the provision
of adequate technical services for the production of other crops as well as
cotton (see Annex VII). Additional research will be necessary before final
estimates of benefits can be rnade (para. 178).
156.      Second priority should be given to d) Development of New Pump
Schemes.  The investment of about LS 20.6 million in the development of
750,000 feddans would be at least in part from private resources. A return
on this investment at the rate of 12% is anticipated. The gross value of
increased production would be about IS 15.8 million and the net value about
LS 2.5 millions. The return to the Government (additional to an estimated
rate of 12% on any governmental investment in new pump schemes) would be
about TS 1.3 million above the cost (LS 0.5 million) of provision of stored
water. However, detailed soil studies will be necessary to determine more
accurately the area and location of suitable land available (Annex VII
para. 34).
157.      Third priority should provisionally be given to e) Expansion of
Gezira/Ianagil areas. Both of the alternative Proposals (e) and (g) -
remodelling Gezira distribution canals - are relatively attractive and further
study will be necessary before a definite selection can be made. In the
case of Proposal (e) detailed soil studies must be completed to determine
the area of suitable land available, which may prove to be greater than
200,000 feddans assumed by the mission. Costs and engineering difficulties
in remodelling the Gezira canals and social and political problems in re-
allocation of farm tenancies must be studied further before Proposal (g)
can be assessed properly. Pending such further studies the mission believes
that Proposal (e) offers the better prospects.



- 37 -
158.       A Governmental investment of about ES 7.5 raillion would be neces-
sary for expanding the Gezira/Hanagil area by 200,000 feddans (Proposal (e)).
A return on this investment at the rate of 11% is anticipated. The gross
value of increased production would be about ES 4.6 million and the net
value about ES 0.8 million. The Government would receive an additional
ES 0.3 million above the cost of water.
159.       The mission has concluded that Proposal (a), gravity irrigation
of the Kenana project, should be deferred for the time being.
The estimated investment of ES 80 million would probably be
beyond Sudan's resources during the period of construction of Roseires dam
to Stage I.  The estimated rate of return on this investment, 6.5Ov, is
relatively low and there are more attractive and much less costly uses fcr
the stored water to be available.  Finally, the preliminary data available
at this stage would in any event be quite inadequate for any firm decision
concerning a project of this magnitude.  The mission believes, however,
that the further study of this project should be continued and that its
construction should prove warranted in conjunction with Stage 2 of the dam.
160.       The development program for the use of Roseires Stage I water
which the mission proposes would require 4.6 milliards of water of which
2.2 milliards would be stored water.  It has been assumed that 2.5 milliards
of stored water would be available, so that the balance of 0.3 milliards
would remain uncommitted.  This would leave a margin against the possibility
that the areas of land found suitable for expansion of Gezira/AIianagil or
new pump schemes will prove larger than esti,mated by the mission.  Any sur-
plus water remaining could profitably be used for intensifying the rotation
on pump schemes in cases where satisfactory arrangements could be reached
between the Government, the licensees and the tenants for sharing costs and
benefits. Alternatively it could be used to extend the irrigation season
for crops other than cotton on gravity schemes. Additional benefits from
any of these uses for about 0.3 milliards (12% of total stored water assumed
to be available) have not been taken into account in the following analysis
of the overall project of dam plus proposed usage.



- 38 -
APPRAISAL OF _SI\E ;ITS Oi THE ROSEIRES STAGE I Pl OECT
161.      Estimated capital costs and operating results of the overall proj-
ect of dam plus water usage as proposed by the mission are summarized below:
Gross      Costs    Increase    Net        Other
Value        of        in       Return     direct
Capital  Increased   prod -     tenants' / on in-     Return
Cost    Production   tion-J net income2" vestment V  to Govt. 4'
(LS m i 1 1 i o n)
Roseires Dam
to Stage I         31. /
b) Completing normal
supply ivianagil
Stages 203 & 4. No fur-    2.4         .8       1.0         .3         .5
ther in-
vestment
c)   Completing norm-No fur-      .6        .3        -         .3          .1
al "flood"     ther in-
license pump   vestment
schemes
f)   Intensification
Managil/Gezira  No further 5.2        1.2       2.8        -          1.2
without remodel-investment
ling canals                                      -
d)   New Pump schemes   20.6   15.8       13.3        -         2.5        1.8
e)   Expansion Gezfr,a/
Managil irea-      7.5    4.6        3.7                   .9         .3
Total               59.4   28.6      19.3        3.8        4.0        3.9
/ Costs of production exclude apportionment of capital cost of dam to stored
water used. They include labor return to tenants up to basis of tradition-
al rotation system.
2/ Increase in tenant's net incomes beyond traditional labor return, after
payment of -IS 4 per feddan for water for additional cash crops.
3/ Net Return to Government or licensees.
/ Includes AS 4 feddan water charge for additional cash crops (;z 1.6
million), cotton export duty anrl land tax on pump schemes.
/ Refer para. 145
y/ Provisionally preferred to Proposal (g).



- 39 -
162.      The gross value of increased production of nearly IS 29 million
would represent 47% of the overall investment of about LS 60 million, which
is a very favorable ratio. Under the existing system of irrigation net
cotton proceeds are shared between tenants and the Government (or licensee)
the direct net return of LS 4.0 million would represent 6.8% on the capital
investment.v
163.      Other direct returns to the Government would amount to LS 3.9
million making the total return to the Government and licensees WS 7.9
million, or 13% on the investment.
164.      In addition, the tenant farmers benefitting from intensification of
the cropping system would receive LS 3.8 million in increased net income above
their present labor remuneration. The overall net return on the investment
would, therefore, be ES 11.7 million or almost 20% on the investment.
165.      Further indirect benefits of the project would be that some 63,000
new tenant families would receive about LS 4.4 million in return for their
labor. In turn, they would expend over LS 2 million on hired labor. There
would also be employment opportunities in cotton processing and various
services. Offsetting these indirect benefits, however, there would be need
for substantial private or governmental investment in cotton ginning and
storage facilities to handle the additional crop from pump schemes. The
estimates of capital costs of governmental gravity schemes include provision
for cotton processing and storage but pump schemes have these services under-
taken on a custom basis and the capital cost of additional facilities is not
included in the estimates.
166.      It has been indicated that further research and study will be
necessary before a final appraisal could be made. With this reservation,
the mission's conclusions and recommendations concerning Stage I of the
Roseires Project are that:
1. Subject to:
a) adequate arrangements being made with
regard to the use of Nile waters;
b) further sedimentation studies leading to the
conclusion that the useful life of the reservoir
would be satisfactory;
The project as described above would be a sound
investment and should be proceeded with when
financial resources are available.
2. The Government should charge the tenant farmers not less
than LS 4 per feddan for water used to intensify the crop-
ping pattern beyond the traditional rotation systems.
3.  The tenants should be provided with adequate technical
services for the production of other crops as well as cotton.
If long staple cotton prices were to average LS 9 per kantar ex duty,
instead of LS 10 ex duty as assumed, and prices of shorter staples were
also proportionately lower, the direct net return on the investment
would fall from 6.8% to 6.3%.



- 40 -
STAGE 2 OF RDSEIRES DAM
167.      The mission has not considered it necessary at this stege to
devote much attention to the desirability of future heightening of the
Roseires Dam.  This project could not be undertaken for marn years.   It
would make a major contribution to the year-round regulation of Nile
flow and could not, therefore, validly be considered in isolation from
other regulatory projects. In addition, the project itself could not be
adequately studied until much more data are available.
168.      The dam would be initially planned and constructed to permit
future 10-meter heightening to R.L. 490. Although topographical studies
to elevation 490 are not presr.ntly completed to the same degree of accur-
acy as are those to elevation 480, the engineer believes the 10-meter
increase in reservoir level would increase volume by 4.6 milliards, or
to approximately 7.6 milliards total. The reservoir would then extend
close to the Ethiopian border.
169.      A cost estimate for future heightening has not been finalized.
It is obvious, however, that in terms of cost per milliard of water it
will be small in comparison with the same criteria apjplied to initial
costs.
170.      The mission is satisfied that, when the time comes, profitable
uses would be available for the additional water. Proposals for use of
Stage I water would extend the irrigable area from Nile waters in Sudan
to about 3.1 million feddans. A further 2.6 million feddans has already
been located by surveys made by various authorities. The development of
the Kenana project and the further intensification of existing gravity
schemes for perennial irrigation, appear at this stage to offer parti-
cular promise.



- 41 -
AGRICULTU?AL RESEARCH
CHAPTER VII
171.      The importance of agricultural research and related extension ser-
vices to Sudants program of irrigation development has been indicated through-
out this report. A general review of the agricultural research program is
presented in Annex V, Agricultural Research and Production. The main features
of this review are summarized in the following paragraphs.
172.      The Research Division of the Ministry of Agriculture, which is res-
ponsible for agricultural research work in the whole of the Sudan, has its
headquarters at the Gezira Agricultural Research Institute, Wad Medani. The
Institute operates an experimental area oi one thousand feddans of irrigated
land. The Sudan Gezira Board pays a yearly sum of IS 75,000 to the Research
Division for the furtherance of cotton research. The remainder of the Re-
search Division's budget is met through the Ministry of Agriculture. The
Gezira Board also undertakes investigational work at its own experimental
farms at Wad en Nau and Wad el Naim.
173.     'Ihe Empire Cotton Growing Corporation of London continues to carry
out the cotton breeding program in the Sudan, as it has done since 1924. The
Corooration staff carries out this work at the Gezira Agricultural Research
Station and at the University of Khartoum at Shambat in Khartoum North.
174.      The agricultural research program is reviewed each year during
the annual visit of the Advisory Committee on Agricultural Research. Prior
to Sudanizption this was the London Advisory Committee on Agricultural Re-
search in the Sudan. It has been enlarged to its present size by the in-
clusion of experts from other countries.
175.      The present staff of the Research Division is seriously below streng-
th, both irAotal numbers and in numbers of senior staff. During the Sudaniza-
tion period most British officers took advantage of the generous terms of
compensation available upon repatriation to resign and start careers else-
where. The Government has made intensive efforts to find replacements by
recruiting a considerable number of technical people in foreign countries
and by training Sudanese both at home and abroad.  While this drive has had
a considerable measure of success in filling the junior ranks of these
services, it has not been successful in obtaining top-level senior officers.
For instance, even at head-of-department level, the Wad Medani Station is
without a chief agronomist, a chiei entomologist and a chief pedologist.
Such vacancies have inevitably led to a lack of initiative in instituting
new lines of research.
176.      There has also been a lack of foresight and imagination in the
pelicy direction of research. This lack of flexibility and anticipation
of the needs of research for current proposals and future possibilities
for agricultural expansion show themselves in a number of ways. For in-
stance, the selection and breeding of high-yielding, good quality long



- 42 -
staple cottons has been markedly successful over the years but far too
little work has been done on the development of shorter staple varieties.
The need for shorter staple cottons which could be grown with little or
no demand on stored water supplies (the limiting physical factor to irriga-
tion expansion )and for which there would be much wider marketing opportu-
nities for a substantial increase in production, has long been apparent.
Yet research work on the development of shorter staple varieties has
started on a limited scale only within the last four years. Similarly,
relatively little work has been done on the influence of early cessation
of watering on long staple cotton yields. The unfortunate consequences of
this lack of anticipation of research needs for irrigation development on
the early operation of Stage 2 of the Nanagil project, and on the planning
of Stages 3 and 4, hasbeen discussed in Chapter V.
177.      The program of soil research, although very adequately handled
in the past, is not now making use of recent technical advances. The
methods of soil analysis need modernizing; insufficient use has been made
of modem methods of studying the soil profile in the field and of using
the field and laboratory data in classifying and mapping the soils on the
basis of their value for irrigated agriculture. Improved soil survey tech-
niques will be necessary if the land most suitable is to be selected for
development for Roseires water. Present staffing is also inadequate for
this work to be completed within the next few years.
178.      The agronomic program has never been strong. Excessively pre-
occupied with long staple cottons, the experiments with crop rotations have
been confined to different sequences of cotton, dura, lubia and fallow,
and have been studied only with view to their effect on cotton yields.
Little or no serious attempt has been made to experiment with other crops
in the rotation, to determine the water requirements of individual crops,
and to establish the comparative total gross and net returns of various
possible crop rotations. With declining cotton prices, it is becoming more
and more important for the tenants to maximize their returns from other
crops. The scope for improvement and/or intensification of existing rota-
tions will be greatly widened once additional water becomes available from
Roseires dam and a full exploration of possibilities is urgently necessary.
179.      Recently agreed proposals fortunately promise greatly to widen
the scope of, and to inject additional technical and financial resources
into, Sudants research program. The Government accepted I.C.A. proposals
for the co-operative establishment of four research and extension stations
at a cost estinated at approxicmately TJS 3 million in 1959, of which I.C.A.
would provide US$ 1.2 million. Two of these, an irrigation station at Tozi
and a new station to be established in the Managil-Gezira region, would be
concerned with crops other than cotton under irrigation.
180.      These proposals should fill a most serious gap in the research
program and, as the results would be invaluable to the final planning of
the Roseires development, they should be implemented without further delay.
181.      This could not, however, be expected to resolve the problem of
overall research policy direction, nor, indeed, of the related problem of
the need for expert and continuous attention to the formulation of agri-
cultural development programs designed to take advantage of changing tech-
nology and conditions and Sudan's vast potential. The time of the Sudan



- 43 -
Advisory Committee on Research during one short visit per year is heavily
taxed on technical research questions and the Committee cannot be expected
to assess the needs as they occur, for changes in overall research policy
direction. Again, the direction of the Ministry of Agriculture itself is
competent and dedicated but top level men are thinly spread and the direc-
tive staff is too heavily burdened with day-to-day administrative problems
to be able to devote the continuous time necessary to formulation of well
conceived and appraised development programs for Governmental consideration.
182.      In these circumstances, the mission believes that Sudan has a
clear need for a top level agriculturalist, competent in technical agricul-
ture and fully experienced in agricultural administration and the prepara-
tion of programs of development, to devote his full attention to questions
of research and developmental planning. The Governnent has been well served
by Irrigation Advisers in the engineering field and the mission considers
that there is at least an equal need for an Agricultural Adviser who would
work within the Ministry of Agriculture and in close co-operation with the
Commission for Development.
183.      The mission recommends that a suitably qualified and experienced
agriculturalist should be appointed as Agricultural Adviser.



AN1'ThEX I
FGfRfVARD PRICE PROSPECTS FOR SUDAN COTTON
1.         Both in the short and long run the Sudants future economic
prospects, as shown in the economic report, are largely dependent on cotton
production and prices.
2.         For he current crop season long staple cotton production in
the Sudan, assuming normal yields, should amount to about 2.4 million
kantars (actually this figure may be higher; preliminary crop estimates
promise above average yiel4s)   or.  about 0.5 million (international) bales
of 478 pounds net weight.l/ First estimates of the Egyptian long staple
crcEb indicate a record production of 1.2 million bales.   Together with
the production in other countries (primarily U.S.A., Peru) world production
in 1958/59 may reach a level of over 1.9 million bales, which compares
with a consumption level in 1957/58 of 1.1 million bales (770,000 free
world consumption; 330,000 ex?orted to Sino-Soviet bloc).   Taking into
account existing stocks in producing countries (some 700,000 bales in
August  1958) the supply position of long staple cotton therefore promises
serious new disposal problems for the Sudan.
3.         However, the situation is not without prospects of fairly rapid
improvement given well devised and vigorous marketing policies.   HIarket
prospects for shorter staple cottons (total world production 42 million
bales and volume of world trade about 14 million bales) are rela ively
favorable and long staple, under declining price differentials,2is sub-
stitutable for medium staple cottons to a considerable (but not precisely
known) degree. Since 1950, the price of long staple (c.i.f. Liverpool)
relative to U. S. upland varieties has reached over 200% and has averaged
about 150%. On the other hand the average February 1959 c.i.f. Liverpool
quotation for Sakel G 5S of around 30 cents per pound (equivalent to an
export price for Sudan long staple cotton averaging about ]S 10 per kantar
f.o.b. Port Sudan) leaves hardly any differential as compared to those of
upland cottons; the comparable February quotation for Mexican Strict Midd-
ling 1 1/16 inch, for example, was around 29-1/2 cents per Dound.    Conse-
quently a vigorous marketing program could well result in a considerable
increase in consumption. However, as stated above, the substitutability
of long staple is not without limitation and the situation must remain
grave for some time.
1/ In this paragraph Sudan bales (of about 400 pounds)
are replaced by international bales, in which world
production and consumption are usally measured.
2 It is generally considered that the price elasticity
of demand for long staple cotton is high, although
that for cotton as a whole is considered relatively low.



ANNEX I - page 2
Economic staff reports EC-62a and EC-63a of May 1958 analysed
p-Jce prospects for short a-id long staple cottons respectively for the
next seven years ending 1965. The conclusions based on the evidence at
that time were:
a) Short staple. Prices for American 1-inch Middling should
remain fairly stable at around 30 cents per pound c.i.f.
Liverpool.
b) Long staple.
Assumption I - all Managil extension under long staple -
Sakel 34 cents per pound c.i.f. Liverpool.
Assumption II - only half Managil extension under long
staple - Sakel 39 cents per pound c.i.f.
Liverpool.
5.         Main developments since May 1958 have been:
Short staple.  Prices through November 1958 remained steady and scmewhat
above the projected level but prices have fallen somewhat since the recent
U. S. decision to relax acreage controls. Although U.S. marketing poli-
cies during recent years have been successful in reducing stocks without
seriously depressing world -rices, a slight downward adjustment of the
forward projection of 30 cents per pound would seem justified.
Long staple.   Estimated production for 1958/59 of over 1.9 million bales
would be 0.3 million bales obove m ticipated production by 1965 under
Assumption 1 and prices have already declined to slightly below the pro-
jectd 1965 level under that assumption. Sudan's estimated Droduction for
1958/59 (with only one quarter of Managil extension under long staple) is
500,000 bales as against 800,000 bales assumed for 1965. However, Egypt's
estimated 1958/59 production is 1.2 million bales as against 808,000 bales
in 1957/58 and 555,000 bales assumed for 1965.
6.         A major factor determining prices for long st*le cottons during
the next six years or so, will be the planting policies of Egypt and Sudan,
athough year-to-year variations in yield will no doubt exert minor influ-
ences. Considerations which will face the policy makers are that each
additional 100,000 feddans (acres) under long staple cotton adds, at nor-
mal ,ields, about 5% to the world crop and must materially depress prices.
The same area under short staple cotton would add but 0.3% to world output
and would not significantly influence prices. In addition, short staple
cottons normally out-yield long staple varieties and, in the absence of an
appreciable long staple price differential, should give a high return per
feddan.
7.         Egypt has successfully grown medium staple varieties for many
years and, with agricultural production limited by the availability of land



AINNEX I, Page 3
and of water during the non-flood season, seems likely during the next
few years to curtail long staple production in favor of shorter staple
varieties and food crops necessary for increasing population.
8.         The position of Sudan is, however, more difficult.   There is
no pressure for additional food and alternative crops offer much smaller
returns than from cotton. Very little short staple cotton has been grown
under irrigation and research into the introduction and development of
suitable varieties is not far advanced. In consequence, short staple seed,
even of relatively untested varieties, will not be bulked and available
for commercial planting until 1960 at the earliest. Short staple produc-
tion would require the installation of saw gins (roller gins are designed
for long staple) and, in addition, there is a natural reluctance to depart
substantially - in the face of rapidly expanded Egyptian output - from the
traditional production of long staple varieties. However, in spite of
these difficulties, shortage of water during the restricted season (Janu-
ary-July) until the Roseires den is completed will force Sudan to grow
some shorter staple cotton. Short staple requires water only during the
flood season (July-December).  Long staple, on the other hand, needs water
well into March.  Research evidence on the influence of earlier cessation
of watering is inadequate to reach firm conclusions but suggests that
cessation at the end of February will reduce yields in normal crop years
by about 5%.  Earlier cessation would certainly depress yields more seriously.
Sufficient water is available to irrigate long staple cotton now growing
on Managil Stage I through March.  W@hen Managil Stage 2 comes into produc-
tion in 1959, it must be under long staple because short staple seed will
not be available.  water for Stage 2 will cut out at the end of December,
unless it is decided to spr.ead the shortage and stop all watering at the
end of February - with prospects of a 5% reduction in yield over the whole
Gezira/Managil area. In these circumstances, it seems inevitable that
Managil Stages 3 and 4 will come into production under shorter staple
varieties. It also seems likely that Stage 2 will at least temporarily
revert to short staple early in the sixties.
9.         Prospects for production of long staple cotton, relative to
the Economic Staff's projection of May 1958, appear to be that, although
Sudan's acreage will be about (or even slightly below) that of Assumption
II, Egypt's acreage may. remain above that projected.   Consequently, the
price projection under Assumption I appears to be more valid. This would
mean an average price during the next six years of around 34 cents per
pound c.i.f. Liverpool, equivalent to a f.o.b. price, Port Sudan, of hS 11
per kantar.
10.        Shorter staple cottons likely to be grown in Sudan should realize
somewhat higher prices than American 1-inch Middling and a forward projec-
tion of about 30 cents per pound c.i.f. Liverpool, is assumed. This would
represent about ES 10 per kantar, f.o.b. Port Sudan. Although potential
yield data is unfortunately still scanty, it suggests that under the above
price assumption returns from shorter staple cottons per feddan should be
somewhat above those from long staple.



Annex II
REGIME OF SENNAR RESERVOIR
AN]D
1929 NILE WATERS AGREEINENT
1.      In 1920 the Egyptian Government had OutliUaed a series of Nile projects
including a reservoir at Sennar. For various reasons the projects, except
Sennar, were delayed. Sennar was completed in 1925 at a cost considerably
higher than contemplated. As a result, the area initially irrigated was
increased over that originally planned, in turn creating opposition to the
plan in Egypt.  Because of this a Cormnission was appointed in 1925, "for the
purpose of e_iamining and proposing the basis on which irrigation can be
carried out with full consideration of the interests of Eg-pt and without
detriment to her natural and historic rights" 1/.  The report of the Uommission
was subsequently included in thle exchange of notes between Great Britain and
Egypt which came to be known as the "Nile Waters igreement1t of 1929.
2.      Although not now recognized by the Uovernment of ludan, the 1929
Agreement and subsequent working arrangements have been adhered to and have
in fact determined Sudan's use of Nile water. In essence, the Agreement pro-
vided a practical working arrangement which respected hiistorical rights and
needs of established irrigation, while still permitting such program of
expansion as feasible in the then ir,mmediate or near future. The Agreement
was based on recognition of the fact that for many years past the whole of
the natural flow of the main Nile during the low flow period had been utilized,
primarily in Egypt, but to some extent by the Sudan. It provided that the
Sudan's further requirements daring the "low flow" period should be met
entirely from storage.
3.      The p3riod of "low flow" was found to begin on January 19 (at Sennar)
and end July 15, but for convenience was established to begin January 1 with
certain compensations to the Sudan for the period January 1 to 18. Water
usage during the low flow period, sometimes referred to as the restricted or
timely period, is recorded in an annual "Water Account" which on January 1
of each year "credits" Sudan a certain balance wrhich is then drawn against
during the following six month (until July 15) restricted period. During
the "surplus period" budan is entitled to take water into the Gezira canal
up to certain maximum rates, to fill the Sennar reservoir, to flood areas
under basin irrigation in so far as the natural flood allows and to extract
by pump. The annual cycle is shown below.
1/ From Use of the -waters of the River Nile for
Irrigation Purposes, exchange of notes, treaty
series number 17 (1929).



Annex II
Page 2
Date                                   Reemarks
July 15-24                        Sennar reservoir iS filled to Gezira canal
comnmand level during the 10-day period, or
at a laser date such that the combined dis-
ciharges as measured at Roseires and hialakal
(with a 10-day la, f3r .alakal) have aver-
aged rot less than 160 rillion m3 per day
for the preceding five days.
July 19-30                        Water is released to the aezira canal on a
graddeted scale increasirng to a maximum of
168 m3/s (1L.52 iafrlJion mD per day) but
restr_cted during the period to an aggre-
gate 101.6 i.dllion m3.
July 3l-.i'10ovemer 30            Wivater i_ released to the Gezira canal at
i-'s full car:ac_fty - Jte. 168 m3/s or 14.52
millicn m3 per day.
October 27-P-:-.-,i-er 30         oenmnar reservoir is brought to full capac-
ity.
December 1-31                     Canal offtake is limited to 160 m3/s or
13.32 "iillion m3 per day.  (This is subject
to certain restrictions during vcry low
water years).
January 1-'5                      Canal o-^ftake restricted -to 80 m'/s or
6.91 rillion m3 -er day.
January 16-18                     Canal of ftakde r3-,tricted to 52 m3/s or
4.49 million riP ,jer day.
Any water required in excess cf above fror, January 1-18 and all required
Janaary 19 - July 15 must be supplied from st9orage& ifn addition water may
be extracted as fol'ows f, pump irrigation;
Date                                   Renarks
July 15 - December 31                 'Without limit.
January 1 - February 28                For 36,500 feddans 1/
1'4arc.h 1 - july 15                   For 22,500 feddans.
1/ At the rate of 800 m3 per
month per feddan.



ANN EN III
DF3C-TPTIOIT OF EXISTING I"ERIGATTON SCHEES
A. THE GEZIRA SCP7:`
General Description
1.        The name "El Gezira"t, the island, applies to all the country
between the Blue and W^.hite Niles lying north cf the Sennar-Kosti railway,
a gross area of sorrc 5 million feddans.  This is a vast clay plain i%ith a
few isolated rocky hills near its southern boundary.   The general slope is
from south to north and from east to west. A ridge extends from near Sennar
Dam almost to Khartoum, roughly parallel with the general line of the Blue
Nile and about 3 to 15 kilometers from it. The Gezira Main Canal traverses
this ridge and. commands the gross irrigable area of about one million
feddans,
2.        The Gezira plain is part of the vast clay plain of the Sudan which
extends to Eouatoria province in the south. In all these areas the soil
is a heavy cracking clay but its characteristics differ somewhat from place
to place, due to variations in origin and rainfall. The irrigated Gezira
soils have a h1igh clay content (50-60%) but have a remarkable stable granu-
lar structure which makes them highly suitable for cropping. They are
alkaline in reaction (pH 8GO-9-5) and contain some soluble salts but under
good management this cauises no reduction in yields of cotton, dura and
luibia, the principal crops grown. Fertility is high and good crop yields
are obtained.
3. *By 1013 an experimental pump scheme at Taiyiba near Wad Medani had
shown that loiig staple cotton could be grown in the Sudan as a flood-time
winter crop, Plans were then developed for a storage dam at Sennar to irri-
gate a gross area of about half a million feddans. Construction was delayed
by the first world war, and the building of the dam and canalization of
300,000 fed.dans was carried on during the years 1919-1925. The gross irri-
gable area was gradually exoanded to 852,000 feddans in 1938 and 980,OOO
feddans in the current irrigation season. This year 245,000 feddans (about
one-quarter of the gross area) is under long staple cotton, about 123,000
feddans is under dura (sorghum), and about 63,000 feddans is under forage
crops (lubia and others).  The area not irrigated. is in weed fallow (resting).
Annual water usage amounts to about 2 milliards of which 0.6 milliards is
stored water.
4e        The Nqanagil Extension, discussed in Chapter IV is a further exten-
sion of the original Gezira Scheme.
5.        The Sennar Dam was finished in 1925.   The central part is of masonry
constraction, is 600 meters long and contains 80 low-level sluices. It also
contains a 300 meter long spillway which is divided into sections and can
be closed off by steel panels after the flood has passed. W4hen full the
reservoir holds 929 million m3, and its surface level is then almost 422



ANNEX III - page 2
meters above sea level.  If the flanking embankments are included, the
total length of the dam is just over 3 kilometers; it carries a road, and
also the railway from Sennar to Cedaref. Head regulator gates on the
left bark divert water to the Gezira and Mianagil main canals.
6.        The canal system consists of 341 kms. of main and branch canals,
680 kms. of major distributaries and 3,674 kms. of minor distributaries.
The minor distributaries discharge into water-courses each of which nor-
mally commands 90 feddans of land. The capacity of the main canal is
168 m3/s and, because of the impermeability of the soil, the canals are
unlined.
7.        Some 714,000 feduans of the irrigable area is (nominally) pri-
vately owned, but this is held under long-term lease by the Government
at a rental of 10 piastres (.29 US p) per feddan. The balance of the
980,000 feddans is Governmental land. The land is leased free of rent
to tenant farmers, previous owners of project land having been given
priority in allocation. Leases are on an annual basis but the tenants
ha-ve security of tenure provided they cultivate satisfactorily. Ineffi-
cient tenants are evicted by the Gezira Board but the rate of eviction
has been below 1% p.a. for some time.
8.        Since 1933, tenancies allotted have covered 40 feddans (except in
the Abdel Magid extension where they are 18 feddans). Under the rotation
system the farmer each year has 10 feddans under cotton, 5 feddans under
dura, 1-2 feddans under lubia and the balance of 23-24 feddans in fallow.
The labor requirements for this cropping pattern are beyond the capacity
of the normal farm family and additional labor must be hired. However,
with the pasF ge of time many tenancies have been fragmented, mainly due
to inheritanc2 customs, and now almost half are of only 20 feddans with 5
feddans of cotton. This means that one of the objections to possible in-
tensification of the cropping pattern should adaitional water become avail-
able - excessive size of tenancies - will have been substantially removed
in the fairly near future.
9.        The population of the Gezira area is about half a million.   These
people live in the provincial capital (Wad Mecani - 50,000 population) and
in about 950 villages of varying size. There are about 30,000 tenant-
farming families who, in addition, employ about 200,000 hired workers dur-
ing the cotton harvest.
10.       The Gezira lies on the main pilgrim route between West Africa
and Ilecca and many of the pilgrims take employment on the farms to earn
money for their journey. Pilgrims provide about 3/'o of the hired labor
force. Many have also settled in the area and former pilgrims now hold
about 1'2 of the farm tenancies.
11.       An analysis of labor requirements for future expansion of irriga-
tion (Annex VI) indicates that potential supply should be adequate, given
satisfactory admiristration measures to encourage recruitment.



A1NEX III - pave 3
Operation of the Scheme
12.       The scheme is operated under a quite unique partnership system
under which the Government, the Gezira Board and the tenant farmers are
allocated specific shares of the net proceeds of the cotton crop in re-
turn for specific responsibilities and obligations.   Minor changes in the
basis of allocation of net proceeds were adopted for the first time for the
year ended June 30, 1957 and the allocation is now as follows:
Net Proceeds Cotton Crop
per cent
Government                                          42
Board                                               10
Tenants Collective Account        42
It   Reserve Fund              2                 44
Local Government Councilsl/                          2
Social Development Fund. 7F                          2
100
The roles and. responsibilities of the partners are discussed below:
13.       The Government - The Government provides the land and water.
Apart from constructing the irrigation works, its Irrigation Department
operates the Sennar dam and the distribution of water aown to the ends of
the minor uistributaries.  One Uivision of the Department is responsible for
dam operations and three i2ivisions for distribution operations within their
respective Districts of about 300,000 feddans. Each District is divided
into three sub-districts of about 100,000 feddans with assistant engineers
each responsb-le for about 33,000 fedaans.
1h.       During the irrigation season water flows continuously in the main
canals down to the ends of the major distributaries.   The combined daily
discharge during the irrigation season varies from 5 to 14 million m3.
Water is applied to the lana only auring aaylight hours and night storage
of 2.5-5 million m3 is accommodated in the minor ciistributaries. This
system has the advantage that water can be applied more efficiently in day-
light and with less inconvenience to the farmers. Disadvantages are added
costs of distribution canals and the fact that most of the silt is deposited
in the canals (resulting in considerably increased maintenance costs) in-
stead of enriching the soil. Farmers in other countries have learned to
irrigate successfully at night and consiQeration should be given to design-
ing new schemes for continuous watering.
15.       The Department suffered serious loss of top engineering and ad-
ninistrative staff during "Sudanization" but is still operating efficiently.
However, fully qualified and experienced engineers and administrators are
thinly spread ana successful recruitment and training programs will be a
pre-requisite to expansion beyond the first two stages of the Managil project.
1/ In this report treated as a return to the Government equal to the
cost of the services they provide.



ANNEX III - page 4
16.       The cost of construction of the Sennar dam and irrigation works
to their present capacity was about DS 14 million but, due to the passage
of time, this figure is now more of historic interest than economic signi-
ficance. Current annual costs of operation and maintenance, including
depreciation and rent on privately "owned" land which is met by the Govern-
ment, are about ES 1.2 million.
17.       The Gezira Board - The Board was established in 1950 to take over
the previous responsibilities of the Concession Companies. Its major
functions are to provide management and also finance and facilities for
cotton production, transport, ginning and marketing. The production and
sale of crops other than cotton is the responsibility of the tenants.
18.       In somewhat more detail, the duties of the Board include the
levelling of land and provision of subsidiary canals (watercourses);
allocation of tenancies; management of the scheme in its entirety (except
for water distribution down to minor distributaries); farm advice and
supervision; transport, ginning, storage and marketing of the cotton crop;
provision of a light railway, cotton ginning factories, workshops, admini-
stration buildings and staff residences; finance and management on behalf
of the joint undertaking of provision of cotton seed, fertilizers, pest
control measures; provision of farm mechanization services on farmer account
and advance of credit to the tenants as necessary for cultivation and har-
vest. The Board also administers a Social Development Fund (with the advice
of a local committee) and a Tenant's Reserve Fund.
19.       The Board's agricultural work is organized into six groups and
46 blocks. Field inspectors are each responsible for supervision of about
2,000 fedGans of cotton. Their main auties are to control the caistribution
of water onwards from the outlets of the minor distributaries; to supervise
farm watering, cultural ana harvesting practices; to advise farmers on
agricultural matters; and, to keep close check on the cotton pest and
disease situation and report any outbreaks requiring control measures. The
junior inspectors are seldom technicians but they are given short training
courses by the Board.
20.       The duties of the agricultural inspectors do not extend to crops
other than cotton and the standard of farm culture of dura, lubia and other
crops is much lower. For instance, farmers prefer to use their own dura
seed although average yields could be increased by at least 5C7 by the
general use of improved seed. WIhen intensification of the cropping pattern
is contemplated in future, the standard of farming practices for crops
other than cotton will become increasingly important. It will therefore be
most necessary to strengthen farm-advisory services and, indeed, to estab-
lish some measure of control of cropping practices. This would normally be
the respcnsibi'lity of the Ministry of Agriculture but it would probably be
sounder from the organizational viewpoint to extend the Board's functions
to cover this responsibility also. If so, it would be necessary to make
arrangements to reimburse the Board for aQaitional costs involved. It would



AIiNEX III - page 5
seem undesirable for this to be done by allocation of a proportion of the
proceeds of crop sales if this meant that the Board would have to assume
responsibility for marketing these crops also.
21.       The Board has eight cotton ginning factories, each with 80 roller
gins.  TwJo are clurrently being modernized and modernization of a third is
planned. This will increase capacity to the extent necessary to handle the
crop from Stages I and II of the Managil extension.  Roller gin equipment
is designed to handle long staple cottons and saw gins will be necessary
if short staple varieties are to be widely grown.
22.       The operations of the Board are efficiently managed ana, in spite
of staff loss because of "Sudanization", its high standing has helped it in
recruiting competent replacements. It also maintains staff training pro-
grams which are designed to meet the additional staff needs for the blanagil
proposals.
23.       The Board's annual costs of operation and maintenance of the
Gezira scheme amount to about MS 560,000. This figure is exclusive of in-
terest on capital (tS 4 million provided by the Government at 6%) of
ES 240,000.
24.       The Tenants - The tenants' main duty is to provide farm labor for
the cotton crop. They have contributed no capital to the joint enterprise
and have made negligible investments in farm equipment. Their working
capital requirements are met under advances from the Board.
25.       The tenants must, at their sole expense, till and water the land,
sow ana con+rol weeds, harvest, and aeliver the cotton crop to local
collection )oints.  The tenants meet the full cost of mechanized cultiva-
tion operations undertaken by the Board's machinery pools. Most other
farm activities undertaken by the board are charged to the Joint Account
and the cost is therefore shared by the partners.  These joint costs in-
clude provision of cotton seed, fertilizers, pest and disease control and
eradication of cotton stalks (other than tenant's labor).
26.       The cost of provision of land and water for the full crop rotation
is met by the cotton crop. Otherwise the tenants meet the full costs, and
receive the full returns, from crops other than cotton.
27.       In general the tenants farm their cotton crop well under the Board's
supervision but are much less efficient in their procuction of other crops.
They are also normally reasonably industrious, but when returns from cotton
were high some years ago they quite definitely relaxed their own efforts and
relied more and more on hired labor. For instance in 1955/56 when average
gross returns from 10 feadans cotton, 5 fedcans dura and 2-1/2 fedcians lubia
were estimated at about iS 360, the value of the labor input of the farm
family was estimated at about 1S 32 as against -S 128 for the hired labor.
This is further confirmation of the need for smaller holdings in future
schemes,



ANNEX III - page 6
28.       The tenants are currently much less prosperous following an ex-
ceedingly poor cotton yield in 1957/58 and lower prices, and the farm
families are said to be uncertaking much more of the farm work than a few
years ago. No estimates of cash costs of farm production have been made
since 1955/56 and wage rates have increased since then. However, granted
this increased labor input from the farm family, cash costs (excluding the
farm family labor) are now probably somewhat lower and are considered to be
approximately as follows per feQcian cropped:
IS per fecdan
Cotton (excluding Joint Account Costs)         10
Dura                                            3
Lubia                                           1.5
Benefits to the Partners
29,       Benefits to the &ezira Board, and direct benefits to the Governmment,
are aerived, as stated above, solely from the proceeds of the cotton crop.
The tenants, on the other hand, also receive benefits from the proceeds
of other crops.
30.       The proceeds of the cotton crop (net of export duty) amounted to
IS 48 million in 1951 and during the next five years ending 1956 averaged
IS 18.4 million. Expenses shared by the partners (Joint Account Expenses)
averaged ES 3.6 million c,uring these five years, so that net proceeds for
distribution between the partners averaged ES 14.8 million.
31.       The basis of distribution of net proceeds was amended slightly in
1957 and the following tabulation gives estimates of cotton proceeds and
their cistribution for 1957, 1958 and 1959. The figures for 1957 reflect
relatively high yields and prices. Yields in 1958 were disastrously low
and, indeed, substantially lower than in any other of the past 30 years.
They were due to a combination of circumstances not yet fully understood
but for which an agronomic solution is likely to be found and can certainly
be regarded as abnormal. The estimates for 1959 are based on average yield
expectancy (para.76 , Annex V) and price expectancy during the next few
years (para. 15). As at November, 1958, prospects were for a yield con-
siderably above average. The figures apply only to the Gezira area and
disregard Stage I of the MYanagil extension which is already in operation.



ANNEX III -page 7
SUDAN GEZIRA SC1xiAE. COTTON PROCEELS
Estinmated actual figures 1957 and 1958; theoretically calculated
figures for 1959
1957             1958           1959
tS               ES        Gezira area only
S
Cotton Crop
Feddans                     245,359      245,1.4,05      245,400
Yield (100 lbs lint)      1,714,137      345,784       1,241,730 3
Average price per
100 lbs lint                13.070       11.339 -'          lo 4/
Proceeds
Cotton                   22,403,369    3,920,690      12,417,000
Scarto                      291,367       49,679        140,000
Cotton Seed               3,283,967      635,212       2,092,000
Other                         2,937         -               -
25,981,640    4,605,581      14,649,000
Joint Account
Expenses /                4,643,o59    2,922,000       4,000,000 ./
Net Proceeds               21,338,581    1,683,581      10,649,000
Listribution of Net Proceeds
Board's Share (10%)       2,133,858      168,358       1,065,ooo
Government's Share (42%)  8,962,204      707,104       4,473,000
Tenant's Share
(42% plus 2% for         8,962,204 )    707.104 )     4,473,000 )
Tenant's Reserve Fund)      426,772 )     33,672 )       213,000 )
Social Levelopment Fund
(2%)                       426,772       33,672        213,000
Local Government Councils
in scheme area (2/%)       426,772       33,672         213,000



ANNEX III - page 8
1/ Based on actual receipts of cotton sold until October 1958, and
estimated receipts for remaining stocks on basis of reserve prices
at that time.
2/ Joint Account expenses consist of: crop procuction expenses (fertilizer,
spraying, etc.), seed cotton expenses (sacks, transport to ginneries,
etc.), ginning and baling lint cotton expenses (handling, freight,
storage, etc.), cotton seed expenses (bags, handling, etc.), insurance
and others.
3/ 1959 cotton lint yields based on a yield of 4.6 kantars per feddan
of seed cotton, provi6ing 110 lbs. of cotton lint per seed kantar.
4/ Based on an anticipated mid-term average export price for Sakel type
lint cotton of iS 11 per kantar f.o.b. Port Suaan, minus iS 1 for
export duty.
5/ Joint Account expenses for 1959 have been estimated on basis of relation
between total yields and these expenses in the past.
32.       Benefits to the partners are analysed below on the basis of esti-
mated net proceeds for 1959 (and future years) which are substantially below
actual net proceeds in all years except 1958 since 1950.
33.       The Board - Estimated net proceeds to the Board are iS 1,065,000.
The Board's own operating and maintenance expenses, including depreciation,
are estimated at 'S 560,000 leaving a surplus of -S 505,000.   The Board
pays 6% on capital of iS 4 million provided by the Government, which would
leave a balance of 'S 265,OOO,
34.       No firm estimate of net return on investment can be given because
initial costs have lost their significance over the years and, in aadition,
major items of development expenditure have been written off on the books
of the Concession coi,panies anci, later, of the Board. As a rough approxi-
mation, the present day replacement cost of the Boardts fixed assets and
vehicles is estimated at iS 7.3 million. Some of these facilities will
also serve the early stages of Nanagil so that if allowance is made for
working capital the present day investment needs for the Board's Gezira
operation should be somewhat above iS 8 million. An operating surplus of
iS 500,000 would represent about 61' on this investment.
34.       The Government - The Government's share of 42% of net proceeds is
deemed to include business profits tax on the Boardts operations. In
addition to net proceeds of ES 4.47 million, the Government receives export
duty on cotton amounting to iS 1.24 million, giving total receipts of about
=LS 5.7 million. Governmental maintenance and operating costs of the irriga-
tion facilities plus rent on land cost about iS 1.2 million leaving about
is 4h5 million accruing to revenues. Even at the relatively low forward
price assumption for cotton this woulca represent a high return on the ori-
ginal government investment.



ANNEX III - page 9
35.       Social and local government services in the area also receive
is 426,000. The cost of providing these special services is assumed to be
LS 426,000.
36.       The Tenants - The tenants' share, including the Tenant's Reserve
Fund which helps to equalize returns in poor cotton years, would be about
is 4e7 million. To this must be added the market value of dura (ES 1.3
million) and lubia (ES .3 million) giving a total return to tenants of
ES 6.3 million. Tenants' cash costs are estimated at about ES 2.9 million
(cotton ES 2.45 million, dura iS 370,000 and lubia iS 90,000) and the net
return of iS 3.4 million represents the return to the tenants' labor,
since their capital investment is negligible. Spread over about 30,000
tenants the average labor income would be about iS 110.
37.       Benefits per Feddan of Cotton - The above figures refer to a gross
irrigable area of 978,000 feddans of which 245,000 fedaans are under cotton.
Financial results per feddan of cotton (net area) are summarized below:
Per Fecdan Cotton
is
Cotton returns                                               59.8
Returns from other crops                                      6.5
Total Returns                66.3
Joint Expenses Cotton               16.3
Net Proceeds Cotton
Boardts Share Cotton                4.3
Less Board's Costs (excL interest)  2.3
Return to Board's Capital         2.0
Government Share Cotton            19.9
Less Government Costs              5.o
Government Services                1_7
Return to Government's capital  13.2
Tenants' Share Cotton plus
other crops                      25.7
Less Tenants' Cash Costs           11.8
Return to Tenants' labor        13.9
Total Costs of Production including
Tenant's Labor and Social & Local
Government Services                                         51.0
Total Direct Return to Capital                               15.3
Add Cotton Export iuty to
Government                                               Se 
Total Return to Capital                                      20.3



ANNEX III - page 10
38. Agricultural Proauction and Research
Production - Estimates of the volume of production of the main
crops at average yields are given below. The gross value of agricultural
production at current prices has also been estimated. It does not include
returns for animal production apart from utilization of dura and lubia resi-
dues.
Gross Value at
Crop    Area                Production            Current Prices
(feddans)                                       iS
Cotton   245,00o        1.125 million kantars of       14.6 million
seed cotton
Dura     123,000        80,000 tons grain (plus
fodder value)            1.3   "
Lubia     61,000        15,000 tons beans (idem)        0.3
Total              16.2
39.       The returns per unit of water use are high.  The amount of water
used is two milliards of cubic metres, giving a gross value of agricultural
production of over ES 8 per thousand cubic metres. Any further increase
here would be small and could only be accomplished by a rigid water regime
based on soil tests of moisture content at frequent intervals, Such a pro-
gram cou].d not be considered at the present time because of a lack of trained
research staff.
40.       On the other hand, the eight-course rotation practiced in the
Gezira is wasteful of agricultural land. Since only 43% of the gross
canalized area of about 980,000 feddans is cropped in any one year, the
value of agricultural proauction is only iS 16.5 per gross feddan, which
is relatively low. A summation of land unaer crop per month throughout the
year shows a cropping intensity of less than 25%. The resting (weed fallow)
land gives a small return from grazing in the wet season but is otherwise
not productive.
41.       Research and Administration - The administrative and inspectorial
work of the Ministry of Agriculture is carried out by a Senior Agricultural
Inspector stationed at Wad Medani who maintains close touch with the Pro-
vincial authorities in respect to the various agricultural activities and
problems affecting the Blue Nile Province. The Ministry has no separate
extension service, since within the Gezira Project the inspectorial and
extension work among the tenant farmers is carried out by the Gezira Board.



ANNEX III - page 11
h2.       A review of the research program is given in Technical Annex V
Agricultural Research and Production. The nission's main finaings in this
field are given in Chapter VII of this report.
B. PUMP SCHIYES
43.       Statistics of pump irrigation schemes are set out in Table I,
Chapter III.  These show that the gross irrigable area comannded by pump
schemes is 1.017 million feddans. Of this gross area, more than 100,000
feddans are within Governmental schemes and more than 900,000 feddans are
under private schemes. Some 3L40,000 feddans of the private schemes are
operated under "restricted" licences, i.e. they are authorized to take water
only during the flood season, July to December.
44.       The total area irrigated during the flood season is 560,000
feddans or 55 of the commanded area. Only 220,000 feddans, or 22%, is
irrigated during the restricted period January to July. This represents
almost one-third of the gross area under unrestricted licence.
45.       Pump schemes on the Blue and White Niles are farmed mainly under
a three-year rotation of cotton (long staple), varying proportions of dura
and lubia, and fallow.  ilo long staple cotton is grown on the IIain Nile
north of Khartoum, but about 7,000 feddans are under short staple cottons.
The main irrigation products from the kain Nile schemes are food crops,
including perennial fruit trees and date palms.
46.       The Government schemes on the White Nile were originally developed
to provide alternate livelihood for cultivators whose lands were flooded
by the Gebel Aulia Reservoir.  These schemes are managed by the V)hite Nile
Schemes Board along lines generally similar to the operation and management
of the Gezira scheme. Private pump schemes are operated along somewhat
similar lines with the Licensee responsible for functions like those of
both the Government and the Gezira Board (except for cotton ginning) under
the Gezira partnership.
47.       Applications for private pump licences are first examined by
governmental technicians and then processed at District and Provincial
levels. They are then reported on by an inter-departmental advisory com-
mittee and submitted to the Sudanese Nile Pumps Control Board for decision.
If approved, the works are constructed to approved specifications by the
licensee. Financial assistance is frequently arranged privately. The
scheme is then operated by the licensee under Nile Pumps Control Regulations,
which prescribe relationships between licensee and tenant in aetail.  Opera-
tions are supervised by District Agricultural Inspectors. Tenants in most
circumstances receive 40% of the proceeds of the cotton crop (plus full
proceeds of other crops) and the licensee receives 6C/   The Government
makes no direct charge for water. In lieu, it receives, from the licensee's
share, Land Tax equivalent to 1$ of gross proceeds together with a licence
fee and business profits tax.



AIMEX III - page 12
48.       The standard of management anu farming practices of pump schemes
is more variable than that of the Gezira scheme. In some cases management
is excellent and agricultural technicians are in charge of farming operations.
The irrigation regime is also more flexible and the period and amount of
waterings can be adjusted more closely during the season to the varying
requirements of the crops. In others, however, management is relatively
lax and yields even suffer from water failure at critical periods. Over-
all, however, the average yield from pump schemes is slightly below that
of Gezira, viz. 4.4 kantars per feddan as against 4.6 for Gezira (paras.
76 and 77 Annex V)*
49.       Estimates of present day costs of establishment and operating
results of private pump schemes with unrestricted licence are set out
below. The estimates are based on data prepared for the mission by the
cotton expert of Barclays Bank DCO, Khartoum, which have been checked
against similar data provided directly by the entrepreneurs of extensive
private schemes.
Private Pump Scheme of 51,00 Feddans (net)of Cotton
Gross cultivable area, 15,000 feddans on a three-course rotation.
Costs of Estab'lishment
ES
Items                Cost        Per Gross Feddan     Per Net Feddan
Clearing and levelling      60,000              4                  12
Canalization               130,000              8.7                26
Pumping Station             95o00O              6.3                19
Buildings                   30,000              2.0                 6
Vehicles and Agricultural
machinery                 35,000              2.3                 7
Engineering, Supervision
and Sundries              25,000              1.7                 5
Contingencies 10%           37,50o              2 5                 7.5
Total Costs of
Establishment           412,500             27.5                82.5
Working Capital             200,000
50.       Costs of establishment naturally vary according to the size of the
scheme, the nature and location of the land and the height of lift. The
range in costs per gross feddan is from about ES 22 to about ES 33.



ANNEX III - page 13
51.       Operating costs have been estimated for the average yield of pump
schemes of 4.4 kantars seed cotton per feddan, but for purposes of com-
parison estimates for yields of 3 and 6 kantars have been added. The
licensee's costs of administration and cultivation costs are fairly con-
stant irrespective of yield, although cultivation costs are likely to vary
according to expenditures necessary in particular years to control weeds
and pests and diseases. Cotton expenses include harvesting, transport,
ginning and marketing and, of course, vary with yields. Both cultivation
and cotton expenses include seasonal advances to tenants and cover the
costs of their labor. Administrative costs do not include interest on
capital or depreciation (or debt service).
52.       Returns are estimated on the same conservative cotton price basis
as assumed for 1959 for Gezira, viz. ES 10 per lint kantar net of export
duty. Returns from seed and scarto are estimated to realise ES 2 per seed
kantar. 1/
Estimated Costs and Returns, 5000 feddans Cotton
Yields - Kantars per feddan
3 kantars            4.4 kantars             6 kantars
5000fd,  per fd.     5000 fd.    per fd,    5000 fd.    per fd.
S0 I     _OO  ES     EL) I 000     IS s_ 310OO         _ES
Costs
Administration,
maintenance &
operating costs 45      9           45           9         45          9
Cultivation        45      9           45           9         45          9
Cotton Costs       73     14.6        107          21.4       146        29
Total Costs     163     32.6        197          39.4      236         47
Returns           195     39.0        285          57.0       389        77.8
Gross surplus      32      6.4         88          17.6       153        30.8
53.       An analysis of benefits has been made on the basis of the average
yield of 4.4 kantars per feddan. Of the cost items, administrative, main-
tenance and operating costs are solely on licensee account. Part of the
cultivation and cotton costs are solely on tenants account and part on
joint account.  Both joint account costs and gross returns are shared on
the same basis, i.e. licensee 60P and tenants 4C0.
1/ Crop yields are estimated in seed kantars.   A seed kantar - 312 lb. of
seed cotton - yields on the average 108 lbs. of lint, 202 lbs. of seed
and 2 lb. of scarto (short fibres resulting from ginning). A lint
kantar is approximately 100 lb. of lint.



ANNEX III - page 14
54.       The allocation of gross returns and costs works out as follows:
ISO 000
4.4 kantar yield
Tenant Licensee
Gross Returns                              114      171
Costs                                      l05       92
Surplus or deficit                           9       79
55.       Benefits to Licensee - For the average yield of 4.4 kantars, the
surplus of iS 79,000 to the licensee has to meet the following obligations:
DAS
Surplus                                    79,000
Less:
Land Tax (i% gross return) 11,000
Depreciatt6n                12,00w
Interest at 6; on working
capital                     6,000       29,000
Net Profit (before Business Profits Tax)   50?000
The above estimate assumes that working capital is treated as recoverable
with interest for 6 months at 6%. The return (before business profits
tax) would represent 12 on capital costs of establishment. The return
to the Government from Land Tax, Cotton Export Duty and Licensee Fee
would be approximately iS 36,500.
56.       Benefits to Tenants - Although the data from which the above esti-
mates have been made did not include a breakdown between the tenants' share
of joint account expenses and auvances made to cover costs on the tenantst
own account, information from other sources indicates that, for a yield
of h.4 kantars, the tenants'share of joint account expenses should be
about ES 4o,000 and acivances should be about iS 65,000. Part of these
advances are to meet the tenants' cash costs of plowing, etc. and hired
labor, and the balance is for their own labor. No cata is available on
tenant's cash costs of proauction on pump schemes but they are estimated
at ES 10 per feddan at Gezira where the tenancy is 10 feduans cotton. For
pump schemes, where the tenancy is 5 fecaans cotton, the tenant would him-
self meet a much greater proportion of labor requirements ana cash costs
are likely to be about ES 6 per feddan. On this basis the cotton return
to the tenant's labor for a tenancy of 5 feddans would be:



ANNEX III - page 15
Share of cotton proceeds          114
Less share Joint Account
Expenses                40
Less Cash Costs           30     70
Cotton return to Tenant's
Labor                            L4
In addition, he receives the full returns from aura and any lubia, less
any cash costs incurred in their proauction. Under the three-course
rotatlon, the tenant should be given land and water for a full 5 feddans
of dura and lubia, but in practice the average is nearer 3 feddans.
Three feddans of dura and lubia should return about nS 30 with cash costs
of about ES 9 and a return to the tenant's labor of ES 21. Total return
to the tenant's labor is therefore about DS 65.
57.       Financial results per feddan under cotton are summarized below:
Per Feddan Cotton
Z
X's
Cotton Returns                                                   57.0
Returns from other crops                                          6.o
Total Returns                                                    63.0
Licensee's Share Cotton                      34.2
Less Licenseets costs             18.4
Depreciation & interest
on working capital              3.6
Land Tax                        2.2       24.2
Return to Capital                            10.0
Tenant's share cotton plus
other crops                                28.8
Less Tenant's share Joint
Expenses                         8.0
Less Tenant's cash cost            7.8       15.8
Return to Tenant's Labor                   13.0
Total Costs of krocuction including
depreciation, Land Tax, interest on
working capital ana Tenant's labor                             53.0
Total Return to Capital (before business
profits tax)                                                   10.0 (or 12%)



ANNEX III - Page 16
The return to the Government (excluding Business Profits Tax) would be
approximately as follows:
Land Tax                       2.2
Cotton export duty (1 1 per
lint kantar)               4.8
License Fee                    .3
7.3
D. COOiPARISON OF GRAVITY AND PUPI SCHEBES
58.       The preceding estimates for pump schemes apply to private
schemes with unrestricted water license. Schemes with restricted license
have no right to water after December 31st but, while Sudan's restricted
season quota under the "water account" has not been fully used, watering
in many cases has been carried on after that date. Once the quota is
fully committed, this will not hold and yields of long staple cotton
could be expected to be considerably reduced. Under these circumstances,
financial results of restricted license schemes would not be competitive
until it is showm that shorter staple varieties give at least equal
returns and seed is available. Private capital is at present not in-
terested in developing new schemes under restricted license.
59.       The mission has not analysed the financial results of Govern-
ment pump schemes (which are variable) in detail. In as far as is safe
to generalize, the mission believes that Government pump schemes have
certain advantages over private schemes in that the tenants are given
better supervision, more attention is given to their welfare and the
tenants themselves prefer Government schemes - for one reason because
they do not always trust the financial accounts of their entitlements
rendered by the private operators. On the other hand, costs of establish-
ment of Government pump schemes are higher than for most private schemes
and the overhead costs of supervision and management, spread over the
relatively small area of a pump schermie, also tend to be high. In gen-
eral, the special advantages of Government operation of irrigation
schemes in Sudan apply much more for large scale gravity schemes than
for pump schemes.
60. The analysis of financial results of the Gezira scheme per feddan
(para 37) cannot be directly compared to those of private pump schemes
(para 57) because of the different basis of operation, but some broad
comparisons can be made.
61.       The costs of establishment of private pump schemes are about
IS 83 per feddan cotton as against LS 118 for new gravity schemres such



ANNEX III - Page 17
as b;vanagil. The latter costs, however, include provision of cotton gin-
ning and storage facilities Fnd local transportation mwhich is not in-
cluded for pump schemes. Neither cost makes any provision for the capital
cost of water storage.
62.       Gross returns per feddan are about 5% lower on pump schemes be-
cause of slightly lower average cotton yields and because the tenant
does not normally receive his full entitlement of land and water for
other crops.
63.       Total costs of production are about 4% higher on pump schemes
but would be about equal if land tax is excluded. The return to the
tenant's labor per feddan is about 6% lower on pump schemes.
64.       The return to capital is about LS 14 per feddan cotton at
Gezira and Managil as against TS 10 for pump schemes. Percentagewise,
the rate of return on investment is 12% for pump schemes and 11.6% for
Managil extension of Gezira.
65.       There is not much difference from the balance of payments view-
point. Pump schemes have special import needs for pumping equipment and
of fuel and spare parts for its operation and maintenance. Foreign ex-
change requirements for pumping equipment are around LS 12 per feddan and
for annual operation about E5S 2.5 per feddan (as against export earnings
of LS 62).  Gravity schemes, however, have higher establishment costs
and costs of maintenance of canals and structures, the foreign exchange
component of which should largely offset import requirements for pumping.
66.       It is concluded that there is relatively little difference in
the finenc al results of private pump and Government gravity schemes.
The pump schemes have the advantage that the private sector is responsi-
ble for finding the resources for investment and management. The Govern-
ment, on the other hand, receives about bS 7 per feddan from land tax
and cotton export duty. The tenants, however, fare better under Govern-
aent gravity schemes. Apart from somewhat higher labor incomes, their
needs for agricultural extension, education and other social services
are much better catered for. In Sudan, where tenant labor needs for
future expansion must largely be drawn for illiterate tribesmen not used
to irrigation farming, these social considerations become very important
and imay weigh the scale in favour of gravity schemes.



AN1INEX IV
S3U'D. X TTG TI0N -  E0-MS0-7TS   T? S`PLY 3a' TEN JTTTS ATDT) LABOR
I. Tenants
1.       The Managil extension will ultimately cover an area of some
800,000 feddans gross, representing 257,000 feddans of cotton divided
into plots of 5 feddans per tenant. The total nurber of tenants needed
is thuls 51.,00 of which approximately 13,000 in phase I (65%000 feddans);
15,000 in phase IT (75,000 feddans); 1i,000 in phase ITT (70,000 feddans)
and 9,400 in phase IV (4y7,000 feddans). 1/
2.       The adult male population in the 1.anagil census area (1955-56
census) is about 25,000;   that of the -Twhole Gezira and Iianagil area some
140,000-15O0,000.  Under the circum,stances, it proved relatively easy to
select the tenants for the first phase, which came under production in
the sunmer of 1958, as i.Tell as those for the second -ohase, for ¶Thich selec-
tion was taking place this auturmn, primarily out of the locnl inhabitants
of the area and from people of neighboring regions who oTTned land in the
llanagil area.  For the third ans fourth stages it apears necessary, however,
to dra7T heavily upon the general population reservoir in the region as a
whole or even outside of it.   Specifically the families of the original
Gezira tenants 2/ T.w-hich have been growing rapidly since the Gezira was
developed -- the total population of the area has doubled since 1938 to
about 590,000 -- are looked upon as a major additional source for tenants
in :2,anagil. Alternatively, new tenants might be attracted from the con-
gested areas along the banks of the rYain Vile in the -orthern province
(total population 873,000). altogether it appears to be a reasonable
assumption That the attraction of sufficient tenants for the third and
fourth phases of H[anagil iill not raise major problems    the less so if,
as seems likely, the execution of these stages will have to be postponed
Lor a couple o,' years so that there will be a-rple time for thorough
preparation.
3.       In the main report a further expansion of the irrigated area by
some 950,000 feddans (about 750,000 under pump irrigation and about 200,000
by extendinF the Cezira-Managil area) is foreseen once water becomes avail-
able from the first stage of the Roseires dam. such an area, on the basis
of a one-in-three cotton rotation and divided into tena-cies of five feddans
of cotton, would require a total number of tenants of about 63,000.     In
1/   For purposes of easy calculation the present paper has been based on
an average increase by 65,000 feddans (13,000 tenants) per phase.
2/   The numiber of tenants in the Gezira is about 30,500.  lthough origi-
nally the land lwas divided in 10 feddan plots of cotton per tenant,
many tenancies have rreanwhile been fragmented so that at present
there are sor-'e lL1,600 plots of 5 feddans of cotton.



ANNEX IV - Page 2
view of its location inside or close to the present YIanagil-Gezira region,
the new tenants -ill have to be attracted to a large extent from outside
this region, even when alloTTance is nade for a population increase over
the next 10 syears or so which has been estimated at 30. However, in
view of the time eleraent involved and the fact thqt, particularly for
private puxnT schemes, expansion can be expected to be gradual anyhowJ,
the ensurance of a sufficient inflow of tenants shoald not raise major
difficulties nrovicled that in the coriing years adequate studies be i;lade
to determine where sufficient tenants can be found and how; the rrjigration
problems invol-ved should be solved.
4.       The possible future implementation of the I.enana project, not
deemed advisable in D e main report before the eventual completion of the
second stage of Roseires, is still so far removed in time that an assess-
ment at this moment of the nossibilities of supplying an adequate number
of tenants is neither realistic nor necessary.  HowTever, it seenms objvious
that in view of the size of the project - 1.2 million feddans 7ross,
requiring, on the assulintions mentionedr before, some 80,000 tenants - and
the fact that the region concerned is only thinly populated by, on the
TThole, rather primitive tribes, a thorough investigation of the problems in-
volved will be required if and when Kenana i-ould become a more tangible
oropositIon.
II. Seasonal labor
5.       The demand for seasonal labor is alrost wholly concentrated in the
cotton picking season, from January through liarch.  Information from the
Gezira Board indicates that in normal crop years one person can pick a total
area of at least one feddan provided that mutual cooperation between groups
of tenants allows for alternate picking by 20 people in twTo plots of 10
feddans each. Accordinn to the labor statistics of the Gezira Board the
average deemand for hired labor during the picking season over a period of
four years in rwThich yields were near to normal amounted to almost exactly
200,000 (see the attached table "or the yrears 1952-53 to 1955-56) for an area
of 245,000 feddans. This suggests that on the average only 12L member per
tenant farlily in the Gezira has been willing to join in the harvest wlork in
prosperous tines.  llow that cotton prices are so much lower, the family
labor input f'ill ceitainly increase and ray well double. This should re-
duce requirements of hired labor to about 155,000 in normal years.
6.       No figures are knoi^m about demand for hired labor in private and
public pump sclhemes.  Calculated on the same basis it miv-ht amount to a maxi-
mum of 120,000.  Th.is figure is probably too hih, however; in most pumping
schemes tenancies are not larger than 5 feddans, so that tenants will have
an incentive to put in more labor of their own than in the Gezira scheme.
7.       The influence of the Hanapil extension on the require,rents of
seasonal labor are tTwJofold. In the first place the new kIanagil tenants and
their families are and presu1!ably ,Till be to a large extent former seasonal
laborers in the Gezira.  The existing supply of seasonal labor will for that
reason dirinish by, say, 16,000 persons each time a new chase of janagil
cones under production. This is based on the assu-ption that on the
average in each nhase there wil1 be settled soiite 7,000 tenants' farmilies
who were formerly picl.ers, prolTiding an averaae of 2 to 21 laborers each;



ALR1EX IV - Page 3
2- -ally this fiiure will nrrbalbly b, higher in the 'irst 2hases and
grad:ally diminish as more tenants  il lave to be c,rarn from outside
the Gezira area.
8.        Secondly cotton pickin[i in i'ianagil will require the hiring of
additional seasonal labor. Opinions as to the numbers involved vary but
it is :enerally conceded that, as in the Gezira orooer, given mutual
cooperation of the tenants, an average of a:-roximately one -n?erson is
required to nick one feddan.  Since many of the new tenant fauilies
apnarently are relatively young and consequently of small size, it seems
unlikely -- even if one reasonably assumes that they Till work harder on
their own 1-nd than the Gezira tenants Jid in the past - that on the
average each family will be able by itself to provide more than 3 nersons
for 5 feddans. If this is true, an average crop year would recuire an
additional demand for seasonal labor of some 26,000 for each of the first
two pohases of the scheme.
9.        The situation wTill be different for the tnird and fourth nhases
if -- as seems likely -- these nhases shculd be utilized for the growing
of shorter staple cotton.  The rmain piclkng season for this tyoe of cotton
would be between i1overaber and January and -woull therefore not coincide
with the height of the lon- staple picking season.  A pronortion of the
labor required later for nickin- long staple on  hases 1 and 2 would be
available to pick short staple on Phases 3 and 4.  llhere would, however,
be competition for their services from tihe aura crop in hovember and long
staple later in January, so an additional requirement of 13,000 hired
laborers (instead of 26,000) would be a reasonable assui.ption for each
phase.
10.       In total the order of magnitude of the additional labor required
for the four phases of ?ianagil wjould thus anproximate 4 x 16,000 (para-
graph 6) plus 2 x 26,000 (para-graph 7) plus 2 x 13,000 (paragraph 8) =
142,000. If there should be some further development of private pump
schemes before tihe coipletion of toseires this figure may increase to, say,
150,000.
11.       Statistically this may not seem to be a large number in a country
of some 10 million inhabitants where disguised unemployment must be sub-
stantial and where a large part ef thie nopulation is engaged in seasonal
agriculture in the rainlands which provide little cash and usually ends
before the cotton oicking season starts. It should be borne in mind,
however, as pointed out in a recent analysis of the llinistry of Social
Affairs, Khartoum, that the regions from which seasonal labor can be
successfully attracted are few. The southern provinces are ruled out
because of social and cultural factors. In Kassala 'rovince, where mechani-
cal rainland cronoinc is rapidly increasing, there is already an internal
labor shortage.  Dec01 in the Piorthern province and in Khartoum province
are not generally iriterested in working in the cotton fields.  As in the
past, the labor su)nly twill therefore have to corme from three sources,



.sLii* IV - Page 4
rarel.y the 3lue 2Nile province itself, the wTestern provinces of Kordofan
and IDarfur and French Ecy1atorial Africa and WTigeria. 1/
12.      The Pi.inistry of Social Affairs does not expect any increase in
the supply of labor from abroad which usually includes a large  number
of pilgrims. The 3lue Nile province -ith a population of about 2 million
theoretically still offers some possibilities, especially when wage raues
should mo up further an-d the Gezira tenants iTould put in more labor of
their own, but indications are that its potential is limited.  The major
source for additional labor would thus be the wLest of the Sudan (Darfur
and Kordofan; total popullation over 3 million) where in many regions
local development possibilities are still limited. The extension of the
railwa7y line to the W'Jest 'Nyala) ~4ll i-ake it easier to tap this source,
13.      The contention of the Sudanese authorities that theoretically,
at least, th-ere is still an aJequate sunplv of seasonal labDor available
would thus appear correct. The real problem is whether additional
measures to attract thils labor are necessary and, if so, which measures
should be taken. Thus far the tenants have been responsible for hiring
seasonal labor. Through various measures (the provision of transport,
of shelter, of advances of mone-Y and dura, of free reals durin- the day
and of a very flexible wage rate 2/) this normally has worked well in the
past, w-hen labor requirements, notwithstanding considerable fluctulations,
could always be met. For instance, as shown in the attached table, it
was possible - repootedly Tithout great difficulties - to increase the
amount of hired labor in the Gezira to 252,000 (some 25" above normal)
for harvestinr the 1956/57 bumner crop.
14.      Tt is open to question, however, that the tenants, solely through
their oi!w.n efforts, will be aole to meet in a fewT years' time an increase
in requirerents such as calculated above, which, besides, will have to be
derived r,ainlv' from a distant source. The Sudan government would be well
advised to continue to watch the situation closely and when necessary
take action to implement the basic proposals wahich have already been made
in this connection, namely the establishmient of labor offices in a few
centres in the western provinces by the jezira 3oard, possibly in coopera-
tion with the dinistry of Sociql Affairs. These offices would actively
recruit labor up to estimated requirements, perhaps guarantee them certain
wTages and adequate shelter, look after their transportation to the Gezira
1/ From the 200,000 laborers normally needed in the Gezira, some 127,000
came from the 'lue -Tile nrovince, some 30,00G from the Western provinces,
some 27,000 from Frerch Equatorial Africa and about 17,000 from Yigeria.
2/ ThTages have generally increased since 19b9 TThen the wage was about 5
piastres per aufa (1 gufa is a basket of cotton of about 33 nDounds; a
good picker can pick about 3 baslets per day).  It is now, between 6 and
10 piastres per -ufa but this can go uo to about 30 to lO piastres at
the height of the picking season T'hich gives an incorme of not less than
LS 1 per day 2S cor-,pared to normal rTage for u-nskilled labor of around
LS 1.5 per TTeek.



ANNEX IV - Page 5
regi3n, etc, An adequate organizational and administrative set up would
thus be  ymediately available should a bottleneck threaten to develop.
15.      Labor requirements for the future exonnsion of pump schemes and
of the M-nnagil an1 Gezira area by a total of about 950,000 feddans can be
calculated at scme 125,000 on the basis of the assumptions mentioned in
paragraDh 7. The supply of this labor force should not present a major
problem if in the period Thwhich iwill elapse before Roseires is completed
the question of -eeting the de, and for seasonal labor in the cotton
areas is kept under constant review by the authorities and if tinmely
action, as suggested in Taragraph lh, -Till be implemented as soon as the
situation TTould annear to wTTarrant this.
16.      There can be little doubt that if the Kenana region should also
be used primarily for growing cotton, the provision of the large labor
force required wTould be a very/ difficult problem.  Its extent and possible
solution should be thoroughly and timely investigated, TTithin the frame-
ToTork of the overall feasibility of the Kenana project, if and when the
decision to constr uct the second stage of dioseires would be taken.



GEZIRA SCHE.ME, HIRED (SEASONAL) LABOR IN THE PICKING SEASON
Blue Nile Province                 : Fellata  : Western:
Season  :   White Nile : Blue Nile :     French  : Housa   :   Sudan : Others: Total
Arabs   :    Arabs   : Equatorials : & Burno: Tribes :
1947/48       49,413      85,540        19,112    12,910      11,726   1,247  179,948
1948/49       43,043      96,002        19,913    18,251      lo,8o6     623  188,638
1949/50       47,560     103,615        21,282    18,408      14,172     949  205,986
1950/51       50,813       89,500       23,850    19,2814     19,474     773  203,694
1951/52       42,614      55,466        214,901   11,069      23,626      -   157,676
1952/53       54,152       72,409       29,651    17,483      29,711      -   203,406
1953/54       44, 201      61,960       29, 653   15,091      32,513      -   1831418
1954/55       53,390       77,1469      26,962    16,260      31,672      -   205,753
1955/56       514,338      89,233        214,774  20,049      23,774      -   211,168
1956/57       55,355      112,574       32,959    19,272      31,787      -   251,947
1957/58       42,549       52,732        20,264   12,137      21 702      -   149,384
1958/59



ANNEX V
TECHNMICIL ANLEX : iCRICULTURAL RE.;EARCH & PRODUCTION
TABLL OF COPIThiNTS
I       The agricultural Research Division of the
Ministry of Agriculture
II      Soil Research
III     Crop Rotations
IV      Cotton Culture
V       Cotton Breeding & Selection
VI      Commercial Cotton Production and Yields
VII     Other Crops under Irrlgation
I. T HL AGRICUTAUhIJ-L_REbIARCO  DIVISI`N OF TH;E;
lIjI-1'.'JRY CF A'GRICULTURE
1.      The Agricultural Research Division of the i.inistry of Agri-
culture which is responsible for Earicultural research work in the
whole of the Eudan, has its headquErters at the Gezira Agricultural
Research Institute, Wad Iiedani. The Institute has one thousand feddans
of irrigated land which is used for experimental purposes.  It is here,
since 1918, that intensive research work has been carried out on the
long staple cottons grown commercially under irrigation throughout
Sudan. The research work has been concentrated on selection end breeding
of high TFielding strains of good quality long staple cottons, the com-
batting of disease and insect pests, and the nutritional neecs of the
cotton plant grown in a fairly wide rotation with dura and lubia and
resting periods. Research has been limited to seasonal crops; work
on irrigated perennial crops, such as alfalfa and horticultural crops,
is carried out only at the University of Rhartoum s farm at 5haimbat,
Khartoum North.
2.      In addition to the principal research station at Wad Ledani,
the Research Division maintains the Central Rainlands Research Station
at Tozi in Blue Nile Province for research on rainland crops on clay
soil, and the Yambio Research Ltation in Equetoria Province for re-
search on tropical crops. The mission visited Tozi, which is within
the proposed Kenana irrigation area, and was ipipressed with the wide
and imaginative program of work being undertaken. No visit was made to
Yambio but it was reported to the mission that the facilities for re-
serch and its research program were most inadequate.
3.      The Sudan Gezira Board pays IS 75,000 yearly to the Institute
for the furtherance of cotton research. The remainder of the Insti-
tute's budget is met through the -inistry of Agriculture (which has



ANNEX V - Page 2
a total hbdget of about 3S 3 million). Further, at the invitation of the
Sudanese Government, the cotton breeding program in the Sudan is carried
out by officers of the anpire Cotton Growing Corporation with head-
quarters in London. The Corporation maintains staff at the Gezira Re-
search Station, at the Shambat Station in Khartoum North and at Kadugli
in the Nuba Mlountains.
4.      In addition to its annual grant to the Research Division, the
Sudan Gezira Board carries out some investigational work on alternative
cash and fodder crops through its experimental farms at Wad en Nau and
Wed el Naim. Further, the Gezira Board carries all inspectorial and
extension work among the farmers on the Gezira and Managil &tage I pro-
ject areas. Similarly, the larger private and government-managed cotton
growing projects in the irrigated areas usually have their own trained
staff to supervise agricultural operations. While the I'Jinistry of Agri-
culture has a field staff, including one Senior Agricultural Inspector
at Wad EIedani, most of the time of this staff is taken up with adminis-
trative and regulatory work. The k.inistry is now considering the setting
up of a separate extension service, mostly for the rainland areas, but
is hampered by shortage of trained staff.
5.      The staff of the RLesearch Division is seriously below strength
both in numbers and in terms of senior staff.   While Sucanization was
not for the most part enforced in the research services, most British
officers took advanta&e of the generous terms of compensation available
upon repatriation to resign and start careers elsewhere. The government
has made intensive efforts to find replacements by recruiting a consider-
able number of technical jeolle in foreign countries and by treining
Sudanese both at home and abroad.   While this drive has had some measure
of success in filling the junior ranks of the service, it has not been
successful in obteining senior staff including heads of departments who
would draw up programs and supervise their implementation. For instance,
the Wad Vedani station is without a chief agronomist, a, chief entomologist,
and a chief pedologist. These vacancies have led inevitably to a lack
of direction in the research program and to some major oversights in
anticipating future research needs.
6.      An Advisory Comi.iittee on Agricultural Research (prior to     -
Sudanization, the London Advisoryr Committee on A'gricultural Research
in the Sudan) each year visits the Sudan to review the research program
of the past year and to make recor.-zendations for the coming year.
II. oCIL -L,bARCH
7.      InvestiEations of the agricultural properties of Gezira soil
have been continuous since 1904 to the present. This work is reviewed
up to 1945 by Crowther in Chapter 20 of "Agriculture in the )udan", and
up to 1955 by Jewitt in 5udan i'inistry of A.griculture Bulletin No.12
"Gezira Soil".
8.      The boil Profile.   The Gezira soil is characterized by its high
clay content, its good granular structure and its markedly alkaline re-
action. Jewitt describes the soil profile to a de th of six feet as



ANNEX V - Page 3
follows: ... "The surface soil to a depth of about two feet is of a dark
brown color; below it is a grey layer, again about two feet thick, rest-
ing on a very considerable depth of yellow-brown clay. The layers are
by no means sharply divided; deep tongues of the surface brown soil
penetrate the grey layer. Around the junction of the brown and grey
layer detached lumps of grey soil are found. The intrusions of brown
soil into the grey layer are undoubtedly the result of surface soil
falling down and being washed into the deep cracks which are a characteris-
tic feature of this soil when dry".
9.      Scattered on the soil surface and found also within the surface
soil layer are considerable numbers of greyish black calcium carbonate
nodules which constitute the fine gravel and coarse sand fractions shown
in mechanical analysis. These nodules, together with shell fragments which
frequently occur in the profile, may be regarded as a relic of the swamp
regime in which the soil material was originally deposited. Greene shows
a true carbonate illuvial horizon in the form of small flecks at the base
of the dark brown layer. Below this, in the grey layer, is a further
illuvial horizon of rather fine gypsum crystals and other soluble salts,
the base of which represents the maximum depth of rain in the Gezira under
natural conditions. The yellow brown soil which contains clusters of
large gypsum crystals and large cream colored concretions of calcium
carbonate as well as abundant soluble salts probably represerts the un-
weathered parent material of the Gezira soil.
10.     Soil Classification.   The soil survey and classification system
based mainly on salinity determinations ar-n developed many years ago is
still in use and no advantage has been taken of modern pedalogical tech-
niques which give a much more valuable assessment of soil capabilities.
However, the mission's field observations confirmed Jewitt's earlier
conclusion that the depth of the three main soil layers varies consider-
ably from place to place; that the compactness of the profile varies;
and, that the occurrence of the salty grey an6 yellowish brown layers
near the surface indicates that the main root zone is more salty than
in profiles which have a deep brown layer. Since these are characteristics
often used as variables in modern soil and land classification system,
it is recommended that soil profile characteristics as observed in the
field should be accurately described and studied so that a system of
classification more in line with current soil survey practice could be
developed.
11.     The soil column to six feet is very alkaline throughout, with
surface pH varying from 8.5 to 9.5 . The pH determinations are on one
in five soil suspensions in water which frequentlv give a higher result
than pH determined on Wcil paste.i/
1J Tests by the soil paste method of 25 samples of IJlanagil 5tage 3 soils,
undertaken since the missions visit, have given a pH determination
about 1 pH unit below the one in five suspension method. This
incicates that the pH of these soils is quite normal for crops.



ANNTEX V - Page 4
12.     It is recommended that pH should be determined on the saturated
soil paste so that tl-e results could be interrreted in the light of
current research results in the U.S. and other countries.
13.     i:s the high pH may be unfavorable to some crops and, perhaps at
times to cotton, it is recommended that some research effort should be
devoted to the use of sulphur ano. sulphur derivatives as soil armendments
for the reduction of high pH.
14.     The salt content which is relatively low in the brown surface
layer (0.05% - 0.20%) normally increases with depth to a maximum of about
0.5 to 1.0% and then decreases slightly.   The best agricultural soils are
those with low salt contents and in which the maximum concentration of
salts occurs below four feet.   Analyses by Joseph show that near Barakat
the soluble salts of the upper two feet are principally sodium carbonate
and those of the lower profile scdiumi sulrhate, accompanied by larter
amounts of the slightly soluble hydrated "ialcium sulphate (gypsum crystals
larger than 1 mm Ciameter r.ay be present in arounts up to 57 in many soils).
15.     The method of salt detcrmination in use at the Cezira Research
Station is the measurement of electrical conductivity on a 1:5 soil sus-
pension in water.  The E.C. is then converted to Fer cent soluble salts
by a Eraphical method.
16.     It is recormended that thie content of water soluble salts in the
soil should be determineC on a saturated soil paste and the result ex-
pressed as millimhos per centir.metre at 250 Centigrade, so that the results
can be interpreted in the light of recent standards set by the U.S. De-
partment of Agriculture anci describec. in their Handbook No.62.
17.    I*echanical anal,yses shlow that the mechanical composition o! The
soil is usually uniforrm with depth.  iany measurements of clay con-ent
in the upper three feet of Cezira soils have been made and by far -he
larger proportion of values falls in the range 50-60% clay, though sccasional
values as low as 20% and as high as 70% have been recorded.   In Eereral
the clay content increases fron North to Wouth over the Gezira Plain.
Large stones are prEctically absent from these soils.   Calciam cartonate
nodules constitute the srall coarse send and Eravel faction.   Fine sand
and silt occur in roughly eclual amounts. The laborious method of nec-
hanical analysis cevisecO by Joseph to overcome the difficulty of c;bs-
persing the dense alkaline clam- is still in use at the Gezira Research
Station.
18.     It is recommendec that the mechanical analysis of soil shou,i be
determined by pipette arict hydcrometer methocs after leaching salts from
the soil and dispersion with Calgon (sodium hexametaphosphate).



ANNEX V - Page 5
19.     The total exchangeablc cation capacity of &-ezira soil is about
50 millipram equivalent (m.e.) per 100 gram of soil or about 1 m.e. per
gram of clay. The average distribution of cations is as follows:
calcium      77%
magnesium    12Z-
potassium     2%
sodium
20.     The dominance of calcium is a very favorable agricultural char-
acteristic and would account in part for the good granular surface soil
found throughout the Cezira. The amount of exchangeable sodium is appre-
ciable however (9% = 4.5 m.e./100 Fm soil) and could account in part for
the low permeability of the subsoil clays.
21.     At the Cezira Research -tation the stancard method of determining
if dangerous levels of exchangeable sodium are present in the soil is by
assessinr the sodium value.   The socium value is the sum of the exchange-
able and soluble sodium equated to the clay content of the soil. An ar-
bitrary scale of values for Eood End bEd soils has been set up based on
cotton yields on the Dueim pump project as follows:
Sodium Value          Soi'l Evaluation
0 - 25               gooc soil
26 - 35               medium soil
over   35               bad soil
This single value determination on a bulk sample of soil from the top
three foot has been widely applied in rating soils for irrigation purposes
throughout the Sudan.   It has even been applied to lateritic soils from
Equatoria Province.
22.     It is recomnended that exchangeable sodium should be determined
separately from soluble sodium; that these determinations should be
carried out on each specific soil horizon, and that these data should be
only one of a larger number of soil criteria to be considered in assess-
ing irrigability.
23.     Noisture Relationshirs.   The canalization of the Gezira Scheme
enabled large quantities of water to be applied to soil which had pre-
viously received annually ar averaEe of from 200 to 450 m, of rain.
Under raingrown dura where rainwater was held on the land by earth banks,
the first rainstorms in July wetted the cracked soil only in the first
foot, whereas with further storms the penetration extended down to the
third foot, but not below.   In succeedinE montls, under the depleting L
effect of the dura crop anc surface evaporation the moisture content gra-
dually returned to thrt characteristic of the ary season. The salt con-
tent in those soils showed a sherp rise in the third foot, corresponding
to the maximum penetration of the rain.
24.     The amount of water applied to the land in a sinEle irriEation
is about 400 cubic metres per feddan, the equivalent of about 95 mm of



ANNEX V - Page 6
rain. Thus the 14 irrigations received by the cotton crop will supply
about four times.As,much water as the average year's rainfall of the
central Gezira irrigated area. But the irrigation water is applied over
a much longer period of time and the depth of penetration is about the
same as the rain water. Clouston has shown that, although some cotton
roots are found as far down as five feet, the greatest development of
lateral roots is at a depth of one foot. Experiments show that 24 hours
after an irrigation less than one quarter of the water had penetrated
beyond one foot, but some irrigation water does penetrate at times to the
third and fourth foot. Jewitt's figures for salt content of the Research
Farm soils shows that the salt content increases sharply in the fourth
foot, indicating that 20 years of irrigation has resulted in some exten-
sion of the root zone.   By adding 10 tons of gypsurm as a soil amendment,
Greene was able to increase the moisture penetration at each irrigation
to 3-1- feet, although the effect only lasted for that season.
25.     In some parts of the Gezira Scheme there are drains to remove
surface water but there is no subsoil drainage beceuse of the very low
permeability of the soils. Fortunately the irrigation water from the
Blue t'iile is of exceptional purity containing less than 100 p.p.m. of'
soluble salts, so that problems of salinity ano alkalinity have not arisen
even after 40 years of irrigation. It is clear that an equilibrium has
been established in these soils, water penetration is slow and all the
water alplied to the soil is removed bv the roots of the crop, preventing
evaporation losses and possible concentration of salts at the surface.
But in view of the presence of consicerable salt concentrations within
four feet of the surface and considering that capillary rise in such fine
textured soils must be consider&ble, one would expect some upward move-
ment of salts within the soil at different seasons particularly when the
land is not under crop. For instance when heavy reins fall on ploughed
land and saturate it to the third foot, one would expect some upward
movement of salt as the soil dried out in the dry season. If the next
season's rains are light, the salt concentration near the surface may
still be appreciable when the cotton crop is being planted. It is worth
considering whether salinity-alkalinity may not be a predisposing factor
to poor cotton yields when a poor rainfall year succeeds a year of good
rainfall as in 1957-58. If such should prove to be the case, a heavy
irrigation, combined with a suitable soil amendment, may overcome initial
unthrifty growth followed by heavy attacks of insects and plant diseases
which result in very low cotton yields throughout the Gezira as in
1957-58.
26.     Soil Fertility.   The Cezira soil, derived from the volcanic rocks
of Ethiopia, is well supplied with all minerals needed by crops, but in
common with other arid zone soils it is deficient in organic matter and
nitrogen. Experience has shown that after the first few years of cultiva-
tion the cotton and dura crops will respond to nigrogenous manures or
fertilizers. Crowther found by experiment that the average gain from a
low dressing of awn,onium sulphate is at the rate of 15.8. lb. of seed
cotton per Kg N. Similar responses were obtained to the nitrogen con-
tained in cotton seed cake used as a manure.



..iFWEX V - Page 7
27.     Crowther's experiments with irrigated dura show 192% and 376% in-
creases in yield with applications of 17.3 Kg and 34.6 K1 per acre of
nitrogen as ammonium sulphate over a control yield of 293 kg of heads per
feddan.
28.     Many experiments have been cone with animal manure in pots and
in the fie1d. In pots the response to urine has been about the same as
to ammonium sulphate on the basis of equal nitrogen applications. In the
field the response to animal manure can usually oe accounted for on the
basis of the expected response to the nitrogen present in the urine.
29.     Sulphate of ammonia is the fertilher most co=rronly used in the
past but nitrate of lime has also given satisfactory results. In more
recent years more highly concentr&ted nitrogenous fertilizers as ammonium
nitrate and urea have been used. .t the present time almost all the nitro-
genous fertilizer used on the comri.ercial crop is urea.
30.     Nitrification, the conversion of organic material and fertilizers
into nitrate, the form most readily available to crops, goes on normally
in C-ezira soils. Durino fallow or resting periods there is a build-up
of soil nitrate through nitrification ane perhaps by some fixation of
atmospheric nitrogen by free living bacteria in the soil. The leguminous
crops grown in rotation with cotton and dura also fix atmospheric nitro-
gen through symbiotic bacteria in their root nodules and this is con-
verted into nitrate when the residues deca,,.
31.     In reviewing the date on nitrate, Greene stresses that resting
land which had legumes in the previous yeEr contained more nitrate than
comparable land previously under dura or cotton, the differences being
clearly marked in both the top and second foot of soil.   In general,
one year's rest was sufficient to raise the nitrate status of the top
foot but a second resting season was needed for a consideraUle irprovement
in the second foot. IThere cotton followed a legume without a resting
period, as in the rotation dura, lubia, cotton, there was insufficient
time for the accumulated protein to be changed to nitrate, and this may
explain the negligible benefit conferred on the cotton when it is preceded
by lubia instead of a resting year.
III. CROP RCOTiTIChS
32.     The Gezira Scheme was devisec. primarily for the cultivation of
cotton.  Since dura was elready Crown on rain in the erea before it was
canalyzed, there seemed at first no reason to exFend irri&ation on it.
Thus, although in the eE.rliest years of the Taiyiba pump-scheme, 1911
and onwards, dura was tried as well as wheat anid legumes, at the Barakat
pump scheme, startec. in 1914, no crops were grown other than cotton, the
land resting between whiles. Later, because of the value of irrigated
dura to the Sudan in years of drought, and of the eagerness of the
Sudanese cultivator to crow his own food crop, dura was sown increasing-
ly until, when the area was [reatly extended byv the opening of the Sennar
Dan in 1925, dura was included with lubia .nd cotton in a three course
rotation. To fit dura into the rotation was not easy, for cotton yields



ANNEX V - Page 8
suffered pnd the dura itself did not yield well, and little experimental
information was available on three-course rotations. Experimental work
carried ot over the years has shown the best sequence of growing these
three crops in a three-course or a four-course rotation, which in practice
amounts to six-course and eight-course rotations respectively. It was
found experimentally thet cotton yields were hiChest when dura was omitted
from the rotation, and that lubis followed by restine was superior to two
yearsf resting. However, neither of these rotations can be adopted per-
manently in the Gezira Scheme so long as dura also is needed and has to
rotate with cotton.
33.     The Four-Course Rotption.  The four-course rotation (actually
eight-course) practice& in the Gezira since 1933/34, operates as follows:
1st year Cotton
2nd  "    Resting
3rd  "    Dura
4th  "    Resting or lubia
5th  "    Resting
6th  "    Cotton
7th  "    Resting
8th- "    Resting
In this rotation dura always follows a resting period and cotton follows
two rests or lubia and a rest. It is not compact; although cotton is
confined to the four fields of a tenancy the dura and lubia range over
the eight fields of two tenancies. In somne smaller areas which practice
the four-course rotation, the cotton also ranges over ei&ht fields in
such a way that ti-je cotton fields of two neighboring tenants adjoin each
other. This was instituted for blackarm control, with the incidental
feature of easier supervision. In practice it has no effect on blackarm
and, while excellent for concentrating labor, it suffers from lack of
compactness.
34.     The four-course rotation was introduced in 1933/34 following the
disastrouslyT low cotton yields of the 1930/31 and 1932/33 seasons.  Hold-
ings were then increased from 30 to 40 feddans and each year the tenant
farmer was allowed to grow 10 feddans of cotton, five feddans of dura and
up to five feddans of lubia. although this rotation is wasteful with re-
gard to the use of land, it has been generally successful in maintaining
yields of all crops and in controlling weeds and diseases.
35.     The Three-Course Rotgtj.    The three-course rotation (actually
six-course) currently in use on the Abd el llagi6 and ianagil Phase I
Projects and practiced in the Gezira until 1930/31, operates as follows:
1st year   Cotton
2nd  ,'    Dura or Lubia
3rd  it    Resting
4th  It    Cotton
5th  "     Lubia or dura
6th  "     Resting



A1NNEX V - Page 9
36.     Tenancies are of 15 feddans at kianagil and the peasant farmer
each year is permitted to Crow five fedcans of cotton, 21 feddans of
dura and up to 2j feddans of lubia.   In practice each tenant is allowed
a free feddan on which he may grow a crop of his choice, vegetFbles,
groundnuts, etc. in place of lubia. The three-course rotation has the
advantage of compactness as regards tenancies (although tenants still
must share land for the dura and lubia crops), but the yield of dura is
somewhat reduced. This is not regerded as a serious disadvantaee, however,
and, if necessary, it could be overcome by the use of nitrogenous ferti-
lizers on the dura crop. In considering the three-course rotation it should
be borne in mind that only two-thirds of the lano growjs one crop eech year
which is a low intensity of use compared with perennial irrigation, as in
Egypt, where all the lenc carries one crop and much of it carries two
crops each year.
37.     Variants of the three-course rotation are in use on pump schermes-
Government and. private. i11 of them plant one third of the lanc to cotton
each year but the amounts of dura anci lubia grown are highly variable.
In some the rotation consists merely of cotton, resting, resting.
38.     Other Fossibilities.   The above three and four-course cotton
rotations have almost been taken for granted and for many years very
little research attention has been directed towards possibilities of
irproving the rotation system. IJith the fall in long, staple cctton
prices, returns from other crops are becomring more and more impcr-ant
to the tenants, and this field of investigation is at last beginning to
receive more consideration. The Gezira Board's village farming experi-
ment at !ad el NMaim is achieving most encour ging results in intensifi-
cation and diversification, with groundnuts and fodder crops yielding
very satisfactory returns. This development is, however, favored by
special provision of additional water. Although surplus water is avail-
able durinE the flood season, the capacity of the Gezira distribution
system is taxed to meet water reouiremients of the present crop pattern
during October and major expenditures in canal enlargement irould be
necessary.
39.     This does not mean that no improverments could be made within the
existing set-up and various possibilities are mentioned throughout this
report. The scope for improvement and/or intensification of existing
rotations will we trermendousliv wicened when additional water becomes
available from Roseires dam.   Because insufficient research has been
undertaken fully reliable eviaence of the agricultural and fin6ncial
results of such changes is not yet available.
40.     As is the case with certein other fields, the need for this re-
search investigation has been apparent for many years but relatively
little has as yet been done. The mission believes that an adequate pro-
gram of research designed towards improvement and possible intensifica-
tion of rotation s!,steras to be essential. Proposals have recently been
developed for such work in co-operation with ICA at Tozi and in the
Central Wile region. The mission considers that every effort should be
made to comnmence these investigations on an appropriate scale at the
earliest possible date.



ANNEX V - Page 10
IV.  COTTOJi CULTURE
41.     It is convenient to consider the agricultural year in the Cezira
as beginning on the 19th of July, the date on which water from the re-
servoir usually first enters the main canal.
42.     The preparation of the land for cotton sowing will have been
carried out in the previous season from October to February when the
land is mechanically cultivated and ridLed in one operation, and the
minor water channels and water control ridges are made by bull ploughs.
43.     Seed issues are made prior to the comrencemert of sowing, at the
general rate of 32 rotls per feddan (1 rotl = 0.99 lb.). This rate of
issue allows for normal resowing, but reserves of seed are held for areas
where resowing is unduly heLvy, owing to flooding, poor germination, etc.
44.     The optimum period for sowing is between August 10th and 25th.
Earlier sowing results in increased risk of Dlackarm infection, and
September sowing are likely to give a reduction both in yields and quality
of the cotton.
45.     Only in the ??orth is land irriEeted before sowing;   in the South
the seed is sown following penetrating rains.   The standard spacing adopted
is 80 cm between ridges and about 40 c, between stands in the ridge.
Sowing is done by the planting stiek or "seluka".   The stands are thinned
to three plants per hc.le when the seedlings are about 15 cm high and at
this time ridging is carried out by bull plough. 1Jhilst the crop is
young, it is cleared of weed Growth b- one or two hoeings.
46.     In a majority of years, when rainfall is adequate, irrigation is
needed only on a modest scale until abouLt raid-September. At this season
the decision as when the watering of the young plants should be done re-
quires much judgement for, if watering is followed uy heavy rains, water-
logging and damage to the seedlings may easily result.   Early waterings
are usually given at 10-12 day intervals, extending to 14-15 dayrs as the
crop increeses in size and the weather becomes cooler. From Cctober to
December little can be done to the growing cotton beyond giving it re-
gular waterings. Flowerinp is general in Toveember and picking starts
about the beginning of January. Lakel cotton starts to mature rather
earlier and finishes its picking cuicker then the L cottons (X 1730
and kindred types).  PicLing is continuous throughout the period January
to April; the fields being picked as clear as possible between watering
periods, which are at 16 day intervals. !Jatering is usually discontinued
at the end of flarch, but picking rwlay continue for another month. When
picl ing is finished about the enc of April, the cotton fields are grazed
by the livestock of tenants, laborers and visiting nomads. The cultivator
then pulls out the bare cotton plants by the roots, using a special cotton
puller. The stalks are collected for burning together with other plant
debris which might harbor infection of the blackarm disease. The fields
should be clear by the end of ,iay.



ANNEX V - Page 11
47.     Irrieation Requtrements.   In a normal season, with irrigation con-
tinuing to the end of l4arch, 14 irrigations are usually given to the crop.
Each watering consists of an average of 400 cubic meters pe5 feddan so
that the average amount of water applied per month is 800 m /feddan end
the average total amount used on the cotton crop is 5,600 m3/feddan.
48.     Now that the area of irrigated land is about to fully use all the
available stored water in _ennar Dan, consideration must be given to an
earlier cessation of watering of the cotton crop.   When Stage II of Lanagil
comes into operation in the 1959/60 season, a decision must be made as to
whether irrigation of Stage II ceases on December 31st or whether irriga-
tion for the whole area ceases on February 28th. The need for adequate
data on which to base this decision has been obvious for many years but
unfortunately there is very little experimental work to show the effect
on cotton yields of ceasing irrigation at, say the end of February, the
end of January and the end of December.
49.     Thompson cites experience from the Hashaba and Um Gerr pump pro-
jects on the Wihite Nile. In 1948 watering on parts of Hashaba and Um
Gerr schemes stopped in mid-February and there was no loss in yield at
Hashaba and only 5% loss at Um Gerr as compared with areas irrigated until
the end of l.arch. In 1949 watering was stopped at the end of February
over part of the area and loss in yield was 14% at Hashaba and 10% at
Un Gerr.
50.     A two-year experiment in the Cezira conducted by John prior to
1945 showed that no loss yield occurred when watering ceased up to six
weeks earlier than usual and only 7% loss occurred when watering ceased
up to 2-1- months earlier than usual.
51.     A consideration of the results of the abovementioned experiments,
together with all other evidence that could be made available to the
mission, leads to the view that the effect of early cessation of watering
varies from year to year. In a good cotton season when cotton picking
extends into l.ay, the loss of yield from water stop at the end of February
will be considerable. Cn the other hand, in a poor year, the loss will
be small. A loss of 5% could be anticipated on the average. No estimate
can be made of the loss in average crop years from cessation of watering
at the end of Decernber except that it must be proportionately considerably
greater.
52.     Another alternative solution to the problem of insufficient stored
water is to grow American type short stple cotton which can outyield long
staple cottons even when irrigation ceases at the end of December. See
section on cotton breeding and selection, below.
53.     WJeed Control.  The long restinE periods between crops are of value
in the control of perennial weeds, for not only is weed growth less when
the land is dry but there is also a longer time in which the weeds can be
controlled by the various measures devised. l4ore intensive cultivation
will be practiced in the Gezira as more storee water becomes available
but even then it will be necessary to retain one fz1low period per rota-
tion in order to control weeds.



ANNEX V - Page 12
54.     The most troublesome perennial weed of irrigated land is nut
grass (Cvneriis,_zQUnLd= known locally as "saida". Where the growth of
this weed is widespread, crop yields are severely reduced.   The under-
ground structure of nutgrass is made up of roots and tubers, the tubers
being interconnected by rhizomes (underground stens). The weed can spread
both by seed and by tubers, but the latter are mostly responsible for s
spread in the Gezira comrlercial area. Although the tubers are confined
to the top foot of soil the roots extend to a depth of 54 inches and the
plant can live through the dry season on moisture stored in the sub-soil.
The method of control is deep ploughing to sever the rihzomes from the
root systems. Ploughing to a depth of 12 inches in the heavy Gezira soil
is expensive but when carried out early in the dry season it gives control
of the weed for several seasons. Careful water control and annual clean-
ing of ditches assist control because CyNperus spp thrive in wet situations.
55.     Another perennial weed that is sometimes troublesome is "Nagil"
(Cvnodon dactvlon). Its control is relatively simple, however, as it can
be eliminated by frequent hoeing.
56.     The annual weeds which are allowed to grow unchecked on resting
land produce abundant seeds. When the land is again prepared for cotton
the seeds germinate with the July rains and grow very vigorously. The
control of these weeds by handhoe in the young cotton crop is a full-time
job for the tenant farmer and his helpers during August and September.
Crowther has suggested that much of this work would be eliminated if the
weeds on the resting land were hoed out before they set seed. It has been
found impracticable to put this idea into practice, however, as the labor
requirement clashes with the requirement of the cotton crop.
57.     Control of Insect Pests.   The major insect pests of irrigated
cotton are cotton thrips (Hercothrips spp), the pink bollworm (Platvodra
2ossvMiella) and jassids (Emnoesca libyea de Berg).
58.     Cotton thrips have been recognized as a serious pest of long staple
cotton since the inception of the Gezira Scheme. These small suckling
insects live on weeds as well as the cotton plant and do not usually attack
the cotton plants until the weeds have died off in October. It has been
found practicable to control thrips by irrigating at 12-day intervals in
the month of October. The more frequent irrigation seals the soil and
prevents emergence of further generations of thrips, and at the same time
the cotton crop is enabled to outgrow the attack.
59.     The pink bollworm is Egypt's major cotton pest and it soon estab-
lished itself in the Sudan, although, because of the control measures a-
dopted, it has never caused heavy loss in the yield of cotton. The pest
is carried over from one season to the next by resting larvae in cotton
seed and by infected okra plants (Hibiscus esculentus) known locally as
"bamia". Control is effected by rigid control of seed supplies and by
prohibition of the growing of okra at certain sessons of the year.
60.     The burning of all cotton plants and debris for the control of
blackarm disease also has the effect of destroying bollworm larvae in bolls
that had been shed by the cotton plant.



ANNEX V - Page 13
61.     The jassids, or cottonleaf hoppers, are a more recent insect pest
in the Gezira area and cause some losses each year.
62.     From the earliest years of the Scheme, termites, which are very
active in Gezira soil, have caused wilting and death of young cotton plants
by eating into the base of the stem or into the taproot. Usually the total
loss in crop yield is small, but it is greater if debris from a preceding
crop of dura or lubia is in the soil to provide early sustenance to the
termites.  As will be described below, tenrite attacks against groundnuts
are always serious and groundnuts have only very recently been grown
successfully in the Gezira b: planting treated seed on very clean land.
63.     Control of Plnnt Diseases.   The diseases of cotton, blackarm and
leaf curl, are well known in the Sudan because of their association with
failure of the crop. In the 1930/31 season when prices were low, these
two diseases reduced the Gezira cotton yield to 1.34 kantars per feddan,
the lowest yield then experienced. Again, in the 1932/33 season, the
average yield was 1.92 kantars per feddan. After a long period of good
seasons these two diseases again combined to attack a poorly grown cotton
crop in the 1957/58 season when the yield was only 1.3 kantars per feddan.
It is not clear whether poor growth and lack of vigour predisposed the
crop to disease attack.
64.     Blackarm (Xanthomonas ivialvacearum) is a bacterial disease which
occurs not only in the Gezira and the Tokar and Gash Deltas, but also ir
the short staple rain-grown cotton of the Sudan.   It has been present ir
the Gezira from the beginning of the Scheme. It attacks leaves, stems,
buds and bolls and may cause partial defoliation of the plants. Contro'
measures consist of:-
i) Disinfection of seed by the use of Abavit B,
a proprietory mercurial dust;
ii) Delayed sowing on land adjacent to that where
cotton was grown the previous season, and
where rainfall is especially heavy, as in
the Southern Gezira;
iii) Rigorous clearing and burning of cotton debris
at the end of the season to destroy diseased
material;
iv) Destruction of self-sown cotton seedlings.
65.     Leaf curl is a virus disease spread by the say sucking insect,
the white fly. It is transmitted to both Egyptian and American types
of cotton and to certain other related plants, such as bamia, but not
to Asiatic cottons, but it only causes damage to the 'akel variety of
cotton. The chief means of carry-over of the disease from one season
to another is by rEtoon growth from old infected plants, the roots of
which have not been completely removed from the soil. As control of
white-fly by spraying is not practical, control measures consist in the
rigid control oi ratoon growth by complete removal of the old cotton



ANNEX V - Page 14
plant by the special tool in use in the Gezira. In addition, alternative
gosts such as "bamia" are not permitted to be grown in the June-September
period. A further control measure is the breeding of disease-resistant
strains of long staple cotton.
V. COTTON BRELDING AbND SELECTION
66.      The Egyptian long staple cotton, considered in world markets as
second in quality only to Sea Island, is grown throughout the Gezira Scheme,
the Gash Delta and Tokar and the Pump Schemes of the Blue and White Niles
in the Blue Nile Province.
67.      The original seeds for the Sudan crop were imported from Egypt.
The Sakel variety was introduced into the Sudan about 1913. Selection of
seed from single plants and bulk selections by W.R. Massey resulted in some
improved strains such as Massey's Selected Domains Sakel and Sakel-186.
68.      Observations on strains resistant to leaf curl and able to out-
grow attacks of blackarm disease caused Lambert in 1923/24 to select
individual plants from a field of Massey's Sakel-186. These selections
later produced the strains X-1530 and X-1730 which later came to be widely
grown in the Gezira.
69.      Almost all plant breeding and selection work has been concentrated
on long staple Egyptian cottons. American cottons have, however, been
grown to a small extent under irrigation in Northern Province and as a rain-
crop in the Nuba Mountains and Equatoria Province, and more recently at
Gedaref. The only strain of American cotton surviving from Massey's early
selections in 1922-1925 is Pump Scheme. It succeeded under irrigation and
was for many years the commercial crop in the Northern Province. It was
also introduced into the Nuba Mountain rain area at the beginning of cotton
cultivation in 1923 and is still the principal variety grown there. lvMore
recent improvements of American types of cotton have resulted from selec-
tions of improved types from within the Pump Scheme strain, in the Nuba
Mountains and in Equatoria Province.
70.      Only in the last few years has some thought been given to the
possibility of growing short season hmerican type cottons which can be
grown on flood water and which do not need irrigating after the end of
December. Some cottons of this type have recently been introduced and
testing has commenced. The most promising varieties under test are:-
i) Punjab 268-F - a high yielding cotton of 1"1 to 1-1/8    v
staple of fair quality, resistant to jassids and
blackarm disease.  Seed supplies are being bulked
in the Northern Province and the area can be ex-
tended twentyfold per season. In bulk plantings
of the Sudan Gezira Board in 1°54/55 this variety
yielded 6.92 kantars per feddan off 60 fedaans.
In 1955/56 the yield was 8.94 kantars per feddan
off 35 feddans. The 1955/56 bulk planting was
watered as follows:-



ANi'JX V, Page 15
October    16 days water interval
November   20  "             It
December   20         t "    I
The final watering waS on December 15th.
In the Gezira Variety trials of 1953/54 the following yields
were obtained:-
VREietv:     Turabi     Gezira R.S.      I-IrP Abdulla   kverage
Domaine
Sakel       4.2 (31.9)   5.3 (32.3)     4.9 (31.7)      4.8
X-173C-A     4.4 (36.9)  4.8 (36.5)      4.9 (34.8)      4.7
Punjab 268-
F     5.3 (34.8)   5.2 (35.2)     4.9 (35.2)      5.1
N.B.
The yields are in kantars of seed cotton per feddan.
The figures in brackets show ginning outturn.
ii) Acala L.L2 and Hopi Scala
These are variants of a Californian variety. The
staple length is a little over one inch. Acala-442
is being tested in the Gezira and this year (1958/59)
600 feddans are being grown on a commercial scale.
The results of the 1955/56 variety trial are as
follows:-
Seed Cotton        Lint         Ginninp
(Kantars/feddan)   (lbs./acre)   Outturn
Acala-442         3.8             505          40.9
Hopi Acala        2.5             266          32.3
Both varieties are susceptible to blackarm disease and a severe
attack in the 1955/56 trials reduced yields very considerably.
Hopi Acala is a low-yielder and the 1955/56 results show the
relative yield potential as between the varieties.
iii) Pima S.1 - is a long staple, short-season, South
American cotton of equivalent grade to Sakel.
This year (1958/59) 200 acres are being grown at
Wad en Nau in the Gezira. The seed is being bulked
and, if a four-kantar crop is obtained this year,
then 4000 feddans could be planted in the season
1959/60 and 80,000 feddans in the season 1960/61.
The 1955/56 observation plot at Wad Medani gave
the following results:



ANNEX V - Page 16
Seed cotton       5.4 kantars/feddan
Lint              590 lbs./acre
Ginning Outturn   33.6%
The preliminary yield data indicates that Pima
S.1 will give comparable yields to the 3akel
varieties if it is watered to the end of
January. It may prove to yield almost as well
with water only to December 31st.
71.      At the end of the 1958/59 season the Ministry of Agriculture hopes
to get direct corparisons of yield potential between the long established
S and L types and the new varieties mentioned above.
72.      In general it can be said that work to date on American type cottons
indicates that satisfactory varieties will be developed. No firm assessment
can yet be made of their potential yield relative to Sakel types but evidence
suggests an expectancy of about 5.5 kantars/feddan on the average against
4.6 for Sakel types. If the bulking up program proceeds without set-back
(which is far from certain), there should be enough seed by early in the
sixties to sow an area equivalent to Stages 3 and 4, Managil.  However,
there would not be enough seed of the particular varieties which prove in
the interim to be the most suitable.
73.      It has been apparent for many years that at a relatively early
stage of development of irrigation expansion Xroposals, consideration
would have to be given to the use of short, rather than long staple cottons.
Research planning did not soon enough afford this work the priority it
warrants.
VI. C001,hERCIAL COTTON PRODUCTION AND YILLDS
74.      The 1955/56 Report of the Department of Agriculture shows that in
the 1955/56 season the total area under long staple cotton, all of which
was watered, was 398,969 feddans and the total yield wasl,809,777 kantars,
giving an average yield from all areas of 4.2 kantars per feddan.  The
total area under short staple cotton, most of which was raingrown, was
177,424 feddans and the total yield was 240,505 kantars, giving an average
yield of 1.35 kantars per feddan. The grant total is;
Area              576,393 feddans
Yield           2,050,282 kantars
Average Yield         3.6 kantars/feddan
Reliable statistics of area, production and unit yields of long staple
cotton are available for 23 years ending 1955/56. Estimates for 1956/57
and 1957/58 are also available.
75.      In considering average future yield expectancy, years prior to
1948/49 have been disregarded because of likely war-time dislocations
and because they would not reflect more recent advances in technology.
Average yields, shown separately for Gezira gravity irrigation and Pump
Schemes, since 1948/49 have been:



ANNEX V - Page 17
Sear                    Gezira             Pump Schemes
(Seed kantars per feddan)
1948-49                 4.24                   4.04
1949-50                 4.57                   4.11
1950-51                 6.83                   6.33
1951-52                 3.69                   2.84
1952-53                 4.68                   4.20
1953-54                 4.47                   4.51
1954-55                 4.46                   4.60
1955-56                 4.80                   4.70
1956-57 (estimated)     6.35                   n.a.
1957-58 (    "     )    1.28                   n.a.
Average         4,54                   4.44
76.      The figure for Gezira includes the abnormally low yield of 1.28
in 1957-58 which is considered to have a reoccurrence expectancy of about
once in 30 years and indeed may not reoccur if the agronomic causes can
be determined and a solution found. Hence, average yield for gravity
irrigation has been taken at 4.6 kantars per feddan.
77.      The Pump Scheme average, on the other hand, does not include
1957-58. This, therefore, has been adjusted slightly downwards and the
average yield for Pump Schemes is taken at 4.4 kantars per feddan.
VII. OTHER CROPS UNDLR IERIGATION
78.      Dura and Other Native Foodorains.   Dura or Great Millet (Sorghum
vulgare) is the most important food grain in the Sudan. The dry straw
after harvest of the grain is known as kassab and is an important animal
fodder. It is cultivated on the clay soils of the central rainlands and
it is grown under irrigation on the Gezira in the cotton rotation.
79.      In the Gezira Scheme it is sown in the second half of July on the
old cotton ridges after these have been re-ridged by bull plough. It is
usually irrigeted immediately after sowing and later according to rainfall.
Irrigation is fortnightly from early September to early October.   Weeds
are removed by hoe whilst the crop is small. The root parasite Striga
hermothica is pulled by hand from September to prevent its seeding. Dura
is harvested by hand and threshed by hand.
80.      The most popular type, called Feterita, matures in three months.
It is harvested at the end of October after receiving three to four
waterings (1200-1600 m3/feddan). The longer season type called Wad Fahl,
which matures in four months and is harvested at the end of November,
receives five to six waterings (2000-2400 m / feddan).
81.      Under Gezira conditions it is considered that an average expecta-
tion of yield is 13 cwt. of grain per feddan, which has a normal market
value of about LS 15 per ton. This gives a gross return of LS 9.75 per
feddan. The fodder value of the stelks is valued at an additional tS 1.20
per feddan, giving a total gross return of about LS 11 per feddan. The



A;111E': V - Page 18
farmer's cash costs are estimated at tS 3 per feddan, so that the return
to the farmer's labor is about LS 8 per feddan.
82.     Dura is a soil exhausting crop and experiments both at Wad Medani
and Tozi show that yields of rainland and irrigated crops respond markedly
to nitrogenous fertilizers.
83.     Lura does not fit well into the Gezira cotton rotation and from
the agricultural viewpoint, a better irrigation rotation could be devised
without dura. In addition, other crops, including groundnuts, should give
a so much higher net return that farmers would be more than compensated
for purchasing their own dura requirements. The replacement of dura in
the rotation should be considered. once adequate supplies for domestic
consumption are assured from rainland production.
84.     Other millets grown in the Sudan are dukhn or bulrush millet
(Pennisetum typhoideum) grown on the sandy soils of the Central rainlands,
and telabun or finger millet (Eleusine coracana) grown in Equatoria province.
85.     Dura is exported under export quota and subject to an export duty
of ES 1 per ton. Exports during the last three years have varied from
8,000 to 55,000 tons at an average price of LS 20 per ton.
86.     Lubia and Other Forag'e Crops.  Lubia (Dolichos lablab) is the most
successful leguminous forage crop introduced into the Gezira and is grown
to the exclusion of all others. It is sown about the end of September,
after the dura and cotton, and takes 3about 41 months to mature. About
seven waterings are required (2800 m /feddan), irrigation normally ceasing
at the end of December. Though chiefly used as a green fooder, seed is
collected from part of the gross area for next season's sowing and it may
also be used as a food pulse.
87.     Under Gezira conditions it is considered that an average expecta-
tion of yield is 5 cwt. pods per feddan. The normal price of tS 12 per
ton gives a gross return for pods of ES 3 per feddan. In addition, the
grazing value of the lubia is valued at tS 2.4 per feddan. So the total
gross return from a field of lubia is LS 5.4 per feddan. Farmers' labor
costs are assessed at AS 1.5 per feddan so that the return to the farmer's
labor is almost ES 4 per feddan.
88.     Lubia will grow all the year round if water is available but under
Gezira conditions it can only be grazed once or twice and is more or less
finished in 11arch. However, if perennial irrigation does become available
in the Gezira, then well managed lubia could play an imrortant part in
supporting livestock through the dry season.
89.     Another promising forage crop tried at Wad el Naim is Phillipesara
(Phaselus trilobus), which is drought resistant but which would have a
longer growing season if perennial irrigation were available.
90.     Under perennial irrigation, as at Shambat, lucerne or alfalfa
(Medicago sativa) "Berseum hegazi", grows extremely well on cracking clay
soils. The Shambat strain should do equally well in the Gezira if perexx-
nial irrigation were available there.



AFIT:E: V -_Page 19
91.     Fodder crops will increase tremendously in importance when
sufficient water is available to intensify irrigation rotations which
trc inevitable under Stage II (if not Stage I) Roseires.   Indeed,
fodder crops just for agronomic reasons will be essential under semi-
perennial irrigation. There is no doubt but that highly satisfactory
fodder crops can be developed and the mission considers that serious
research work to this end should be commenced.
92.     Flowever, marketing aspects are less clear.  Dairying is already
successfully7 established under irrigation but the market scope for dairy
products apjears limited and sheep and goats do not offer satisfactory
returns. In spite of grave difficulties to be overcome, the long tern
future appears to lie in fattening store cattle for slaughter and sale
to markets which should develop with rising standards of living in middle
east countries. Sudan runs 6 - 7 million cattle, largely in the hinter-
land westwards from the irrigation areas, and many of these cattle are
of good beef quality. They are owned mainly by nomadic tribesmen who
are most reluctant to sell their cattle, largely because of the prestige
value of cattle numbers. This is an attitude that could not be changed
rapidly but it is generally considered that it would gradually yield to
educational campaigns emphasising the economic rewards of commercialisation
of cattle growing. The mission believes, that in appropriate areas this
should be given priority in the quite vigorous program the Government is
developing towards improving living standards in the southern and western
regions of Sudan. At the same time a small start should be made towards
organising a market for store cattle for fattening in the irrigation areas
for local consumption.
93.     Groundnuts arnd Other Oil Seeds.  Groundnuts (peanuts or "ful Sudani"
Arachis hypo2gaea) have long been an important crop on the sandy soils (goz)
of Kordofan and Darfur and in Equatoria Province. It is only in the last
few years, however, that suitable varieties have been found for the cracking
clay soils of Tozi (rainlands) and Gezira (irrigation).
94.     On the cracking clay soils only the bunch type of groundnut is
successful. The variety Ashford has been under test since 1952 at the
Gezira Board's Wad el Naim Village Farming Experiment.   It is a bunch-
type, large seeded, late maturing and comparatively high yielding. It
sells well in the local markets. The Research Division tests show that
the oil content is low. Successful cultural operations have now been
worked out and average yields of one ton per acre seem possible.
95.     Taking an average yield of 1,700 lbs. per feGdan and a price of
tS 30 per ton, the gross return is 1S 23 per feddan. To this may be added
the fodder value of the straw at ES 1 per feddan, giving a grand total
gross of LS 24 per feddan. If the farmers' cash costs are valued at tS 5
per feddan, the return for the farmers' labor is tS 19 per feddan.
96.     The Wad el Naim tests show that groundnuts are best grown immedi-
ately after cotton on the first of the double resting seasons. If ground-
nuts follow dura there is heavy infestation of the land with cockehafer
grubs and termites which seriously reduce the yield of groundnuts.



ANNEX V - Page 20
97.     The crop is sown as soon as irrigation water is available towards
the end of July. Seed rate for the large seeded Ashford variety is about
60 lbs. per feddan. The seed is best decorticated by hand and is treated
with an insecticidal and fungicidal dressing such as dieldrix at the rate
of 12 oz. per 100 lbs. of seeds. Spacing is very close (15 cm or less)
in order to obtain a heavy crop.
98.     The crop is weeded as soon as the plants emerge, at one month and
at two Sonths.  A total of fiv¶e waterings is adequate, giving a total of
2,000 m /feddan for the crop. The Ashford variety takes 120 days to
mature and harvesting is carried out in early December. Harvesting is
not difficult. The ridge is split by the ridging plough, the plants are
lifted by hand and placed in heaps to dry. The nuts are separated by
beating and winnowing by hand. After sacking the nuts, the hay left
behind is a useful animal fodder.
99.     These successful groundnut tests make possible some immediate
changes in the Gezira rotation and offer a second valuable cash crop
for an intensified rotation should more water become available in the
future. In the present eight-course Gezira rotation groundnuts could
partially or completely replace dura as a food crop and cash crop.
Alternatively, if more flood water were evailable, groundnuts could be
grown as an additional food or cash crop immediately after cotton on the
first of the double resting seasons. There would be further alternatives
if sufficient stored water is available. Altogether, this valuable crop
offers considerable scope for the diversification of irrigated agriculture.
100.    Recent exports of groundnuts have varied widely.   In 1956, 64,000
tons at an average price of AS 59 per ton (shelled) realised tS 3.8 million.
To August, 1958, 4,600 tons had been exported at tS 45 per ton.
101.    The other main oilseed of the Sudan is sesame (Sesamum Orientale)
grown on the rainlands on an area of about 400,000 feddans each year.
102.    Other oilseeds under test at the Tozi Central Rainlands Research
Station are castor, safflower and sunflower.
103.    Wheat and Other Cereals.  About 30,000 feddans of wheat are grown
annually in the Sudan;  all of it by irrigation.   It is mostly grown as
a winter crop in the Northern Province where the people eat wheat as the
staple grain, where the climate is most suitable, and where dry season
irrigation is available to bring the crop to maturity. About 2,000 feddans
are grown each year on the Abd el Mvagid extension to the Gezira Scheme
with an average yield of about 12.5 cwt. per feddan. During the second
IJorld W4ar about 20,000 feddans were grown each year in the Gezira area
and yields were relatively good for the November sown crop. As wheat
requires irrigation in the months of January, February, and part of March
(as well as November and December), it does not fit in well with the pre-
sent supply of irrigation water in the Gezira. If more stored water
becomes available, however, it should prove to be auseful cash crop in
the Gezira. Wheat and flour imports cost about tS 1.7 million annually.
104.    Barley is an alternative crop to wheat on salty or sandy land
in the Northern Province.



ANNEX V - Pagre 21
105.    A little maize is grown under irrigation but most of the crop is
grown on the rainlands as an alternative crop to dura.
106.    Very little rice is grown in the S&dan at present and most of the
experimental work is being carried out in the South. 'With perennial irri'
igation, however, rice could become an important crop in the Gezira, grown
in the summer before the flood. Some experimental work with rice varieties
should be going on where perennial irrigation water is now available.
Rice to the value of about 1S 200,000 is imported annually.
107.    Horticult'1rl CroDs, Sugar Cane & Tobacco.   The horticultural
branch of the Department of Agriculture maintains nurseries for the
propagation of mango, citrus, lime, guava, dates and other climatically
adapted species.
108.    Qs the tree crops need all the year round moisture they are grown
either in the high rainfall areas of the South or those areas '-ihere
perennial irrigation is available, mostly on the Main Nile. Should per-
ennial irrigation become possible on the Blue Nile, it is quite feasible
that the area of irrigated horticultural crops could be greatly extended,
especially on those parts of the Northern Gezira lands that are considered
too sandy for cotton and other field crops.
109.    Another crop which needs all the year round irrigation is sugar-
cane. At present it is grown as a garden crop in Equatoria Province
but there are plans for a large irrigated area of sugarcane near Ilongalla,
where tests by Boxall & Company have indicated annual rields of 11 to 12
tons ofcane per feddan, yielding 1.3 to 1.5 tons of raw sugar per feddan.
110.    Sugarcane has been suggested as a possible crop for the Kenana
area if perennial irrigation is possible from the proposed Roseires Dam.
Investigations of its possibilities could be carried out by a pumped
pilot area in the vicinity of !Jad en Diail.  Sugar imports cost about AS 5
million annually.
111.    Tobacco may be grown in most parts of the Sudan where the soils
are coarse textured and there is adequate moisture. iMost of the smoking
tobacco is now grown in Equatoria Province. Tobacco has possibilities
on the more recent sandy alluvial soils of the Blue Nile frontage as a
dry-season irrigation crop.
112.    VeeetTbles Crops.  Every cultivator produces some vegetables in
addition to his food grains. The greatest variety of vegetables, of course,
is adapted to the rainy season of the central rainlands, and these are
now grown in the FTorth wherever irrigation allows an extension of the
growing season. The commonest vegetables are: Bamia or ladyls fingers
or okra (Hibiscus esculentus) grown for its fruit. As it is botanically
quite closely related to cotton, it tends to harbor the same pests and
so is not allowed to be grown at certain times of the year in cotton grow-
ing areas.
113.    Miulokhia (Corchorus olitorius) is the most common green native
vegetable.



AINEX V - Page 22
114.    Melons, cucumbers, pumpkins and marrows are very widely grown
and are both consumned at home &nd sold on local markets.
115.    Eggplant (solanus melongcna), sweet potato (Ipomoea batatas),
radish (Raphanus sativas), onions and garlic, chillies, beans, lentils
and groundnuts are also grown. Most of these vegetables are grown for
home consumption, but sweet potatoes, onions, beans, lentils and ground-
nuts are also marketed in the towns.
116.    Some more recently introduced vegetables, such as Lettuce, spinach,
tomatoes, etc. are grown for consumption in the towns.
117.    The introduction of perennial irrigation on a big scale would
enable a rmch greater vEriety of vegetables to be grown, as well as out
of season crops of existing vegetables.



ANNEX VI.
TECHNICAL F-.LURES OF THE ROSEIRES DfA
General
1.        As proposed, the dam will have a total length of 9,100 meters
and wzill be corposed of three prin-cipal sections, east and west earth
flank embankments and a central concrete river section. IMIaximum height
above bedrock will be 60 meters, volune of concrete 610,000 nm3 and vol-
ume of earthfill 4.2 million m3. The reservoir impounded will total
3.04 milliards at R.L. 480 and extend approximately 90 lam upstream.
Site
2.       Trree sites whose characteristics appeared suit-able for a dam
were considered. The recommended location has good bedrock for the most
critical (central section) part of the daz and is the best location of
the three for ease of construction. The proposed dam alignment takes ad-
vantage of a natural flood channel w1hich will greatly facilitate river di-
version during construction and later form tie spillway channel. Founda-
tion conditions for the east flank are better than at the other two sites
and for the west flank about the same. Although it is not ideal, the se-
lected alignment provides the best site from a geological view and in the
opinion of the Engineers, the best possible that can provide reasonable
storage wholly within the Sudan.
3.        The sitets primary disadvrantage lies in the nature of the river
basin and would be common to inost locations in Sudan and Egypt.  That is,
the land slopes toward the river bed so gradually that for reasonable stor-
age capacity quite wide and shallow reservoirs become necessary, and in
turn necessarily restrict dead storage or sedimentation capacity.
Seepage and Evaporation
4.        Tne whole of the reservoir is covered, except where rock is ex-
posed in the river bed, by clays, silts, salds, gravels and boulder beds
to considerable depth. Considering the generally impervious character of
the plain through which the Blue WIile flows and the fact that a covering
of wilt can be expected over the reservoir basin leads to the belief that
seepage losses, for practical purposes, can be ignored.
5.        Tne reservoir regime will naturally influence evaporation losses
as they will increase or decrease with the varying reservoir level and sur-
face area.  Taking into account tie probab e regime, amnual losses are cal-
culated to be 0.26 rilliards or 8.9% of gross contents at R.L. 480.  This
corresponds to lossescf 14.5 for Sennar, 7/'f for Aswan and 7.8% for the pro-
posed High Aswan or Sadd el-Aali reservoir. Roseires evaporation loss is cal-
culated to decrease to 7.2% of gross contents after future heightening to
R.L. 490.



ANNEX VI. - Page 2
Hydrology
6.        Occurrence of rainfall on the Ethiopian highland has a well de-
fined pattern but varies widely from year to year. As a result, the rivers
of the area, including the Blue Nile, fluctuate widely in annual discharge
and peak flood flow. Hydrological data for the Roseires area are based on
records taken since 1903.  The following table is a summary of data derived
from a study of 10-day means over tne period 1912-1952:
Summary of Blue Nile Discharge at Roseires
Discharge
Description                    Date                 msal       iards
MaItimium discharge             August 19h6            10,078        -
Minimum discharge               iay 1914                   38        -
lMaximum annual discharge       1917-19i8                   -      70.58
Ii4wdmm but one annual
discharge                    1929-1930                   -      66.80
Minimum annual discharge        1l93-l91L                   -      20.10
Minimum but one annual
discharge                    1912-1913                   -      37.21
Mean annual discharge           1912-1952               1,572      49.62
The maximiu recorded flow occurred on August 2h, 1946, when peac discharge
of approximnately 10,800 m3/s was reached. Probability studies indicate a
flow of 12,000 m3/s would only be exceeded in the most exceptional circum-
stances, and therefore a peak spillway design of 15 000 m3/s was used for
the dam. (See mission's comments in paragraph 135.M
Central Section
7.        A buttress type structure 1,100 meters long is proposed for the
central section. It will incorporate five 6 x 10 meter sluice gates, five
10 x 12.5 meter spillway gates and the main canal headworks. Sluice gates
will be located to serve three purposes: first, to provide a lowT level
waterway during construction; second, to provide fine discharge control
after completion; and last, to confire the river to its original channel as
much as possible during the rising flood to facilitate removal of sediment.
They will be installed at elevation L36 over what is nowr the deepest part
of the river channel.  The spillway will be at elevation 464 and will dis-
charge to the left of center (looking downstream) into the natural diversion
channel mentioned earlier. Spillway gates will be initially designed to con-
trol full retention level after future dam heightening and, in conjunction
with thle sluice gates, be designed to pass a peak flood of 15,000 cubic
meters per second (m3/s). The spillway section is designed for free crest
discharge when the gates are fully lifted.



AII a VI. - Page 3
8.        The main canal headvTorks are designed to be capable of control-
ling the increased discharge and head whnich will result after future height-
ening without major modification. It will be located on the left (west end)
of the central concrete section. iMaximum discharge will be 300 m3/s corres-
ponding to maximum canal water level of 466.5 and command level L67.
Flank Embankments
9.        The flank embankments have been laid out to utilize natural ground
configuration to the best advantage and will angle away from the central sec-
tion to a marked degree. They will be founded on varied beds of unconsoli-
dated material overlying an irregular rock surface up to 60 meters below
ground level which, with length of flanks, prohibits economical construction
of a conventional cut-off wall.  To raeet these conditions it is proposed to
construct a zoned embankment cf carefully compacted sand and clay protected
on the upstream side by rock rip rap.
10.       Although containing much permieable material, the unconsolidated
deposits are overlain by a blanket of silt and clay which would be reinforced
as necessary to provide a seepage path having sufficient length to control
leakage through the foundation and ensure safety of the embankment.
11.       Top of the embankments would be 1.75 meters above full reservoir
level. A 1.25 meter high parapet wall would be constructed on the upstream
side for further wave protection.
12.       Design of the embanomients was based on local soil investigation
which provided the broad design criteria. The Engineers foresee need for
supplemental information which they hope to secure during pre-construction
activities when they will set up a soils laboratory at the site.  Although
foundation conditions are less than wzould be desired, careful construction
based on thorough engineering investigation and design should ensure solu-
tion to the problems involved.
Preconstruction Activities
13.       The village of Roseires is across the river from the present rail-
head and wholly inadequate as a base for construction. Plans have therefore
been prepared for a construction camp to house a labor force of 5,000.  In-
cluded are 4,000 single and 1,000 family quarters, administrative buildings,
a hospital, fire station and rest house plus provisions for the future operat-
ing and maintenance staff. This fairly large village has been laid out for
orderly future expansion in anticipation of an inevitable permanent community
development around the railhead and dam, The camp will have piped water,
electric supply and a sewage system. Construction is planned for two working
seasons, starting one year ahead of work on the dam.
14.       Access to both sides of the river will be imperative during con-
struction. For this purpose a bridge is planned downstream of the site. It
would be constructed for future conversion to a rail crossing.



P1INEX VI. - Page 4
15.       In good weather tthe rail trip from Khartoum requires 20-24 hours.
During the rainy season fl as¾ floods can be expected to disrupt both rail
and road coimmnications, makin-g travel to tae site impossible.  Plans have
therefore been develoned for an all-weather landino strip near the new
town site.  It will be suitable for t',o tim-e aircraft expected during con-
struction and be laid out to permit future expansion if necessary.   hle
Engineer hopes to supplement local soils data during runway construction
and has scheduled it to start one year prior to start of permanent dam con-
structi-on.
Construction ihaterials, Labor and Transoort
16.       Suitable quarry sites have been located for the supply of aggre-
gate and rip rap wLithin reasonable haull distance and soils investigation
indicates that no difficulty would be experienced in providing suitable
materials for thLe flank dans.  The possibility of setting up a cement plant
near tlhe site was explored as Sudan's present production capacity would be
inadequate to meet dan require:ments plus normal commitments.  The idea was
abandoned in favor of inporting cem,ent due to:  (a) need for importation
and transport of all fuel t:iat would be required by the plant; (b) inadequate
supplies of suitable raw r-,aterials: and (c) tihe m,iarketing and transport
problem that would have to be solved after dam completion were the cement
plant to continue operations.
17.      INasonry instead of concrete construction for the central dam was
considered but decided against to keep skilled labor requirements to a mini-
mum. It is anticipated that most labor will have to be imported, some from
other parts of Sudan but largely from southern Europe. Engineering design
has therefore proceeded writh a view to keeping to a minimum those features
which would require specialized and highly skilled craftsmen.
18.       The major bulk of the dam would be made up of materials available
at the site. Cement, steel, dimensional lumber, finished products and fuel
will all have to be transported to the area. Although of sub-standard con-
struction (50# rail, unballasted) the recently completed rail extension to
Roseires will be suitable for that transport if maintained. Rail rolling
stock is considered adequate.
Construction Schedule
19.       Project studies, including m,lodel experiments, indicate the work-
ing season on the river bed will average about eight months due to the July-
November flood.  Work on the flank dams during part of the season will also
be interrupted by rain and saturated soil, and, in addition, it may be diffi-
cult to retain local labor during tihe rain season when food crops are sown.
Construction planning therefore reflects a restricted annual working season.
(a) First season:
Site work, housing and airstrip.



AINI\iX VI. - Page 5
(b) Second season:
Diversion charnel excavation
Bridge construction
Cofferdam foundations
Completion housing and airstrip.
(c) Third season:
Cofferdan and excavation
Flank dams started.
(d) Fourth season:
Concreting
Flank dams continued.
(e) Fifth season:
Concreting (deep sluice section comnleted)
Flank dams continued.
(f) Sixth season:
Sluice gates installed
Spillway completed
Flank dams continued.
(g) Seventh season:
Concrete complete
Flank dams co;mplete
Nlechanical equipaient complete.
A construction schedule bar graoh is overleaf.
Status of Engineering
20.       The consultants' agreement is with the Nlinistry of Irrigation and
Hydro-Electric Poter and includes supervision of construction.   Desivgns  con-
tract drawings and documients are complete and ready for issue. Hydraulic
model tests have been carried out in Eingland and experiments have been con-
ducted to assess the proposed diversion channel and dam by means of a scale
river bed model constructed in the laboratories cf Societe Grenobloise d'Etudes
et d'Applications i-Jydrauliques in Grenoble.  Site supervision by the consult-
ants would be closely collaborated with the Hinistry staff to provide them as
much experience as possible. The arrangements for design and supervision
would be conpletely adequate to ensure proper execution of the project.
Cost Estimate
21.       An estimate of tLie project costs has been prepared by the Engineer
and is sumiarized on Page 7.



-     l-- ---- -   ------------------
4A ~ ~ ~ ~  ~  ~  ~   b
- -     -------- - - -  ----------- - --------- -- - -  - -- -- -- - - -
__----------------- I-----------  - -a--~~~~~~~~
O-  -
_           _ _~~~
U.)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
0o--~~~----------- ---
-------------------
°     -1  v   ...0       -O  .d
0.   a                 _d4
.  1 .
~~r4  * 1     O
.4  r     1  4
,- Id .o .0 .m _a    in_ _   _
FR   A        aL q50        P    O
I    _ l -Pg----g a3 -4 -4 04 ~  ~~~



ANNEX VI - Page 7
Project Cost Estimate (millions)
(in Sudanese Pounds)        Foreign Exchange
Local     Foreign      Equivalent in
Item                Total    Currency   Exchange      US millions
Construction Camp          2.08      1.47       0.61             1.7
Bridge                     o.42      0.07       0.35             1.0
Airfield                   0.21      0.15       o.06               .2
Subtotal, pre-
construction          2.71      1.69       1.02             2.9
Central Dam               16.4o      8.25       8.15            23.6
Flank Dams                 3.21      0.75       2.46             7.2
Mechanical                 1.70      0.26       l.44             4.2
Subtotal, dam          21.31      9.26      12.05            34.6
Inflation provision (5%)   1.20      0.55       o.65             1.7
Contingencies (15%)        3.60      1.64       1.96             5.7
Engineering &
Construction
Supervision              1.43      0.h8       0.95             2.7
Subtotal                6.23      2.68       3.55            10.2
Subtotal               30.25     13.62      16.63            47.7
Interest during
construction             4.96      1.74       3.22             9.2
Total                  35.21     15.36      19.85            56.9
Total (equivalent
US$ millions)          101.0      44.1       56.9
22. The estimate includes:
(a) Increased cost to provide for future heightening        LS. 2.50
(b) Increased cost to provide for iuture power                  0.38
(c) Cost of canal headworks over an equivalent length
of dam                                                    1.20



ANNEX VI - Page 8
It does not include costs associated with the canal itself, land or customs
duties on imported requirements. The estimate is based on the Engineer's
wide experience in the Middle East and Africa and envisages a foreign con-
struction contract utilizing southern European labor. Prices were based on
cement at LS 14.25/metric tons (A40.90) delivered at site, and earthwork at
LS 0.8/03 in place (P2.29). These unit prices plus relatively large contin-
gency factor (20% total) would be considered high were it not for the rather
long construction period proposed and the possibility that changes will be
necessary after further soil investigations.
23,       Disbursements, including contingency and inflation provisions plus
capitalized interest, are estimated in the following table. First year
disbursements are for minor preparatory expenses and final year disbursements
represent release of retention sums, so that disbursement years 2 to 8 corre-
spond to the seven year construction period.
Estimated Disbursements (millions of Sudanese Pounds)
Year          Local              Foreign               Total
Currency           Exchange
1               0.07               0.16               0.23
2               0.88               0.60               1.48
3               2.00               1.98               3.93
4               2.11               2.08               4.19
5               2.84               3.26               6.10
6               3.13               4.75               7.88
7               2.81               4.41               7.22
8               1.41               2.20               3.61
9               0.11               0.41               0.52
Total           _.!L26             19285              _.21
24.       Under the proposed construction schedule, water would commence to
become available at the end of the seventh year and the project would be
revenue earning by the eighth. It is assumed that Sudan would finance approx-
imately half of local currency expenditures from revenues; and would also
from its own resources finance the relatively small foreign exchange require-
ments for years 1, 2 and 9, which would reduce the period of interest during
construction on an outside loan.
25.       From above table and assumptions, the period before starting loan
repayments would be six years.  Construction interest, at 6%, would then
amount to LS 3.22 million on a foreign exchange loan and LS 1.74 million on
local currency.
Operation
26.       The reservoir regime will be dictated by need for keeping the level
as low as possible (to avoid seaimentation) durinT the'risini prd pecking
flood.



AINEX VI - Page 9
Filling would be from falling flood during the month of September. Com-
bined storage of Roseires and Sennar would then be used to supplement low
flows in meeting any combination of following demands:
(a) Gravity irrigation from Roseires direct.
(b) Gravity irrigation from Fennar.
(c)  Downstream irrigation pumping.
(d)  Maintaining minimum downstream flow to Egypt in conformance
with historic rights or international agreement.
27.       The reservoir cycle at Roseires would start approximately July 20,
the beginning of the irrigation season. At that time reservoir level would
be 467 (canal command level) and would be held, apart from unavoidable flood
fluctuations, until early September when filling would commence. Full level
would be maintained until inflow became inadequate to meet irrigation cormit-
mentswhile still providing required downstream discharge, after which storage
utilization would commence. Prior to the time of drawing on storage, irriga-
tion requirements and evaporation losses would be satisfied from river flow.
If the dam operated without producing power, the reservoir would be gradual-
ly emptied between April 1 and May 15, at which time all gates would be open
and would remain open until about July 10. The reservoir would be brought to
canal command level during the following 10 days.
28.       Effects of other Nile control works on Roseires' regime and value
need to be taken into account. From an engineering view the construction of
adequate over-year storage at other points of the 'rile would have the advan-
tage of eliminating the present distinction between restricted and surplus
flow periods. Roseires could consequently be filled later in the year from
relatively sediment free water and could remain full longer without prej-
udice to other riparian interests.



ANNX VII
ANALYSIS 0? VARIOUS USES OF ROSEIRES YWATER
(a) The Kenana Project
General Description
1.        The Kenana area has been examined and described by Sir Alexander
Gibb and Partners in their report "Irrigable Areas in the Sudan" of 1954.
It is a large tract of practically undeveloped land lying to the South
of the Sennar-Kosti Railway and extending from the Blue Nile almost to
the ItWhite Nile in the Southern part of Blue Nile Province. Levels from
widely spaced survey lines indicate that an area of about two million
feddans could be commanded by a gravity canal from the proposed Roseires
Reservoir. The Sudan survey department has since commenced a detailed
close grid topographical survey with half-meter contour levels and
intermediate spot levels. The terrain is generally even with gentle
slopes. After excluding areas of more broken nature, the preliminary
surveys suggest that from 1.4 million to 1.2 million feddans will be
shown by detailed survey to have topography favorable for irrigation.
2.        The soils have been examined along widely spaced traverse
lines but no systematic land classification maps have been compiled.
Field descriotions and analyses show^T that most of the soils are friable
cracking clays, low in salt and with a low sodium value. There is, how-
ever, a zone of poor salty soils of irregular width on the clay plain
adjacent to the White Nile, extending fron Jebelein to Rabak (near
Kosti). From examination of all data available and brief field in-
spection the mission is in general agreement with the Sudan Governmentts
assessment of the area:
1.  That the gross irrigable area can provisionally be taken
as 1,200,000 feddans.
2.  That the Western part, comprising about two-thirds of
the whole area, is su-fficiently similar to Pianagil and
Southern Gezira conditions to be considered well suited
to a three-course rotation of cotton, dura and legumes,
and fallow, as in the iYLanagil 3xtension.
3.  That, pending further research to show what will be the
best cropping pattern, it will be assumed that the
Eastern one-third of the area ijill be under the three-
course cotton rotation.
3.        There is, as indicated above and discussed in other sections
of this report, a clear need for a comprehensive program of research in-
to the irrigation potential of these various lands and to establish their
best cropping patterns and likely crop yields, 'until these results are
available no firm assessment can be made of benefits likely to be derived
from the project. In the absence of reliable local evidence, the mission
has had no course but to apply Grezira/lanagil results to Kenana condi-
tions. The estimates are conseouently subject to a wide margin of error /
but it could just as well prove that they are too low as too high.



ANNEX VII - Page 2
4.        There is an equal need for detailed soil classification and
survey so that the best lands can be selected for development and put to
their best-suited use. The Government proposes such a survey in associa-
tion with the topographical survey but has not yet worked out requirements
in detail.  Completion of this work within a reasonable time would be be-
yond local technical resources and it would seem desirab)le for detailed
soil survey to be undertaken by foreign contract.
5.        The vegetative cover increases to the South-East, in the heavier
rainfall zone. Sir Alexander Gibb and Partners estimate that of the whole
area of 1,200,000 feddans, about 20% is woodland; 50% is acacia scrub,
and 30% is grassland. Land clearing will require mechanized operations
and will be fairly expensive in the woodland and scrub land. A machinery
firm has studied the area and presented a technically sound report on
possible methods. The best methods, however, will vary from place to
place and can only be proven by experience. Clearing trials are commenc-
ing at Tozi research station. These should be extended to other areas
and should include trial of the chain and "high ball' technique used suc-
cessfully for similar clearing in Australia. In the meantime the project
estimate of an average clearing cost of LS 5 per feddan appears reasona-
ble.
6. The mean annual rainfall is 400 mm at Rabak and 450 mm at Jebelein,
in the west, to 580 mm at Singa and 660 mm at Wad en Niail, towards the
east. This is concentrated in the months of July, August, September and
October and there is negligible rainfall during November-May. Heavy
falls of rain are frequent and an adequate drainage system will be
necessary to remove surface water when the land is canalized.
7.        Water requirements have been estimated from Gezira experience
adjusted for rotation and higher rainfall. The estimates are:
July-December    Jenuary-July     Total
M i 1 1 i a r d s3
Eastern Sector 400,000 fd.     .65              .33          .98
Western Sector 800,000 fd.   1.65               .67         2.32
Total    1,20,0OO fd.    2.30             1.00          3.30
Irrigation Works
8.        The general features of the canal system have been laid out
from preliminary surveys and aerial photos. The main canal would draw
water from the Roseires headworks. Its course would roughly parallel
the river for 36 km through terrain quite heavily eroded and laced by
small gulleys which would necessitate extensive cut and fill as well as
substantial cross drainage structures. Terrain beyond kiii 36 would be
more suitable although also requiring numerous cross drainage works.



ANMEX VII - Page 3
The main canals total length would be 194 km and it would require approxi-
mately 75 million m3 of earthwork.  Two branch canals havina a combined
length of 225 km are planned and would require 16 million m3 excavation.
Distributary canalization has not been laid out but would require more
regulating works and cross drainage structures (due to the heavier rain-
fall and slightly rougher terrain) than at 1-ianagil.
9.        The system as a whole would require considerably more field
drainage and canal escape provisions than were necessary at either
Managil or Gezira.  Communications, buildings and provisions for mainte-
nance and management have been included in the estimate.
10.       It is estimated that construction of the project would be
spread over six to eight years but that sectors would come into produc-
tion as the works progresses.
11.       In Annex III, paragraph l1, the mission has discussed the ad-
vantages and disadvantages of the system of daylight watering, with night
storage, used in Gezira/Managil gravity irrigation and concluded that con-
sideration should be given to designing new schemes for continuous
watering. The mission believes that this would be fully warranted for
the Kenana schemie. The alternative layout and design seems likely to
indicate considerable savings in construction of the distributary system.
The deposit of Nile silt on the land (instead of in the night storage
canals) should have considerable agronomic benefit, particularly on the
very heavy clay soils of the lastern sector, where the silt content of
the water should be highest.
12.       Cost Estimates.  Project costs have been estirnated from ex-
perience at Lanagil adjusted for inaccessibility and w^zith generous pro-
visions to cover all foreseeable extras that would be occasioned by
terrain and climate. The mission believes that the estimates are as
realistic as possible considering the preliminary nature of the data
on which they are based.



ANNEX VII - Page 4
Preliminary Estimate
Item                                       Unit Cost          Total
(1S millions)
Land Clearance                             LS 5.0 /feddan         6.00
Mhain canal                                   0 25/m3            18.75
Branch canals                                 0.12/m3             1.92
Regulators and cross drainage (Plain
and branch canals)                         25% cost of         5.17
earthwork
Distributary canalization                     7.0/feddan          8.40
Escapes and drains                            2.OQ/  "            2.,40
Communication                                 0.30/  "            0.36
Buildings                                     3.80/  "            4.56
Equipment                                     4.50/ "             5.40
Maintenance prior completion                  0.60/  "            0.72
Roseires headwork                               unit              1.20
Subtotal                                                54.88
Contingencies (say 10%)                                           5.50
Engineering   (say 4% )                                           2.20
Total                                                   62.58
Interest during construction has not been included.
13.       Capital costs of management and administratimby an agency similar
to the Gezira Board should be added to arrive at total project cost. T'Lis
has been estimated at LS17.5 million, or 50% greater than equivalent costs
for Mbnagil (LS 7.8 million for 800,000 feddans). These costs include
provision for cotton processing and storage, not included in pump schemes.
14.       Estimated cost for the completed development would then be in the
order of LS 80 million or LS 66 per irrigable feddan vs. approximately
:S 39 per irrigable feddan at Mlanagil.
Okeration
15.       It is proposed to operate the scheme under a similar system to
Gezira/Managil, viz. a partnership between the Department of Irrigation, a
Board and the tenants. It cannot be taken for granted that Sudan will be
able to maintain existing high standards of management over such an exten-
sive expansion but, if sufficient attention is given to staff training and
recruitment, including recruitment of a few senior administrators from over-
seas, this is quite possible.
Operating Results
16.       Operating costs have been estimated on the basis of Gezira/Managil
experience adjusted as necessary for Kenana conditions as visualized. The
mission considers them to be realistic, as preliminary estimates. An annual
charge of LS 900,000 has been made for the cost of providing one milliard of
stored water required from Roseires dam.



ANNEX VII - Page 5
17.       The existing value of production from this undeveloped area is
insignificant and has been neglected in estimates of increased agricultural
production.i/ In the absence of more reliable evidence, agricultural
production and returns have been estimated on the basis anticipated for
Managil under normal water supply. Although pre-project soil survey and
research may indicate the contrary, the mission believes these estimates to
be conservative. For instance, although flexibility between long and shorter
staple cotton is visualized, no allowance is made for other crops which could
be grown in winter from water not required for short staple. Prospects are
also good that research will devise more profitable rotation crops than dura
and lubia, or crops outside the rotation, like sugar or rice, which, within
local market opportunities, may offer returns equivalent to cotton itself.
18.       Preliminary estimates of operating results work out as follows:
iS millions
Returns
Cotton (400,000 feddans)                           24.0
Other crops (400,000 feddans)                      3.3
Total returns                                                27.3
Less Costs (excluding provision of water)
Government costs (including services)               2.6
Board's costs                                       1.0
Joint Account costs                                6.9
Farm labor costs (return to tenants)               10.8
Total Costs                                                 21.3
Net Return                                                        6.0
Less Cost of Provision of Stored Water                            0.9
Direct Return to Capital Investment                               5.1
(increased net farm income)
Ads Cotton Export Duty to Government                              2.0
Total Return to Capital Investment                                7.1
The direct return would represent 6.5 percent on the estimated investment
of IS 80 million and the total return, including cotton export duty, would
represent 9.0 percent on the capital investment.
/ The area has, however, considerable potential for development under
dry farming which would involve investment in farm water supply and
machinery. The mission did not have the opportunity to explore the
relative merits of dry farming development.



ANNEX VII - Page 6
(b)  Provision of Normal Restricted Speson Requirements
to Stages 2.  _&_ .f 1ianagil
19.       Stages 2, 3 and h of Managil will require .48 milliards of stored
water if they are +o rceeive similar supplies to existing schemes.   Only
.01 milliards is at present uncomnitted under the "water account" so that
an additional .47 milliards would be required from Roseires dam. Facilities
are slready available for the use of this water and the only capital cost
involved would be the cost of the dam, The annual charge to meet this cost
would be S 420,000.
20.       Benefits cannot be assessed accurately because the water could
be used either for completing normal requirements of the long staple cotton
rotation or, if shorter staple cottons prove equally profitable, for grow-
ing winter crops after the cotton harvest. The most probable use of
water would be to complete long staple cotton requirements on Stage 2 and
to grow winter crops on Stages 3 and 4. Benefits on this basis would be
approximately as follows:
21.       It has been assumed (pare 85) that shortage of water would depress
long staple cotton returns on Stage 2 by 15%. Provision of .17 milliards
to complete normal supplies for the 70,000 feddans of cotton involved, would
increase cotton returns by LS 630,000. Operating results would be approx-
imately:
70,000 Feddans Cotton
LS millions
Increased Cotton Returns                         .63
LeEs Increased Costs
Government, Board & Joint Account    .14
Labor Return to Tenants             .23        .227
Net Return                                       .26
Less Cost of .17 milliards water 6 bS9
Increased net income (to Govt. & Board)         .11
The Government would receive a further ES 60,000 in cotton export duty so
that the full return to the Government and Board, above the cost of water,
would be LS 170,000.
22.       About .3 milliards of the allocation of .47 milliards would be
available for winter crops following the short staple cotton harvest on
Stages 3 & 4. This would be sufficient for about 100,000 feddans of winter
crops. Further research would be necessary to decide the most profitable
crops but the existing evidence indicates that wheat (estimated to gross
L6? ndrEktISl3 per feddan) and groundnuts (estimated to gross LS 20 and
net LS 15 per feddan) can be grown successfully. An average gross return
of LS 18 and net return of WS 14 per feddan has been assumed. Approximate
operating results would be:



ANMEX VII - Page 7
100,000 feddans
Winter Crops
LS millions
Increased Gross Returns                       1.80
Less Increased Costs                            .40
Net Return                                 1.40
Less Cost of .3 milliards of water           .27
Increased Net Income                       1.13
23.       Under existing arrangements for the sharing of crop proceeds,
the tenants would receive the full net return of I'S 1.4 million and the
Government would receive no direct return towards the cost of providing
water, The mission considers that the tenants should be charged for
additional water provided as in this case, to extend the traditional
rotation system and that the charge should be not less than LS 4 per fed-
dan. On this basis increased net income would be distributed: Tenants
LS 1 million : Government 6S .13 million. Adding the return to the Govern-
ment from completing long staple cotton requirements on Stage 1, the re-
turn to the Government above the cost of .47 milliards of water would be
LS .24 million (plus cotton export duty).
(c) Providing Normal Restricted Season Recuirements to Pump
Schemes now Licensed to Irrigate only to December 31st.
24.       Surplus dry season water is no longer available for "'flood"
license pump schemes and applications for conversion to unrestricted
license appear likely from the operators of about 200,000 feddans (gross).
Stored water requirements are estimated at .16 milliards costing LS 144,000
per annum. No other capital investment would be involved.
25.       Approximate benefits have again been assessed on the basis that
cessation of watering in becember reduces long staple cotton yields by
about 15% in average years. Fifteen percent of the average return from
pump schemes (para. 58) would be IS8,6 per feddan cotton. For 67,000 fed-
dans cotton (200,000 Ieddans gross) operating results should be:
67,000 feddans Cotton
L millions
Increased Cotton Returns                           .58
Less Increased Costs
Licensee                     .08
Labor return to tenants       .23                3
Net Return                                          .27
Less Cost of .16 milliards of water                 l4
Increased Net Income                               .13



AN,4EX VII - Page 8
No direct charge is made for water and the net return of ES 270,000 would
accrue to the licensees. The indirect return to the Government would be
1S 23,000 from land tax and LS 60,000 from cotton export duty or LS 83,000
plus business profit tax, as against the cost to the Government of provis-
ion of water of ES 144,000. Since, however, this extra water would only
be placing restricted license schemes on the same basis as unrestricted
schemes, and since the indirect return to the Government from new unrestrict-
ed schemes would be 300% of the oost of water (para 32) there seems no
sound basis for assessing a special charge in this case.
(d)  Development of New Pump Schemes
26.       Surveys by various authorities have located nearly 1 million
feddans of land suitable for extension of pump irrigation on the Blue and
White Niles and a further .4 million feddans on the Main Nile. The Gibb
report on Irrigable Areas in the Sudan covered only the Blue and White
Niles above Sennar/Kosti and located 550,000 feddans. This includes two
large areas, each approaching 200,000 feddans.
27,       It seems safe to assume that 750,000 feddans are suitable for
development. This area would require 2.25 milliards of water including
about .6 milliards of stored water. The annual cost of the stored water
would be ES 540,000.
28,       Techniques of development of pump schemes are well established
and the technical resources are available so long as the rate of develop-
ment is not too rapid.
29.       Capital costs of establishment of private schemes were analysed
in Annex III Para 49. The average figure on the range, hS 27.5 per gross
feddan is taken for these estimates. Capital costs for 750,000 feddans
on this basis would be about LS 20.6 million.
30.       For one in three rotation some 250,000 feddans would be under
cotton each year. Operating results (see para. 58) should work out
approximately as follows:
250.000 feddsns Cotton
LS million
Returns (cotton & other crops)                    15.8
Le6s Costs (including depreciation,
land tax, interest on working
capital and labor return to tenants)            13.3
Net Return                                         2.5
Less Cost of .6 milliards of water                  .5
Increased Net Income                              2.0



ANNEX VII - Page 9
31.       Under existing arrangements no direct charge is made for water
and the net return would accrue to the licnesees. The WS 2.5 million
would represent (before business profits tax) about 12 percent on their
capital investment.
32.       However, the indirect return to the Goverrnment from Land Tax
(included as a cost) and Cotton Export Duty woul4 amount to LS 1.8 mil-
lion. This would amply cover the annual cost of provision of water of
ES 540,000.
33.       Some of the above potential for pump scheme development may, of
course, be undertaken by the Government. In Annex III, para. 59, the
mission expressed the opinion that the special advantages, under Sudanese
conditions, of Government irrigation operation did not apply to the
relatively small scale of operation of pump schemes. However, as mention-
ed above, two of the potential areas are of such size that governmental
development may be warranted.
34.       The mission considers that prospects for the development of new
pump schemes would be sufficiently encouraging to justify a program of
soil survey in sufficient detail definitely to determine the area and loca-
tion of suitable land. Outside technical assistance would be needed and
potential benefits would seem to warrant the Government having this work
undertaken by foreign contract.
(e) Exnansion of Gezira and lianaeil Areas Within Existing
Main Canal Capacities
35.       The combined capacity of the Gezira and Managil Main Canals of
350 cubic meters per second will be sufficient for watering a further
300,000 fe'-1ans on a one in three rotation (or alternatively for convert-
ing the Gez4ra area itself from a one in four to a one in three rotation,
Proposal (g) ).
36.       Surveys are currently being planned to determine accurately the
area and nature of lands adjacent to the Gezira/Vianagil projects which
are suitable for irrigation. This work shoull be given priority or be
undertaken by foreign contract if necessary. Some authorities consider
that 300,000 feddans will be located but pending the survey results the
mission assumes that not more than 200,000 feddans will be found. Opera-
ted on the normal one in three rotation, this would require .6 milliards
of water of which .16 milliards would be sto-red and .44 milliards flood
water. The cost of provision of stored water would be ES 144,000 per
annum.
37.       The cost of canalization at 120 percent of the cost (less main
canals) at 1ianagil would be LS 5.3 millions. The Board's sector of costs
on a similar basis would be LS 2.2 millior and total capital costs iS 7.5
millions.
38.       Operating results, based on INanagil estimates (para. 102) ad-
justed for full water supply, from 67,000 feddans of cotton and a similar
area of other crops should be along these lines:



ANNEX VII - Page 10
67,000 Peddans Cotton
ES million
Total Returns, Cotton and Other Crops             4.6
Less Costs (including tenantst labor and
Government Services)                  3.7
Net Return                                        0.9
Less Cost of Provision of Water                   0.1
Direct Return to Capital (increased net income)   0.8
Add Cotton export duty to Government              0.3
Total Return to Capital                           1.1
Direct returns would represent 11 percent on the investment and total
returns, 15 percent. Tenants would receive a labor reward similar to
Mznagil.
(f) Some Degree of Further Intensification of Irrigation
at Gezira and -hanapil Without Remodelling Canals.
39.       The agronomic scope for further intensification of cotton
rotations can only definitely be established by research. This mission
has recommended elsewhere that urgent priority be given to such research
programs. Pending confirmation by research results, the mission's ten-
tative conclusion is that there is no agronomic reason why rotations
should not be intensified to the extent that all land is under irrigation
except for one full year preceding the cotton crop. This degree of two-
thirds perennial irrigation (includingfodder crops) will probably prove
economically justified after surplus water from Stage 2 Roseires is
available.  Pending Stage 2, however, there will be competing demands for
stored water to be available from Stage I Roseires, and the warrantel
degree of intensification would seem to be the introduction of another
cash crop into the rotation rather than perennial year round irrigation
of two-thirds of the area.
40.       Under the normal one in three rotation two-thirds of the land
is irrigated during months of peak demand (September, October). The Mana-
gil area and the extension under Proposal (e) will be under this rotation.
Their distribution systems will be adequate for the full degree of inten-
sification deemed warranted by the mission. The Gezira scheme is, however,
cropped under a one in four rotation under which only 43 percent of the
land is cropped each year. The Gezira distribution system is already taxed
to meet peak demands for this area. The area of land on which irrigation
could be intensified by introduction of an additional cash crop without
remodelling the Gezira distribution system would be:



ANNEX VII - Page 11
Managil (80C,000 feddans): 16.6% under dura after harvest
of that crop (133,000 feddans)
Proposal (e) (200,000 feddans) 16.6% under dura after harvest
of the crop (33,000 feddans)
Gezira (980,000 feddans) 12.5% of fallow land after water
needs for dura cease. (124,000 feddans)
41.       The total area of 290,000 feddans for an additional cash crop
is a minimum assumption. An almost equivalent area is under lubia and
water could also be profitably used to extend the forage season. Since,
however, there is no valid means of assessing benefits, this possible
usage has been omitted.  Secondly, if shorter staple cotton is grown,
winter crops could be sown after the cotton harvest. This land use for
Managil Stages 3 and 4 has been assumed under Proposal (b). It may well
prove practicable over a much wider area.
42.       290,000 feddans under.winter crops would require
about one milliard of water of which .66 milliards would be stored.
Annual cost of provision of .66 milliards would be LS 600,000.
43.       Only research will show the best and most profitable cash crops
that could be grown. In the meantime it is safe to assume that, of the
many possibilities, wheat, groundnuts and vegetable crops will yield
profitable returns. The width of the market for vegetables is uncertain.
Wheat and flour imports, however, currently cost about IS 1.7 million per.
annum and recent results from tenant production of groundnuts show that
production would be competitive on world markets.
44.       Wheat could be grown after dura harvest.   At the expected yield
of about 12.5 cwt. per feddan a very conservative estimate of gross
return from grain and straw would be LS 16 per feddan. Tenants' cash
costa should be similar to dura and the net return to the tenant would be
about LS 13 per feddan. Groundnuts should not be grown after dura but
could be grown on Gezira fallow or could replace dura in order in the
rotation.  Returns were estimated at LS 24 per feddan in para. 95 of
Annex .-. Discounting the price from hS 30 to LS 25 per ton, gross re-
turns would be LS 20 and net returns LS 15 per feddan.
45.       Disregarding the possibility of more profitable returns from
vegetables and taking the average of the above estimates for wheat and
groundnuts (ES 18 gross and *S 14 net per feddan), approximate operating
results would be:
/   Additional fertilizer is expected to be necessary for new crops
introduced into the rotations.  The cost, above present usage,
has not been included in tenant's cash costs.   This is because
crop yields have been assessed at present levels owing to there
being insufficient reserrch evioence to assess likely yields
following heavier applications. It has been assumed that the
increase in ylields would be more than sufficient to cover the
additional cost of fertilizer.



ANNFX VII - Page 12
290,000 Feddans Cash Crops
MSbllions
Increased Returns 1                              5.2
Less Increased Costl                              12
Net Return                                       4.o-
Less Cost of Provision of Water                  _.,6
Increased Net Income                             L.t
Under Existing arrangements the full Net Return of 1S 4 million would accrue
to the tenants and the Government would receive no direct return towards
the cost of water and its distribution. The mission considers that the
tenants should be charged not less than IS 4 per feddan for additional water
to extend the traditional rotation system. On this basis Increased Net
Income would be distributed:
ES 1N1illion
Tenants                                          2.8
Government                                         .6
Total                ___
46.       The use of atored water on this basis would obviously be
most profitable to both the tenants and uiLe Government.  The mission
believes that results could be even more profitable if adequate steps
were taken to improve the currently low standard of tenant-farming produc-
tion of crops other than cotton. It has been suggested in Para (83) that
the Gezira Board should be made responsible for technical advice and
technical sapervision of the production of crops other than cotton. This
would materially increase the benefits from intensification as has been
shown by the pilot scale "village experiments" of the Board. The mission
considers that plans should be developed now for the provision of adequate
technical services once additional water becomes available.
|j' Includes provision to cover additional cost of water distribution
beyond that of the nnrmal cotton rotation.
£/ The high net return from intensification of rotations relative to that
from new developments reflects the treatment of the return to the ten-
ants' labor in the estimates. For new development involving the normal
cotton rotation, the full returns to the tenants, including their cash
costs, are taken as the labor cost of production. The net return to
the tenants - gross return less cash costs - of i 65 per family (Pump
Schemes) or h 90 (Managil) represents a subsistence standard of living.
In the case of intensification of traditional rotations, however, the
full net return will accrue to the tenants and can validly be regarded
as an increase, beyond subsistence standards, in the cash incomes of
the tenants.



ARNNX VII - Page 13
(g) Some Intensification of Gezira after Renodellina
Canals.
47.       The combined capacity of the Gezira and 1'anagil Plain Canal is
sufficient either to convert Gezira from a 1 in 4 rotation to a 1 in 3
rotation or to extend the irrigated area by 300,000 feddans. Enlargement
of the hiain Canal is not contemplated so that intensification of Gezira
after remodelling the distributary canals would be alternative to Propos-
al (e).
48.       Remodelling of the distribution system would permit two-thirds
of the Gezira area to be irrigated during months of peak demand (September-
October), and an additional area could be double-cropped after the harvest
of the dura crop. One-third of the area would remain under a full year
of fallow proceeding cotton and changes in the cropping pattern along the
following lines would be made possible:
Gezira Scheme      980.000 feddans
Present  Proposal (e)   After Ro- Increased Crop Area
Use                   modelling    ,   Feddans
- % of Area-
Crops
Cotton                25        25             33         80,000
Dura                  12        12             12V          -
Lubia                  6         6              6           -
New Cash Crop          -         -             15        150,000
Winter Crop after
dura harvest                   12             121/
Fallow                57        45             33
During the months of peak demand for water, an additional area of 90,000
feddans cotton plus 150,000 feddans of a new cash crop would require
irrigation. The capacity of the main canal. could only handle an addition-
al 200,000 feddans so that benefits have been assessed on the basis of
80,000 feddans cotton and 120,000 feddans under a new cash crop during
months of peak demand. The remaining 30,000 feddans would be sown to a
new cash crop after peak water demands are passed. It may also prove
possible to double crop the 120,000 feddans sown earlier under cash crop
but this has not been taken into account.
49.       The area of 230,000 feddans of additional crops would require
about 1 milliards of water of which .6 milliards would be flood and .4
milliards stored water. Annual cost of provision of .4 milliards of
stored water would be iS 360,000.
50.       The mission has not examined the likely cost of remodelling the
distribution system but the Sudan authorities consider that it would cost
somewhat more than the costs of distributary canals for a new area of one
~/ Double cropped in year following cotton



ANNEX VII - Page 14
third the size. The cost of canalization (excluding the main canal) at
hlanagil will be about iS 18 million or ES 2.25 million per 100,000 fed-
dans. The cost of remodelling 9S0,000 feddans is therefore assumed to be
about iS 8 million.
51.       Operating results for the additional 80,000 feddans of cotton
have been assessed as for Gezira (para.48) with labor return to the ten-
ants from cotton, dura and lubia as at present. Assessment of results
from 150,000 feddans of additional cash crops is on the same basis as for
Proposal (f).
54.       Approximate operating results would be:
I-S rndl:l.iqns
Irhcreased returns
Cotton                                   4.8
New Cash Crops                           2.7     7.5
Less Increa ed Costs
Cotton (including tenant's labor
and Government services)               3,6
New Cash Crops                            .6     4?
Net Retu_rn                                        3.3
Less Cost of Provision of Water                      L
Increased Net Income                              2.9
53.       Under existing arrangements, bS 2.1 million of increased net in-
come would accrue to the tenants. The Government's share of the net re-
turn would be ES1.2 million and after meeting the water charge the Govern-
ment's increased net income would be IS .8 million or 10% on the investment.
Cotton export duty would add a further iS .4 million making the total re-
turn on investment 15%.
5X4.      Assuming that the tenants are charged iS 4 per feddan (1S 600,000)
for water to intensify the rotation with additional cash crops, increased
net income would be distributed:
LS Million
Government                                   1.4
Tenants (increased net income)               1.5
56.       Benefits as assessed above would be attractive.  On the other
hand, the estimated cost of remodelling is most approximate; there would
probably be serious engineering difficulties in remodelling the canal
system, and; serious social and political problems would be involved in
the necessary reduction of farm size and reallocation of tenancies. Fur-
ther study of the proposal is necessary and fully warranted in case sub-
stentially less than 200,000 feddans of suitable land can be located for
Proposal (e).



E         G         Y         PT
..  .  .     / bBE i,9                                          SUDAN
WADI HALFA                  /
V9,pY '                    '~            ~        IRRIGATION
-          Existing Gravity Irrigation
-    Existing Private Pump Schemes
a f "  Existing Government Pump Schemes
Managil Gravity Project
1': I'1 il KEnana Gravity Project
BORGEIG                       ABU HAMED             Proposed Khashm el Girba Scheme
DONGOLA                                               oQ    Existing Basins         -<
W|OKERVA                      -)).iExisting Flush Irrigation|
LETTn
.     v                    VEBARAKA
Of Ui I D0 
4                       \ GAS ! 9                      v~~~G
KHARTOUM                      KHASHMi7
EL GIRBA ,
JEBEL AULIA
WAD 4IMR1   I-0 bAD MEDANI
.     )     .                                              GEOAREF GEOAREF
DUE/Mi 
WARR
,.iJ '   p
RLPROPOS90
ER ROSEIESL T41VA
/               ~~   ~~~~0 50  100  150  200 KM
MALAK(
APRIL 1959                                                                   IBRO-567



