R E S T R I C T E D
E     COPY            R e p o r t N o.  P-253
P (IDA) 2
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and the Association. It
may not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
The Bank and the Association accept no responsibility for the accuracy or
completeness of the contents of the report.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATIONS
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
CONCERNING A PROPOSED LOAN
FROM THE BANK
AND CONCERNING
A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
FROM THE ASSOCIATION
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF THE SUDAN
ROSEIRES IRRIGATION PROJECT
June 7, 1961



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AIM DEVELOPivENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMNENDATIONS OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS CONCERNING A
PROPOSED LOAIN FROM TIHE BANK AND CONCERNING
A DEVELOPMENT CREDIT FROM THE ASSOCIATION
TO THE REPUBLIC OF THE SUDAN
ROSEIRES IRRIGATION PROJECT
1.        I submit herewith the following report and recommendations on a
proposed loan from the Bank in an amount in various currencies equivalent to
$19.5 million and a proposed development credit from the Association in an
amount in various currencies equivalent to $13.0 million, to the Republic of
the Sudan, to finance part of the foreign exchange cost of the Roseires
Irrigation Project.
PART I - HISTORICAL
2.        In 1958 the Sudan Government requested the Bankts assistance in
financing the foreign exchange cost of the Managil Irrigation scheme and of
the proposed storage dam at Roseires. The Bank agreed to study the technical
and economic aspects of the projects with the reservation, however, that it
would not consider participation in the financing of these projects until an
adequate agreement was reached on the use of Nile waters. In October 1958 a
Bank mission visited the Sudan. Its report was circulated to the Executive
Directors on April 20, 1959 (R59-34). The Mission reported favorably on both
projects, recommended priority for the completion of the Managil Irrigation
Project and indicated the need for further investigation and study of the
Roseires Irrigation Project. An agreement on the Nile waters between the
Sudan and the United Arab Republic was reached in November 1959. This agree-
ment makes provision for dealing with claims of other riparian states. In
March and May 1960, Bank missions visited the Sudan for further examination
of the projects. On June 17, 1960, the Bank made a $15.5 million loan to
Sudan to meet part of the foreign exchange cost of the Managil Irrigation
Project.
3.        During my visit to the Sudan in May 1960, I agreed witlh the request
of the Government that the Bank explore whether capital-exporting members of
the Bank might be interested in participating in the financing of the project.
I then informed the Government that in view of Sudants development needs and
its balance of payments position, I would give sympathetic consideration to
providing from the Association a portion of the required foreign exchange for
this project.



- 2 -
4.        In response to the Bank's approach to several member countries,
the Government of the Republic of West Germany advised in December 1960 that
it would be prepared to take part (through the Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau)
in the financing of the project to the extent of £S 8 million equivalent.   On
February 1h, 1961 I informed the Executive Directors of the Association that
in the near future I would recommend a blend of Bank and IDA financing for
this project; perhaps $25 million from the Bank and $15 million from the
Association. These amounts were based on the estimates of the cost of the
project by the Consulting Engineers.
5.        Negotiations with a Sudan delegation opened in Washington on May 15
and were concluded on May 31. Representatives of the Kreditanstalt joined the
discussions on May 23.
6.        During these negotiations the Bank was informed that a substantial
reduction in the total cost of the project was expected, hence it was agreed
that the foreign exchange needed for the project would be financed as follows:
$19.5 million equivalent by a loan from the Bank
$19.0 million equivalent by a loan from Kreditanstalt
$13.0 million equivalent by a development credit from the Association.
7.        The proposed Bank loan would increase the Bankts lending to the Sudan
from $5h.5 million to $74.0 million net of cancellations. The status, as of
April 30, 1961, of the two loans already made are as follows:
Year       Purpose                       Amount of loan net of
cancellations.
U.S. $ equivalent
1958       Railways Project              39,000,000
1960       Managil Irrigation Project    15,500,000
Total (net of cancellations)  54 ,500,000
of which has been repaid           -
Total now outstanding         5h,500,00
Amount sold                    2,h 0,000
Net amount held by Bank       52,050,000
1/ Includes $27.27 million undisbursed.
8.        The proposed Association credit would be its first in the Sudan.
9.        At present the Sudan Government is seeking funds only to meet the
foreign exchange cost of construction of the dam at Roseires, which is a part
of the entire Roseires Irrigation Project. In order to utilize the stored
water, additional funds will be required by 1963-64 to commence irrigation
works and farm development. It is anticipated that a portion of these funds
will be forthcoming from the private sector. HIowever, if necessary the Sudan
Government will provide all of the local currency cost of irrigation works and
farm development (now estimated at $50 million equivalent) and to make the
necessary arrangements to assure that the required foreign exchange (now
estimated at $'40 million equivalent) will be available when needed. I intend
to assist the Government again in exploring possible sources of external funds
for these works.



- 3 -
PART II - DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSED LOAN AND DEVELOPKENT CREDIT
10.       The proposed loan and the proposed credit would have the
following characteristics:
Borrower:                The Republic of the Sudan.
Loan Amount:            Equivalent in various currencies to $19.5 million.
Credit Amount:           Equivalent in various currencies to rP13.0 million.
Purpose:                To finance part of the foreign exchange cost of the
Roseires Irrigation Project, in particular the cost
of the construction of a dam 60 meters in height on
the Blue Nile near Roseires, and the necessary works
to regulate the release of stored water.
Term and Amortization    25 years; 37 semi-annual payments beginning July 15,
of Loan:                1968 and ending July 15, 1986.
Term and Amortization    50 years; 80 semi-annual repayments of the orincipal,
of Credit:               1% of principal amount to be repaid annually
beginning July 15, 1971 and ending January 15, 1981,
and 3% annually beginning July 15, 1981 and ending
January 15, 2011.
Interest Rate on Loan:  5-3/4% Der annum, including 1% per annum
commission.
Commitment Charge on     3/4 of 1% per annum.
Loan:
Service Charge on        3/h of 1% per annum on the amount disbursed and
Credit:                  outstanding, payable semi-annually beginning
January 15, 1962.
PART III - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUJTHORITY
11.       Attached are the following documents:
(i) Draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of the Sudan
and the Bank (No. 1);
(ii) Draft DeveloDment Credit Agreement between the Republic
of the Sudan and the Association (No. 2);
(iii) Draft Administration Agreement, to which Sudan, the
Association, the Bank and Kreditanstalt would all be
parties (No. 3);



-4 -
(iv) The report of the Committee provided Oor in Article III,
Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank
and of the Committee provided for in Article V, Section
l(d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Association
(Nos. h and 5).
12.       The draft Loan Agreement follows in large part the previous
agreement with Sudan for the Managil Irrigation Project and contains a
number of provisions in common with the Credit Agreement. The recently
adopted Credit Regulations No. 1 of the Association would apply to the Credit
Agreement. The Administration Agreement regulates certain matters of common
interest to the Bank, the Association and Kreditanstalt and contains special
provisions resulting from the joint financing. The following points are of
special interest:
(a) Requests to withdraw funds under the Loan, the Development
Credit and the loan from Kreditanstalt fur 1,4iederaufbau
would be channeled through the Bank, and disbursements would
be made by the three lenders on a proportionate basis
(Sections 2.05 - 2.09, Administration Agreement), against a
List of Goods approved by all of them. (Sections 2.02 and
2.0h, Administration Agreement).
(b) While the Bank would process withdrawals and administer a
number of other matters of common interest to the three
lenders, it would be bound only to exercise the same
degree of care as in administering its own affairs
(Section 3.02, Administration Agreement).
(c) The joint aspects of the financing are also reflected in
provisions regarding proportionate prepayment and
proportionate cancellation of the joint financing (Sections
5.08 and 6.02(c), Loan Agreement, and 5.02(c), Credit
Agreement); making the three loans interdependent insofar as
suspension or termination of withdrawals, and prematuring,
are concerned (Sections 6.02(a) and (b), Loan Agreement, and
5.02(a) and (b), Credit Agreement); and making the conclusion
and coming into effect of the other agreements additional
conditions precedent to effectiveness (Articles VII, Loan
Agreement, and VI, Credit Agreement).
13.       As in the case of previous Bank loans to the Borrower, a law is to
be enacted by Sudan ratifying the Loan Agreement. The law would also ratify
the Association Credit Agreement, the Administration Agreement and the
Kreditanstalt Loan Agreement.
PART IV - APPRAISAL OF THE PROPOSED LOAN AND DEVELOMENT CREDIT
14.       A detailed appraisal of the Roseires Irrigation Project (TO-277a)
is attached (No. 6).



-5-
The Project
15.       The project consists of the construction of a dam, and additional
works and services necessary fuP.y to utilize the water impounded by the dam
after its comoletion.
16.       The dam will be constructed on the Blue Nile near the town of
Roseires, 106 km downstream from the Ethiopian border. The gross storage of
the reservoir is estimated at 2,72L million m3 per annum, net after evapora-
tion. It will more than double the amount of water now available for use
during the annual season of shortage. The dam would be constructed so as to
permit heightening for further expansion of irrigation, and possibly addition
of a hydroelectric plant.
17.       The develo-pment of irrigation works and farm development would
include new pump irrigation schemes, and the extension and intensification of
the Gezira-4anagil gravity irrigation schemes.
18.       The water at the Roseires reservoir will be used to convert 3L1,000
feddans from restricted to unrestricted pump irrigation; intensify cropping on
290,000 feddans in the Gezira-Managil area; increase the area under pump-
scheme irrigation by 670,000 feddans and to extend gravity irrigation to
200,000 feddans of land adjoining the existing Gezira-Managil areas. The
balance of stored water (approximately 800 million m3) will be allocated to
irrigation uses to be determined on the basis of research to be undertaken
for the purpose.
19.       The annual net benefits of the Project would include the return to
the Government of £s 5.5 million, the return to pump licensees of £S 2.2
million and the increased return to the tenant farmers of ES 8.0 million.
The total net benefit, therefore, would be about £S 15.7 million, which
represents about 23% of the investment. This estimate of benefits is based
on the assumption that presently stored water and water to be stored at
Roseires will be used for irrigation purposes as soon as land suitable for
irrigation is ready for cultivation, by far the most economic use of water.
There is sufficient good land available for this purpose.
20.       Construction of the dam and regulatory works will be carried out
by contractors selected on the basis of international competitive bidding.
This part of the Project will be executed under auspices of the Ministry of
Irrigation and Hydroelectric Power, assisted by consulting engineers (Sir
Alexander Gibb and Partners of London and Messr. Andre Coyne and Jean
Bellier of Paris) who were entrusted with the design of the dam. Sir Alexan-
der Gibb and Partners will supervise the dam construction. The Ministries of
Irrigation and Hydroelectric Power and of Agriculture, and the Gezira Board
and the Nile Pumps Control Board will be responsible for implementing the
second part of the Project.
Financing Arrangements
21.       The cost of the dam and the Preliminary and Associated Works is
estimated to be £3 30.75 ($88.2) millioil of which £3 19.h0 ($55.6) million
will be in foreign exchange, including the service charge on the proposed



- 6 -
credit and interest during a seven-year grace i riod on the proposed loans
from the Bank and Kreditanstalt. The Sudan Government in addition to meeting
£S 1.31 (33.7) million of foreign exchange cost of the Associated Works will
Drovide from its own resources all local currency costs. The remaining
£S 17.95 ($51.5) million equivalent in foreign exchange will be financed as
outlined in paragraph 6 above. The terms of the proposed financing by the Bank
and the Association are specified in paragraph 10 above; the loan fromf Kreditan-
stalt would be for a term of 20 years including a seven-year grace period and
would bear an interest of 50% per annum; there would be no commitment charge.
Procurement and Disbursement
22.       The Government and its agencies are following their normal practice
of calling for bids on an international basis. The civil works in conmection
with the dam will be carried out under a main contract for which bids were
invited on an international basis. The bids have been received and the Bank is
satisfied that the Government has observed acceptable standards of competitive
bidding.
23.       It has been agreed between the Borrower and the Lenders that all
payments for goods and services would be made by the Sudan Government, who
would then request reimbursement. Capitalized interest on the Bank and Kredita-
nstalt loans would be charged directly to their loan accounts as it ealls due;
service charge on the proposed credit would not be capitalized. Requests for
reimbursement would be channeled through the Bank and the Administration
Agreement makes provision for disbursements by each lender in proportion to
its share of the total financing (exclusive of capitalized interest) by all of
them. Thus the percentage to be disbursed by the Bank, Kreditanstalt and the
Association would be 35, 35 and 30 respectively of amounts requested.
Economic Situation
2L.       A report on the "Current Economic Position and Prospects of Sudan"
(No. R-61-08) was distributed on June 7.
25.       The Sudan's economy has recovered from the serious recession of 1957
and 1958, brought about largely by the steep fall in world prices of long
staple cotton, the country's major export commodity. Various factors have
combined in producing this result: long staple cotton prices have improved
greatly since the spring of 1959; cotton stocks from previous years were
disoosed of; the Government has followed a determined policy of fiscal
restraint and finally capital imports from various sources have increased.
26.       The balance of payments in 1959 and 1960 was favorable. Foreign
exchange reserves increased during these two years by almost 3 40 million and
have now reached a level of approximately £S 60 million, equivalent to the
value of about one year of imports.  It can be expected, however, that the
reserves may somewhat decline when Sudan repays medium term credits of some
£3 6 million, granted by the United Kingdom and West Germany in 1959.
27.       The past financial year (1959/60) showed a substantial surplus on
overall public account which made Government balances rise to a comfortable
level and helped to keep the expansion of money supply within safe limits
despite the expansionary effects of rising foreign exchange reserves.



- 7 -
28.       Prospects for the current year are also satisfactory.   Public
savings should be sufficient to cover that part of public investment which
will not be financed from foreign credits and there is no reason to expect
adverse developments in the balance of payments.
29.       However, Sudan's public investment needs in the coming years will
be heavy. A survey based largely on projects for which commitments have
already been made, indicates minimum total expenditures of about £S 165-170
million over the next 7 years. Of this total approximately 50% would be for
imports. The proposed investments appear on the whole to be justified. In
addition when an integrated development program is prepared some additional
projects of high priority, especially in sectors such as education and
transport, may be undertaken.
30.       Although average per capita income in the Sudan is only about ~$80
per annum, the Government has been able to obtain from budgetary savings a
significant portion of the resources required for public investment. Provided
a prudent fiscal policy is continued, savings of about £5 90 million should
become available from the budget over the next 7 years. About £S 20 million
will be available from abroad as a result of arrangements already in effect.
As only insignificant contributions can be expected from private savings
tbh balance of approximately £3 60-65 million will have to be sought abroad.
31.       If Sudan were to borrow all of the required £S 60-65 million on
conventional terms, its total external debt charges in the late 1960ts might
well reach 10% of its expected foreign exchange earnings and about 2.5% of
gross national product. These percentages would become higher if some
additional borrowing for public investment of high priority would be under-
taken in the comirg 7 years.
32.       In view of the high degree of dependence of the economy on one
exoort commodity - long-staple cotton - and the resulting vulnerability of
Sudan's balance of payments, these percentages must be considered as high.
It would, therefore, be imprudent if the Sudan, in pursuing its justifiable
development efforts, exhausted its debt servicing capacity before the
expansion and the diversification of its economy were well advanced.   It is
for this reason that I propose that a part of the financing of the foreign
exchange cost of the project should be provided through a credit of $13
million from the Association.
Prospects of Fulfillment of Obligations
33.       Duaring the last 5 years Sudan has witnessed substantial further
economic expansion particularly in agriculture.   The country's development
potential remains quite large and the prospects for further economic growth
are favorable if an adequate rate of public and private investment can be
maintained. Foreign exchange earnings, which in the last few years averaged
about £5 70 million per year should rise to about £3 100 million by the end
of the present decade.
3h.       Estimated service payments on Sudan's existing public external debt
are relatively high during the next few years but they decline after 1965.
If the proposed borrowings for high priority investments are contracted on



- 8 -
appropriately long terms, Sudan should be able to meet the service charges on
its external debt, including the obligations resu?ting from the financing of
the construction of the Roseires dam.
PART V - COMPLIANCE WlITH ARTICLES OF AGREEiVIENT
35.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan and the proposed development
credit comply respectively with the Articles of Agreement of the Bank and of
the Association.
PART VI - RECOMIENDATIONS
36.       I recommend that:
(a) The Bank make a loan to the Republic of the Sudan in an amount
in various currencies equivalent to $19.5 million for a term of 25 years, at
an interest rate of 5-3/4% per annum (including commission) and on such other
terms as are specified in the attached draft Loan Agreement and draft Admini-
stration Agreement and that the Executive Directors of the Bank adopt a Reso-
lution to that effect in the form attached (No. 7); and
(b) The Association make available to the Republic of the Sudan a
development credit in an amount in various currencies equivalent to $13.0
mill.ion for a term of 50 years, with a ten-year grace period, bearing a
service charge of 3/4 of 1% per annum on the amount disbursed and outstanding
and on such other terms as are specified in the attached draft Development
Credit Agreement and draft Administration Agreement, and that the Executive
Directors of the Association adopt a Resolution to that effect in the form
attached (No. 8).
Eugene R. Black
Washington, D.C.
June 7,1961
Attachments (v)



