Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 14582
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN/CREDIT
(LOAN 3421-IN; CREDITS 2316-0-IN AND 2316-1-IN)
JUNE 7, 1995
Country Operations, Industry & Finance Division
Country Department II
South Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit: Indian Rupees (Rs.)
1991   US$1.00 = Rs. 22.7 (Official Rate)
1992 US$1.00 = Rs. 26.0 (Official Rate)
1992   US$1.00 = Rs. 30.4 (Market Rate)
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
BWTR    Board for Industrial and Financial Reconstruction
EFF      Extended Fund Facility
ESAF    Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
GCA      General Currency Area
GDP      Gross Domestic Product
IDA      International Development Association
IMF      International Monetary Fund
LERM    Liberalized exchange rate management system
NRF      National Renewal Fund
NRIs    Non-Resident Indians
PCR      Project Completion Report
RBI      Reserve Bank of India
RPA      Rupee Payment Area
SAC      Structural Adjustment Credit
SAL      Structural Adjustment Loan
SICA     Sick Industrial Companies Act
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
June 7, 1995
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on India - Structural Adjustment Loan/Credit
(Loan 3421-IN/Credits 2316-0-IN and 2316-1-IN)
Attached is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the India Structural Adjustment
Project (Loan 3421-IN/Credits 2316-0-IN and 2316-1-IN) prepared by the South Asia Region. The
Borrower did not prepare a Part II.
This US$500 million project (of which US$250 million comprised an IBRD loan and US$250
an IDA credit) was approved in December 1991 and closed on schedule in December 1992. This
project was the Bank Group's first policy-based loan/credit to India. It had the main objectives of
(i) helping India to cope with a balance of payments crisis of unprecedented severity; and (ii)
supporting a broad-based set of policy reforms aimed mainly at liberalizing the Indian economy and
opening it up to more competition, both from within and abroad. Complementary stabilization
policies were undertaken simultaneously under the aegis of an IMF program.
Implementation was satisfactory in most respects. Indeed, in several key areas such as
exchange rate policy, liberalization of the import regime and financial sector reform, the pace and
scope of reforms exceeded the targets. Progress on these fronts has continued since the project
closed. In other areas, however, progress was more gradual (exit policy for industrial firms, removal
of restrictions on agricultural exports), and in the case of public enterprise reform, progress was
considerably short of what was envisaged when the SAL was prepared. The SAL helped to catalyze
substantial official inflows from other donors, enabling India to weather its balance of payments
crisis. This support, in combination with the policy reforms-particularly in terms of reducing import
barriers, reducing public expenditures and easing controls on private business activity-served to
improve India's creditworthiness and stimulate large inflows of private foreign capital. India's
economic growth slowed in 1991/92, due partly to the initial impact of the stabilization policies and
partly to poor harvests, but has picked up since.
The PCR provides a satisfactory description of the project's objectives and outcome; it does
not, however, address important questions such as the operation's institutional development (ID)
impact and its social costs. The outcome is rated as satisfactory and sustainability is rated as likely.
The ID impact is inferred to have been substantial. A planned audit will give particular attention
to the matters of sustainability and ID.
A main lesson of the project is that India's initial success in reducing its fiscal deficit was
instrumental in enabling it to undertake reforms in trade, finance and public enterprises, and also
important in restoring the credibility and confidence needed to stimulate private investment.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their ofricial duties. Its contents
may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN/CREDIT
(LOAN 3421-IN; CREDITS 2316-0-IN AND 2316-1-IN)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface     .      .......................................................   i
Evaluation Summary.                                                                       iii
Part I: Project Review from the Bank's Perspective
A. Project Identity.                                                                1
B. Background and Developmental Perspective.                                        1
Continuing with Change.                                                   1
Reforms in the 1980s.                                                     2
C. The Adjustment Process.                                                         2
A New Minority Government Coming into Power.                              2
D. The SAL Program.                                                                3
Loan Preparation.                                                         3
Objectives and Scope of the SAL/SAC Program.                              4
Implementation and Compliance.                                            7
Disbursement.                                                             8
E.  The Economy's Responses ...................................   8
Macroeconomic Performance ..................................   8
Improvements in the Balance of Payments .........       ............... 10
Turnaround in Macroeconomic Conditions .........        ............... 11
F. Conclusions .11
Part II: Project Review from the Borrower's Perspective (NOT SUBMITTED) .13
Part III: Statistical Information
1. Related Bank and IDA Loans .14
2. Project Timetable .14
3. Loan Disbursements .15
4. Project Costs and Financing .15
5. Use of Bank Resources .15
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official dutics. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






i
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN/CREDIT
(LOAN 3421-IN; CREDITS 2316-0-IN AND 2316-1-IN)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Structural Adjustment Loan and Credits
to India (Loan 3421-IN, Credits 2316-0-IN and 2316-1-IN) in an amount equivalent to US$500
million approved on December 5, 1991. The loan/credit has been fully disbursed.
The PCR was prepared by the India Country Operations, Industry and Finance Division
(SA2CI) in the South Asia Country Department II (Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III).
Preparation of this PCR was started in February 1993 and is based, inter alia on the Report
and Recommendations of the President, the Loan and Guarantee Agreements; mid-course review
mission report, second tranche release document, internal Bank memoranda and Country Economic
Memorandum (CEM) undertaken by SA2CI.






iii
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN/CREDIT
(LOAN 3421-IN; CREDITS 2316-0-IN AND 2316-1-IN)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
1.        Objectives. As its central objective, the SAL/SAC program aimed to support the
Government's efforts in liberalizing the Indian economy and opening it up to competition as a way
of promoting long-term economic growth with sustainable balance of payments. These objectives
translated at the time into the need for a broad based program covering the key interrelated areas
of industry, trade, finance, and public sector. Being the first policy-based loan/credit to India, it was
well recognized that the program had to be broadly based in order to secure the greatest gains
possible from policy interlinkages involved. It also had to be decisive to signal a clear break from the
piecemeal approach of the past, and had to be cognizant of the possible social costs. Such
considerations implied a relatively large number of specific reform measures which could be included
in the program, in part because such reform proposals had long been debated inside India and
enjoyed a fair degree of consensus among key policymakers. In addition, Government's efforts to
establish several high-level committees to formulate specific reform proposals, was very instrumental
not only in bringing a blend of talent and expertise to policymaking circles, but also in ensuring a high
degree of internal debate in the popular press and media, in the process thereby, widening public
support for the reform effort.
Implementation Experience
2.        The overall progress in the implementation of structural and macroeconomic reform
measures, supported under the SAL/SAC program was fully satisfactory. Indeed, in several key areas,
such as exchange rate policy, liberalization of the import regime, and financial sector reform, the pace
and scope of reforms exceeded the targets set out in the Government's Letter of Development Policy.
With respect to exchange rate policy, a dual exchange rate regime was constituted on February 29,
1992 with a market-determined rate for most current and capital account transactions, and a managed
official rate for a few key imports, principally, petroleum products and fertilizers. This exchange rate
system provided an effective underpinning for the significant liberalization of quantitative restrictions
on imports of capital and manufactured intermediate goods which was implemented under the
support of the SAL/SAC program. Also, in the financial sector, the reform went beyond the agreed
action under the SAL/SAC in the introduction of a more stringent accounting system; in
strengthening of prudential regulation to conform with international norms and standards; in the
deregulation of deposit rates (subject to the then ceiling of 13 percent); in the liberalization of bank
branching policy; in the reform of taxation of capital income; and with respect to decontrol of
corporate capital issues.
3.        Of the twenty-five specific agreed actions contained in the SAL/SAC loan agreement,
twenty-two had by the time of second tranche release (May 1992) been fully and three substantially



iv
complied with. The latter related, specifically, to: (i) removal of administrative export controls on
selected agricultural products; (ii) formulation of satisfactory policy for adjustment by industrial firms;
and (iii) initiation of measures for restructuring/closure of patently unviable sick central public
enterprises. With respect to the first item, a major reduction was undertaken, under the SAL/SAC
support, in the March 1992 Export-Import Policy, when the number of items under export restrictions
were reduced from 439, to 296. At the same time, the Government undertook a comprehensive
review of export controls and indicated its intention of further reducing substantially items still subject
to control, particularly those with significant export potential, such as silk, metals and minerals. These
reductions in the number of items were introduced subsequently in the March 1993 Export-Import
Policy when the number of items were reduced to 215. And, in the intertwined areas of general exit
policy and restructuring/closure of patently unviable public enterprises, the Government was keenly
concerned about the political implications of such measures on organized labor whose cooperation
was deemed essential for the sustainability of the overall reform program. Hence, the thrust of
reform in this area placed emphasis on the hardening of the budget constraint vis-a-vis the sick units,
and on progress being made with regard to the discussions on IDA support for the National Renewal
Fund in the context of the Social Safety Net Adjustment program.
4.         Results. While their precise impact is difficult to gauge, it is clear that measures
supported by the SAL program made a major contribution to the stabilization of the economy and
the control of the balance of payments. On the macroeconomic front, the progress in stabilizing the
economy has been considerable, with the management of the external sector and lowering of inflation
taking initially overriding priority: reserves have been built up from less than US$1 billion in June
1991 to US$6.7 billion in March 1993, and inflation has been sharply reduced from a peak of 17
percent in August 1991 to about 6 percent in recent months. The initial slow down in economic
activity and the industrial stagnation experienced in 1991/92 -- economic growth declined from 5.2
percent in 1990/91 to 1.2 percent in 1991/92 -- were caused by the poor performance of agriculture
in that year, and the contractionary impacts of import compression, and fiscal retrenchment measures.
Economic growth, however, recovered in 1992/93, and is forecast to have reached nearly 4 percent,
and despite major import liberalization efforts introduced, deficit on the trade account of the balance
of payments has been kept at manageable levels: from the very low level of US$1.6 billion in 1991/92
to US$3.9 billion in 1992/93. Such successes in macroeconomic stabilization have been central to the
Government's sustained efforts to continue with its structural reforms. The greatest achievements
on this front have included the freeing of industry from various bureaucratic licensing requirements,
reunification of exchange rate; removal of quantitative restrictions on imports of capital and
intermediate goods; reduction in custom tariff rates; and most recently, opening up of banking, mining
and mutual funds industries to private sector investment.
Lessons Learned and Sustainability
5.         The key lesson derived from the experience of SAL/SAC program is that structural
reforms can successfully be introduced in a democratic society such as India, provided that such
reforms are cognizant of: (i) the need to undertake timely and decisive actions to restore
macroeconomic stability, particularly to bring fiscal deficits under control; (ii) the importance of
formulating and announcing such structural changes in a time-bound manner to signal Government's
commitment and to provide an anchor for private sector expectations; (iii) the imperative of
marshalling the political support and cooperation of various interest groups particularly, organized
labor, through consultation, and actions to alleviate transitional social costs. The Government's



V
success in reducing fiscal deficits, particularly the Central Government's deficit was instrumental in
enabling it to launch important measures in the key areas of trade, finance and public enterprises.
Without such success on the fiscal front, it would have been difficult, if not unfeasible, to lower
custom tariff rates, to reduce reserve requirements on commercial banks, to deregulate interest rates,
and to impose a hard budget constraint on public enterprises, which has indeed proven so far to be
the most effective vehicle of reforming this sector in India. While the extent to which the fiscal
adjustment program contributed to lowering of inflation remains debatable, its key role in enhancing
the credibility of the overall reform program and in restoring external confidence cannot be doubted.
Such confidence, in turn contributed to the rapid build-up in international reserves, and enabled the
authorities to move faster and more boldly in liberalizing the import regime, particularly through
introduction of a short negative list for imports of capital and intermediate goods.
6.         Since the launching of the adjustment process in July 1991, questions have been raised
as to whether the Government would be able to build the requisite consensus within the ruling
Congress (I) Party and muster the broader political support necessary to maintain the momentum of
the reform process. As evident by the initiatives taken over the last few months and in the midst of
the disturbances of December 1992-February 1993, the Government has demonstrated its resolve and
commitment to continue with its structural reform process. In continuing such reforms, the very
important measures introduced under the Bank's support in the context of the Social Safety Net
Adjustment Program (approved in December 1992); and the Liberalization of the External Sector
and Investment Regime (approved on June 24, 1993), are clear confirmation of Government's skillful
management of the politics of reform as well as its recognition of the necessity of such reforms for
the long-term  economic growth of Indian economy and efforts to alleviate poverty.  The
improvements in the economic situation over the last year and the smooth passage of the 1993-94
Budget by Parliament in May 1993 suggest that the Government's adjustment program is proving
successful.






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN/CREDIT
(LOAN 3421-IN; CREDITS 2316-0-IN AND 2316-1-IN)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A. Project Identity
Name             : Structural Adjustment Loan/Credit
Loan/Credit Nos.  : Loan No. 3421-IN, Credit Nos. 2316-0-IN and 2316-1-IN
RVP              : South Asia Region
Country          : India
Sector           : SAL/SAC
B. Background and Developmental Perspective
Continuing with Change
1.        Since Independence in 1947 India has pursued a strategy of mixed economic
development, relying on state control of many key sectors of the economy on the one hand, and
accommodating a vigorous and expanding private sector on the other. The boundaries between
public and private sector interaction however, have not been ruled by rigid ideology, but by
pragmatism and above all the imperatives of social and economic development. In a country with a
large poor populous, divided along ethnic, linguistic and religious lines, national economic policy has
required, both at its formulation and implementation stages, building consensus across a multitude
of political and regional spectrums.
2.        National economic policy in India in the Post-War era, assigned a dominant role to the
state which served to foster economic growth and act as custodian of a large section of society whose
dismal economic fortunes have needed state intervention in economy in order to integrate them in
the economic mainstream. Such interventions in India went beyond the usual dirigiste strategy
pursued by most developing countries in the second post-World War era. Driven by the goal of
achieving national self-reliance, industry was tightly regulated, including firms' entry, expansion,
diversification, and modernization, as well as labor deployment, asset restructuring or liquidation, on
a case-by-case basis. As an integral part of this policy, a highly protective trade regime was built up
with numerous quantitative restrictions, high tariffs, and a multiplicity of discretionary import licenses.
A large number of public enterprises were established by both Central and State Governments.
These ware often granted monopolistic positions in key sectors of infrastructure, manufacturing,
services, and were nourished by Government preferences, including easy access to budgetary



2
resources, guaranteed and subsidized credit, and protection from import competition. In the financial
sector, the Government maintained a dominant ownership position in the banking, mutual funds, and
insurance industries following nationalizations in 1969 and 1980.
Reforms in the 1980s
3.        In early 1980s, a consensus emerged that India needed to liberalize its economy and
enhance its efficiency so as to meet the objectives of providing gainful employment for a rapidly
growing labor force, while also generating sufficient resources for social programs and modernization
of industry and infrastructure. Thus, throughout the 1980s, important policy changes were introduced
geared to liberalize trade, industrial and financial policies. Although these measures helped GDP
growth to accelerate to over 5 percent per year during the 1980s, and reduced poverty more rapidly,
India's most fundamental structural problems were addressed only very partially. Tariffs continued
to be very high and quantitative restrictions remained pervasive. While controls on capacity
utilization and borrowing were lifted, the investment licensing regime continued to make firms'
investment decisions conditional on cumbersome Government approvals and resulted in foreign
investment levels well below those achieved in other large developing economies. State-owned banks
continued to dominate the banking system and to serve as an important instrument of fiscal
apparatus, and of channelling resources to priority sectors. With few exceptions, the inefficiency of
public enterprises (which generate 17 percent of GDP) continued to be a serious issue.
4.        These problems were compounded in the late 1980s, by political uncertainty (there were
two general elections and four changes of Government between end 1989 and July 1991) which
slowed the pace of reform and prevented the Government from addressing serious macroeconomic
imbalances, which soon grew to a crisis proportion. The Central Government fiscal deficit reached
9 percent of GDP in 1990/91 and from single digits throughout the 1980s, inflation rose to 10.2
percent on a point to point basis in November 1990, and 17 percent in August 1991. On the extemal
front, the current account deficit of the balance of payments rose to 3 percent of GDP, the country's
external debt grew to US$70 billion, and the debt service ratio increased to 29 percent. External
commercial borrowing relied heavily on volatile funding from the Indian community living abroad.
At US$13 billion, deposits from Non-Resident Indians (NRIs) accounted for almost one-fifth of
India's total external debt. Combined with political uncertainty and the consequent lack of an
effective adjustment strategy, the August 1990 developments in the Gulf put additional pressure on
the balance of payments, eroded the confidence of foreign lenders, triggering accelerated capital
outflows from NRI deposits and leading commercial banks to reduce their exposure in India. The
Indian Government responded by compressing imports drastically, and mobilizing part of India's gold
stock. Multilaterals and bilaterals, particularly Japan, provided significant assistance in the first half
of 1991. These efforts notwithstanding, foreign exchange reserves declined to about US$1 billion
(about two weeks of imports) in June 1991.
C. The Adjustment Process
A New Minority Government Coming into Power
5.        Against this backdrop the Narasimha Rao Government came into power in June 1991,
with the ruling Congress (I) party commanding 231 Members of Parliament out of a total of 521 Lok



3
Sabha (the lower house) members, thirty short of a majority. Even with the addition of eighteen
allies from diverse regional parties, the party was still left short of the majority by twelve members.
The government found a rallying point in the form of the imperative for economic reform, which was
used skillfully to muster political support for its major economic liberalization initiatives. With a
candid recognition from the outset', that the longer-term causes of the balance of payments crisis
lay closer home--in the poor performance of the public sector and the over-regulation and protection
of the domestic industry which resulted in an pronounced export bias--the Government moved swiftly
to introduce an impressive set of measures aimed at dealing with the immediate external liquidity
crisis, redressing accumulated fiscal imbalances, and equally important, a fundamental restructuring
of the economy.
6.             In  formulating  such  policy responses the Government placed priority on  avoiding
defaulting on India's external debt.2 With such a commitment, domestic macrostabilization measures
were combined with assistance from international financial community to operate on both the current
and capital accounts of the balance of payments. Thus, On July 1 and 3, the Reserve Bank
depreciated the rupee by 23 percent. An austerity budget was presented to Parliament on July 24
setting ambitious targets for 1991/92: to reduce the Central Government's fiscal deficit from 9
percent of GDP in 1990/91 to 6.5 percent of GDP in 1991/92, restrict broad money growth to 13
percent (down from 15 percent in 1990/91) and reduce inflation from 12 in 1990/91 to 9 percent in
1991/92. As these measures were deemed insufficient to contain excess demand for imports, the new
Government maintained the emergency import restrictions that the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) had
put into place after the Gulf crisis. It was made clear that they would be eliminated as soon as the
foreign exchange position improved. And, to address the longer-term, supply-side causes of India's
problems, the Government announced its intention to reform policies governing i) international trade;
ii) private investment in the industrial sector, as well as labor and capital mobility; iii) the financial
sector; iv) taxation; and v) public enterprises. These initial measures constituted the basis for a SAL
from the World Bank and a Stand-By facility from the IMF.
D. The SAL Program
Loan Preparation
7.             Discussions with GOI on policy-based lending in support of stabilization and structural
reforms were initiated in January 1991. At that time, the Bank indicated that the reform measures
I This recognition was clearly articulated by the Minister of Finance in the Budget speech of July 24,
1991, when he stated that "the origins of the probLem are directly traceable to Large and persistent
macroeconomic imbalances and the Low productivity of investment, in particular the poor rates of return on past
investments."  Such a recognition was also echoed in the academic and intelLectuaL community.   In a joint
statement, "Agenda for Economic Reform"  (issued in New Delhi, on July 1, 1991), three prominent Indian
economists described the symptoms of the crisis and offered their diagnosis as, "... this situation has come
about because, as a nation, we have got [sic] used to living beyond our means. Our persistently high fiscaL
deficits and current account deficits are testimony to the firmly-grounded belief that social and economic
irresponsibility carries no penaLty.  But history has no special favorites.  We cannot afford the Luxury of
apportioning the blame."
2 Such a policy stance adopted by Indian poLicymakers is noteworthy, reflecting the motto of "self
reliance" so deeply rooted in the country's sociopoLiticaL culture, and cherished by its political leaders and
economic planners. The option of defaulting and/or restructuring of debt obligations, were never considered
by Indian policymakers.



4
that would be contained in the 1991/92 budget and in the related policy statements could provide an
important basis for fast-disbursing assistance. In the context of these initial discussions, the Bank
organized an informal donors meeting in April 1991 that was important in mobilizing support for
India's emerging program. However, the interim nature of the Government, and the postponement
of the elections caused by the assassination of Mr. Gandhi, created delays in program formulation and
presentation of the budget. The discussions, however, accelerated after the new Government
assumed office, and requested the World Bank's and IMF's assistance in support of its stabilization
and adjustment program.
8.         The Bank supported the new Government's reform efforts through the initiation of
adjustment lending. The SAL/SAC was promptly prepared and processed 3 -- a preparation mission
took place in August 1991, the loan was appraised in September and became effective in December
1991, which laid the foundation for the subsequent adjustment lending operations: i.e. the Social
Safety Net Adjustment program (US$500 million) approved in December 1992, and the Liberalization
of India's External Sector and Investment Regime (US$300 million) which was approved on June 24,
1993. Such Bank supports contributed significantly in meeting part of India's exceptional financing
requirements of US$2.5 billion a year in 1991-92 and 1992-93; they also acted to consolidate the
Bank's catalyzing role in securing broader multilateral and bilateral assistance.
9.         In the last two years, the IMF has approved SDR 3.6 billion of loans to India, including
an SDR 1.7 billion under the twenty-month Stand-By approved in October 1991 and ending in June
1993. The Stand-By has succeeded in achieving macro-economic stabilization and most of its
structural benchmarks have been met or exceeded. Discussions between the Government and the
Fund on an Extended Fund Facility (EFF), complemented by resources from the Enhanced Structural
Adjustment Facility (ESAF), are expected to begin July 1993.
Objectives and Scope of the SAL/SAC Program
10.        As its central objective, the SAL/SAC program aimed to support the Government's
efforts in liberalizing the Indian economy and opening it up to competition as a way of promoting
long-term economic growth with sustainable balance of payments. These objectives translated at the
time into the need for a broad based program covering the key interrelated areas of industry, trade,
finance, and public sector. Being the first policy-based loan/credit to India, it was well recognized that
the program had to be broadly based in order to secure the greatest gains possible from policy
interlinkages involved. It also had to be decisive to signal a clear break from the piecemeal approach
of the past, and had to be cognizant of the possible social costs. Such considerations implied a
relatively large number of specific reform measures could be included in the program, in part because
such reform proposals had long been debated inside India and enjoyed a fair degree of consensus
among key policymakers. In addition, Government's efforts to establish several high-level committees
to formulate specific reform proposals, was very instrumental not only in bringing a blend of talent
and expertise to policymaking circles, but also ensuring a high degree of internal debate in the
popular press and media, in the process widening public support for the reform effort.
3 The rapid processing of the program was faciLitated by the Bank's inventory of economic and sector
studies on the most pressing areas of reform.



5
11.         Industrial Policy. Following the major reforms announced in the Industrial Policy
Statement of July 1991, the Government introduced several additional concrete measures geared to
deregulation of entry and removal of industrial licensing, [exceptions in cases required on
environmental, safety, land use, congestion, urban planning, and related concerns]. Complementary
to the deregulation of entry, the Government also took actions intended to facilitate adjustment by
industrial firms (including rehabilitation, restructuring and winding up where necessary). To that end,
agreed actions under the SAL/SAC related specifically to: i) placement of amendments to the Sick
Industrial Companies Act of 1985 (SICA) before the parliament to institute more appropriate criteria
for sickness, strengthen the Board for Industrial and Financial Reconstruction (BIFR), improve its
functioning, and streamline its procedures; ii) establishment of a National Renewal Fund (NRF) to
provide workers with a safety net; iii) adoption of measures necessary to refer public enterprises that
are sick according to the criteria specified in the SICA to the BIFR for assessment of their prospects
and subsequent winding up or rehabilitation; iv) formulation of a satisfactory policy, based on the
review and recommendation of the interministerial working group to facilitate adjustment by industrial
firms taking into account the need for adequate safeguards for workers; and v) formation of an action
program to initiate restructuring and closure procedures for central public enterprise units that are
patently unviable. Also, controls on steel were removed on January 26, 1992, complementing the
deregulation of entry in that industry and liberalization of the trade regime for steel items.
12.         Trade Policy. Starting in July 1991, and in several phases since then, the Government
has announced a series of major measures to reform the trading and payment system. In some
instances, such as (partial) rupee convertibility, the reform measures went beyond the agreed area
of actions envisaged in the trade policy component of the SAL/SAC. Beginning with the removal of
all the emergency measures that had been introduced by RBI in the midst of the balance of payments
crisis of 1990-1991, the Government moved further and faster than envisaged under the SAL/SAC
program by allowing all manufactured intermediate and new and some second-hand capital goods to
be freely imported unless they were listed in a newly created negative list of imports. Only
thirty-eight intermediate items and eight capital goods items were included in this negative list. The
resultant reduction in quantitative restrictions on imports was considerable and exceeded agreed
targets under the SAL/SAC program.4 Also, based on the recommendations of the Chelliah
Committee, the Government implemented a substantial reduction in import tariffs. This measure was
incorporated in the 1992/93 budget, and reduced the maximum tariff from 150 percent to 110 percent.
Furthermore, the Government indicated its intention of further reducing tariffs to an average level
of about 25 percent over the following few years. Two broad sets of actions were taken to enhance
export incentives: i) the (partial) rupee convertibility enhanced profitability for a broad range of
commodities; and ii) administrative controls were removed for a large number of products, and the
control status of others was relaxed (e.g., by allowing the issue of export licenses for previously
prohibited products). As a first step in the process to reduce export controls, most manufactured
commodities were decontrolled. This left agricultural, mineral, and processed agricultural and mineral
products still subject to export licensing, canalization, or minimum export price restrictions.
13.         Financial Markets and Institutions. In supporting the Government's efforts to reform
India's well-diversified financial system, the SAL/SAC program placed considerable priority on: i)
4As measured by value added, it is estimated that about 96 percent of domestic machinery and equipment
production and 81 percent of the domestic production of manufacture intermediate goods is now freely importabLe
at the market exchange rate. For manufacturing as a whole, the share of value added protected by quantitative
restrictions on imports has been reduced from about 90 percent in 1990 to about 46 percent at present.



6
limiting the scope of Government direct intervention in the banking sector; ii) improving investor
protection in the capital markets; and iii) opening up the mutual funds industry to private sector
participation. Thus, the SLR was reduced (as of April 3, 1992) from 38.5 percent to 30 percent of
incremental domestic bank deposits. The Government took a number of actions to complement this
measure, including raising coupon rates on its long-term bond, and introducing a tradable 364-day
treasury bill instrument to promote the development of a broad based Government securities market.
In line with the liberalization of lending rates, interest rate subsidies on priority sectors were reduced.
Thus, interest rates on term loans to agriculture, small scale industry, and transport operators with
two wheelers, were increased on average from 12.4 percent to 13.7 percent effective April 22, 1992.
With the exception of loans less than seven and half thousand rupees (US$250), all other lending
rates were raised above the prevailing rate of inflation and exceed banks' cost of funds. As an
important step to improve investor protection and to regulate and promote the development of
capital markets in an orderly fashion, the SEBI Act, 1992, was enacted by Parliament, establishing
SEBI as an independent regulatory power to regulate the functioning of securities markets, securities
industry intermediaries such as mutual funds, equipped/vested with the authority to prevent fraudulent
and unfair trading practices relating to the securities business, in particular, insider trading, and to
regulate corporate acquisitions and takeovers. The passage of legislation empowering SEBI
represents an important threshold in the evolution of India's regulatory framework. As an integral
part of this process, the Capital Issues Control Act of 1947 was abolished through the promulgation
of a presidential ordinance (May 29,1992). Accordingly, the Government's control over corporations'
issuance and pricing of capital via the Controller of Capital Issues has been removed. Further
complementing these actions was the reform of the trading mechanism of stock exchanges, including
setting up a system of national clearance and settlement and a central depository trust, which the
Government initiated under the SAL/SAC program. Also, as under the SAL/SAC program, the
Government opened up the mutual funds industry to private and joint sector participation.
Guidelines for the constitution and functioning of private sector mutual funds were issued (February
14, 1992), and the responsibility for regulating the industry was assigned to SEBI and RBI.
14.        Public Enterprise Reform. Under the SAL/SAC program, the Government purposefully
adopted two distinct reform measures: reduction of budgetary support and disinvestment of
Government ownership in public enterprises. In recognition of the salutary impact of hard budget
constraints on improving managerial efficiency and in facilitating company restructuring, the following
actions were implemented in the allocation of budgetary support to public enterprises: i) reduction
by 10 percent of the plan investment for public sector enterprises; ii) announcement of progressive
reductions in such investments and ultimately elimination by end 1994/95; iii) significant reduction
in the volume of nonplan loans to sick public sector enterprises from Rs. 55.41 billion in 1991/92 to
Rs. 36.56 billion in 1992/93; and iv) adoption of a policy limiting Government guarantees of central
public sector enterprises' borrowing to essential infrastructural public sector units.
15.        The Government's motivation for disinvesting the equity of PSE's arose from the need
to contain the budgetary deficit and mobilize resources for the National Renewal Fund. The
disinvestment process posed the Government with three areas of concern: the choice of the
enterprises; the pricing of the equity and the actual mechanism of disinvestment. These concerns
were resolved by adopting a detailed selection criteria, developing an appropriate pricing formula and
employing an auction process in which shares were offered in a "portfolio context".
16.        These measures were successful in the 1991-92 period. In a two-phase competitive
bidding operation, 870 million shares were off-loaded, raising over Rs.30 billion. As much as 20



7
percent of the shares of fourteen companies were sold, with the shares of others sold ranging from
0.27 percent to 16.69 percent. The program of disinvestment continued in 1992/93, with total
proceeds targeted of Rs.35 billion. Private sector parties participated for the first time in these
auctions, although the stagnation in the stock market undermined the enthusiasm of the private
sector, resulting in only half of the annual target to be realized.
Implementation and Compliance
17.         Implementation of the program  supported by the SAL/SAC was monitored by the
Country Operations, Industry and Finance Division of the India Department of the South Asia
Region (SA2CI). A mid-term review mission was in the field in early February 1992, when after
taking stock of progress achieved at the time, the mission highlighted those aspects of the program
which required close attention of the authorities.5 Following that, an intensive review of second
tranche release took place, as scheduled, in May 1992, when the overall progress in the
implementation of structure reform measures, supported under the SAUSAC program, was declared
fully satisfactory.
18.          Indeed, in several key areas, such as exchange rate policy, liberalization of the import
regime, and financial sector reform, the pace and scope of reforms were recognized to have exceeded
the targets set out in the Government's Letter of Development Policy. With respect to exchange rate
policy, a dual exchange rate regime was constituted in February 29, 1992 with a market-determined
rate for most current and capital account transactions, and a managed official rate for a few key
imports, principally, petroleum products and fertilizers. This exchange rate system represented a
major step forward in equilibrating the current account and provides an effective under pinning for
the significant liberalization of quantitative restrictions on imports of capital and manufactured
intermediate goods which had already taken place. Also, in the financial sector, the reform went
beyond the agreed action under the SAL/SAC in the introduction of a more stringent accounting
system; in strengthening of prudential regulation to conform with international norms and standards;
in the deregulation of deposit rates (subject to then ceiling of 13 percent); in the liberalization of
bank branching policy; with reform of taxation of capital income; with respect to decontrol of
corporate capital issues. These measures laid a firm foundation for further deepening of reforms in
the key areas of trade and finance. On macroeconomic fronts, an IMF mission determined in April
1992 that the Stand-By program was broadly on track, and the IMF Board considered the staff report
for the First Review on June 29, 1992, and the third purchase in the amount of SDR 61 million was
made available.
19.          Of the twenty-five specific agreed actions contained in the SAL/SAC loan agreement,
twenty-two had by the time of second tranche release (May 1992) been fully and three substantially
complied with. The latter related, specifically, to: i) removal of administrative export controls on
selected agricultural products; ii) formulation of satisfactory policy for adjustment by industrial firms;
and iii) initiation of measures for restructuring/closure of patently unviable sick central public
6 Contributing considerably to the monitoring of the SAL/SAC program and the fulfillment of its supported
agreed action, was the cooperation of the Indian authorities. To facilitate coordination among the various line
ministries to which the SAL/SAC related, the Government set up two committees: i) a Monitoring Committee, headed
by the Secretary of Economic Affairs, DEA, which met fortnightly; and ii) an Operational committee, which met
every week and reported to the Monitoring Committee.  This procedure helped to update progress in reform
impLementation on a regular basis, and focused the attention of key policymakers on areas where progress was
Lagging.



8
enterprises. With respect to the first item, a major reduction was undertaken, under the SALfSAC
support, in the March 1992 Export-Import Policy, when the number of items under export restrictions
was reduced from 439, to 296. At the same time, the Government undertook a comprehensive review
of export controls and indicated its intention of further reducing substantially items still subject to
control, particularly those with significant export potential, such as silk, metals and minerals. Such
reductions in the number of items were introduced subsequently in the March 1993 Export-Import
Policy when the number of items was reduced to 215.
20.        In the intertwined areas of general exit policy and restructuring/closure of patently
unviable public enterprises, the Bank was conscious of the difficulty facing the Government in dealing
more boldly with these politically sensitive issues. While remaining concerned about the pace of
progress in these difficult areas, the measures taken at the time, including the hardening of the
budget constraint vis-a-vis the sick units, and the progress being made at the time with regard to the
discussions on IDA support for the National Renewal Fund in the context of the Social Safety Net
Adjustment program, were recognized to have fulfilled substantially the agreed actions under the
SALJSAC program.
Disbursement
21.        Disbursement of the Loan and the Credit was completed well before the Closing Date
of December 31, 1992. However, in disbursing the funds, a number of difficulties were experienced.
A large number of withdrawal applications were delivered to the Bank late in FY92, and therefore,
most of the disbursement took place in late 1992 and in FY93. Due to the need to handle the large
volume of applications delivered at the same time, delays were experienced in disbursing the funds.
Furthermore, the poor quality of some applications (e.g., inclusion of ineligible items, inclusion of
payments on prior review contracts in SOE applications, lack of required information such as contract
amounts, and source of supply, and general illegibility of documentation submitted) also contributed
to such delays.
E. The Economy's Responses
Macroeconomic Performance
22.        While their precise impact is difficult to gauge, it is clear that measures supported by the
SAL program made a major contribution to the stabilization of the economy and the control of the
balance of payments. Key macroeconomic indicators are reported in Table 1, and are elaborated
below.
23.       Improved Fiscal Management. At the heart of the Government stabilization effort was
a process of fiscal adjustment focussing on the Central Government finances. In India's federal
framework of Government, the primary targets of fiscal adjustment had to be the Central



9
Government. Yet, both the public enterprises, as well as the state Governments6 have also been
affected by the broader thrust of the reforms, in particular, by those in the realm of the financial
sector.
24.            Within this broader perspective, the consolidated  fiscal deficit, including  the state
Governments and public enterprises declined from 11.51 percent of GDP in 1990/91 to 8.84 percent
in 1991/92 and is estimated to have declined further to 7.5 percent of GDP in 1992/93. At a more
disaggregated level, the Central Government succeeded in reducing the gross fiscal deficit from 8.41
percent of GDP in 1990/91 to 5.7 percent of GDP in 1991/92 and 5.4 percent of GDP in 1992/93.
This resulted in the primary (non interest) deficit falling sharply from 4.4 percent of GDP in 1990/91
to 1.3 percent in 1991/92. The deficit figure for 1992/93 exceeded the GOI's target by 0.4 percent
of GDP. While tax revenues exceeded the Budget Estimate because of increased buoyancy of direct
taxes arising from steps taken in April 1992 to broaden the base and improve tax administration, there
was a shortfall in expected revenue from asset sales (see para. 16 above). On the expenditure side,
defense and capital spending fell as budgeted, but the targets for subsidies and transfers to state
Governments were exceeded. The Union budget for 1993/94 projects a total expenditure decline of
1.3 percent, with almost half of the reduction in non-interest expenditure coming from subsidy cuts
(mainly the fertilizer subsidy).
Table 1. Macroeconomic Indicators, 1980-81 and 1985-93
Indicator              1980/81   1985/86   1986/87   1987/88   1988/89   1989/90   1990/91   1991/92   1992/93
Fiscal deficit
Central deficit/GDP(X) 6.42        8.34       8.99      8.12       7.80       8.35        8.41      5.7        5.40
Consolidated public
sector deficit/GDP(%) 8.05        9.40      11.90     10.08       9.99      11.06       11.51      8.84       7.50
Percentage Growth in
broad money supoLy      18.28      16.64      18.63     15.98      21.89      15.34       15.10     18.53      14.51
Nominal exchange
rate (Rs/$)              7.89      12.24      12.79      12.97     14.48      16.66       17.95      24.52      26.4
Real GDPfc growth rate
Total                   7.2        4.1        4.3        4.3      10.9        5.6         5.2        1.2        4.0
Industrial sector       3.5        4.6        7.3       6.4       10.1        7.2         6.9       -0.1       3.8
Rate of inflation a/   18.2         4.4        5.8        8.2        7.5       7.4        10.3       13.7       10.0
Current account deficit
Billions of dollars    2.9         5.99       6.04      6.4        8.96       7.8         7.7       2.02       5.22
Percentage of GDP        1.7       2.8        2.6        2.5       3.3        2.9         2.6        0.8        2.1
Merchandise Exports b/ 18.32        9.46       10.42    12.65       14.26     16.96       18.49      18.14      21.3
Merchandise Imports b/ 15.86       17.3        17.74    19.82      23.62      24.41       25.24      19.73      24.7
a/ Percent change in UPI.
b/ Billions of dollars.
6 The importance of the states finances in the fiscal adjustment process needs to be emphasized, with the
net fiscal transfers from the central government to the states amounting to as much as 5.8 percent of gross
domestic product in 1992/93 and budgeted to be 5.2 percent in 1993/94 and with seven out of the twenty-five
states in India having populations in excess of 50 million.



10
25.       In India, traditionally, a major part of the deficit of the Central Government has been
financed through mandatory reserve requirements imposed on financial institutions. As Table 2
shows, the share of commercial banks in the financing of the Central Government's deficit has been
steadily rising reaching nearly Rs. 100 billion in 1991/92 or 27.0 percent of the deficit. An additional
Rs.40 billion of commercial bank resources went to finance the deficits of the states and non-financial
public enterprises. Thus, the prevailing pattern of financing of fiscal deficits underscores the
importance of the ongoing reforms in the financial sector with in particular, the efforts to develop
a broad based market for Government securities expected to have an enduring impact on fiscal
adjustment. The move to a market based system of funding Government borrowing would provide
the necessary credibility to the fiscal adjustment process. In the short run the Governments interest
payments may well rise from their present ratio of 3.7 percent of GDP, but the progress in reducing
inflation, coupled with continuing liberalization of the financial system, would together imply lower
interest payments in the long-run.
Improvements In the Balance of Payments
26.       The progress on the fiscal front has been matched by achievements on the external side.
India's foreign exchange reserves recovered from a low of US$1.1 billion in September 1991 to about
US$5.5 billion by end March 1992. This build up in foreign exchange reserves resulted from
improvements in both the trade and capital accounts. The capital account benefitted from support
from multilaterals and the sale of US$1.6 billion of India Development Bonds to Non Resident
Indians (NRIs) during the period August 1991 to January 1992. The trade account deficit declined
from 2.3 percent of GDP in 1990/91 to an estimated 0.7 percent of GDP in 1991/92 as a result of a
severe compression of imports, with non-fuel merchandise imports declining from US$19.21 billion
in 1990/91 to an estimated US$14.36 billion in 1991/92. At the same time exports suffered from both
the economic decline of the erstwhile USSR and Eastern Europe and the economic slowdown in
major industrialized countries. The strengthened foreign exchange reserve position afforded the
Government the necessary cushion to move toward partial rupee convertibility on the current
account. The rupee was made partially convertible in March 1992 under a new liberalized exchange
rate management (LERM) system.
Table 2. Financing of the Central Government Deficit
(in Rs. billions)
1987/88  1988/89  1989/90  1990/91   1991/92  1992/93
B.E.
Gross fiscal deficit      270.45   309.22   379.30    446.5   363.25   348.08
Financed by
RBI                       65.59    65.03   138.13    147.45   55.08     -
Commercial banks          39.36    46.20    46.79    54.28  100.14      -
Private sector           125.95   151.35   168.85    212.50   154.88    -
External                  29.24    25.23    27.71     33.40   54.00     -
Source: India, Country Economic Memorandum, 1993.



11
27.        Success in overcoming the external payments crisis came initially at a cost to growth
however. Real GDP recorded a poor growth rate of 1.2 percent in 1991/92, largely because of a
weak performance by manufacturing and agricultural sectors. Driven by the large exchange rate
adjustment, increases in prices of agricultural commodities, as well as increases of administered
product prices such as fertilizer and railway tariffs, inflation in 1991/92, at a level of 13.7 percent,
remained a source of concern, and overshot the Government target of 9 percent.
Turnaround in Macroeconomic Conditions
28.        The turnaround in macroeconomic conditions came in 1992/93, when inflation was
reduced and signs of economic recovery appeared. Inflation has remained at around 7 percent (as
measured by the wholesale price index) since January 1993. This decline has occurred despite large
increases in the administered prices of fertilizer, by 44 percent and petroleum product prices, by an
average of 18 percent. Also during 1992/93, merchandise exports displayed a growth rate of 2 percent
in dollar terms. This is in comparison to a decline of 2 percent during the corresponding period in
1991/92.  This transformation occurred primarily because of a recovery in competitiveness,
improvements in export incentives and a successful transition from exports to the Rupee Payment
Area (RPA) which declined by a further 64 percent, to the General Currency Area (GCA), which
increased by about 10.5 percent. The exports to the RPA are no longer a source of vulnerability for
Indian exports with their share down to 3 percent of total exports from the 20 percent level that
existed as recently as 1989/90. Significant gains were seen in the export of engineering goods (23
percent) and textiles and garments (22 percent). Large reductions in quantitative restrictions on
intermediate and capital goods imports led to merchandise imports rising sharply by over 25 percent
in 1992/93 compared to the 22 percent contraction witnessed in 1991/92. Decreased production and
increased demand combined to make oil and petroleum imports rise during this period, with the bill
for these imports going up to US$6.1 billion compared to the US$5.5 billion projected at the
beginning of the year. However, machinery and project imports rose by only 8 percent during
1992/93, confirming the view that the overall increase in imports during the year was more for
re-stocking than restructuring purposes. The invisible balance also worsened partly due to the decline
in tourism receipts because of the Ayodhya incident and the domestic airlines strike. Overall, the
trade deficit, deteriorated substantially in 1992/93 to US$3.9 billion from US$1.6 billion the previous
year, with the external current account deficit going up from US$2.0 billion (0.8 percent of GDP),
to about US$5.1 billion (2.0 percent of GDP).
F. Conclusions
29.        The SAL/SAC operation was prepared and negotiated at a time when India faced a
balance of payments crisis of unprecedented severity. As described by the Finance Minister in his
budget speech of July 24, 1991: "The crisis in the economy is both acute and deep. We have not
experienced anything similar in the history of independent India." Unsustainable fiscal and balance
of payments deficits combined with the impact of the 1990 Middle East crisis and domestic political
instability, had the country on the verge of default. In the span of two years the new Government
that came into power in June 21, 1991, has managed not only to turn around macroeconomic
conditions, but has also begun a major transformation of India's development strategy. On
macroeconomic fronts, as highlighted above, the progress in stabilizing the economy has been
considerable, with the management of the external sector and lowering of inflation taking initially



12
overriding priority: reserves have been built up from less than US$1 billion in June 1991 to US$6.7
billion in March 1993, and inflation has been sharply reduced from a peak of 17 percent in August
1991 to about 6 percent in recent months. The initial slow down in economic activity and the
industrial stagnation experienced in 1991/92 -- economic growth declined from 5.2 percent in 1990-91
to 1.2 percent in 1991/92 -- were caused by the poor performance of agriculture in that year, and the
contractionary impacts of import compression measures and fiscal retrenchment which depressed
public and private investment. Economic growth, however, recovered in 1992-93, and is forecast to
have reached nearly 4 percent, and despite major import liberalization efforts introduced, deficit on
the trade account of the balance of payments has increased from the very low level of US$1.6 billion
in 1991/92 to US$3.9 billion in 1992/93.
30.        The success in macroeconomic stabilization has enabled the Government to continue
with its structural reform agenda. The greatest achievements on this front have been the freeing of
industry from various bureaucratic licensing requirements, reunification of exchange rate, removal of
quantitative restrictions on imports of capital and intermediate goods, reduction in custom tariff rates,
and most recently, opening up of banking, mining and mutual funds industries to private sector
investment. Furthermore, the very important reform measures taken under the Liberalization of
External Sector and Investment Regime Project approved by the Bank's Board of Executive Directors
on June 24, 1993, demonstrate the Government's commitment and resolve to continue with its
process of opening up the economy and enhancing efficiency through domestic and external
competition. Also, in the key area of the financial sector, where reforms have had to be paced more
closely with progress in fiscal adjustment, the Government has continued with a major strengthening
of the regulatory framework, and with the formulation of an action plan that is designed to restore
financial health to the banking institutions. The latter reforms are expecte.d to accelerate in the
coming months.



13
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN/CREDIT
(LOAN 3421-IN; CREDITS 2316-0-IN AND 2316-1-IN)
PART II. PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
The Borrower did not submit Part II of the PCR.



14
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN/CREDIT
(LOAN 3421-IN; CREDITS 2316-0-IN AND 2316-1-IN)
PART III. STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1.      Related Bank and IDA Loans
Year of                                                                           Loan
Approval   Ln/Cr No,        Loan Title                                            Amount        Status
(US$
million)
1991        Ln. 3421-IN    Structural Adjustment Loan                             250.0         Closed
Cr. 2316-IN    Structural Adjustment Credit                          250.0          Closed
1992        Cr. 2448-IN    Social Safety Net Sector Adjustment Program            500.0         Closed
1993        Ln. 3627-IN    Liberalization of External Sector and Investment       300.0         Closed
Regime
2.      Project Timetable
Item                              Date Planned      Date Revised     Date Actual
Appraisal Mission                 09/30/91          09/27/91         09/27/91
Loan/Credit Negotiations           10/30/91         10/28/91         10/28/91
Report & Recommendations
of the President                    -              11/12/91          11/12/91
Letter of Development Policy         -              11/11/91         11/11/91
Board Approval                     12/05/91         12/05/91         12/05/91
Loan/Credit Signature              12/05/91         12/05/91         12/05/91
Loan/Credit Effectiveness          12/30/91         03/04/91         12/11/91
Loan/Credit Closing                12/31/92         12/31/92         12/31/92
Loan/Credit Completion            06/30/93          06/30/93         06/30/93



15
3.    Loan Disbursements
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(US$ million)
1991         1992
Appraisal Estimate                      300           500
Actual                                  300           500
Actual as % of Estimate                 100           100
Date of Final Disbursement:              June 18, 1992
4.    Project Costs and Financing
Project Financing
Planned
Loan/Credit
Source                                  Agreement                  Final
(US$ million)          (US$ million)
IBRD/IDA
Expenditure Category
General Imports                          500                      500
TOTAL                                       500                     500
5.    Use of Bank Resources
Mission Data
No. of    No. of    Staff     Date of
Month/Year         Weeks    Persons   Weeks    Report
Preparation     July/August 1991    2          4         8        September 6, 1991 (IM)
Appraisal       Sept./Oct. 1991     2          5         10       November 12,1991 (PR)
Supervision I    January 1992       1          2         2        February 13, 1992
Supervision II   May 1992           1          4         4        June 18, 1992
Completion      Not applicable                                    June 30, 1993









IMAGING
Report No:       14582
Type: PCR



