DMI
TheWo,
FOR OFFICIA
C,Z               oZ  3 t -/A/                         ReportNo. P-5678-IN
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
INTZRNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
AND THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$250 MILLION
AND O: 't
PROPOSED STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO SDR 183.8 MILLION
TO INDIA
November 12, 1991
Ths document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the perfomance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be diselosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Curency unit = Indian Rupee (RS)
US$1.00 = Rs 25.84
SDR 1.00 = Rs 35.71
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BIFR              Board for Industrial and Financial Reconstruction
BSE               Bombay Stock Exchange
CCFF              Compensatory and Contingency Financing Facility
CCS               Cash Compensatory Support
CRR               Cash Reserve Ratio
DGS&D             Directorate General of Supply and Disposals
DFI               Development Finance Institutions
DOD               Debt Outstanding and Disbursed
EAP               Environmental Action Plan
NRF               National Renewal Fund
NRI               Non-Resident Indians
OGL               Open General License
PMP               Phased Manufacturing Programs
RBI               Reserve Bank of India
REP               Replenishment
SEB               State Electricity Boards
SEBI              Stock Exchange Board of India
SICA              Sick Industrial Companies Act
SLR               Statutory Liquidity Ratio
SOE               Statement of Expenditures



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDIA
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN/CREDIT
LOAN AND CREDIT SUMMARY
Borrower:               india, acting by its President
Executing Agency:       Ministry of Finance
Amount:                 IBRD Loan:  US$250.0 million
IDA credit: SDR 183.8 million (US$250 million
equivalent)
Terms:                  IBRD Loan:  Repayment over twenty years, including
five years' grace, at the standard variable interest
rate.
IDA credit: Standard (with thirty-five years'
maturity).
Description:            The proposed Structural Adjustment Loan/Crecit would
support the initial phase of the Government's program
of macroeconomic stabilization and structural reform.
In addition to a major fiscal adjustment effort, the
main areas covered by the program are:
(i) deregulation of domestic industry and promotion of
foreign direct investment; (ii) liberalization of the
trade regime; (iii) reform of domestic interest rates
coupled with measures to strengthen capital markets
and institutions; and (iv) initiation of public
enterprise reform.
Benefits:               The adjustment policies being supported by the SAL/SAC
in conjunction with an IMF stand-by arrangement, will
restore macroeconomic balance and strengthen external
creditwoi.thiness. The Government's reform measures
would initiate the opening up of the economy and would
also alter fundamentally the parameters of
public-private interaction in a manner that would
promote domestic competition, improve the incentive
system, and would foster sustained growth with rising
productivity.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the pOeto; mance
of their official duties Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Jank a-ithnrfttion.



ii
Risks:                   Givan the external liquidity situation of India and
the extent of adjustment efforts required, the first
important risk relates to failure to follow through
with the implementation of forceful stabiliza.tion and
structural reform measures. The Government's
determined and skillful efforts to forge the consensus
necessary for sustaining the reform process
notwithstanding, social and political reaction to the
adverse transitional ronsequences of adjustment (e.g.,
subsidy reductions, labor retrenchment, and higher
inflation) could slow the pace of reform and
jeopardize its success. Failure to elicit a strong
supply response, either due to lukewarm private
investment response and/or to shortages of essential
intermediate and capital goods imports, is the second
major risk associated with the program. Finally,
external developments over which the authorities have
limited or no control define the third set of risks
(e.g., slow growth of world trade, ur.resolved
international trade issues, and inadequate balance of
payments support).
Disbursements:           The proposed loan/credit will be disbursed in two
tranches. It is proposed that the first tranche be
set at US$300 million, with the remaining
US$200 million to be disbursed in the second tranche.
The amount of each tranche would be equally divided
between the loan and credit. The first tranche would
be available upon loan/credit effectiveness. The
release of the second tranche, planned for April-May
1992, would be contingent upon satisfactory overall
progress in program implementation and the fulfillment
of specific conditions.



INDIA
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOANLCREDIT
Table of Contents
Pace No.
PART I.    THE ECONOMY  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    1
A.  Introduction . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    1
B.  Policies in the 1980O   . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . .  ..    2
C.  The 1990-91 Balance of Payments Crisis . . . . . . . . . .    3
PART II.   THE ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    4
A.  Background ...  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .    4
B.  Macroeconomic Framework  ...  .  .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .    6
C.  Industrial Policy Reform .8..  .  .    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .    a
D.  Trade Policy Reform  ...  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .   11
E.  Reform of the Financial System . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   17
F.  Public Enterprise Reform . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   20
G.  Social Dimensions of Adjustment  . . . . . . . . . . . . .   22
H.  Macroeconomic Prospects and External Financing
Requirements ...  .  .    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   24
PART III.  THE PROPOSED SAL/SAC .................... .  27
A.  Loan/Credit Objectives ...  .  .  .  .    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .   27
B.  Conditions of Effectiveness and Tranche Release  . . . . .   27
C.  Loan/Credit Administration . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   30
D.  Monitoring . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   31
E.  Risks  ....  .  .     .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   32
PART IV.   WORLD BANK STRATEGY AND OPERATIONS . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   32
A.  The Bank Group's Role and Strategy . . . . . . . . . . . .   32
B.  The Bank's Lending Program . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   37
PART V.    RELATIONS WITH THE IMF ...  .       .  .  .  .    ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   38
PART VI.   RECOMMENDATION . . .39
TABLES
1: Summary of Macroeconomi' Projection3
2: Bank Lending, Fiscal Year 1987/91
ANNEXES
I: Economic Indicators
II: The Government's Letter of Development Policy
III: Policy Reform Matrix
IV: Status of Bank Group Operations in India
V: Supplementary Loan Data Sheet



REPORT AND RECOIOIDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF TIE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
AND INTERAXTIONAL DEVELOPMENT AS30CIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPCSED STRUCTUPULL ADJUSTMENT
LOANICREDIT TO INDIA
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Structural Adjustment Loan/Credit to the Government of India.  The proposed
operation would be for the equivalent of US$500 million, equally divided between
IERD and IDA. The proposed loan would have a term of twenty years, including a
grace period of five years, at the Bank's standard variable interest rate. The
proposed credit would be on standard IDA terms with thirty-five years maturity.
In parallel with an IMF stand-by arrangement (approved by the Fund's Board on
October 31, 1991), the proposed Structural Adjustment Loan/Credit, would support
the initial phase of the Government's medium-term program of macroeconomic
stabilization and structural reform.
PART I. TEE XCONONY'
A.  Introduction
2.        Viewed in the broad perspective of social and developmental goals and
objectives that the developing world has pursued irn the past four decades,
India's achievements are unique. Since Independence in 1947, the country has
eradicated famine and significantly reduced malnutrition, has taken major steps
in improving agricultural productivity and output, and has established a
diversified industrial base with an internationally recognized scientific
culture.   The country has established and operated democratic systems and
processes which have ensured a remarkable degree of political freedom for the
common citizen. These achievements have involved forging a large, extremely poor
populace, sharply divided along ethnic, linguistic, and religious lines, into a
modern, federated nation state. Driven by the need to build consensus in a
highly diverse society, economic policy in Indix has been dominated by goals of
interpersonal and interregional equity and national self reliance.
3.        In pursuit of its development objectives, however, India relied on an
inward-looking and highly interventionist approach to economic management at the
level of both aggregate and microeconomic policies. Industrial policy was driven
primarily by the objective of attaining self-sufficiency rather than by
considerations of efficiency and underlying comparative advantage.   At the
operational level, the policy assigned a dominant role to the state, which in the
process assumed substantial and sometimes exclusive ownership positions in key
industries, and regulated virtually every facet of private initiative, including
firms' entry, expansion, diversification, and modernization, as well as labor
'The latest Country Economic Memorandu (Report No. 9412-IN), which
provides a detailed analysis of the economy's recent performance and
prospects, was distributed to the Executive Directors on August 23, 1991.



deployment, asset restructuring or liquidation, on a case-by-case basic. As an
integral part of this policy, a highly protective trade regime was built up with
numerous quantitative restrictions, high tariffs, and a multiplicity of
discretionary import licenses. Over time, the trade regime became intertwined
with the fiscal apparatus as the Government's reliance on customs revenues
increased.
4.        A large number of public en_erprises was established by both Central
and State Governments. These were often granted monopolistic positions in key
subsectors of infrastructure, manufacturing, services and trade, and were
nourished by Government preferences, including easy access to budgetary
resources,  guaranteed  and  subsiest!.d  credit,  and protection  from  import
competition. In the financial sector, the Government has maintAined a dominant
ownership position in the banking, mutual funds, and insurance industries
following nationalizations in 1969.   It has also pre-empted resources, and
exerted considerable direct influence on both sides of the balance sheets of
financial institutions through differential tax treatment of alternative
financial instruments, regulated interest rates, high mandatory reserve
requirements, and directed credit at subsidized rates.
S.        This diriqiste strategy resulted in slow progress toward many of
India's development objectives. Growth, in particular, was disappointing in
relation  to  India's  relatively  high  saving  and  investment  rates.    Its
manufacturing sector and exports, both large at Independence relative to other
developing countries, stagnated.  Population growth rates remained high, and
indicators of the health and educational status of India's population, while
showing some progress, remained among the world's lowest.
B. Policies in the 1980s
6.        A consensus began to build in the late 1970. that India would have to
liberalize and increase the efficiency of its economy if it were to meet the
challenges of providing gainful employment for a rapidly growing labor force,
generating sufficient resources for social programs, and modernizing its
infrastructure and industrial capacity to respond effectively to changing global
and domestic conditions.   This was translated, at the policy level, into a
greater emphasis on economic growth as the primary means of poverty alleviation.
7.        To this end, the Government took a variety of policy initiatives to
stimulate aggregate demand and supply. On the demand side, macroeconomic policy
became more expansionary, financed by increased domestic and external borrowing.
On the supply side, significant initiatives were launched to improve
infrastructure performance, and the scope for private initiative was gradually
increased. Constraints on industrial investment, expansion, and diversification
were partially relaxed.   Price controls were removed in industries such as
cement, aluminum, and paper.   Licensing restrictions on large and foreign-
controlled companies were eased to some extent. Industry-specific deregulation
and promotion packages were instituted for industries like electronics and
computers, leather, gems and jewelry, some of which experienced spectacular
growth in output and/or exports. The private sector was permitted increasing
involvement in sectors traditionally reserved for the public sector, on an "Ad
h2gc basis, often through creation of "joint sector" concerns. While the trade
regime retained its reliance on quantitative restrictions and high tariffs, an
active export promotion effort and (after 1985) flexible exchange rate policy



were utilized to reduce the bias against industrial exports. In the financial
sector, new instruments were developed to stimulate financial savings.  In vied
of the Government's tight control over the resources of the banking sector,
capital markets and institutions began to grow rapidly, becoming hy the late
1380s a major source of funds to the corporate sector.
8.        Viewed in terms of India's historical record, the economy's performance
in -:he 1980s was impressive. Real per capita income robe by 40 percent in the
1980s, compared to less than 30 percent over the previous two decades combined,
helping to make inroads into India's massive poverty. Manufacturing growth in
the 1980s accelerated to over 7 percent per annum after yeara of disappointing
performance, and productivity growth rose by 2.9 percent per annum following a
long period of stagnation.    There were advances  in product  and process
technologies. However, these advances were based to a large extent on relaxed
restrictions against foreign collaborations, and progress was uneven.
Manufactured exports, sluggish in the 19709 and early 1980s, grew rapidly from
the mid-1980s onward, albeit in a fairly narrow range of products.   More
generally, domestic industrial product markets became more competitive. All of
these developments raised hopes that India had achieved a breakthrough onto a
higher long-term growth path.
C. The 1990-91 Balance of Payments Crisis
9.        The severe balance of payments crisis which has beset the Indian
economy since mid-1990, has clearly demonstrated the ineffectiveness of a
piecemeal approach to economic reform. Alt'hough the crisis was precipitated by
the oil shock of 1990, and deepened by the political uncertainty in late 1990 and
early 1991, its origins are of a long-term and structural nature, traceable, most
directly, to the poor performance of the public sector, and the over-regulation
and protection of domestic industry which resulted in a pronounced bias against
the expert sector. The Government's recognition of these fundamental causes of
the crisis was clearly articulated in the Budget speech of the Minister of
Finance on July 24, 1931, and is reflected in the Letter of Development Policy.
10.        The basic policy philosophy shaping economic growth in the 1980.
combined expansionism on the macro side, with continued interventionism on the
micro side. Pervasive Government interventions in the markets for labor, foreign
exchange and capital, as well as managerial control, remained a dominant feature
of Indian policy management in the 1980s. This led to serious price distortions,
inefficiency of resource use and a structural bias against exports.  In this
environment, the shift in the stance of macro-policy from the conservative
management of aggregate demand in the 1960s and 1970. to the fiscal expansionism
of 1980s resulted in large and potentially unsustainable accumulations of
domestic and foreign debt. As the deficit of the overall public sector rose
steadily from 7.4 percent of GDP in 1980/81 to 10.5 percent in 1990/91, total
domestic public debt increased from 35.6 percent of GDP in 1980/81 to 56 percent
of GDP in 1990/91, while external debt more than tripled to US$70 billion over
the same period. The modus-operandi for such large accumulations was repression
of the financial system on the domestic side, and increasing reliance on riskier
and relatively shorter term debt instruments on the external side.
11.       Domestically, the primary burden of financing the Government's debt
accumulation fell on the banking sector, particularly commercial banks which were
captive holders of the Government's securities and treasury bills through the



Statutory Liquidity Ratio (8LR).  Through steady increases in the SLR the
government channeled a growing preportion of commercial banks, demand and time
liabilities to the public sector. Given India's buoyant private saving, this
financing strategy was initially able to meet much of the growing diseaving of
the public sector. However, increasingly India's internal imbalances spilled
into the external sector accounta. The trade deficit rose from US$4.5 billion
in 1984/85 to US$7.3 billion in 1985/86, with the deficit on the current account
of the balance of payments rising by over 70 percent to US$6.0 billion. In thc
years that followed, the deterioration in the external current account tended to
accelerate as the private baving rate stagnated, and as Government imrorts and
interest payments on previously acquired debt increased sharply. In the second
half of the 1980s as a whole, the deficit on the external current account
averaged about 3 percent of GDP despite improvements in India's merchandise terms
of trade and buoyant growth of expor.s after 1985. As a result, India's total
external debt outstanding and disbursed (DOD) increased from about US$41 billion
in 1985/86 to US$70 billion at the end of 1990/91. The ratin of DOD to GDP
climbed from 19 percent to 25 percent over the same period.
12.       Since the mid-1980s, India has relied Lncreasitigly on borrowings from
private markets, and much of this borrowing has been in the form of relatively
short-term and potentially volatile instruments buch as two to three year
maturity foreign currency bank deposits from non-resident Indians (Ts). Since
the BRI bank deposits can be withdrawn on demand (with only a mall penalty), the
weight of these deposits and short-term commercial bank debt in the total stock
of debt (abuut US$18 billion or 25 percent of total DOD at the end of 1990/91)
made India extremely vulnerable to liquidity crises stemming from a loss of
private creditor confidence abroad.
13.       The many weaknesses in the financing otrategy adopted during the 1980.
were revealed abruptly in 1990/91. The increased oil import bill and foreign
exchange receipt losses caused by the Gulf crisis came at a time when India's
creditworthiness was already under strain. Consequently, the country's access
to the international financial market was sharply curtailed.   By end 1990,
India's foreign exchange reserves had fallen to US$1.2 billion (about two weeks
of Lmports). India availed itself of Fund resources, drawing SDR 716.9 million
from the Contingency Compensatory Financing Facility (CCFFI and WDR 551.9 million
as a first tranche stand-by credit. Despite these infusions, and severe import
compression measures, foreign exchange reserves declined by US$1.8 billion in
1990/91 as net borrowing from private creditors fell by US$1.4 billion.
Notwithstanding the liquidity pressures, India managed to maintain its impeccable
debt servicing record.
PART W1. TH. ADUM T PROGRAM
A. Backoaound
14.       The new minority Government that took office on June 21, 1991 moved
swiftly to introduce an impressive set of measures aimed at dealing with the
immediate external liquidity crisis, redressing accumulated fiscal imbalances,
and equally important, a fundamental restructuring of the economy. On July 1
and 3, the Reserve Bank depreciated the rupee by 23 parcent (in terms of rupee
per U.S. dollar). On July 4, the Government announced a trade policy reform
package which, together with supplementary measures announced on August 13, 1991,



- s -
aims at a significant reduction of quantitative restrictions on imports of
intermediate and capital goods, reductions in tariff rates, substantial
elimination of state monopoly on exports and imports, and convertibility of the
rupee for trade transactions in three-to-five years.  On July 24, 1991, the
1991/92 Union budget as well as a "Statement on Industrial Policy" were presented
to Parliament.  The budget announced the Government's intention to reduce its
fiscal deficit by more than two and a half percentage points of GDP in 1991/92,
despite the fact that only two-thirds of the fiscal year remained at the time.
The new industrial policy aims to drastically reduce administrative control over
firms' entry, expansion, and diversification, and to liberalize significantly the
foreign investment code, allowing foreign capital ownership of up to 51 percent
in selected industries (and up to 100 percent in special cases). Major aspects
of these policy initiatives have since been implemented.
15.       Discussions with the Government on policy-based lending in support of
its stabilization and structural reforms were initiated in January 1991. At that
time the Bank indicated that reform measures contained in the 1991/92 budget, and
in any related policy statements, could provide an important basis for fast-
disbursing assistance.  In the context of these initial discussions, the Bank
organized an informal donors meeting in April 1991 that was important in
mobilizing support for India's emerging program. However, the interim nature of
the GovernmenL, and the postponement of the elections caused by the assassination
of Mr. Gandhi, created delays in program formulation and presentation of the
budget. The discussions, however, accelerated after the new Government assumed
office, and urgently requested the World Bank's and IMF'u assistance in support
of its adjustment program.
16.       In  rarallel with  a  Fund  stand-by  arrangement2,  the  Structural
Adjustment Loan/Credit represents a prompt response by the Bank to support
India's management of the transition to a path of sustained economic growth with
external payments viability. It would be the Bank's first policy-be ed loan to
India and is facilitated by two important factors. First, the Government has
firmly committed itself to economic reform, albeit at a pace that it feels is
consistent with India's political and legislative framework.  Secondly, the
international community is providing major support for India's reform
initiatives, as evidenced by the outcome of the India Aid ConsortiLum meeting held
in Paris on September 19 and 20, 1991, and the positive response of several major
multinational companies to India's liberalized foreign investment regime. The
present operation is expected to be followed by a series of policy-based
loans/credits in support of further reforms.
17.       The thrust of the Government's medium-term  adjustment program, as
outlined in the Government's Letter of Development Policy  (Annex 1I), lies
initially in the key inte relateS areas of fiscal and financial stability, and
industry, trade, finance and public enterprise reforms. The objectives to be
achieved in each area in the near and medium term, as well as specific strategies
for their achievement, are articulated in the Letter, and are elaborated upon
below.
2The twenty-month arrangement in in the amount of SDR 1,656 million. A
second drawing of the CCFF for SDR 166.2 million was approved on July 22, and
a third drawing in the amount of SDR 468.9 million was extended on
September 12, 1991.



-6
B.  Macroeconomic rramework
18.       The macroeconomic objectives of the Government are to restore internal
and external balance consistent with sustained growth of output and employment,
and to facilitate the transition to a less regulated and more efficient economy.
Fiscal, monetary and supply-side policies are all being adjusted to effect the
necessary mix of expenditure reduction and expenditure switching.   Initial
priority has been given to easing the country's tight external payments situation
and reducing inflation. A credible program of stabilization is also seen as
critical to reassure external creditors and to mobilize official external
assistance.   The basic elements of the Government's macroeconomic strategy
include (i) establishing fiscal stability through a combi..ation of expenditure
cuts, tax reform, and a streamlining of the public enterprise sector; (ii) a
restoration of external payments viability and price stability through vigorous
export promotion, a gradual build-up of foreign exchange reserves and tightened
monetary policy; and (iii) raising efficiency and productivity growth through the
removal of distortion-inducing controls on private sector activity, including a
greater reliance on foreign capital and technology.
Fiscal Policv
19.       Improved fiscal discipline is necessary to lower inflation, reduce
demand pressures on the balance of payments and to free resources for investment.
Given its role in the recent evolution of India's fiscal imbalances, the chief
burden of adjustment is to be borne by the Central Government. Despite the fact
that only eight months remained in the fiscal year at the time of its
presentation on July 24, the 1991/92 Union Government budget set an ambitious
target of reducing the fiscal deficit from over 9 percent of GDP in 1990/91 to
6.5 percent. Since interest payments are projected to rise from 4.3 percent of
GDP to 4.7 percent in 1991/92, achieving the Government's 6.5 percent of GDP
deficit target requires a contraction of the primary deficit from 4.8 percent of
GDP to 1.8 percent.  The Union Government deficit is to fall further to 5 percent
of GDP in 1992/93, with a target of 4 percent by 1994/95. If these targets are
achieved, it is anticipated that the overall public sector deficit (as defined
by the saving-investment balance of the consolidated nonfinancial public sector)
would decline from 10.5 percent of GDP to 5 percent by the mid-1990s.
20.       As indicated in the Government'e Letter of Development Policy, the
targeted reduction of the deficit tn the 1991/92 budget will involve a balance
between current expenditure cutv and revenue measures, ano will give relative
protection to investment and social development outlays. Total expenditures and
net lending are targeted to decline from 20.1 percent of GDP to 19.1 percent
largely through cuts equivalent to 1.2 percent of GDP in noninterest current
expenditures (notably fertilizer and export subsidies), transfers to the state
Governments and central public enterprises, and defense spendirng. On the revenue
side, Central Government revenue and grants are projected to rise by one
percentage point to 12.6 percent of GDP. A significant portion of this revenue
increase (equivalent to 0.4 percent of GDP) is to be achieved through the sale
of part of Government equity in profitable public enterprises.
21.       The dilution of Government ownership in profitable enterprises would
have two important benefits besides generating revenues for the budget. It would
further the process of public enterprise reform by introducing into the
Government-public enterprise relationship a balancing partner and corresponding



- 7 -
accountability, and ultimately serve to broaden &nd deepen the operations of the
etock exchanges. In conjunction with other measures being taken in the areas of
budgetary and public enterprise reform, including reduced loans and transfers to
enterprises from the Government, the enhanced autonomy and accountability ehould
lead to greater internal reeource generation by tht- :blic enterpriBes.
22.       Given the very short time the new Government had for preparing the
1991/92 budget, a major effort will be required to realize its tax revenue
projections and to translate overall expenditure reduction targets into specific
program cuts. Moreover, some of the revenue measures, while justified at this
time because of the priority of stabilization, cannot be relied upon i.9 long-term
measures of fiscal adjustment. Thus, additional measures on both the revenue and
expenditure side are being formulated. Some measures to further strengthen the
fiscal adjustment may be introduced by end-December 1991 with a view to realizing
additional net savings equivalent to 0.3 percent of GDP before the end of the
1991/92 fiscal year.
23.       Proposals for a comprehensive reform of the tax system, focusing on
improving its elasticity, and hence the stability of Government revenues, as well
as reducing the distortionary impacts of the current tax system, particularly its
dependence on customs' revenues (about 50 percent of Central Government tax
revenue in 1990/91), are being examined by a panel of experts, with a view to
their introduction in the 1992/93 budget.  Substantial additional expenditure
savings will be also sought, with likely measures including further cuts in
subsidies, curtailment of cost-of-living allowances, a continued decline in
budgetary support for public enterprises, and moderation in defense outlays.
24.       Reducing the overall public sector deficit will also require increased
financial discipline by the states, and the Central Government intends to play
an active role in encouraging desirable fiscal &djustments on the part of the
states. Improvements in the fiscal position of states will ease the pressure for
increased supporting Central expenditure in eeveral areas. For instance, many
important public and social services are the responsibility of the states. Cost
recovery for m' s t of these services has been very low and declining as a
percentage of the cost of provision, and enhanced cost recovery will be a key to
fiscal stability as well as to strengthening the provision of the services
concerned. In some caGes, pre-announced cutbacks in Central budgetary support
may be sufficient to elicit enhanced cost recovery on the part of the states.
The Center's credibility in this effort should be enhanced as it promulgates and
implements the difficult adjustment measures neceseary to redress fiscal
imbalances in its own budget.
Exchance Rate Policy
25.       India has pursued a relatively flexible exchange rate policy since the
early 1980s, and there has been a gradual but substantial real depreciation of
the rupee since 1985/86. However, the crawling depreciation of the rupee in the
last few years in the face of growing financial imbalances stimulated
considerable adverse speculation against the rupee, and contributed to the
country's foreign liquidity problems. The two-step adjustment of the rupee (by
23 percent in terms of rupees per dollar' in early July 1991 would allow for an
economy wide re-alignment of prices vis-a-vis the rest of the world, as well as
dampen domestic absorption relative to aggregate demand. In order to restore and
maintain confidence in the rupee, the Government has indicated that it intends



- 8 -
to hold the nominal effective exchange rate atable. However, with inflation in
India currently running at a higher rate than in partner countries, some erosion
of the real depreciation of the rupee achieved in July is expected. Thus, beyond
the immediate period, exchange rate policy will have to be reviewed in the
context of more fundamental considerations, including trade reform.   In the
interim, to ensure that the benefits of the recent exchange rate adjustments are
largely protected, tight monetary, and fiscal policies will need to be
maintained.
Monetary Policy
26.       In framing the direction and operating instruments of monetary policy,
the authorities are placing considerable emphasis on reducing inflation and
supporting the adjustment in the balance of payments. These considerations imply
an increased tightening of the stance of monetary policy through reduced growth
targets for monetary aggregates, higher interest rates, and tighter quantitative
credit controls. As part of the emergency measures adopted in April-June 1991
to control impcrt demand, cash margin requirements on Import letters of credit
were substantially raised (from 50 percent to 150-200 percent), the benchmark
(minimum) bank lending rate for the non-priority sectors was raised, and a
10 percent incremental cash reserve ratio was imposed on deposits held by
commercial banks.
27.       By September 1991/92,  however,  it  became  evident  that monetary
aggregates iere expanding at a faster rate than expected, and inflation was
accel3rating, with the increase in the wholesale price index reaching an annual
rate of 15.7 percent in September. The authorities decided to further tighten
the stance of monetary policy, and interest rates were raised again in October.
Shorter term deposit rates were raised by 1 to 2 percentage points, while the
benchmark minimum lending rate to non-priority sectors was increased by
1.5 percentage points to 20 percent. Priority sector lendir.g rates were also
increased by 1 percentage point across the board. A number of important measures
were also introduced to contain reserve money expansion, including the withdrawal
of several key refinance facilities with the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) and a
reduction in the interest paid on incremental cash balances held with the RBI.
The RBI also announced a further tightening of the incremental non-food
credit-deposit ratio, and the prohibition of any increase in net credit to a
number of sectors. Importantly, export refinance and credit were exempted from
the new regulations. The reduced availability of domestic credit and higher
interest rates would adversely impact investment and the interest component of
public expenditures in the first instance. However, the targeted dec line in the
Government's recourse to private financial savings should allow for a gradual
moderation of the Government's interest bill, and permit a steady increase in the
volume of domestic credit to the private sector in support of investment
activity.
C. InFstrial Policy Refor
Maior XI"ues
28.       Despite a decade of incremental reforms, India at thei end of the 1980s
had one of the most tightly regulated manufacturing sectors ..n the world. The
key underlying problems that needed to be addressed through comprehensive
industrial policy reform includedt (i) lack of international competitiveness and



- 9 -
export orientation in organized-sector firms; (ii) a pervasive high cost
structure, due most fundamentally to high tariffs and inefficiency of public
sector enterprises; (iii) restrictions on import of new technology; {iv) slow
employment growth in the organized sector, with virtual stagnation in organized
private manufacturing; and (v) widespread incidence of enterprise failure or
"sickness" due to lack of an effective exit policy.
Reform Strategy and Xnitiativey
29.       The major  industrial  regulatory  reforms  recently  taken by  the
Government are designed to create over the next five years an efficient and
dynamic industrial sector, subject only to regulations relating to environmental,
security and strategic concerns, industrial safety, and unfair trading and
monopolistic practices.   The new industrial policy, which was placed before
Parliament on July 24, introduces a new approach aimed at promoting growth with
enhanced international competitiveness.  A significant breakthrough has been
achieved in the relaxation of administrative and regulatory barriers to entry,
expansion, diversification, and modernization by industrial firms.   The new
industrial policy has eliminated investment licensing requirements for all but
eighteen industries, estimated to account for about 20 percent of current
manufacturing output.   It has drastically reduced the number of industries
reserved to the public sector, eliminated restrictions on investments and mergers
by larle concerns under the Monopolies and Restrictive Trade Practices Act, and
opened up an extensive positive list of industries in which ownership up to
51 percent by foreign companies is freely permitted.  At the same time, the
mandatory convertibility clause, under which financial institutions had the right
to convert a proportion (up to 20 percent) of their loans to the business sector
to equity, has been abolished for new projects.
30.       Under the new industrial policy, locational approval would still be
required for most investments within 25 kilometers of the periphery of cities
with more than one million people (23 in all).  Because of the delicate balance
of payments situation, investors will still need an import license to import
capital goods for projects in which the foreign exchange content is over
25 percent of total investment or Rs. 20 million, unless foreign exchange supply
is ensured through foreign equity capital. Also, reflecting the acute balance
of payments pressure facing the economy, dividend repatriation by companies with
up to 51 percent foreign ownership has been linked under the new rules to their
export  earnings.    Nevertheless,  the Government  recognizes  the  need  for
strengthening the incentives for foreign direct investment and will remove the
provision linking dividend repatriation to export earnings as soon as the
external payments situation improves. Furthermore, the Government recognizes
that the all financing requirement on capital goods Imports needs to be modified
to allow debt as well as equity financing in order to facilitate financing of
large investment projects. Despite the foregoing qualifications, overall, the
new industrial policy marks a fundamental break with past practice of capacity
planning and entry regulation.
31.       Under the adjustment program, the Government will implement further
measures aimed at eliminating regulatory barriers to entry. Specifically, it
will issue guidelines clarifying that location restrictions on delicensing
Included in the new industrial policy are solely for the purpose of addressing
environmental, safety, land-use, congestion, urban planning and related concerns,
rather than being based on capacity, market size, and other criteria



- 10 -
traditionally used in industrial licensing. Concerning capital goods imports for
delicensed projects, the limits will be increased by the second tranche release
from 25 percent and Re. 20 million to at least 50 percent and Re. 100 million,
respectively. These actions will significantly further reduce entry barriers
generated by the industrial regulatory system. In this same vein, the Government
will put in place a plan for comprehensive deregulation of the steel industry,
the most important subsector still subject to price and distribution controls.
32.       The Government recognizes that the major restructuring of the Indian
economy implied by its agenda of macroeconomic adjustment and structural reform
will depend on the formulation of a sociallv accentable exit policy to facilitate
the closure or restructuring of sick and loss-making companies in both the
private and public sectors. Development of an effective exit policy has been
inhibited primarily by the concern to protect existing jobs, largely regardless
of cost. The entire regulatory system as it evolved over the years has become
highly inimical to exit: onerous procedures for liquidation under the Companies
Act; restrictivo regulations governing labor retrenchment and the strong bias in
favor of preserving jobs evident in the attitudes of the judiciary and
bureaucracy; practices in the financial sector; state and local Governments'
refusal to permit closure of plants; restrictions against transfers of land, and
intrusion of political considerations.
33.       The Government recognizes the necessity of major changes in the legal
and regulatory framework as it affects exit, in order to ease the burden of
industrial sickness and to enhance flexibility and dynamism in the industrial
sector. Large numbers of sick firms are currently a drain on the budget, a
threat to the banking system, and an obstacle to the expansion and emergence of
more efficient firms and industries. Sick industr.al units absorbed about Re. 70
billion of credit (1.25 percent of GDP) in 1990/91 and accounted for about
10 percent of total commercial bank credit outstanding. The prevailing mechanism
for handling sick industrial units in India is their referral to the Board for
Industrial and Financial Reconstruction (BIFR).
34.       In  the  past,  the  BIFR  process  has  been  constrained  by  the
restrictiveness of various pieces of legislation governing industrial closure and
labor retrenchment.   To address these problems, the Government is devising
appropriate amendments to the Sic'; Industrial Companies Act of 1985 that would
strengthen the BIFR, improve its functioning, and streamline and facilitate its
procedures. These amendments will be placed before Parliament prior to second
tranche release.   More broadly,  the Government has established an inter-
ministerial Working Group to review existing provisions of various laws governing
labor relations, the role of state and local authorities in industrial
restructuring, regulations governing the transfer of land, and procedures for
liquidation under the Companies Act that unduly constrain industrial exit. Based
on the recommendations of this Working Group, the Government will formulate and
initiate a satisfactory policy to facilitate adjustment by industrial firms. To
provide for the retraining, redeployment, and appropriate compensation where
necessary of workers adversely affected by the restructurings, the Government has
announced that it will establish a National Renewal Fund (NRF). The detailed
scope, structure, financing and operations of the NRF will be specified by
December 31, 1991.



- 11 -
D. Trade Policy Reform
Maior Issues and Reform Obiectives
35.       The trade policy reforms undertaken in the 1980e included more generous
incentives for manufactured exports, and the relaxation of quantitative
restrictions on imports of intermediate goods and capital equipment. At the same
time, for essentially fiscal reasons, there was a steady increase in the general
level of Customs tariffs. Together with the real depreciation of the exchange
rate which started in 1985, the reforms reduced the restrictiveness and overall
anti-export bias of the trade regine while reducing import licensing rents and
increasing Government revenue. Despite this, about 90 percent of the production
of tradeable goods remained protected by nontariff barriers, and many severe
impediments remained to competitiveness of the economy and, hence, to the export
growth required for long-term external payments viability.
36.       These impediments included:  (i) a high general level of protection for
import  substitution  manufacturing,   and  a  pronounced  anti-export  and
anti-agriculture bias in the broad structure of incentives; (ii) a large variance
in incentive levels within both manufacturing and agriculture, including high
effective protection of some industries and low or negative effective protection
of others, especially of manufacturing industries using highly protected
intermediate inputs and capital equipment; (iii) performance deficiencies
resulting from the lack of both import competition and export rivalry in many
industries; (iv) high transaction costs associated with the discretionary
licensing and other controls of both imports and exports; (v) persistent
difficulties in administering the export incentives resulting from the large
number and complexity of the schemes, and from the profitability of diversion to
the domestic market; (vi) frequent and largely unpredictable changes in the trade
regime leading to difficulties in export marketing and to costly risk averting
behavior such as the accumulation of above-normal raw material inventories; (vii)
severely circumscribed private participation in import and export trade with a
corresponding lack of flexibility and generally poor performance by the
parastatal trading organizations; and (viii) excessive budgetary dependence on
extremely high and largely redundant customs tariffs, whose incentive effects and
administration were complicated by large numbers of exemptions and partial
exemptions.
37.       As indicated in the Letter of Development Policy, the Government has
the following six medium-term objectives for trade policy reform:   (i) the
removal of most licensing and other nontariff barriers to all imports, with
initial focus on intermediate and capital goods; (ii) the broadening and
simplification of export incentives and the removal of licensing and other
restrictions on exports; (iii) the abolition of most of the legal monopolies for
parastatals involved in the export and import of key products, and the removal
of restrictions on private importers and exporters; (iv) drastic simplification
and increased transparency of the trade regime; (v) substantial reductions in the
maximum and average levels and in the variability of customs tariffs; and (vi) a
foreign evzhange system free of all allocative restrictions affecting trade
transactions.



- 12 -
The Reform Aaenda
38.       In order to pursue these medium term objectives, the Government has
adjusted the exchange rate, introduced a new "Eximscrip" scheme linking imports
to exports, and has commenced a process of reform aimed at removing
administrative barriers to imports, improving the export incentive system and
removing administrative barriers to exports, reducing tariff rates and
simplifying the overall structure of the tariff schedule.
39.       Exchance rate adjustment. As noted earlier, the depreciation achieved
during the first half of 1991 is substantial.  Hence, it will increase the
profitability of exports, and will have made many import controls and tariffs
redundant. It will, therefore, facilitate the removal of import controls and
initial reductions of tariffs without much immediate Impact on either the volume
of imports or domestic production.
40.       The Eximscrin scheme. This scheme simultaneously replaces and broadens
a previous "replenishment" (REP) import license scheme for exports, and restricts
a broad category of imports to a policy-determined fraction (presently 30 percent
in most cases) of export earnings. It effectively removes discretionary import
licensing for a large category of intermediate inputs and for some capital goods,
and represents a major simplification of the trade regime. The Eximscrip, like
the REP license which preceded it, is freely tradeable, with its price (the
"premium") determined by the supply of scrip generated by exports and the demand
generated by manufacturers wishing to use the scrip to import inputs needed for
their exportr, or domestic production. The premium (currently about 30 percent
of the value of exports) provides an incentive to exporters and at the same time
is an efficient means of rationing the foreign exchange available for imports.
The scheme also provides a convenient mechanism for further liberalization of the
import regime, which can be achieved by allowing products subject to import
licensing to be freely importable with the use of the scrip. However, compared
with equilibration through the exchange rate, the Eximscrip scheme emphasizes
adjustment through import compression more than by export expansion. This is
because the cost of imports is increased by the full amount of the market
premium, whereas exports only benefit by the premium times the replenishment
rate.  Moreover, if the scheme were to remain in place for very long, and
especially if the premium is high, there is a serious danger that pressures would
build up from both importers and exporters for special treatment and exemptions.
Given the crucial importance of exports, and the basic policy objective of
substantially reducing anti-export blas and of moving to a greatly simplified and
leos discretionary trade regime, the Government considers the Eximacrip scheme
to be a transitional mechanism and intends to integrate it with OGL (open General
License) as soon as is feasible, and in any event no later than mid-1995.
41.       Removal of nontariff barriers to imports.  As part of its efforts to
manage the acute balance of payments situation, beginning late last year, the
Reserve Bank introduced foreign exchange controls including cash margins for
imports, a queuing system for letter of credit applications, and foreign
financing requirements for imports of capital goods.  Initially, as well as
restraining imports, these restrictions had an indirect negative impact on a
number of export industries. These effects have now been largely mitigated by
special provisions for export-related imports.   As a first priority, the
Government will continue to remove remaining impediments to export-related
imports and by the second tranche release, it will have removed all the emergency



- 13 -
restrictions listed above.  With respect to the import licensing system for
intermediate inputs, a substantial number of items was removed from discretionary
import licensing with the introduction of the Eximscrip scheme and through
subsequent actions.   Further intermediate items will be removed from the
restricted  list.   By second tranche release,  the proportion of domestic
production protected by the restricted list would have been reduced by at least
two-thirds, when compared to the pre-reform situation.
42.       "Phased Manufacturing Programs" (PMPs) under which manufacturing firms
are obliged to commit themselves to incorporate specified locally produced
materials, ccmponents, and parts in their finished products, were used with
increasing frequencl during the 1980s and became an important nontariff barrier
to imports. In July 1991, as part of the new industrial policy, it was announced
that there would be no further PMPs for new projects, and in October 1991 some
initial steps were taken to remove constraints on firms already operating under
PMPs. When this latter process ip completed, all decisions on the sourcing of
inputs will be left to individual firms subject only to any remaining controls
on imports inputs and tariffs.
43.       Under existing policies a number of products are exclusively or
principally imported by public sector organizations ("canalizing agencies"). The
scheme for REP import licenses linked to exports and the Eximacrip scheme which
has now replaced it have diluted these arrangements by allowing private imports
of some canalized products. The Government intends to reduce substantially the
role of the state monopoly agencies and to increase the private role in importing
in the following ways. First, following the decanalization of a number of minor
items in August 1991, all remaining canalized imports will be decanalized with
the exception of petroleum products, fertilizers, oilseeds, cereals, certain
fatty acids, and other goods on the grounds of security. Second, dual pricing
will be eliminated with respect to products which can be imported by the
parastatal agencies with the use of official foreign exchange, but if imported
by others require the pricr purchase of Eximscrip. Thus, either the parastatal
agencies will also be required to use Eximscrip, or the discrimination in favor
of the agencies will be eliminated by a program of progressive reduction and
eventual elimination of official foreign exchange allocated to them for these
imports.
44.       Aside from the emergency RBI measures, imports of capital goods are
subject to two types of restrictions: (i) the import licensing system
administered by the Ministry of Commerce; and (ii) a requirement for approval
from the Ministry of Industry for projects involving imports of capital goods.
As noted above, the authorities intend to remove the RBI's foreign financing
restrictions by second tranche release. As regards the import licensing system,
policies for capital goods are based on a list of restricted items for which
import licenses are required and a more extensive OGL list of machines and
equipment for whicrh import licenses are not required. However, licenses are
required for the large category of machines and equipment which are not found on
either list. Some liberalization of this system was previously introduced by
allowing individual firms to use REP licenses to import otherwise restricted
machines, and this provision was broadened with the introduction of the Eximscrip
scheme. Furthez liberalization of capital goods imports will be implemented.
By second tranche release, the import of all unlisted capital goods will be
allowed by the Eximscrip route, and the capital goods restricted list would be
reduced by an extent corresponding to at least 50 percent of the domestic



- 14 -
production of items on this list.  This will represent substantial progress
towards the medium term objective of delicensing all capital goods except those
which will remain restricted for health, environment and security reasons.
Finally, with respect to the Ministry of Industry's clearance requlirement for
capital goods imports, the restriction on imports has been relaxed by allowing
automatic clearance when the required foreign exchange is provided by foreign
equity. Moreover, as described In paragraph 31, a significant increase in the
ceiling value below which clearance will not be required will be effected.
45.       In order to reinforce industrial licensing and to prevent traders from
benefiting from the scarcity premia inherent in import licensing, a basic
principle of import policies has been that only "actual users", i.e., individuals
and firms which use imported intermediate materials and capital equipment for
further production, are permitted to import.   The policy is based on the
presumption that there will be no imports of consumer goods. The pcrlicy greatly
reduces the flexibility and efficiency of the importing process, discriminates
against firms requiring imports in small quantities, raises industrial costs, and
more generally constitutes a separate nontariff barrier to imports. Given the
abolition of most industrial licensing and the intention to remove most import
licensing of intermediate and capital goods as well, the policy has lost its
original rationale.   Recognizing this,  and also the economic costs,  the
Government has removed the "Actual User" requirement for the imports of many
items, and will abolish the general policy.
46.       Indian Import-Export policies are generally recognized to be extremely
complex and often obscure, and for both reasons their administration involves a
high degree of discretionary decision making. Frequent changes further increase
the difficulty of understanding the policy and the time and energy required of
businessmen who must work with it.   In recognition of these problems, the
Government has issued a computerized list, which will be continuously updated,
of each product's import licensing status according to the Harmonized System of
customs classification. At present, the tariff rate applicable to many products
is not readily apparent, owing to the need to check whether an exemption applies,
and if so at what rate.   In the near future, the computerized list will be
extended to include the applicable tariff.   This will provide a much more
efficient and transparent tool for customs administration and for the business
community.
47.     The Government also intends to simplify the import policy by moving to
a negative list principle. Any intermediate or capital equipment item not on a
restricted, canalized or OGL list will be importable with the purchase of
Eximecrip. With a few exceptions, however, the import of consumer goods will
continue to be banned for the time being. Eventually, as regards intermediate
and capital goods, when Eximscrip and OGL are merged, there will only remain a
short list of "sensitive" canalized products and products restricted for health
and security reasons. All other intermediate and capital goods will be freely
importable without the need for an import license (although capital goods imports
will still be subject to the project-related restriction described above).
48.       The purchasing organization for the Central Indian Government (the
Directorate General of Supplies and Disposals), which also makes some purchases
on behalf of state Governments, gives purchase preferences to domestic suppliers
over imports. This purchase preference comes on top of already generally very
high tariffs and also the Eximscrip premium in the case of products which must



- 15 -
be imported by this route.   Recognizing that this additional protection of
domestic suppliers is excessive, the Government intends to abolish this
preference.
49.       The reforms described above will constitute a major liberalization of
the import regime in the medium term. However, more will remain tc be done and
the Government needs to consider its reform strategy for the remaining areas of
quantitative  restrictions.    In  this  regard  a major  issue  will  be  the
liberalization of imports of consumer goods, which account for about half of
domestic manufacturing output. This will become all the more urgent as imports
of intermediate and capital goods are freed and tariffs on them are reduced.
Although domestic competition in many industries reduces, or eliminates, the
potentially available processing margins in the presence of import bans or high
levels of protection, there remains a risk that new investment will be attracted
into high cost and inefficient areas, which will make subsequent import
liberalization more difficult.   The Government is aware of these and other
economic tonsiderations dictating the extension of trade reform to include
consumer goods. However, currently, because of political sensitivity and balance
of payments constraints, it does not consider this aspect of trade reform a
priority area.
50.       Exnort incentives and removal of administrative barriers to exports.
India has a large set of complex export incentive schemes (before the recent
reforms, there were eleven separate general schemes plus other product-specific
schemes). These have been introduced to make exporting attractive in view of the
security and profitability of domestic markets resulting from almost complete
protection against competing imports, and to offset or bypass the high costs of
many intermediate inputs and machines. The system of cash compensatory support
(CCS) for exports was abolished along with the devaluation of the rupee in July
1991, and preferential interest rates for exporters were also removed.  The
removal of these two incentives has been compensated, however, by the replacement
of the REP license scheme with the much broader and simpler Eximscrip scheme and
with measures which are intended to make the advance license scheme for duty-free
imports by exporters much more comprehensive, automatic and expeditious. The
attractiveness of the "100 percent EOU" (bonded warehouse) scheme and of the
export processing zones has also been increased by allowing sales in the domestic
market equivalent to 25 percent of total sales. These sales are subject to a
special excise tax which is equivalent to half the normal import duty rate and
in most cases are not subject to normal import controls; among other things,
consumer goods, the import of which would normally be banned, can be "exported"
into the domestic market in this way. Overall, these changes have considerably
simplified the export incentive regime, and the Government expects that they will
reinforce the change in the exchange rate in bringing a new impetus to exports.
51.       While the Government operates a variety of export incentive  schemes,
mainly focussed on manufacturing, it also implements a complex set of export
controls which are applied to most agricultural and mineral commodities, as well
as to a number of manufactured products. These controls (which currently apply
to about 190 products or product groups) include export bans, export licensing
requirements, minimum export prices, and canalization by public sector agencies.
They prevent or reduce the exports of the products affected and the
responsiveness of their supply to changes in world prices and the exchange rate.
The Government intends to remove all these controls with the exception of a
satisfactory negative list.   An understanding with the Government has been



- 16 -
reached on considerations for formulating such a list. These reforms will also
mean that private intermediaries will have an increased and less restricted role
in India's export trade.
52.       Tariff reduction and nimglification. Indian tariffs are extremely high
by international standards. The median rate exceeds 100 percent, and for
nonpetroleum imports in 1990/91 the average collectlon rate. which reflects the
large numbers of exemptions and partial exemptions, was 63 percent. For a wide
range of domeotically produced products these rates are prohibitive, in the sense
that domestic prices are well below the duty inclusive prices of imports, so that
even in the absence of quantitative import controls no import competition would
be possible. Largely due to numeroua exemptions, tariff rates are also widely
dispersed, with the result that there is also a wide variation in 'he tariff
protection available to different productive activities.  For these reasone, as
tariffs  become  the main  instruments  of protection  with  the  removal  of
quantitative controls, a basic Government objective is to reduce the level of
tariffs and to simplify their structure.   However, customs revenue (mainly
collected from imports of products and product varieties which are not produced
domestically) accounts for a very large share of the Central Government's tax
revenue (about 50 percent in 1990/91).   Consequently, tariff reduction and
simplification have to be accompanied by more general tax and fiscal reforms and
to be compatible with the Government's targets for budget deficit reduction and
for the restoration of foreign exchange reserves. Tariff reduction also needs
to be coordinated with the removal of import controls, otherwise reductions for
products which remain subject to licensing will simply transfer revenue from the
Government to the license holders without much or any benefit for consumers or
for increased productive efficiency.
53.       Recent  changes  in  tariffs  recognize  these  considerations  but
principally emphasize the need for tax revenue which is particularly urgent in
the short run. For fiscal reasons, tariffs were substantially increased across
the board in December 1990. Some of these increases were rolled back in July
1991, but tariffs are generally 5 to 10 percentage points above their previous
levels. This is despite a reduction of 5 percentage points in most machinery
tariffs to 80 percent, and the introduction of a maximum rate for ad valorem
tariffs of 150 percent. This maximum does not apply to specific tariffs, some
of which considerably exceed the equivalent of 150 percent ad valorem.
54.       A committee has been appointed to formulate proposals for comprehensive
tariff reform over the next five years.   The committee has been asked to
recommend ways and means for progressively reducing the maximum and average
levels of tariffs, minimizing the use of specific tariffs, and simplifying the
tariff structure with a view to substantially reducing the incidence of
exemptions and partial exemptions. The committee will also recommend alternative
revenue sources to compensate for revenue reductions which may follow from lower
tariffs. On the basis of this review, the Government will have adopted a medium
term plan to meet these objectives, and a substantial initial reduction in the
maximum customs tariff will be introduced in the 1992/93 budget. This initial
reduction is expected to have a quite limited impact on domestic production, but
as the maximum level declines further in subsequent years it will put increasing
competitive pressures on domestic Industries.
5S.       In  axy, the reforms contained in the adjustment program supported
by the SAL/SAC will initiate liberalization of India's trade regime.   The



- 17 -
measures that have already been taken by the authorAties provide a firm basis for
further liberalizati2n and progress towards the Government's medium term
objectives. However, the pace of further liberalization will be dictated to a
large extent by the extremely tight balance of payments situation and the need
to reduce the fiscal deficit. Imports have been severely repressed during the
recent past, and there is likely to be substantial pent up demand. The likely
surge in imports in response to liberalization highlights the urgency of bringing
about a rapid and robust recovery of exports through changes in the incentive
regime and new investment.
56.       As a result of the trade reforms in the adjustment program, it is
expected that the share of the domestic production of internationally tradeable
goodb (including foodstuffs, coal and petroleum products) free of nontariff
barriers will have increased from about 10 percent to about 35 percent. Nearly
all manufactured intermediate items will be freely importable subject only to
tariffs and the prior purchase of Eximscrip in some cases. Likewise, current
Reserve Bank foreign financing requirements are, in most cases, free of detailed
import licensing requirements, even though clearances will still be needed for
larger projects.
57.       As well as the removal of import licensing, on completion of the
SAL/SAC-supported reforms, the import process will have become much more flexible
and competitive as a result of the removal of parastatal import monopolies and
the abolition of the rules which currently inhibit or prevent the activities of
private importers. on the export side most controls will also have been removed.
It is expected that the new maximum level for tariffs will eliminate a
substantial number of clearly excessive tariff rates and will send a clear signal
as to the Government's intentions on tariff reduction in the subsequent four to
five years. After taking into account these changes and the reforms of the
export incentive regime which have already been implemented, the trade regime
will be considerably more transparent, and discretionary decision making, while
by no means eliminated, will have a much reduced role. This in turn will reduce
uncertainty and transaction costs for the business community.
S. Reform of the Financial System
Backaround
58.       Since independence India has witnessed the development of a deep and
well-diversified financial system with a broad variety of banking and capital
market institutions and instruments. In terms of depth, i.e., broad money to GDP
ratio, the banking sector ranks in the top quarter of developing countries, and
is institutionally specialized between commercial banking and term lending
institutions. The country's capital market is deep and sophisticated and has
found  investors particularly receptive  in recent years.    With  a market
capitalization of US$39 bil'lion as of end-1991, the Bombay Stock Exchange (SOB)
(the largest of India's nineteen stock exchanges, accounting for 70 percent of
total capitalization and turnover), is the nineteenth largest in the world. In
terms of investor base, i.e., numbers of individual shareholders, the Indian
market io the third largest in the world, behind only those in the United States
and Japan. Throughout the 1980s, the equity market witnessed rapid growth in all
aspects, including the number of companies listed, the trading volume, as well
as the amount of fresh capital raised. Furthermore, the country's large and



- 18 -
rapidly growing bond market has become an important source of debt capital to
both the public as well as the private corporate sector.
S9.       The Government's  control  of the  financial  system  is,  however,
excessive, and it has maintained a domir.ant ownership position in commercial
banking, insurance, and development finance since nationalizing many institutions
in these areas in 1969. Moreover, it has exerted considerable direct influence
over the operation of capital markets, including pricing of new issues, margin
trading, and corporate take-over activity. Commercial banking is overwhelmingly
dominated by twenty large public sector scheduled commercial banks which account
for over 90 percent of total commercial bank assets. Term lending business is
even more dominated by development finance institi ins (DFIs) created by the
state to provide term credit to acriculture, industr, axports, and housing. The
Government's dominance of the financial system has er.iblad it to achieve multiple
objectives including mobilization of resources, integration of the rural
population into the financial mainstream, enhancement of availability of long-
term loans to all levels of industry and agriculture, and increa.ed access to
credit to small industrialists, farmers and weaker sections of society.
60.       These notable achievements have, however, been accompanied by some
serious emerging imbalances. First, mandatory investments in illiquid and low
yielding Government securities through the statutory liquidity ratio (SLR)
recuirements have pre-empted an increasingly large proportion of bank assets, and
have limited the scope for proper asset management.  In addition, high cash
reserve ratios (CRRs), well in excess of prudential norms, have also been used
to further divert resources from the banks. Second, directed lending to the
priority sector consisting of agriculture, small-scale industry and small trade,
at subsidized rates have eroded bank profitability and resulted in the build up
of a large stock of non-performing assets. Third, the role of private sector in
the banking industry is marginal and, along with other barriers to entry and
exit, has severely limited competition.   Fourth, the standard of prudential
regulation and supervision of financial institutions, particularly in the capital
markets, is inadequate and needs to be strengthened to ensure an orderly growth
of the system.
Reform Strateav and Recent Initiatives
61.       As outlined in the Letter of Development Policy, the thrust of the
Gc.;ernment's medium-term reform strategy for the financial system would be to
effect a transition to a market-based system operating within a sound prudential
regulatory and supervisory framework. Some important steps in this direction
have already been taken. All regulated deposit rates have been increased in
several stages, term lending rates for non-priority sector loans have been
liberalized, with both the development finance instititions (DFIs) and commercial
banks receiving the freedom to set rates according to market conditions and
borrowers' creditworthiness (subject to a floor of 15 percent for DFIs and
20 percent for commercial banks). In addition, money market instruments such as
certificate of deposits, 182-day Treasury Bills, commercial bills, and commercial
paper have been introduced, and a high level committee (the Narasimham Committee)
has been established to review the structure and overall functioning of the
financial system, including the scope and form of targeted credit schemes, and
to advise the Government on reforms by mid-November 1991.



- 19 -
62.       Measures have also been taken to strengthen capiti1 markets: interest
rates for debentures (except for tax-free bonds for the public sector) have been
freed; the coupon rate on government long-term bonds has been raised; and two
Committees (the Pherwani and Dave Committees) have been established to
respectively: (i) review the need for establishing new stock exchanges and to
improve the wo king of existing ones; and (ii) review the existing regulatory
framework for the mutual funds industry with a view to preparing draft
leg-slation for regulation of mutual funds and other offshore funds, including
such funds which may be set up in the joint/private sector. The report of the
Pherwani Committee has already been submittod to the Government, and the Dave
Committee's report will be completed in the next few months.
63.       Building upon the prootess already achieved, the strategy to bring
about the transition toward a market-based system relies on the promotion of a
healthy competitive environment coupled with greater autonomy for banks in their
lending and asset management decisions. This strategy requires actions in the
following four areas: (i) reducing the level of directed investments via SLR;
(ii) reducing the scope of targeted credits; (iii) establishing a level playing
field among banks and development financial institutions regarding their funding
sources. and tax treatment of financial instruments; and (iv) promoting greater
private sector participation in the banking and mutual funds industry.   In
addition, to ensure the soundness of financial institutions, increasing autonomy
should be accompanied by prudential regulations and an accounting framework that
conform with international norms.
64.       In the area of capital market development where India's financial
system is distinguished by its depth, number of stock exchanges, and investor
base, the key concerns are:  (i) the lack of liquidity particularly in small
stock exchanges outside the principal metropolitan areas; (ii) the lack of
infrastructural facilities and outdated trading and settlement systems; and
(iii) an inadequate regulatory and supervisory framework to safeguard investors'
interests and promote the orderly growth of the market.
65.       Under the adjustment program, the Government would formulate and
implement further reforms of the financial sector over the coming months, in
addition to actions already taken (paragraphs 61-62). As detailed in the policy
matrix (Annex III), these measures would include:   (i) a phased reduction,
beginning in Fiscal Year 1992/93, in the pre-emption of bank credit through the
statutory liquidity ratio (currently at 38.5 percent), consistent with the
reduction in the central Government fiscal deficit, and with the overall
imprc,vement in the management of Government's domestic stock of debt; (ii) a
substantial reduction in the amount of subsidies associated with priority lending
schemes through a more stringent definition of groups eligible for the subsidy,
and adjustment in associated interest rates; (iii) fostering competition,
initially by allowing private sector participation in the mutual funds industry;
(iv) improving the trading mechanism of stock exchanges, 5.ncluding a system of
national clearing and settlement and setting up a central depository trust; and
(v) strengthening the prudential regulation and supervision of capital markets
by presenting legislation to Parliament to empower the Stock Exchange Board of
India (SEBI) to operate as an independent regulatory body.
66.       These measures would form the basis for proceeding to the next phases
of the reform which, along with the progress achieved in reestablishing
macroeconomic balance, would aim to strengthen banks' asset portfolios and their



- 20 -
capital base, deregulate term deposit rates, develop a sound regulatory and
accounting framework, improve liquidity in the Government'8s secondary-debt
markets, and facilitate entry in the banking sector.   In Eupport of these
measures, the authorities have requested the Bank's assistance initially in the
form of a financial sector adjustment loan.
F. M1bic VrtsrprLse Reolrm
67.       Public enterprise involvement in most sectors of the economy has formed
a central element of Indialo development strategy. The central and the state
governments have established over 1,000 public enterprises (244 at the central
level), holding monopoly pooitions in many critical basic industries, such as
steel, oil and gas, coal, powsr, and petrochemicals, and in services such as
railway transport and telecommunications. Over the years, the public sector has
spread into diverse activities--such as hotels and construction--often far
removed from the "commanding heights" of the economy which had been its original
rationale.   Public enterprises  account  for the bulk of organized-sector
employment in the Indian economy: 95 percert in electricity and other utilities,
98 percent in transport and communications, 95 percent in mining, and 30 percent
in manufacturing in 1989.
68.       The fundamental concerns underlying the reform of public enterprises
in India relate, first, to their extremely low financial returns, rigid and
distorted managerial incentive structures, excess staffing, heavy reliance on
budgetary resources for inveotments and operations, and, second, to the high cost
structure that their inefficiency imposes on the rest of the manufacturing
sector, with consequent adverse implications for international competitiveness.
Of the 244 central public enterprises (CPUs), ninety-eight were loss-making in
1989/90, with aggregate losses of about Ro. 19.6 billion and, of these, forn-y-
seven were considered chronically sick, haviuig made cash losses continuously for
at least five years and with negative not worth.  Including the profitable
petroleum/petrochemical companies, the aggregate net return, i.e., after tax and
interest, on capital employed, has averaged only about 2.5 percent per year in
the 1980., significantly lower than the average subsidized cost of debt of about
10 to 12 percent per year, depending on the source of funds.
69.       The reasons underlying the poor financial returns earned on public
investments are various,  including:   overmanning amounting to about 25 to
33 percent; lack of managerial autonomy and accountability; adverse incentives
due to explicit Government guarantees and availability of fundsl and the
conflicting multiple objectives to which public enterprises have been
tradltionally subjected. As an instrument of public policy, public enterprises
have been expected to promote industrialization, generate employment, assist the
development of small-scale and ancillary industries, redistribute income and
wealth,  encourage  balanced  regional  development  and  stimulate  import
substitution.     These  objectives,  combined  with  lack  of  autonomy  or
accountability, have made it very difficult to follow consistent commercial
strategies geared to efficiency enhancement and balanced growth.



- 21 -
RjJ e2mta,teav and Recent Initiatives
70.       The Government's program dealing with the public enterprise sector
addresses the most pressing areas for reform: stopp_ng the drain on the budget;
creating competitive preasures for Improved performance; restructuring or closing
chronic loss makers; arresting the expansion of the sector; and tapping private
finance and initiative. These measures begin a medium-term program of change
which will address deep-seated institutional problems and further rationalize the
scope of the sector through closure, restructuring, or divestiture.
71.       As a first step toward this strategy, the Government has reduced the
industries roserved for the public sector from eighteen to eight, all of which
Involve strategic considerations or resource extraction. This move, combined
with measures introduced under the new industrial policy to ease restrictions on
private entry, will increase competitive pressure on many public enterprises.
In addition, a number of subsidized prices have been raised (e.g., fertilizer),
an important step toward freeing markets. At the same time, the Government has
moved to harden the budgets of CPEs by cutting non-plan loans and transfers by
25 percent in the fiscal year 1991/92 budget and by reducing budgetary support
for plan investment by 10 percent. Finally, the Government will sell 20 percent
of equity in selected profit-making CPEs to mutual funds and other financial
institutions as an initial step toward longer-term divestiture.
72.       The measures taken by the Government mark a promising first step in the
reform of public enterprise sector. Further elements in this process under the
adjustment program include the following:
73.       Rationalization of the scoRe of the public sector.  This involves,
first, prevention of further proliferation of public enterprises. The existing
portfolio of CPEs will also be reviewed from this perspective, leading to
shedding of inessential components. The Government's existing policy of refusing
to take over sick private firms will be continued and strengthened.
74.       Phalino out budaetarv sunnort for CPEs.   In order to "harden" the
budget constraint faced by CPEs, the Government intends to phase out budgetary
support and loan guarantees for CPEs, except in energy, transport, and other
infrastructure. These measures will force CPEs to compete for funds on an equal
basis with the private sector.  Specifically, supported by the SAL/SAC, the
Government will put in place a program for phased elimination of budgetary
transfers and loans to sick CPEs, except in infrastructure, by the end of
1994/95.     Over  the  same  time  period,  budgetary  plan  support  for
non-infrastructural public enterprise investments also will be ended. Government
loan guarantees for CPS borrowings will be limited to essential infrastructure,
oil and mineral resource extraction, and strategic-related activities.
75.       Disinvestment of Government eouitv in oublic enterprises.  This is
intended to further both fiscal and efficiency objectives. Proceeds from sales
of CPE equity will temporarily ease the burden of fiscal adjustment. It is also
hoped that partial private ownership will provide a better climate for CPEs to
improve efficiency. The initial program to sell 20 percent of the equity of
selected CPEs to mutual funds and other financial entities will be completed by
March 1992. The divested equity will then be resold to the general public in a
manner that promotes confidence in the divestiture process and avoids disruption
of capital markets. Building on the 20 percent disinvestment, a program to raise



- 22 -
the private equity share to 49 percent in profitable CPEs within three years will
be promulgated by the Government.
76.       Development of a viable exit Policy for *3ublic enternrises.   The
Government will take a two-pronged approach to exit policy for public
enterprises. In the case of CPEs that are patently unviable, the Government will
develop a program for expeditious closure, with suitable provisions to alleviate
the burden on displaced workers. The Bank intends to support such measures as
part of a project dealing with the social dimensions of adjustmert. Other public
enterprises facing financial difficulties will be referred autc- tically to BIFR
for assessment of their prospects for return to viability, and subsequent
rehabilitation or winding up.3 An essential part of a viable exit policy for
public enterprises is an effective safety net to provide compensation and
transitional support to displaced public enterprise workers.
G. Social Dimensions of Adiustment
77.       The Government's agenda for stabilization and reform carries a risk of
significant transitional costs. These costs include potential losses of output,
employment and consumption due to the deflationary impact of fiscal
consolidation, and frictions in the process by which productive resources move
between alternative uses in response to changes in economic incentives.  The
slowdown in growth anticipated for the next year or two is likely to lead to a
stagnation in per capita real incomes, and some segments of the populat'^n may
experience a significant fall in living standards. The main losers are likely
to be the small minority of the population that benefitted from the rents created
by the previous restrictive and distorted economic environment. However, a large
proportion of India's population continues to be subject to malnutrition and ill-
health, and does not have the educational skills and access to means of
production that will enable it to participate fully and benefit from the growth
process.   For this group, government expenditure restraint as well as the
restructuring steps envis.aged above may prove particularly costly. In the short
term, some urban poor, particularly the unemployed and underemployed, and
displaced workers are also likely to be adversely affected by the adjustment
program. Urban wages for unskilled and semi-skilled labor in particular would
probably decline in real terms as Government expenditures are reduced, and the
liberalization of firm exit and international trade lead to job losses in
inefficient public and private enterprises.
78.       Industrial reservations, labor and labor-management regulations, and
protection from foreign trade have all militated against competition in Indian
industry and, hence, against employment creation. The proposed reforms in trade,
industry, taxation and finance will therefore have beneficial effects upon
employment and income. Importantly, the relative price changes stemming from
structural reform and the increased availability of imports are likely to improve
rural welfare, thus spreading the benefits of adjustment widely.   However,
distribution of the gains from restored growth is unlikely to be even, and
poverty and economic hardship will remain difficult problems, particularly for
3Improvements in the BIFR process itself, now being prepared by the
Government, also will be necessary to make this an effective, smooth, and
reasonably expeditious exit mechanism for public enterprises.



- 23 -
traditionally vulnerable groups such as scheduled tribes and castes, and women
ia rural areas, whose access to productive assets is constrained, and who are
faced with disease, unemployment and hunger for significant portions of the year.
The reform of the public sector enterprises may also lead to some reduction in
services as well as higher tariffs, particularly for water and electricity.
These changes will be particularly difficult for low-income unemployed and under-
employed urban households, and for redeployed workers during the transition.
79.       Although specific measures will be required to alleviate the burden of
some of these changes, the Government's effort to moderate the costs of the
adjustment program is concerned primarily with creating employment opportunities.
Generation of employment opportunities is being pursued along several policy
avenues.   Short-term interventions are being devised to create jobs through
priority public works and food-for-work programs, and to retrain redeployed
workers. However, ir the medium term, the principal concern would be to continue
capital deepening, as well as improvements in capital and labor productivity.
Strengthening structural reforms, particularly of trade, tax and regulatory
policies that affect the level and efficiency of investment, would be critical.
Finally, the Government intends to promote labor-intensive activities, consistent
with India's comparative advantage, and which would offer scope for increasing
job opportunities that match available skills, particularly in manufacturing.
80.       The Government's adjustment effort would also work through  its
expenditure programs to make a substantial improvement in the delivery of social
services and the establishment of basic infrastructure.  In the context of a
shrinking budget, Government is refocusing social expenditures, particularly in
health  and  education,  towards  the  poor.    Additionally,  cost-effective
compensatory programs, particularly in the areas of nutrition and employment, are
being strengthened and broadened.   Recurrent expenditures  for equipment,
materials, and other supporting inputs in health, education and other basic needs
will also be increased.   In the Government's development budget, investment
programs in social development are being more carefully targeted to increase the
access of poorer groups to services that improve their productivity and
participation in economic growth.
81.       The Government recognizes that, in addition to the risks of adverse
economic shocks and an inadequate private investment response, the adjustment
program faces the risk of successful opposition from groups who may perceive that
they are being asked to bear a disproportionate share of the costs of the
program. Retrenched workers and sectors facing zeduced rents, subsidies and/or
higher user-fees could play a vocal role in striving to delay or defeat reforms
intended to improve budgetary management. The Government hopes to forestall such
socio-political risks by balancing and timing higher service costs with improved
service provision, mitigating transitional unemployment through achieving overall
economic growth, providing generous compensation benefits to redeployees, and
implementing retraining and temporary job creation programs under a national
social security fund (the National Renewal Fund) proposed in the 1991/92 Union
Government budget.



- 24 -
U. Macroeconomic Prosoects and External Financing Requirements
Evolution of the Economy
82.       If the fiscal adjustment and structural reforms outlined for the next
few years are implemented fully, the medium term prospects for India's
achievement of growth rates surpassing those of the second half of the 1980s,
along with restored internal and external financial balance, would be very good.
The stabilization measures taken thus far, including a severe compression of
imports, tight credit policies, and the exchange rate adjustment of the rupee,
have been successful in addressing the immediate problems of strengthening
external confidence and restoring foreign exchange reserves. In conjunction with
an amnesty scheme for remittances from abroad, and a new issue of convertible
bonds for non-resident Indians, these measures contributed to a recovery of
foreign exchange reserves from their low level of US$1.1 billion at the end of
June 1991 to about US$2.1 billion on November 1, 1991.
83.       Staff projections of key indicators of macroeconomic performance over
the next several years are shown in Table 1. For 1991/92 as a whole, GDP Srowth
is likely to fall in the range of 2 to 2.5 percent, with significant declines in
both private and public investment.   However,  as Table 1 shows, private
investment should rebound in 1992/93 to about the level of the latter 19809, as
the foreign exchange situation eases, and credit and import restrictions are
relaxed. Public investment, on the other hand, would probably decline in real
terms in both 1991/92 and 1992/93, reflecting the restructuring and rationalizing
of public sector activity.   Nevertheless, the projected recovery of private
investment activity should be sufficient to set the stage for a recovery of
growth in 1992/93.
84.       over the medium term, the substantial contraction of the public sector
required by the adjustment program would reduce the extent of public sector pre-
emption of financial resources, and further improve the prospects for a
strengthening of private investment. As a share of GDP, private investment would
increase steadily to about 16 to 17 percent of GDP by 1999/2000. Although public
investment would decline in real terms during the first few years of the
adjustment process, this would ultimately be reversed in order to allow for
essential infrastructure investments. As a share of GDP, public investment would
recover from a low of 8.7 percent in 1993/94 to about 10 percent by the end of
the decade.
85.       In view of the need to restrain domestic absorption during the program
period, export growth would be an important stimulus to growth of output and
employment. The structural reforms under implementation and envisaged by the
Government of India would generate greater internal and external competition.
This would help raise the efficiency of both new and existing investments,
particularly in the private sector. Therofore, as the composition of aggregate
investment changes in favor of private investment, productivity of the economy
as a whole would begin to rise.   Reform of the trade regime through the
elimination of qaantitative restrictions and substantial reductions in tariff
rates, together with a significantly depreciated real exchange rate and domestic
deregulation of the industrial sector, should render India's exports much more
competitive internationally. Thus, export growth in real US$ terms, which is
Likely to fall below 2 percent in 1991/92, is projected to exceed 10 percent
beginning in 1992/93.



Table 1 Summary of Macroeconomic Projections
Estimate                           Projections
1990191   1991192   1992/93   1993194   1994195   1995196  199912000
Growth, investment and inflation (2)
GDP growth                               5.0        2.1        3.0       3.6        4.0        5.3       6.1
GDP growth per capita                    2.6        0.2        1.1       1.7        2.1        3.3       4.3
Gross domestic saving/GDP               20.4       19.8      20.6       21.3       22.5       23.5      26.3
Gross domestic investment/GDP           23.2       21.7      22.1       22.6       23.4       24.1      26.5
Private investment                    12.6       11.8      13.0       13.8       14.2      14.9       16.6
Public investment                     10.6        9.9       9.1        8.7        9.2       9.2        9.9
Inflation rate (GDP deflator)            10.1       11.0        7.0       6.5        6.0        5.5       5.5
Public sector balance (2 of GDP)
Central government fiscal deficit        9.0        6.5        5.0       4.5        4.0        4.0       4.0
Public sector deficitSl                 10.5        8.0        6.5       5.5        5.0        5.0       5.0
External sector
Export growth (in real US$, 2)           5.0        1.2      10.4       10.9       11.0       10.4       8.6
Import growth (in real US$, Y)           2.2       -3.2       4.1        5.1        4.7        5.8       6.2
Current account balance (US$ m.)       -9829      -6303     -5598      -5300      -4584      -4154     -3512
Current account/GDP (Z)                 -3.5       -2.6      -2.4       -2.1       -1.7       -1.5      -0.9
Foreign exchange reserves (US$ m.)    2338         2550      3166       4395       5610       5970     18010
Reserves in months of imports            1.0        1.3        1.5       1.8        2.1        2.0       3.7
Exceptional financing (US$ m.)          3549       3681      2850       2600       2050        500          0
Total external debt (US$ m.)           70122      74755     81083      86822      91426     94247    111216
Total external debt1GDP (Z)             24.7       31.4      34.3       34.8       34.4       33.3      28.9
Debt service/exports () bl              28.8       27.7      26.6       25.7       26.8       27.5      18.0
a/  Refers to saving-investment gap of the consolidated public sector, which includes the Central and State
Governments, and nonfinancial public enterprises.
b/ Exports of goods and nonfactor services, including workers' remittances.



- 26 -
86.       Strengthening the price competitiveness of India's exports will require
effective containment of inflation. Prompt action to further tighten monetary
policy in October has already helped to slow the pace of price inflation in
1991/92, and the current restrictive stance of monetary policy should be
sufficient to keep the overall increase in prices (as measured by the GDP
deflator) in 1991/92 to about 11 percent as compared to 10 percent in 1990/91.
As the fiscal correction and other adjustment measures take hold, inflation
should fall rapidly to international levels by the mid-1990s. This should allow
India to maintain the competitiveness of its exports without excessive recourse
to exchange rate adjustments.
87.       Despite the slowdown in export growth, the current account deficit in
1991/92 is projected to decline from US$9.8 billion (3.5 percent) in 1990/91 to
US$6.3 billion (2.6 percent). Given the current level of foreign reserves, such
an outcome would allow for a build-up of foreign exchange reserves by the end of
the year to about US$2.6 billion. As export growth strengthens in 1992/93, the
current account deficit snould fall further to about US$5.6 billion (2.5 percent
of GDP), and India's external payments situation and creditworthiness would
improve. However, the extent of further foreign exchange reserve accumulation
in 1992/93 would be somewhat constrained by the substantial import requirements
of the restructuring effort and the prudence of limiting India's commercial
borrowing.
88.       With further improvements in export performance, both the current
account deficit ratio to GDP and external debt service ratio would decline over
the remainder of the decade, falling to about 1 percent and 18 percent
respectively by 1999/2000.   However, restoring stability to India's capital
account would be a gradual process, and the economy would remain vulnerable to
adverse external shocks or policy slippage over the next few years. As Table 1
shows, primarily as a result of the substantial recent exchange rate adjustment,
India's external debt to GDP ratio would rise from around 25 percent in 1990/91
to about 35 percent in 1993/94. Moreover, during the mid-1990s, there would be
a temporary increase in the proportion of foreign exchange receipts preempted by
external debt service due to repayments of debt contracted during the 1980s, as
well as repurchases in respect of the recent IMF drawings. In spite of these
increasing claims, India's external liquidity position should improve steadily
with foreign exchange reserves rising to two months of imports by 1995/96, and
to 3.7 months of imports by the end of 1999/2000.
External Financing Reauirements
89.       The large annual repayments associated with India's external debt
(estimated at US$70 billion at the end of March 1991), and the continuing need
to rebuild foreign exchange reserves indicate that exceptional balance of
payments support would be needed in both the near and medium term. Table 1 shows
that aespite the large projected current account adjustment the exceptional
financing requirement in 1991/92, over and above likely inflows of project aid,
commercial borrowing, and non-resident Indian (NRI) deposits, is projected to be
US$3.7 billion. Some of this exceptional financing has already taken place,
including fast disbursing loans from the ADB, Japan, IBRD and IMF, and a gold-
backed transaction. Most of the remaining financing is assumed to be provided
by further drawings from the IMF and disbursements from the first tranches of the
proposed SAL/SAC and a planned Financial Sector Loan from the Bank.  Donors



- 27 -
responded positively to the request for exceptional financing during the recent
Aid Consortium meeting, with about US$6.7 billion in overall pledges
(US$4.5 billion from multilateral and US$2.3 billion from bilateral sources), an
increase of around 6 percent from last year's level. Equally important, pledges
of quick disbursing balance of payments assistance amounted to US$2.3 billion,
of which US$700 million was from bilateral donors. Of the latter, some US$300
million remains to be disbursed in 1991/92.   Several donors have indicated
interest in associating their fast-disbursing assistance with the proposed
Structural Adjustment Loan/Credit. Germany has agreed to provide co-financing
in the amount of DM 45 million with the proposed operation.
90.       In the absence of any major external shock or disruption to doimestic
production, India's exceptional financing requirements should decline gradually,
beginning in 1992/93. However, the need to rebuild reserves and the bunching of
repayment obligations indicate that India would require continued substantial
exceptional financing through 1994/95. Specifically, in each of the next three
years, India would require exceptional financing from multilateral donors of an
average of about US$2 billion per annum. Bilateral donors would need to provide
about US$500 million of fast disbursing assistance in each year to supplement
these resources.
PART 1II. TRE PROPOSgD SAL/SAC
A. LoanlCredit Obiectives
91.       The proposed structural adjustment loan and credit is for the equiva-
lent of US$500 million, equally divided between IBRD and IDA. It is proposed
that the first tranche be US$300 million, and that the remainder be disbursed in
the second tranche. The amount of each tranche is also proposed to be equally
divided between the lc-an and credit. It would support the initial phase of the
Government's program of macroeconomic stabilization and structural reform.  In
addition to a major fiscal adjustment effort, the main areas covered by the
program are:  (L) deregulation of domestic industry and promotion of foreign
direct investment; (ii) liberalization of the trade regime; (iii) reform of
domestic interest rates coupled with measures to strengthen capital markets and
institutions; and (iv) initiation of public enterprise reforms.
B.  Cogditions of Effectiveness and Tranche Release
92.       The first tranche would be available upon loan/credit effectiveness.
The release of the second tranche, planned for April-May 1992, would be
contingent upon satisfactory overall progress on program implementation and the
implementation of specific conditions detailed in the policy matrix (Annex III),
and summarized below (paragraph 93).   As part of the Bank's/Association's
continuing policy dialogue with the Government, it will monitor the Government's
macroeconomic program, articulated in its Letter of Development Policy, to ensure
that it remains fully consistent with the implementation of structural adjustment
reforms.



- 28 -
Second Tranche Release
93.       The second tranche would be released after the Government has provided
the Bank/IDA with satisfactory evidence that:
*    guidelines have been issued that industrial licensing decisions
on grounds of location will be based solely on environmental, safety, land-use,
congestion, urban planning and related concerns;
0    the 25 percent and Rs. 20 million limits on automatic approval for
capital goods imports have been raised to 50 percent and Rs. 100 million
respectively;
6    a satisfactory plan of action has been adopted to deregulate and
decontrol the steel industry, including, inter alia, removal of price and
distribution control.
*    amendments to the Sick Industrial Companies Act of 1985 have been
prepared and submitted to Parliament to institute more appropriate criteria for
sickness, strengthen the Board for Industrial and Financial Reconstruction
(BIFR), improve its functioning; and streamline and facilitate procedures under
BIFRs
=    the objectives, scope, structure, operations, sources and methods
of funding, criteria and mechanisms for providing support to workers, nature and
amounts of such support, and other details of the National Renewal Fund have been
specified;
*    based on the review and recommendations of the inter-ministerial
Working Group a satisfactory policy has been formulated to facilitate adjustment
by industrial firms taking into account the need for adequate safeguards for
workers, programs for re-deployment and retraining, and appropriate compensation
where necessary.
*    all RBI restrictions related to cash margins, queuing system for
L/Ce, and capital goods financing requirements have been eliminated;
*    intermediate goods on the restricted list (Appendix 2B of the
Import and Export Policy, 1990-93) corresponding to at least two-thirds the
protected domestic production have been moved to be freely importable by
Eximacrip or on OGL. However, consumer goods will continue to be restricted and
will remain on Appendix 2B of the Imprt and Export Policy, 1990-93.  Certain
products will also continue to be restricted for health, environmental and
security reasons;
*    implementation of a satisfactory program of reductions and
elimination in the official foreign exchange allocated to the public sector
agencies in connection with the phasing out of dual pricing of previously
decanallzed items, and decanalization of all remaining canalized products except
petroleum products, fertilizers, oilseeds, cereals, certain fatty acids and acid
oils, and other acceptable products. In the case of the products for which



- 29 -
private importers must use Eximscrip, either require the canalizing agency to
also use Eximecrip from the date of decanal-zation or announce a satisfactory
program of progressive reductions and eliminat;on of official foreign exchange
to the public sector agencies in order to pl:-e out dual pricing;
O    permitting all unlisted  capital  goods to be  imported with
Eximecrip whether or not the Eximecrip is earned by the exports of the importing
firm.  Remove a substantial proportion of capital goods (corresponding to at
least 50 percent of protected domestic production) from the capitaL goods
restricted list (Appendix 1A of the Import and Export Policy, 1990-93).
Production from which protection by import licensing is removed will not include
capital goods the import of which remains restricted for health, environmental
or security reasons;
O    the "Actual User" requirement for imports has been abolished;
0    the Limited Permissible List (Appendix 3 of the Import and Export
Policy, 1990-93) has been abolished and announcement is made that all products
not on Restricted Lists, the Canalized Lists, or the OGL lists are importable
with the use of Eximscrip;
8    the purchase preference given by The Directorate General of Supply
and Disposals (DGS&D) to domestic suppliers over the duty paid price of imports
has been abolished;
*    all export licensing, canalization and minimum export prices
except for a satisfactory negative list have been removed;
*    completion of the customs tariff review and adoption of a
satisfactory medium term plan to reduce tariff rates with a substantial initial
reduction of the maximum customs tariff introduced in the 1992/93 budget;
*    the Statutory Liquidity Ratio required to be maintained by the
scheduled commercial banks has been reduced consistently with reduction of the
fiscal deficit of the Central Government;
*    based on the recommendations of the Narasimham Committee, a
satisfactory program of action to reduce interest subsidies in areas of directed
credit has been formulated;
0    legislation to give SEBI statutory status in order to operate as
an independent regulatory body, including power to investigate with due
diligence, has been presented to Parliament;
0    a satisfactory program of action to reform the trading mechanism
of stock exchanges, including a system of national clearing and settlement and
setting up a central depository trust has been adopted;
*    based on the recommendation of Dave Committee, a satisfactory
program of action for setting up of mutual funds in the private sector, has been
formulated and adopted;
O    implementation of the initial phase of a satisfactory phased
action plan to eliminate within three years (i.e., by the end of fiscal year



- 30 -
1994/95) budgetary transfers and loans to sick central public enterprises and
budgetary plan support (loans and equity) for public enterprise investments
except in energy, transport, and other infrastructure. Under the action plan,
Government guarantees of central public enterprise borrowings will be limited to
essential infrastructure, exploitation of oil and mineral reserves, and
strategic-related activities;
*    in the case of units that are patently unviable, the Government
has formed a satisfactory action program to initiate restructuring and closure
procedures;
4    the Government has taken actions to ensure that, exccept for
central public enterprises already determined to be potentially unviable by the
Government (see previous item) all public enterprises that are sick according to
the criteria specified in the Sick Industrial Companies Act (SICA) henceforth
will automatically be referred to the Board for Industrial and Financial
Reconstruction (BIFR) for assessment of their prospects and subsequent winding
up or rehabilitation, and all such sick central public enterprises have been
referred to BIFR;
*    the detailed program for disinvestment of 20 percent of equity in
selected public enterprises, to yield Rs. 25 billion has been finalized and
approved by the Government and implementation of the program has been completed
by the end of 1991/92; and
*    building on the 20 percent disinvestment, an action program to
progressively increase the private equity share in profitable central public
enterprises to 49 percent within three years has been promulgated by the
Government, along with a list of the companies concerned and a timetable for
implementation.
These conditions are expected to have been met by April-May 1992.
C. Loan/Credit Administration
Procurement
94.       The proposed loan and credit totalling US$500 million would finance
100 percent of the c.i.f. costs of general imports, excluding inter a/ia luxury
goods, military equipment and environmentally hazardous products. Imports valued
at US$5 million and above by both public and private sector entities would be
procured in accordance with simplified ICB procedures except for certain
commodities which are traded in international markets.  For a list of these
commodities agreed with the Bank/Association, other procedures acceptable to the
Bank/Association may be used. Imports valued at below US$5 million by public
sector entities would be procured using their own procurement procedures. The
specific import procedures followed by many public sector organizations have been
reviewed in connection with recent Bank/Association operations and determined to
be satisfactory. The procedures used by others would be reviewed before their
imports would become eligible under the loan.   Imports valued at below
US$5 million by private sector firms would follow established commercial
practice. The Bank/Association is reviewing the procedures used by a sample of
potential private sector importers to ensure that they are satisfactory.



- 31 -
Contracts for imports valued at less than US$100,000 would be ineligible for
Bank/Association financing. Procurement will be coordinated by the Ministry of
Finance under arrangements acceptable to the Bank/IDA.
Disbursement
95.       The proceeds of the proposed loan and credit would be disbursed against
the foreign costs of general imports based on a standard negative list which
includes, inter alia, luxury goods, military equipment and environmentally
hazardous products. Both private and public sector imports would be eligible for
financing.   Retroactive  financing up to US$100 million equivalent  (i.e.,
US$50 million equivalent each under the loan and credit) would be provided to
reimburse expenditures for eligible imports incurred after July 31, 1991. To
facilitate disbursements, Special Accounts would be established in the Reserve
Bank of India with an authorized allocation of US$100 million equivalent under
the loan and US$100 million equivalent under the credit which, in total, is equal
to the estimated average disbursements during a five-month period. Disbursements
would be administered by the Ministry of Finance in coordination with the Reserve
Bank of India. Withdrawal applications for reimbursement of expenditures under
each contract valued less than US$5 million equivalent may be submitted under
Statement of Expenditures (SOE) procedures.  Withdrawal applications for all
other expenditures would be fully documented. Documentation in support of SOEs
would be retained by the Ministry of Finance.  The proposed loan and credit are
expected to be disbursed over a period of one year. The closing date would be
December 31, 1992.
Accounts and Audits
96.       RBI would maintain accounts and supporting documentation in respect of
the project. Audits would be carried out by independent auditors acceptable to
the Bank/Association within six months of the closing of the GOI fiscal year
(March 31) in which disbursements under the loan/credit are made.
D. Monitorina
97.       The adjustment program is being coordinated by the Department of
Economic Affairs,  Ministry of Finance.    The proposed operation requires
monitoring of the consistency of macroeconomic framework, as outlined in the
Letter of Development Policy, and the implementation of specific actions detailed
in paragraph 98. The monitoring of macroeconomic performance in particular will
be closely coordinated with the IMF. The Bank/Association will also monitor the
implementation and progress of reform actions through a mid-term consultation to
be held prior to end-January 1992. In addition to serving as a catalyst to
promote greater coordination among the various line ministries to which the
SAL/SAC program relates, the review would prcvide a forum to discuss with the
authorities the recommendations of several high level committees established by
the Government and their incorporation, to the extent appropriate, in the 1992/93
Budget.



- 32 -
E. Risks
98.       Given the external liquidity situation in India and the extent of the
adjustment effort required, there are significant downward risks. Failure to
follow through with the implementation of forceful stabilization measures and
reforms is the first important risk. The reform process will change the complex
system of rents and patronage which has been estaolished over the last four
decades and thus will affect the minority government's constituencies.   The
government's management of the politics of reform has consisted of stimulating
public debate to forge the consensus necessary to sustain the process of reform.
It has articulated, quite convincingly, the urgent need for reforms and actively
sought the cooperation of political parties and various interest groups,
including organized labor.   Nevertheless,  social/political reaction to the
adverse transitional consequences of the adjustment program (e.g., labor
retrenchment, subsidy reductions, and higher user fees and other administered
prices which could fuel inflation in the short run) could slow the pace of reform
and jeopardize its sustainability.
99.       Absence of a strong supply response due to the sheer lack of essential
intermediate and capital goods imports, is the second major risk associated with
the program.  The very severe import compression policy that has been pursued
over the past several months has already restrained production and investment
plans of many firms. It is well recognized that this policy has to be reversed
very soon to avoid the danger of a slump in the manufacturing sector in
particular.   The recent improvement in the foreign exchange reserves makes
feasible relaxing the import compression.   Yet, the provision of imports at
satisfactory levels hinges crucially on strong export performance and
availability of adequate external financial assistance.
100.      The third set of risks relates to both domestic and external factors
over which the authorities have limited or no control.   Domestically, the
response of private investment will be critical to the success of the program.
While the business community has so far been supportive of reform initiatives,
the risk that a prolonged stabilization effort may hold back investment responses
should not be underestimated.   Externally, slow growth of world trade and
unresolved international trade issues may lessen the prospect for a rapid export
expansion in the medium term.   Finally, inadequate transitional balance of
payments support would undermine domestic political support for reforms, and
technically complicate the implementation of the adjustment program.
PART IV. WORLD BANK STRATEGY AND OPERATIONS
A. The Dank Group's Role and Stratoav
101.      The Bank's strategy for assisting India gives highest priority to
supporting India's efforts to restore macroeconomic equilibrium, accelerate
structural reforms (especially in the areas of industry, trade, finance and
public enterprises), and regain access to private credit markets abroad. These
reforms, are essential to improving the efficiency, productivity and
competitiveness of the economy to achieve the export growth necessary to
strengthen India's creditworthiness and to support the future growth and
development of the economy.



- 33 -
102.      To these ends the Bank's operational strategy emphasizesi  (i) country
economic and sector work and policy dialogue with a sharpened focus on
macroeconomic and structural reform issues; (ii) policy-based lending, beginning
with the SAL/SAC and to be followed by a series of sector adjustment operations,
in support of India's stabilization and economic reform program; (iii) investment
and sector lending in support of efficiency-improving sectoral reforms and
institutional development in agriculture, infrastricture, human resources and
poverty alleviation; (iv) increased emphasis on private sector development (in
close cooperation with IFC) and an orderly retrenchment of the public sector as
essential elements of the adjustment program; (v) increased emphasis on aid
coordination and cofinancing to shape the financing plan for the adjustment
program and to rebuild and strengthen India's external financial structure; and
(vi) careful management of the Bank's risk and exposure in view of India's
weakened creditworthiness.
Economic and Sector Work
103.      The Bank,s economic and sector work gives highest priority to providing
the macroeconomic and structural reform analysis needed for underpinning
adjustment lending and policy dialogue in support of sustainable growth and
development. Among the areas to be emphasized are sequencing and transitional
aspects of reforms; public finance issues, including expenditure policies and
state and local government finances; progress in poverty alleviation and
employment creation; and energy and forestry sector reviews.   In addition,
special attention will be devoted to external debt management policies and
practices.
Policy-Based Lending
104.      The proposed SAL/SAC represents the first stage of the Bank's support
for the adjustment program and will be followed by a series of sector adjustment
loans designed to support subsequent stages of the reform effort. The Bank is
particularly well-positioned, by virtue of recently completed economic and sector
work, to develop follow-up policy-based loans to deepen the reform program in the
areas emphasized in the SAL/SAC (finance, trade reform, industrial regulation,
and ptolic enterprise reform). Lending for adjustments in agricultural sector
policy (including urgently needed reforms of the agricultural credit and pricing
systems) and energy policy is also under consideration.   The Bank's policy
dialogue, in close coordination with an expanded program of IFC activities, aims
at making private sector development and orderly public sector retrenchment
dominant elements of the adjustment program. In addition, fast disbursing IDA
lending in support of programs to address the social dimensions of adjustment
will be included in the adjustment lending program.
Investment Lendina Obiectivye
15.      In addition to policy-based lending in the above-mentioned areas, IBRD
lending will support efficiency-improving investments in agriculture and
infrastructure. IDA investment credits will support programs addressing basic
human needs and core development priorities, emphasizing poverty alleviation
(esperially through increased efficiency and production capacity in agriculture),
human resource development and environmental protection. Sectoral issues and
priorities are summarized below.



- 34 -
106.      Agricultur-.  Agriculture still accountq for about 30 percent of GDP,
and continued agricultural growth at historical rates or better is essential to
economic growth and reduction of poverty in India.   The Bank's assistance
strategy for poorer states and regions emphasizes agriculture. Workers employed
in agriculture tend to be the poorest and most vulnerable, including women. The
Bank's strategy for improving agricultural performance will focus on the
following critical areas: (i) reform of policies and incentives which inhibit
growth and have contributed substantially to the growing fiscal deficit, in
par'icular subsidies, price supports and agricultural trade restrictions; (ii)
high priority investments in growth-inducing infrastructure and technology with
continuing emphasis on irrigation and better research and extension for rainfed
farming; and (iii) resource management, including conservation of land and water
resources, land reclamation, forestry development and river basin protection.
Increased attention will be paid to efforts to draw women more effectively into
the mainstream of agricultural development.
107.      Infrastructure and energy. Improvements in these sectors are urgently
needed to reduce the present risk that bottlenecks in transportation and energy
undermine the supply response of the ongoing reforms. The emphasis in transport
will be on better planning and project execution and improved efficiency of
transport operations (railways, roads and ports), and efficient pricing policies
and encouragement of private sector participation.  In urban develooment, the
Bank will seek through urban sector work and lending operations to improve the
productivity of the urban economy and the quality of urban living by promoting
more efficient provision and operation of urban infrastructure and services.
Efforts will focus on institutional strengthening and improved incentives for
efficient local government.
108.      In Dower, primary emphasis will be placed on addressing the sector's
critical  institutional  and  financial  problems.    Key  pre-requisites  for
maintaining Bank lending levels to the sector include increases in power tariffs
in real terms (especially for agriculture and residential uses) improved bill
collection and strengthened tanagement of the State Electricity Boards (SEBs).
In the absence of such actions, power sector lending would be limited to: (i)
viable private sector investments in generation and transmission; (ii) the few
better managed SEBs that have maintained their financial strength or have taken
specific steps to build it up; and (iii) innovative, small scale developments
such as mini hydro and cogeneration schemes. In addition, the Bank will continue
its dialogue with the National Thermal Power Corp ration and the Nat,onal Power
Transmission Corporation and may finance the most critical components of these
important central agencies' core investment programs.
109.      Human resource develonment.  The Dank will continue to expand support
for efforts to improve access to, and the quality and efficiency of nutrition,
health, family planning, and education investments that are orlented toward thte
poorer sections of the population. Women will be a special focus of all these
efforts.
110.      Bank objectives in the edugation sector are twofold.  The first is to
support the development of basic education.   The second is to support the
development of industrial training for craftsmen, technicians and engineers to
expand the supply of competent and productive labor. In population, health and
nutrition, the Bank's primary objective is to promote improved health in the most
vulnerable groups and to assist in reducing fertility.   In addition, Dank



- 35 -
economic and sector work will focus on the efficiency and effectiveness of health
services and sanitation improvement needs to prevent waterborne diseases.
111.      Environmental Protection.   The effect of the severe environmental
degradation taking place in much of India is particularly devastating on some of
the poorest sections of the population. Bank assistance will support Indials
efforts to preserve and enhance its resource base through projects related to
rainfed agriculture, forestry, urban water supply and sanitation, and industrial
pollution abatement. Increased attention is also being paid to environmental
issues in energy and infrastructure projects and more generally through the
application of the Environmental Assessment process to new and ongoing lending
operations.   Future assistance in these areas will be formulated withir the
framework of an Environmental Action Plan (EAP) to be prepared by the Government
using UNDP-financed technical assistance.
112.      Resettlement and rehabilitation.   Resettlement issues are a major
concern in the implementation of both Bank-assisted and other Government
investment projects. They are of special concern in irrigation and hydro power
projects.   Guidelines to improve the resolution of these problems are being
developed by the Government.   In addition, the Bank is studying underlying
issues, including the legal framework, the availability of land and the
functioning of the land market, and drawing on lessons from successful
resettlement.
Aid Coordination and Cofinancina
113.      In the context of the comprehensive adjustment effort, the Bank as
Chair of the India Aid Consortium will play a leadership role in mobilizing
resources to meet India's financing needs over the next several years.  The Bank,
working closely with the IMF and IFC, will also seek to play a catalytic role in
restoring India's access to private markets. Close cooperation with the IMF has
been maintained during the preparation of the SAL/SAC and will be continued. We
will also work closely with the ADB and other major donors in coordinating and
strengthening the dialogue and lending strategy in key areas of sectoral pol'cy
reform. Parallel cofinancings with ADB are under discussion.
International Finance Corporation (IFCL
114.           As of September 30, 1991, IFC had made investments in 58 Indian
companies totalling US$1,010 million equivalent. India is IFC's third largest
country commitment (after Mexico and Brazil) with US$547 million (9.6 percent)
of IFC's total portfolio. About US$79 million of the commitments are in equity.
The level of IFC's investments increased significantly over the past two years.
In IFC's fiecal year 1990 approvals for India amounted to US$147 million in nine
transactions. In fiscal year 1991, net investments totalled US$111 million in
seven transactions with an additional amount of US$77.5 million in syndications
approved and expected to be realized during fiscal year 1992. Disbursements for
IJC's own account for fiscal year 1991 amounted to US$154 million. The past
performance of LFC's Indian portfolio has been generally excellent, with prompt
servicing of both loan and equity investments.
115.           IFC's investment operations in the past three yearo have been
characterized by considerable new investments in private sector power projects
(all expansions of existing companies) and increasing investments in the capital



- 36 -
markets area. Investments in general manufacturing, IFC's traditional investment
area in India, have been more limited. As a result, the largest single sectoral
concentration of IFC investments at present is in the power sector with 27% of
held portfolio (US$147.5 million), with the balance of investments well
diversified.
116.           In the expectation that the favorable reform momentum achieved so
far will be sustained, IFC expects to expand and broaden its operations in India,
with conginued strong emphasis on efficient investments that can yield
significant financial and economic benefits. Economic efficiency of industrial
projects is particularly important during a psriod of continuing llberalization,
when levels of effective protection can be expected to be reduced, and when the
short-term effects of the adjustment program could lead to some reduction in
demand. At the same time IFC's catalytic role could be helpful in permitting
some high priority projects to proceed and in mobilizing other sources of finance
as these become available.
117.           Thus, IFC is at present giving priority to sound industrial
expansion prospects which have a large foreign exchange content. Typically, such
prospects can benefit from IFC's review of project and contractual arrangements
and IFC can complement the role of other financing including that from the local
financial institutions. The Corporation is currently considering a variety of
investment proposals, including projects in general manufacturing, steel, power,
textiles and the finan:lal sector which could lead to a substantial increase in
annual investment levels. These increased investment levels are expected to
include an increased focus on equity investments, both in new start-up prospects
and in expansions.
118.           IFC also envisages playing a significant catalytic role by
enhancing the international flows of foreign private funds in the form of both
equity and debt. On the equity side, IPC can provide equity investment and
comfort in the promotion of joint ventures where foreign companies invest
directly in Indian companies. With its large domestic market, its educated,
skilled, and competitively priced labor force, an improved exchange rate policy,
and further deepening of reforms, India could become an attractive base for
foreign private investment. In a reformed industrial and financial framework,
IFC's experience in promoting joint ventures that bring together a combination
of foreign direct investment, management, technology and markets on an ongoing
basis (whether in industrial, services or capital markets projects) could prove
extremely relevant to India's needs.
119.           On a potentially larger scale, IFC can assist Indian companies in
making international issues of equity or convertible securities. Dlscussions are
underway with the Government and several companies. While a number of policy
measures would need to be taken to parmit such issues it is generally recognized
that this could become an important supplemental source of foreign finance for
the private sector. On the debt side of international capital flows, IFC can
help in mobilizing commercial bank interest on favorable terms through
participation in IFC loans. IFC already has a number of good prospects that will
be syndicated as soon as suitable market openings develop.
120.           In the financial sector the Corporation intends to assist in the
development of the domestic capital market both through direct support for
private sector financial services companies and venture capital and mutual funds



- 37 -
and also through provision of technical assistance. Progress in this area would
be influenced by the pace of liberalization of the financial sector.   In
addition, wholesaling arrangements with financial institutions, such as agency
credit lines to reach small-and medium- scale enterprises in a cost effective
manner, will be considered where appropriate.
121.           In order to help meet the growing needs of clients in India and
the Region, IFC is in the process of significantly strengthening its Regional
Mission in New Delhi.
122.           IFC and the Bank have made special efforts to coordinate their
respective operations and have worked closely in developing the Bank's policy
dialogue in industry, finance and the private sector. Even closer cooperation
is envisaged for the future.
Portfolio Management
12             The Bank's experience,  shared with several of India's other
don.rs, is of continuing weak project implementation capacity in most sectors in
India, leading to slow and incomplete utilization of aid commitments. The Bank
has made considerable efforts over the last few years to address some of the
major problems which have led to slow disbursements. In addition, a full-fledged
review of the portfolio, carried out jointly with the Government, has just been
completed, leading tc. the identification of substantial portions of the
undisbursed IBRD loans and IDA credits which can be canceled without interfering
with the achievement of project objectives. A proposal is currently before the
Board4 to re-commit the IDA cancellations to India as fast-disbursing credits in
support of its adjustment program. Our assistance strategy will continue to give
priority to intensive portfolio management to improve the effectiveness of
IBRD/IDA resource transfers and the sustainability of the development benefits.
B. The Rank's Lendina Proara
124.           Until now, Bank lending to India has been almost exclusively in
the form of investment lending. Over the past five years about 54 percent of
Bank lending has gone into development of infrastructure, with power accounting
for about 27 percent of total lending (see Table 2). Agriculture has accounted
for 16 percent of the program with about one third of that in irrigation.
Industry and finance absorbed 16 percent of the Bank program and population and
human resources 10 percent.
4 Ref. R91-241 [IDA/R91-1491, dated November 12, 1991.



- 38 -
Table 2  Bank Lendina. Fiscal Year 1987/91
(billions of US dollars)
Number
of
Sector                            Amount       Percentage       projects
Agriculture                         2.1             16             13
Industry and finance                2.1            16               6
Power                               3.5             27             10
oil, gas and coal                   1.5             13              5
Transport                           0.8              6              5
Urban and water                     1.1              9              7
Education                           0.8              7              3
Population, health
and nutrition                     0.5             4               5
Other                               0.4              3              1
Total                              12.8            100             55
125.      Over the next four-year period FY92-95, the level and composition of
the lending program will be closely linked to progress in India's stabilization
and reform program. It is envisaged that this lending program would draw on the
following resources:
-    IBRD lending of up to $2.0 billion per annum;
-    IDA resources of approximately $0.9 billion per annum; and
-    IDA resources of $0.65 billion from the redeployment of funds
cancelled from the current IDA portfolio as proposed in the Board
Paper (ref. paragraph 123).
Reflecting the projected pace of implementation of the Government's stabilization
and reform program and its financing requirements, about one-third of the Bank's
lending could take the form of policy-based loans and credits.
PART V. RELATIONS WITH THE IN?
126.      As at the end of October 1991, India's outstanding obligations to the
IMF totalled SDR 2379 million. Much of this reflects recent transactions with
the IMF. Since January 1991, India has made drawings totalling SDR 1904 million
from the Fund under a first tranche stand-by arrangement and the compensatory and
contingency financing facility.   On October 31, the IMF Board approved an
additional stand-by credit to India in the amount of SDR 1656 million, to be
drawn over the next twenty months.
127.      Close cooperation with the IMF will be eesential since both the Bank
and the Fund are assisting India in the preparation of its stabilization and



- 39 -
adjustment program, expect to provide a major share of the funding, and are
seeking to mobilize other official financing. The framework for this cooperation
is in place. The Bank closely coordinates its economic and sector work and
policy dialogue with Fund staff, and regularly reviews draft Fund staff briefing
papers and reports. Loss formally, Bank and Fund staff frequently exchange views
on recent developments and policy options.   Consultations between the two
institutions are particularly close during the current difficult times facing
India, and staff members participate in missions fielded by the other
institution.
PART VI.  RECOMUENDATION
128.      I am satisfied that the proposed loan and credit would comply with
the Articles of Agreement of the Bank and Association, respectively, and
recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan and credit.
Lewis T. Preston
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
November 12, 1991



KEY MACROECONOMIC INDICATORS a/
Actual            Prelim.                           Projections
1987     1988     1989     1990     1991     1992     1993      1994     1996     1097     19
(MP Grotth Rate                      4.5%    10.4%      S.2%     6.0%     2.1X     3.0%     3.6%     4.0%      5.3%     6.8%     6.1%
ODY Growth Rate                      4.56      9.8%     4.8%     4.8%     3.8%     2.2%     3.8%     4.4%     4.8!      6.7%     6.2%
CDY/Capita Growth Rat                2.1%     7.3%      2.4X     1.9%     1.9%     O.8%     1.8X     2.65      2.9%     4.0%     4.4X
Consumption/Capita arowth Rate       2.2%     6.8%      2.38     2.5%     2.?%    -0.4X     1.1X     1.3X      1.6%     3.2%     3.7%
Debt Service (Use i.)               5702     6807      8442     7143     6953     7496     8268    O980    11560    10681    12408
Debt Service/xp. G.A Serv.          29.4%    8o.8%    27.4%    28.8%    27.7%    28.8%    2S.7%    2B.8%    27.6%    19.6%    18.0%
Debt Service/GODP                    2.2%     2.8%     2.4%      2.6X     2.9%     8.2x     8.3%     8.7%     4.1%      3.2X     3.2%
Gross Investment/GDP                22.7%    23.9%    23.8X    23.2%    21.7%    22.1%    22.6%    23.4%    24.1%    25.4%    26.8%
DoesWtic Savings/GOP                20.1%    20.8%    21.0%    20.4X    19.8%    20.e%    21.3X    22.5%    23.5X    2S.OX    26.SX
National Savings/GP                 20.2X    20.7%    20.8%    19.7%    19.1X    19.7%    20.4X    21.8%    22.7%    24.3%    26.6%
Marginal National Savings Rate      18.8%    24.0%    20.3%    14.2X    15.1%    27.7X    27.6%    33.2%    32.7%    31.5%    31.2%
Pubi IC nveetment/Gop               10.4%     9.8X    10.8%    10.8%      9.9%     9.1%     8.7X     9.2X     9.2%      9.8%     9.9%
Public Savings/QDP                   1.5%     1.2X      0.5%     O.1%     1.9X     2.8%     3.2%     4.2%     4.2X      4.8%     4.9%
Private   Investment/GOP            12.2%    14.1%    13.0%    12.8%    11.8%    18.0%    18.8X    14.2%    14.9X    16.8%    16.6%
Private Savings/0GOP                18.7%    19.SX    20.1X    19.8%    17.1X    17.1%    17.2X    17.4X    18.8%    19.7%    20.7%
Ratio of Public/Private Invest..    88.9X    88.7X    79.5%    84.0X    84.5%    89.8%    83.2x    84.8%    81.8%    80.7%    69.7X
Government Renenuee/GP  b/          25.7%    26.6%    26.1%    26.9X    26.7%    26.7%    26.SX    26.8%    26.2%    25.1X    26.1%
Government Expenditures/GOW   b/    24.2%    24.3%    25.SX    26.8%1   24.8%    23.11%   22.3%    21.04    21.0X    20.SX    20.2X
Deficit/GDP  c/                      8.9x     S."%   10.1%    10.6%       8.ox     8.65     5.53     5.0%     6.0%      5.0%     5.0X
Export Growth Rate                   8.1%    11.0%    12.1%      3.sx     1.OX     9.2%     9.9x    10.0%     9.8x      8.7x     8.1X
Exports/GDP                          8.3X     8.7%      7.9X     8.0%     9.ex    10.9%    11.9%    12.9%    13.9%    15.8%    17.0%
Import Growth Rate                  -1.8%    18.0%    -1.2%      1.1X    -2.0%     4.1%     5.0%     4.6X     5.7X      7.73     6.0%
Importe/GOP                          8.9%     9.7%    10.4X    10.8%    11.8%    12.43    13.2%    13.7?    14.65    16.9%    17.2X
Current Account (USS m.)           -6397    -8877    -7888    -9829    -8803    -6598    -6300    -4684    -4164    -3495    -3612
Current Account/GOP                 -2.5%    -3.2%    -3.0%    -3.6%   -2.8X    -2.4%   -2.1%    -1.7%    -1.5%    -1.13    -0.9%
a/ Datot refer to Indian fiscal years. Thus, 1990 refers to the fiscal
year 1990/91, running from April 1990 through March 1991.
b/  Refers to Total Public Sector, which Includes the Central Government, the State Governments and                                              >
Non-Financiel Public Enterprises.
c/  Refers to the Savings-Investment Balance of the Total Public Sector (National Accounts classification).                                   F >
o H



8ALANCE OF PAYMENTS a/
(US6 s1ll1ons of Current Prices)
Actual                     Prelim.                             Projected
1985     1986        1987    1998   1999      1990     1991     1992     1993      1994     1996     1997      1999
__ ~~~~~~~~-  -- - -- - -__- - - -- - - - - --  -- -- _- - -- -- -- -_- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- - -- -- - -- - - - - - -  - - -__- - - - - -
A.  Exports of Goods   NFS                    1277     18677    18216    18218    209s1    22685    22900    25847    29684    84264    3so8        1171    65819
1. Merandise (FOS)                        9401    10460    12644    14282    18680    18485    1989      s 21320    24698    28747    83275    487s3    sa6es
2. Non-factor Service.                    3310      3217     8671    s86s    4068       4200      4208     4527     4987      5517     60s5    7418       6950
8. lporte of God& aFWS                        19419    19950    22839    26564    27752    0591    27650    29424    8288  a8472    41078    52371   66165
1. Morebandise (FOB)                     17296    17728    19812    23389    24414    27214    24281    26879    28909    82150    88263    468I    58771
2. Non-factor Service                     2124      2222     82       8225     8888      8877     8819     8545     3921     4822      4820     5990      7896
C. Resource Bslance                           -6648     a278    -6624    -8346   -6889    -7906    -4860    -8577   -8146    -2208    -1718    -1200          -847
0. Net  Factor Incom                          -1512    -2045    -2471    -298S    -38       -3928    -397S    -4154    -4891    -4016    -4682    .4588    -4911
1. Factor Roceipt                           547      501      448      a97      896       199      161      222      30        449      460      789      1279
2. Factor Paym ent.                      2099      2548     2917     3882     8700     4121      4186    4875      4752     50s6      5142     5827      8190
E.  Not Current Transfer                       2207     2827     2898     2654     2256      2000     2828     2188     22U8      22a9     2241     2244      2247       F..
1. Current Recipt.                        2219      2389     2724     2670     2271     2018      2100     2160     2255     2267      2280     2264      2269
aD. Workers Reamittanc                2219      2899    2724      2226     2186     1947      2016     2008     2141     2148      2145     2160      2154
b  Other Current Transfors               0         0        0      445       85       69        84       U4      114      114       114      114       116
2. Currnt Payments                          12        12       26       16       15       16        16       17       17        18       19       20        22
F. Current Account Balamne                    -5998    -5991    -6897   -8677   -7888    -9829    -8303    -55s8    -5800    -4654    -4154    -3495    -3812
0. Net Log-Term Capital Inflow                4641      5389    680       7706     7427      5017     4938    5691      6058     6264      6264     724       7820
1. Foreign Direct Investment               16O       208      181      287      360      263       200      860      620      600      1000     1500      1500
2. OfficIal Capital Grants                 as3       403      410      406     S60       524       549      576      603      682       662      712       76
8.  Not LT LOaD.                          4122     4728       7689    7018     677      4240      4180    4765    4934       4952      4601     4991     5065
a. Disbursment.                      56481     7017      7861     8962     8506     6720     6746      7773     8549     9188     9498    10428    11598
b. Repaym                             1809     2289      1892     1949     1929     2480      2657     8oo00    861      4181     4892      5482    1644
H. Total Otber Item  (not)                    n2s       1872      760      749      618      2014      200    -157      -100       -50       20       28        27
1. Not Short-Tere Capital                  278       168      222      265      917      219         0     -157     -100      -50        20       26        27
2. Capitol Fle   NEI                      1416      1306     1289      855     -465     1796         0        0        0        0         0        0         0
S. Error& Aomissione                       474    -102       -781      141      1e7        0       200        0        0        0         0        0         0
I. Chang  in Not Reer,ee                      -812      -720     -748      m       -157     2798    1l65         84     -658    -180    -2180    -n873       -3836
1. Not III Cedilt                         -284     -646    -1082    -1210   -1008       1028      1877     680       571    -415    -1770       -200     -430
2. Otber Reervo Cha_ng   (excl. Gold)   -548         -72      38a     1482      851     1770      -212     -1e6    -1229    -1216      -80    -8635    -840
(- Indicates tencrase)
a/ Date ref r to Indian fiscal yvers. Thus, 10 refere to the fiscal
yer 1990/91, runnings frm April 1990 through March 1991.
Idl



8ALANCE OF PAYMENTS a/
(USS millions of Current Prices)
Actual                     Prelim.                            Projectod
198S     1998     1987     1988     1989     1990     1991     1992     1998     1994      1996     1997     1999
Shares of COP (current US8)
1. Reeoure salanco                            -8.11   -2.7X    -2.61    -3.1X    -2.6%    -2.8X    -2.0%    -1.5S    -1.33    -0.8X    -0.6X    -0.41    -0.2X
2. Total Interest Payments                     0.90     1.0     1.13     1.2%     1.3X     1.4%     1.7%      1.61     1.9%     1.61     1.7%     1.53      1.4U
8. Current Account Balance                    -2.8X    -2.83    -2.61   -3.21   -8.0X    -3.SX    -2.6%    -2.43    -2.1%    -1.7X    -1.6%    -1.13    -0.91
4. Net LT Capital Inflow                       2.2X     2.31     2.51     2.8%     2.8%     1.8%     2.1X     2.43      2.4%     2.4X     2.23     2.2X      1.91
S. Net Croedt fre the IMF                     -0.13    -0.83   -0.43    -0.4%    -0.43      0.41     0.61     0. 3X    0.2X    -0.23    -0.61    -0.1%    -0.1
Memorandum Ite..
GOP (mll I. US$)                            214032   228348   256480   272848   286720  284298   238878   286408   249658   285619  283449   328978   384202
Foreign Exchang Reserves:
End-Year Res"rves (a. S)                      6857     8730    8391      4959    4108      2338    2C50      8186      4395     6610     6970    11110    18010
Reserves In Months of Imports                  4.8      4.6      3.9      2.5      2.0      1.0      1.8       1.5      1.8      2.1      2.0      2.9       3.7
Exchange Rates (Ra/US$): b/
Nominal Official Exchange Rate               12.24    12.79    12.97    14.48    16.86    17.95    24.50    27.00    28.21    29.43    30.62    32.82    36.29
Real Exchange Rat  Irdex (1980/81=100)          94      110      116      128      183      140       175      186      190      194      198      206       214
a/ Dates roefr to Indian fiscal yea.. Thus, 1990 refers to the flscal
year 1990/91, running from April 1990 through March 1991.
bJ Refrs to period averae.
10
lbH
4,.



DEBT SERVICE ASSUMPTIONS a/
Aetzial               Prel im.                           Projected
1990     1984     1968     1989     1990     1991     1692      1993     1994     1996     1997      1999
Principal Repaymnts
Multilaeral                      88      132       397      482      609      692      39     1038      1226     1407     1622     1698
of which: IBRD                  71       87       803      862      496      647      657      818      967      1077     1230     1329
Bilateral                       499      412       671      6B7      699      717      811      806       8B7      971     1095     1191
IMP Repurchae.                    9      134     1210      1006      726      464      320      129      885      1770      200      430
Private                         171      4S        981      900     1273     1148     1869     1774      2087     2614     2716     3468
Tots I                          76      1224      8169     2987     8206     3011    8328      3744     5046      6662    5632    8974
Intearst Payment
Multi lateral                   101      289       681      640      738      914     1027     2138      1264     1400     2518     1680
of which: IDBRD                 68      169       474      529      616      709      771      851       961     1019    116      1182
Btlatoral                       246      199       816      421      411      419      486      490       510      634      693       80
IMF Repurchhs                     4      374      233       184      134      205      282      378      470       387      193      188
Private                         292      920      2016     2260     2654     2404     2394     2618      2671     2548     2694     3058
Total                           042     1732      3148     3505     3937     3942     4166     4524     4815      4868     499      6434
Key Ratios
Interest/Exp. 0.3 Sarv.         4.2X    10.7%    16.1S    14.9S    15.9%    15.7%    14.81    14.1%    13.11    11.61       9.2X     7.91
Debt/Exp. 0.6 Serv.           138.01   209.9%   280.8X  274.0%   282.41   298.11  288.21   269.81   248.11   224.61   168.6X   161.8%
Net Disburesment/Intereat     432.71   219.81   192.4%   185.01  189.41   141.2%   128.9%   119.65    93.2X    58.6%    96.41   86.81
Net Transefre/00P               1.21      1.1X     1.11     1.1%     0.65     0.7%     0.5X     0.41    -0.11    -0.7%    -0.1X    -0.2X
e/ Dat.5 refer to Indian fiscal yoers.  Thus, 1990 refers to the fiseal
year 1990/91, running from April 1990 through March 1991.
O>C
0
4M-J



- 44 -                        ANX1
NEW DELHI, INDIA
November 11, 1991
LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
Dear Mr. Preston,
1.          The Government of India has adopted a package of major policy reforms
aimed at macro economic stabilisation and restoration of the growth momentum to
the economy. These initiatives are being implemented at a time when the Indian
economy faces a serious Balance of Payments crisis. The strategy consists of
measures aimed at achieving a sharp reduction in the fiscal deficit, combined
with reforms in the key areas of trade policy, industrial policy, the public
sector and the financial sector. The effectiveness of these measures in bringing
about the desired structural adjustment in the economy while maintaining the
momentum of growth depends critically upon the availability of adequate external
finance. Accordingly, we are requesting a Structural Adjustment Loan/Credit from
the World Bank. We believe that the policies outlined by us are adequate and
sufficient to meet the objectives of the programme.
2.          It is also our intention to seek IBRD/1DA support for our medium term
reforms strategy through a series of Structural/Sectoral Adjustment loans/credite
including fast disbursing support for establishing and strengthening the social
safety net to mitigate the social burden of the transition process.
3.          We have no doubt that with continued support from multilateral
financing institutions, particularly the Bank and the Fund, and given the
resilience of our economy as well as the support of the international community
as a whole, witnessed at a recent meeting of the Aid India Consortium, India
would be able to overcome the present economic difficulties and return to a path
of sustained high growth. I greatly look forward to your continued support in
our endeavour to achieve these objectives.
4.          The medium term reform programme of Government is described in the
attachment to this letter.
Kind regards,
Yours sincerely,
Finance Minister
Mr. L.T. Preston
President
The World Bank
Washington D.C.



- 45 -
ANNEX II
Attachment
Page 1 of 14
Program for Structural Reform
1.    The Government of India has recently initiated a comprehensive program of
macroeconomic stabilization and structural adjustment. In support of the initial
phase of its program, the Government requests the assistance of the World Bank
in the form of a Structural Adjustment Loan/Credit (SAL/SAC). The program aims
at restoring macroeconomic balance and economic growth, regaining external
creditworthiness and preparing the Indian economy to respond effectively to
emerging global challenges and opportunities. It is inspired by the vision that
India can grow faster as part of the world economy. However the program is also
being formulated at a time when the Indian economy faces a balance of payments
crisis of unprecedented severity.
2.    The new Government which assumed office in late June, 1991 inherited a
situation wlth foreign exchange reserves at an all time low, drying up of normal
external commercial borrowing, and a continuing withdrawal of foreign currency
deposits by r.on-resident Indians (NRIe). Meanwhile severe import compression
introduced earlier had begun to constrict industrial production and exports. The
government moved rapidly to formulate a strategy for restoring viability in the
external payments situation.  The strategy relied upon restoration of macro-
economic stability through strict control over the fiscal deficit, tightening of
monetary policy, an adjustment in the exchange rate, and the announcement of
major structural reforms in industrial and trade policies. These measures are
bold and challenging. Through strenuous efforts, India has successfully met all
its international payment obligations during a very difficult period.
3.    Committed to the pursuit of equity and social justice, and blessed with a
political system with a proven capability to provide both governance and freedom,
the Government's key economic objective is to restore sustained high growth which
is essential to alleviate poverty and raise the standard of living. In pursuit
of theee objectives, the Government's reform strategy, seen over the course of
the next five years, aims at achieving:   (i) a liberalized trade regime
characterized by tariff rates comparable to other industrializing developing
countries and the absence of discretionary import licensing (with the exception
of a small negative list); (ii) an exchange rate system which is free of
allocative restrictions for trade; (iii) a financial system operating in a
competitive market environment and regulated by sound prudential norms and
standards; (iv) an efficient and dynamic industrial sector subject only to
regulations relating to environmental security, strategic concerns, industrial
safety, and unfair trading and monopolistic practices; and (v) an autonomous,
competitive, and streamlined public enterprise sector geared to the provision of
essential infrastructure goods and services, the development of key natural
resources and areas of strategic concern. These objectives can be realized if
sufficient external financing is secured to enable the adjustment process to take
place in an environment in which the momentum of growth is sustained.



- 46 -
ANNEX II
Attachment
Page 2 of 14
4.    Effective management of structural change in india, as in any other
democratic society, requires not only the formulation of a consistent package of
economic reforms, but also a broad social and political consensus.  Building
consensus involves articulation of the need for reform, and securing the
cooperation and support of political parties as well as various interest groups
on the ends and means of reform. It also involves taking every step necessary
to ensure that the burden of adjustment is fairly distributed and that the very
poor are protected.   As a first step in this direction, the Government has
established a National Renewal Fund (tNRF) to provide a social safety net in order
to ensure that the cost of adjustment does not fall on the workers. The NRP will
provide ameliorative measures for workers affected in the course of structural
changes, as well as financing their retraining, so that they will remain active
productive partners in the process of adjustment.
S.    Due to the initiatives taken over the past four decades, India now has a
prosperous agriculture and a strong and diversified industrial base; it has
capital markets and institutions which are on par with those of many advanced
industrial nations; it has a large well-trained and skilled labor force; and is
endowed with a vigorous and growing private sector.  Over the course of the
decades since Independence, our country has successfully dealt with many
difficult situations arising out of droughts, wars and international oil shocks.
The economy's performance was particularly impressive in the decade of the 1980s.
Stimulated by the liberalization initiatives of Shri Rajiv Gandhi's
administration, GDP growth accelerated to 5.6% p.a., compared to an average of
3.5% during the previous three decades. This resulted in an increase in real per
capita income by 40% in the 1980e, compared to less than 30% over the previous
two decades combined. Despite the many disruptions of 1990/91, overall GDP grew
by 5%, and manufacturing by 8.0%.
6.    It is on the strength of these achievements, and with a firm commitment to
removing the constraints on growth originating from the present macroeconomic
imbalances and long-standing structural impediments, that the Government has
initiated a comprehensive program of macroeconomic stabilization and structural
reform. The thrust of the program would initially be on easing the country's
extremely tight external payments situation and reducing inflation.   The
emergency measures taken in April-July 1991, including a severe compression of
imports through tight credit policy, adjustment in the foreign exchange value of
the rupee, and mobilizing part of the country's gold stocks, have had some
success in meeting these initial objectives.    Furthermore,  to stabilize
expectations and to consolidate the gain. from the recent exchange rate
adjustment, the Government intends to pursue a stable exchange rate policy geared
to maintain the rupee constant in nominal terms and to rely on fiscal adjustment
accompanied by a tight monetary policy to contain inflation.
7.    There are long-term causes underlying the current macroeconomic imbalances,
some of which are structural in nature. These include the low productivity of
investment, in particular the poor rates of return on past investments.
Moreover, the excessive and often indiscriminate protection provided to industry
has not only worked to the disadvantage of the rural economy, and accentuated
disparities in income and wealth, but has also weakened the incentives to develop



- 47 -
ANNEX II
Attachment
Page 3 of 14
a vibrant export aector. Hence, stabilization by itself is not enough. As the
traditional demand Impulses originating from fiscal policy will remain
constrained in the next two to three years, the main impetus for sustainable
economic growth has to originate with efficiency and productivity growth brought
about through the expansion of investment and exports. Underpinning such a path
of growth must be a consistent and comprehensive structural reform strategy
designed to promote exports, to improve the relationship between the return on
investment and the cost of capital, and to increase the degree of competition
between firms in the domestic and external markets so that there are adequate
incentives for upgrading of tech:.ology, improving efficiency and reducing costs.
The key features of such as strategy are described below.
Restoring Macrosconomic Stability
8.    The macroeconomic objectives of the Government center on the restoration
of internal and external balance conslstent with sustained economic growth.
There is one basic direction of economic policy required to achieve these
objectives. A substantial change in the composition of aggregate demand and
supply must be engineered. Public sector consumption needs to be reduced in
favor of higher domestic saving, while investment and net exports need to grow
in relation to GDP.  Fiscal consolidation, particularly measures to increase
public sector saving, is a key requirement for this adjustment. These measures
must be supported by reform measures aimed at removing structural rigidities in
the economy arising from the regulatory system, which needs to be revamped in
light of the new strengths and capabilities of the economy. Thus, measures to
restore macroeconomic stability are being supported by structural reforms in the
areas of investment, trade, taxation, financial markets, and public enterprises.
9.    The key macroeconomic targets of the Government are (i) a rapid recovery
of GDP growth from about 3.5% in 1991/92 to about 6% by the mid-1990; (ii) an
inflation rate of about 9% - 10% (as measured by changf,s in the GDP deflator) in
1991/92, falling to 7.5% in 1992/93, and to 6% by 1995/96; and (iii) an easing
of the present critical payments situation and a rebuilding of foreign exchange
reserves from the low level of US$ 2.1 billion as of November 1, 1991 to USS 2.3-
2.5 billion (about 1 month's import cover) by the end of 1991/92. Over the next
few years, foreign exchange reserves would be build up to about 2 - 3 months'
worth of imports. The external current account deficit is expected to decline
from about 3.5% of GDP in 1990/91 to about 2.7% of GDP in 1991/92, falling
gradually to about 1.5% of GDP by 1995/96 as export growtn strengthens under the
influence of improved competitiveness and a recovery of demand in world
markets.1'
10. The macroeconomic policy framework within which these targets are to be
achieved stresses the role of fiscal adjustment buttressed by appropriate
monetary policies, especially in the near term.  It is only such a prudent
1' These targets refer to the IBRD definition of the external current account.



- 48 -
ANNEX 1
Attachtenwt.
Page 4 of 14
managemeat of macroeconomic polity that would enable us to curb the exponential
growth in internal and external debt, and limit the burden of debt servicing for
the Government and the country to manageable levels. Moreover, this framework
will place a now emphasis on the role of market institutions and incentives in
the management of economic policy. The progress already achieved in introducing
greater flexibility and autonomy in the determination of interest rates will be
extremely important in this regard, as will the substitution of quantitative
restrictions applying to intermediate and capital goods imports by a marketable
import entitlement (Eximscrip).
11.   Fiscal Policy:  Our medium term objective is to reduce substantially the
Central Government fiscal deficit within the broader context of an adjustment of
the overall public sector deficit.   The fiscal deficit target of the Union
Govcanment budget introduced on July 24, 1991 is 6.5% of GDP -- a reduction of
about two and a half percentage points of GDP fron the estimated 1990/91 outcome.
Since interest payments are projected to rise from 4.3% of GDP to 4.7% in
1991/92, achieving this deficit reduction requires an even bigger adjustment in
the primary deficit, from 4.8% of GDP to 1.8%. In keeping with the targeted path
of overall public sector adjustment the central Government deficit is targeted
to fall to 5% of GCP in 1992/93, with further improvements thereafter. Reducing
the overall public aector deficit will require increased financial discipline by
the State Governments as well, and the Central Government will encourage the
State Governments to take steps to improve their fiscal performance and to
streamline the working of their enterprises.   Our overall strategy for the
central public enterprises is outlined in paragraphs 35-40. As a result of these
efforts to improve efficiency and profitability, we expect the internal resource
generation of the central public enterprises to improve significantly beginning
in 1991/92.
12.   The fiscal adjustment outlined in the 1991/92 budget provides for a rough
balance between expenditure and revenue measures. Total expenditures and net
lending are targeted to decline from 20.1% of GDP to 19.1% thanks to cuts
equivalent to 1.2% of GDP in non-interest current expenditures, notably
fertilizer and export subsidies, transfers to central public enterprises, and a
moderation in defence spending. On the revenue side, Central Government revenue
and grants are projected to rise by one percentage point to 12.6% of GDP.
Average petroleum product prices were raised by 7% (on top of increases of 24%
in October 1990 and 11% in last year's budget) to offset the effect of the recent
exchange rate adjustment on the budget.  Corporation tax was also increased,
depreciation allowances were lowered, some tariffs were lowered, and plans to
transfer assets of some public enterprises to financial institutions (expected
to yield proceeds equal to about 0.4% of GDP this year) were confirmed.
13.   The targeted reduction of the fiscal deficit is central to the success of
the overall program.   The main strengths of the new 1991/92 budget are its
primary deficit reduction target, the balance between current expenditure cuts
and revenue measures, and the relative protection given to investment and soclal
development outlays. However, given the very short time the new Government had
for preparing the budget (only eight months remained in the fiscal year at the
time of budget presentation), there are, naturally, a number of areas which will



- 49 -
ANNEX II
Attachment
Page 5 of 14
require follow up.   The Government intends to take additional measures as
necessary, on both the revenue and expenditure sides, to ensure that the targeted
reduction of the Central Government fiscal deficit is achieved.
14.   The Government realizes the necessity of strengthening budgetary control
mechanisms and setting in place a fiscal framework that would be supportive of
the structural reforms being introduced. Proposals for a comprehensive reform
of the tax system are being formulated by a high level Committee of experts. The
terms of reference of the Committee focus on the need for specific
recommendations that will lead to (i) an improvement in the elasticity of tax
revenues, in part through the identification of new areas for taxation, and an
increase in the share of direct taxes as a proportion of total tax revenues and
of GDP; (ii) a more equitable and broad-based system, particularly with regard
to commodity taxation and personal taxation; (iii) the removal of anomalies that
distort economic incentives, including a simplification and rationalization of
customs tariffs with a view t, reducing the multiplicity and dispersion of rates
and the elimination of exemptions, as well as a reduction in the average level
of tariffs; and, finally (iv) improved compliance of direct taxes and
strengthened enforcement. The initial recommendations of this Committee will be
introduced in the 1992/93 Union Government budget.
15.   The Government's efforts at fiscal consolidation would include a major
thrust for a more efficient expenditure control system. A thorough review of the
existing eystem would be undertaken to remove existing deficiencies and to
significantly strengthen its effectiveness. Particular scrutiny would be given
to transfers and loans to public enterprises. There is also need for further
rationalization and reduction of subsidies, particularly in light of the
desirability of moving to a more objective system of administered prices that
takes into account world market developments and domestic supply conditions.
16.   Exchanae Rate Poicy:  The adjustment in the exchange rate of the rupee by
23% (in terms of rupees per dollar) in early July 1991 provides for a significant
real depreciation which will improve export incentives and international
competitiveness.   The exchange rate adjustment is also expected to check
speculation, as well as making for a more orderly compression of imports. The
Government intends to keep the nominal effective exchange rate stable by relying
on appropriate fiscal and monetary policies to maintain competitiveness and
ensure the balance of payments objectives.
17.   Monetary Policy: There has already been a significant tightening of credit
and monetary policies through higher interest rates and higher cash reserve
requirements.   Consistent with our foreign exchange reserve target and the
anticipated slowdown in GDP growth, broad money expansion is targeted to decline
to a rate of 13% in 1991/92, with a further deceleration in 1992/93.  In the
context of a rapidly declining recourse on financial savings by the Government,
thio should permit a steady increase in the volume of domestic credit to the
private sector, for investment.   However, the Government is committed to a
further tightening of monetary policy if necessary to defend the external
position. Monetary policy affects the pace of aggregate supply as well as
Aferan&te demand. This dictates that monetary policy should be pursued flexibly



- 50 -
ANNEX II
Attachment
Page 6 of 14
and prudently to avoid the risk of weakening the economy's productive capacity,
including its capacity to export.   In its application, the Government would
judiciously balance the stance of monetary policy to control inflation with its
possible adverse impacts on the supply side.
Moving Toward a More ORen Trade Regime
18. The Government recognizes that trade reform is an essential element in
securing supply responses to facilitate the overall restructuring of the economy
and to restore external payments viability. Rapid export growth is crucial for
regaining access to international capital markets, and providing for external
debt service. The thrust of trade reform is therefore to aim at a quick revival
of the momentum of exports and to expose domestic industry to greater external
competition.
19.   There are five key medium-term objectives in the Government's trade policy
agenda. First, the broadening and simplification of export incentive measures
and the removal of restrictions on exports; second, the elimination of
Quantitative Restrictions (QRs) on all imports; third, substantial reductions in
tariff rates; fourth, the decanalization of exports and imports with the
exception of a few Items; and finally, moving to a foreign exchange system which
is free of allocative restrictions for trade.
20.   In support of these objectives, the Government announced a package of trade
policy reforms on Ju y 4 and August 13, 1991. Several changes in trade policy
were introduced aimed at strengthening export incentives and eliminating a
substantial proportion of import licensing requirements. Essential imports of
sensitive items such as oil and petroleum products and fertilizers are fully
protected, but other imports of raw materials and componer.ts were linked to
exports through an enlargement and restructuring of the replenishment licensing
(REP) system.   REP licenses have been replaced by a new instrument named
Eximecrip which is issued to exporters at higher rates and is freely tradeable.
Under this new regime the range of items which can be imported without
discretionary licensing has been substantially widened.   The system of cash
compensatory support (CCS) for exports was abolished consequent on the downward
adjustment of the exchange rate of the rupee in July 1991.  A high level
committee has been appointed to formulate proposals for reform of the tariff
system in the context of a broader tax reform. To promote exports, the system
of Advance Licensing permitting duty free import of raw materials, components and
consumables at internat 3nal prices was simplified, made more automatic and the
issue of licenses under the scheme was made time-bound. The Export Processing
Zones Scheme and 100% EOUs scheme which create duty free enclaves were simplified
and made more attractive, especially in the matter of allowing exports of up to
25% of production to the domestic tariff area at preferential rates of custom
duty (50% of the normal rate).
21.   In addition to the trade reform measures already taken, further actions are
planned by the Government along the following lines:



- 51 -
ANNEX xi
Attachment
Page 7 of 14
(i)   The Government recognizes that the temporary restrictions on imports
which had to be imposed earlier in the year by the Reserve Bank of India as part
of its effort to manage the acute balance of payments situation need to be
relaxed. Recently, the RBI has eliminated the cash margins on certain export-
related imports, provided all exporters with a margin free window for imports of
items on OGL of up to 40% of the previous year's exports (up to Re. 10 crores),
and has also relaxed prior approval requirements for exporters. The remaining
restrictions that affect exporters will be eliminated as a first priority, to be
followed as soon as possible by the elimination of such restrictions that affect
all other importers.
(ii) The Eximscrip scheme is intended to act as a transitional mechanism
for the equilibration of the trade account.   It is the intention of the
Government to integrate the Eximscrip scheme with OGL as soon as feasible and,
in any event, no later than mid 1995.
(iii) Since the promotion of exports is one of the key objectives in the
Government's trade strategy, the Government will review the export licensing and
canalization systems with a view to the removal of these impediments -co exports.
The Government will remove export licensing and minimum export prices except for
a small negative list, and decanalize and allow private participation in the
export of major agricultural and mineral products. The Government has already
decontrolled and decanalized several export items. It will establish modalities
and a timetable for the decontrol and decanalization of the remaining items with
a view to complete liberalization by the end of 1995.
(iv) At present, a number of items are exclusively or principally imported
by specified public sector agencies (canalizing agencies).   The Government
recognizes that there is a strong case for decanalizing imports. The role of
state monopoly agencies in foreign trade will be substantially reduced and
greater private sector participation will be permitted. Firstly, all remaining
canalized imports will be decanalized, except for a small negative list of
"sensitive" products and products canalized for health and security reasons, by
April 1992.   Secondly, with the aim of removing dual pricing for canalized
imports, the amount of official foreign exchange allocated to canalizing agencies
will be progressively reduced and eventually phased out.
(v)   As part of the Government's strategy to allow greater flexibility in
the import regime, the "Actual User" requirement, which has already been relaxed
as a result of the Eximscrip scheme, will be abolished by April 1992.
(vi) It is the policy of the Government to move to a situation where
imports, including ultimately final goods, are regulated through appropriate
tariffs. Therefore, import bans, discretionary import licensing, and other
barriers are to be eliminated and replaced by a tariff-based protection system.
In support of this objective, and as a first step, such of the intermediate items
in the restricted list of imports, the production of which is at least one third
of the total production of all intermediate items in the list, would be
importable against the Eximscrip or OGL by November 1991.  The Government
rvnnnaae to rationalise the list further by shiftina more such intermediate items



- 52 -
ANNEX XX
Attachment
Page 8 of 14
for about two-thirds of the total production covered by the reetricted list for
Import against the Eximscrip or OGL at the time of issue of the Import Policy for
1992/93 (April 1992). Capital goods corresponding to 50% of domestic production
covered by the restricted list (Quantitative Restrictions) will also be made
freely importable under either the Eximscrip or OGL by May 1992. In addition,
the import of all unlisted capital goods will be permitted with the use of
Eximscrips by April 1992.
(vii) The Government recognizes the need to introduce greater transparency
into the trade regime. To that end, a computerized list corresponding to customs
tariff HS classification giving the import control status of each product will
be released by October 1991.  This will reduce the scope for discretionary
decision making at lower levels and introduce greater transparency in import
policy. In addition, a negative list principle will be established under which
all products not on the restricted lists, the canalized list or importable under
OGL will be importable with the use of Eximecrip by May 1992.
(viii)  Despite the reduction in peak ad-valorem tariff rates in the
1991/92 budget to a maximum of 150 percent, current tariff levels are very high
in comparison with other industrializing developing countries and this raLses
domestic production costs and renders many Indian industrLes non-compotitive by
international standards. However, customs revenues account for about 50% of
total current government revenue in 1991/92. The objective of tariff reductlon
therefore has to be achieved hand in hand with the broader objective of flical
polLcy reform which includes mobilization of an adequate amount of resources.
To that end, the Government has set up a committee on Tax Reform which will
undertake a comprehensLve review of customs tariffs.   With a view towards
enhancing IndLa's international competitiveness, the Committee has been mandated
to recommend ways and means ior the following. First, the average level of
tariffs would be reduced substantLally to internationally comparable levels.
Second, the maximum level of tarlffs will be progressLvely reduced ln a sequence
of yearly adjustments over the next five years. Third, the structure of tariff
rates would be simplified with a view to substantially reducing their varLabillty
and the incidence of exemptions and partLal exemptions.  Fourth, the uee of
specific tariffs will be mLnimized.  The CommLttee has been asked to make
recommendatlons as to the phasing of the introduction of the new customs tariffs
wlthin a relatively short period of time of no longer than fLve years. It will
also recommend alternatlve revenue sources to compensate for any reduction ln
total government revenues which is likely to follow from the tariff reform. The
Government proposes to take action on the basis of the Commlttee's
recommendations Ln the 1992/93 budget.
Industrial Policy
22.   The rapid expansion of the industrLal sector Ln the 1980a was induced by
reforms undertaken in trade and industrial policies durlng the early and mid
1980s. The acceleratLon of the export of manufactured goods durLng the last 4
years also bears testimony to the responsiveness of Indian industry to policy



- 53 -
ANNEX II
Attachment
Page 9 of 14
changes. A program of further policy reform is needed to consolidate the gains
already achieved and to provide further impetus to industrial growth.
23.   The Government of India placed a Statement on Industrial Policy before
Parliament on July 24, 1991. This statement marked a major step forward in the
Government's ongoing program of industrial regulatory reform. It announced major
initiatives including comprehensive delicensing, abolition of pre-entry controls
related to the MRTP Act, and introduction of automaticity in approvals of foreign
technology agreements and foreign investments, among others. These measures go
a long way toward deregulating entry, which is necessary to provide the
competitive stimulus for accelerated industrial growth during the 1990;. The
changes in policiee concerning foreign technology and foreign investment will
enable Indian industry to forge much more dynamic relationships with foreign
investors and suppliers of technology than has been possible in the past.
24.   The new policy has eliminated investment licensing requirements for all
new, expansion, and diversification projects except in 18 industries (estimated
to account for about 20% of current manufacturing output). Purthermore, the MRTP
Act has been amended to remove all requirements for pre-entry approval of large
or dominant companies. Thus, except for certain industries related to security
and strategic concerns, social aspects, concerns related to safety, overriding
environmental issues, and manufacture of chemicals involving hazardous processes,
pre-entry regulations governing industrial investment have been removed. In view
of serious concerns related to congestion and environmental deterioration,
projects within 25 km of the periphery of large cities (23 cities with more than
1 million people) will still require a license except in prior designated
industrial areas. Because of the balance of payments constraint, investors will
still need an import license to import capital goods for projects in which the
foreign exchange content is over 25% of total investment or Rs. 20 million,
unless foreign exchange supply is ensured through foreign equity capital. The
mandatory convertibility clause, under which financial institutions had the right
to convert a proportion (up to 20%) of their loans into equity, has been
abolished. This will have positive implications for both borrowing companies and
the financial institutions. Phased Manufacturing Programs, which had involved
the enforcement of progressively increasing local content requirements on a case
by case administered basis, have been abolished for new projects.
25. Foreign investment and foreign technology agreements in India have hitherto
had to obtain specific prior approval from the Government.   In the case of
foreign investment, automatic approval is now available for proposals with a
foreign equity share of up to 51% in high priority industries. In view of the
current balance of payment constraint, this facility is available only to firms
that are able to finance their capital equipment imports with the foreign equity
contribution. Such firms are also required to balance dividend repatriation with
export earnings for a period of 7 years from the commencement of production.
This condition has been imposed to provide a signal for foreign investment to be
competitive internationally, particularly in the light of expected trade and
tariff reforms which will reduce protection within the next 3-5 years. The
condition is not likely to impinge on the dividend policy of most companies,



- 54 -
ANNEX II
Attachment
Page 10 of 14
since a normal dividend repatriation volume would seldom be higher than 1% to 2%
of sales.
26.   Foreign technology agreements where royalties are limited to 5% of domestic
sales and 8% of export sales, along with lumpsum payments of up to Re. 10
million, are now automatically approved.   In high-priority industries, free
foreign exchange would be available for the payments, whereas in other industries
these payments would have to be covered by Eximscrip.
27.   Recognizing the need to strengthen the incentives for foreign direct
investment, the Government has set up the Foreign Investment Promotion Board to
consider and approve substantial foreign investment proposals. These proposals
would be considered in totality, free from pre-determined parameters and
procedures.    In  order to  facilitate  the  financing  of  large  investment
requirements, the all-equity requirement for capital goods imports for projects
receiving automatic approvals needs to be modified as and when the external
payments situation permits.  The Government will also endeavor to raise the
quantitative limits on capital goods imports for deliceneed investment projects
as the external payment situation improves. The Government intends to remove the
provision linking dividend repayment to export earnings for foreign direct
investment projects eligible for automatic clearance, as soon as the external
payments situation permits.
28.   The Government has been following a policy of releasing industry from price
and distribution controls during the 1980s.  Such controls were removed for
paper, cement and aluminum, among other products. The Government intends to
continue with similar decontrol in other industries (including steel).
29.   The major industrial regulatory reforms already  implemented by the
Government constitute a substantial structural reform of Indian industrial
policy. The Government recognizes that the major restructuring of the Indian
economy implied by its agenda of macroeconomic adjustment and structural reform
will depend on the success of these reforms.   Large numbers of sick firms
constitute a drain on the Government budget; their unpaid outstanding loan
obligations weaken the financial system; and in many cases such firms have closed
their doors, leaving labor unemployed without compensation and leaving creditors
unreimbursed. Further reforms are needed to formulate a socially acceptable
policy to facilitate the restructuring of industrial units in the face of
changing technology and the need to modernize. This will prevent sickness in the
future. For the restructuring of existing sick and loss making companies in both
the public and private sectors, the Government will establish an inter-
ministerial Working Group by November 1991, which will review existing provisions
of the various laws governing labor relations, state and local governments' role
in industrial restructuring, regulations governing transfer of land, procedures
for liquidation under the Companies Act, and other relevant aspects. Based on
its review, this Working Group will recommend a program of reforms.   These
reforms will be undertaken along with the efforts to establish adequate
safeguards for the workers, provision of appropriate compensation, and a program
for re-deployment and retraining for displaced workers resulting from the winding
up of industrial units.



- 55 -
ANNX ItI
Attachment
Page 11 of 14
30.   The Government is well aware that a prerequisite for a successful policy
for industrial restructuring is a "safety net" or social insurance scheme to
provide support for displaced workers in the organized sector, through the
National Renewal Fund, to be set up by December 1991. It is our intention to
seek the Bank's support for the establishment of this facility.
Enhancing the Efficiency of Financial Intermediation
31.   Since independence India has witnessed the growth of a well diversified and
comprehensive financial infrastructure. In terms of financial sector size the
financial syetem ranks in the top quarter among developing countries.   The
capital market is broad and active and in recent years has found the public
increasingly receptive. In 1990/91 non-government companies were able to raise
25.27 billion Rupees through new issuance of equity and debentures as compared
to 11.04 billion Rupees in 1985/86. The Government's ownership of the financial
and banking institutions is dominant. This has enabled it to achieve multiple
objectives including mobilization of resources, integration of the rural
population into the financial mainstream, enhancement of availability of long-
term loans to all levels of industry and agriculture and increased access to
credit to small industrialists, farmers and weaker sections of society.
32.   However, there are weaknesses and imbalances.  The Statutory Liquidity
Ratio {SLR) and Cash Reserve Ratio (CRR) levels are high, which implies low
returns for commercial banks on their fundst it also reduces the resources
available to and raises the costs for non-priority borrowers.
33.   To move closer to a market-based operation of the financial institutions,
interest rates on term loane have been decontrolled (subject to a floor of 15%),
while all regulated deposit interest rates were increased by one percentage
point. Interest rates on commercial bank loans had been decontrolled earlier
(with a floor of 18.5% set for non-priority sector loans, now raised to 20%).
Measures have also been taken to strengthen capital markets: interest rates for
debentures (except for tax-free bonds for the public sector) have been freed,
mutual funds are being opened up to the private sector, and full statutory powers
are to be given to an independent agency to regulate security markets. Finally,
a high level committee (Narasimham Committee) has been established to review the
structure and overall functioning of the financial system and to advise the
Government on reforms by end-November 1991.
34.   In line with the recommendations of the Narasimham Committee, further
reforms of the financial sector will be formulated and implemented. The aim
would be to increase the efficiency of financial intermediation through a well
sequenced program fort (i) deregulation of the interest rate structurel (ii)
enhancement in the flexibility and autonomy of financial institutions and banks
to adjust resource flows to emerging needs and priorities. (iii) strengthening
the prevailing prudential regulatory framework applying particularly to capital
adequacy norms and assessment of bad and doubtful debt in banks' portfolios; and
(iv) enabling expansion of private and cooperative sector banks (including



- 56 -
ANNEX II
Attachmtent
Page 12 of 14
foreign banks) in the banking sector.   The measures required to meet thece
objectives would principally involve a phased reduction of involuntary financing
of budget targeting of priority lending scheme towards the most deserving groups,
and eventual elimination of the subsidies involved, formulation of prudential
norms and standards to guide efforts in recapitalization of the banking sector,
and full decontrol of deposit rates.   It is also recognized that improved
prudential standards are important for the healthy development of India's already
sizable and rapidly growing securities markets.
Public Enterprise Reform
35.   India's severely constrained budgetary circumstances create both the need
and opportunity for rationalizing the scope of public sector activity, and for
placing greater reliance on the private sector for resource mobilization and
investment. Public enterprises have absorbed large amounts of budgetary support
for their expansion or operations, but in many cases they have failed to generate
adequate returns on the investments of public money and contributed significantly
to the public sector saving gap and fiscal deficit. Many public enterprises fail
to cover the cost of capital they employ and incur cash losses.   Central
Government public enterprises as a whole impose a burden on the exchequer. Since
1985/86, annual budgetary support, net of royalties, taxes, interest and dividend
payments, to Central Government public enterprises (CPEs) has averaged more than
Re. 30 billion.
36.   Public enterprises provide many of the basic and critical inputs in India,
and it is a matter of serious concern that for a variety of reasons there has
been inadequate attention to improving their efficiency. As a result, many basic
industrial inputs have become high-priced, contributing significantly to the high
cost structure of the economy. The Government recognizes that actions taken in
the area of public enterprise reform will be central to the near term growth
performance of the economy, as well as to its medium term transformation. To
support rationalization of the scope of the public sector, the Government does
not propose to create new central public enterprises except in industries
reserved for the public sector and essential infrastructure, exploitation of oil
and mineral resources and strategic-related activities.  The Government also
reaffirms its policy against nationalization or takeover of sick private firms,
which has already been in effect for the past five years.
37.   There are currently 244 autonomous CPEs and 845 State-level public
enterprises (SPEs) covering multiple areas of activity (from mining and
manufacturing to trading and welfare services). In 1989/90, there were 20 highly
profitable units in steel, oil, power, minerals and metals, coal and lignite,
heavy engineering, petrochemicals, transportation services, financial services
and telecommunication services; 74 units providing various services with modest
overall profitability; 11 units still under construction; 4 units in a no-profit
no-loss situation; and 135 units, concentrated in chemicals and pharmaceuticals,
engineering, consumer goods, textiles and various service sub-sectors, with an
aggregate negative net profit. Forty-seven of this latter group have in fact
been incurring chronic cash losses for a number of years. Specifically, these



- 57 -
ANNEX II
Attachment
Page 13 of 14
47 CPE units can be characterized as sick, with a negative net worth totalling
Rs. 46 billion, a total labor force of 310,000 persons, and annual cash losses
of Rs. 12 billion which are covered by the budget. The units that fall under
special provision of the Sick Industrial Companies Act (1985) will be referred
to the Board for Industrial and Finance Reconstruction (BIFR) for restructuring
or winding up.  The budgetary stringency faced by the Government underlines the
importance of quickly formulating provisions for restructuring and closing sick
and unviable public enterprises, and opening up selected units and sectors to
private capital.   In this context, the Government will formulate an actic.
program to initiate restructuring and closure procedures for units in the public
sector that are patently unviable by May 1992.   In the context of public
enterprise restructuring,  it will be important to assess the social costs
associated with the closure of sick units and to develop options and measures for
compensation of retrenched labor and alleviation of the social costs.
38.   In the context of improving the incentives and policy framework in which
CPEs remaining under the Government's control operate, and in order to achieve
better financial performance and enhanced economic efficiency, regulatory and
protection policies are being reviewed.   The Government has already taken
measures in the following areas bearing on the performance of public enternrises:
industrial reservations; competition and regulatory policies; and pricing and
procurement policies.
39.   Enterprises in areas where continued public sector involvement is judged
appropriate will be provided a much greater degree of managerial autonomy and
made to face a much harder budget constraint through the progressive reduction
of budgetary transfers and loans.   Specifically, the Government intends to
establish a schedule of quantitative targets for the elimination of all budgetary
transfers and loans to CPEs beginning from 1992/93, and complete elimination of
government loans and equity to non-infrastructural PEs over three years. In the
same vein, the existing system of monitoring enterprises through Memoranda of
Understanding (MOU) will be strengthened, to ensure greater autonomy to
management, with their primary accountability toward profitability and the rate
of return on capital.
40.   Sales of selected firms or partial divestment in specific sectors is
increasingly being pursued.   The 1991/92 budget confirmed the Government's
decision to sell partial equity interest (up to 20%) in central public
enterprises, totalling Rs. 25 billion, through mutual funds. The objective is
for the mutual funds to seek a listing for the shares on the stock market and to
dispose of them gradually so as to finally ensure wider holding of shares. Over
the course of the next three years, the Government intends to raise a total of
up to Re. 75 billion from partial divestment. A more comprehensive program of
divestment of public holdings is under formulation, with the objective of
increasing the scale of divestiture from 20% to 49% of equity through a mix of
sales of shares to mutual funds, stock market floatation, labor buy-outs and
joint ventures with private investors.



- 58 -
ANNEX II
Attachment
Page 14 of 14
Strenathening Social Sectors and Safety Nets
41.   The Government recognizes that the adjustment program entails significant
transitional costs.   these costs, which include potential losses of output,
employment and consumption due to the deflationary impact of fiscal
consolidation, and frictions in the restructuring process, must be equitably
borne by all sections of the society. However, a large proportion of India's
population continue to be subject to malnutrition and ill-health, and do not have
the educational skil-ls and access to means of production that would enable them
to participate fully and benefit from the growth process.   For this group,
government expenditure restraint as well as the restructuring of the economy
could prove particularly costly, and we are committed to minimizing their share
of the burden of adjustment. Special efforts will be made to ensure adequate
access of India's truly disadvantaged to social services. In the context of the
1991/92 budget, the Government has provided for higher outlays on elementary
education, rural drinking water supply, assistance to small and marginal farmers,
programs for women and children, programs for the welfare of scheduled castes and
scheduled tribes, and other weaker sections of society, as well as for increased
spending on infrastructure and employment-creation projects in the rural areas.
Further steps will be taken to refocus social expenditures, particularly in
health  and  educatioi.,  towards  the  poor.    Additionally,  cost-effective
compensatory programs, particularly in the areas of nutrition and employment,
will be strengthened and broadened.
42.   Given the Government's commitment to making the objective of poverty
alleviation an integral part of the adjustment process, it intends to formulate
and adopt a program of specific measures aimed at strengthening existing social
safety nets and mitigating the inevitable costs of adjustment. As an initial
step in this direction, the 1991/92 Budget provided for the establishment of a
national social security fund (the National Renewal Fund) to, inter alia, finance
unemployment insurance and redeployment/retraining for public and private sector
workers.  It is the Government's hope that this initiative, and others to follow,
will attract the support of official donors.



- 59 -
ANUEX I I I
Page 1 of 9
IIDIA: STRUCTML IJJSTIJMR       L0ywIlEDIT
POLICY mTRI
A. MEASURES ALREADY TAKEN                 B. ACTIONS TO BE TAKEN PRIOR
AREAS OF REFORM                                                                          TO SECOND TRANCHE RELEASE
. .. .. . . . .
INDUSTRIAL POLICY
befem of ind-triaI regulatory
frammut     regardirw  finin  entry,
expansion,    financing    end
divwrsiffcation
&AM The Governmer; has abolished
industrial licensing for all new,                Guidelines wilt  be issued
expansion,  and  diversification          clarifying    that    industrial
prolects of all sizes except in 18        licensing decisions on grounds of
designated industries and except          location  (A.1)  will  be  based
for  projects/facilities  located         solely on environmental, safety,
less than 25 km from cities of            land   use,   congestion,   urban
over one million population.              planning, and related concerns.
A-2 Amendments to the MRTP Act
have been made via Presidential           LI   The 25X and Rs. 20 million
Ordinance,  abolishing  all  pre-          limits on automatic approval for
entry clearance requirements for          capital  goods  imports  will  be
large or dominant firms; the NRYP         raised to 50X and Rs. 100 million,
Act  has  been   reoriented   to          respectively.
emphasize policing of
monopolistic,   restrictive,  and
unfair trading practices.
&4 The requirement for producers
to enter into Phased Manufacturing
Program (involving indigenization
of the production of parts and
components over time) has been
eliminated in the case of new
projects.
AA  The ma tory convertibility
clause in term loans of finamncial
institutions (under which they had
the risht to convert a portion of
loan value into equity) has been
abolished for new projects.
&I      Price  and  distribution
controls    on    low-anatysis
fertilizers have been removed.
Prmotifn of foreign direct
I_-
AA The Govermoent has introduced
autouatic approval for projects
with foreign equity investment up
to    SIX    in   high-priority
industries, provided that the
foreign   exchange   needed   for
Imported capital goods is covered
by the foreign equity infusion and
that rQetriation of dilidends Is



- 60 -
AREAS OF REFORN                           A. NEASURES ALREADY TAKEN                  S. ACTIONS TO BE TAKEN PRIOR
TO SECOND TRANCHE RELEASE
The Govermnent has announced
that    foreign    tochnical
collaborations  would  be  freely
permitted    in    high-priority
industries up to certain limits on
royalty payments, and In other
Industries if no free foreign
exchange is required.
LI  The Goverunt wiu1 adopt a
Dereplatifn of Steet IrAntry                                                         satifafctory   action   plon   to
deresulate and decontrol the stoel
Industry, including  1inter eaia
removal of price and distribution
cont"oL.
Refoam of Exit Policy
Recogn1iig  the  need  to           LA      Amendnents  to  the  Sick
overcme legislative5 regulatory5          Industrial Conpanies Act of 1985
end other obstacles to adjustment         (SICA)   to    institute    more
by    industrial    fI  rms               appropriate criteriaf or sickness,
(rehabilitation,   restructuring,         strengthen    the    Board   for
end winding up where necessary),          Industrial    and    Financial
the Government has established an         Reconstruction tBIFR), improve its
inter-ministerial Working Group to        functioning, and streamline  and
review the existing provisions of         facilitate procedures under BIFR
the various laws governing labor           filL be prepared and simitted to
relations,   state   and   local          Pariament.
governments role in industrial
restructuring,   regulations              Li       The  objectives,  scope,
governing   transfer   of   land,         structure, operation, sours  and
procedures for liqufdatfon under          methods of ftunding, criterta and
the  Companies  Act,  and  other          mechanisms for providin  suWport
relevant aspects.                         to workers, nature and ntamts of
such support, and other details of
&d   Establishment of a Mational          the National Renewal Fund wltl be
Renewal Fund to provide workers           spectfied.   This is expected by
with a safety net to protect them         December 31, 1991.
f rem the adverse consequences of
restructurfng  and  technological          A     Bsased on  the  review  and
development has been anwounced by         recommendations  of  the  inter-
the Government.                           ministerial  Working  Group  (see
A.8),   the    Government   will
formulate a satisfactory policy to
faclfitate    adjustment    by
Industrial  firms   nd  Initiate
steps to this end, taking into
account  the  need  for  adequate
safeguards for workers, proram
for re-deployment and retraining,
and appropriato compensation WAere
necessary.



- 61 -
AREAS OF REFORN                           A. M4EASURES ALREADY TAKEN                B. ACTIONS TO BE TAKEN PRIOR
TO SECOND TRANCHE RELEASE
TRADE POLICY
Rtevl of egency Reserve Ban
restrictiom on imports
A.1   R8I restrictions  imposed          8 t   It is  expected  that by
initially as part of emergency           Decerber 31, 1991. there will be
measures  to  deal  with  the            further   reduction  of  margin
critical  balance  of  paYments          requirements for export related
situation  have  been  partially         imports   and   capital   goods
relaxed,   in   particular   for         financing restrictions affecting
export-related inports.                  exporters.   By second  tranche
release remove the following R81
restrictions: margins. queuing
system for L/Cs. and capital
goods financing requirements.
-3iatien of disetiemey imort
llernsirn (tUb)
u    As part of its efforts of
moving from QRs to a price-based
import   regime   system,   the
Goverrmient  replaced  the  REP
scheme with a new tradeable
import entitlement uExim scripu,
with broader coverage and higher
retention rate.
A     In August 1991 a number of         B.2  Move intermediate items on
intermediate   goods   on   the          the restricted list (Appendix 28)
restricted  list  (Appendix  28)         corresponding  to  at  least  an
corresponding to one-third of the        additional   one-third   of  the
domestic output of such products         domestic production referred to
were made freely importable by           in A.3 to be freely importable by
Eximscrip  or  on  Open  General         Eximscrip or on CGL.  Noever,
License COGL).                           consumer goods will continue to
be restricted a    will remin on
Appendix 26.   Certain products
wi;i  also   continue   to   be
restricted    for    health,
environmental    and    security
reasons.
aeatt0n  in state  Ipoly on
Iparts Cdecwiatlzstlon)
A i    The  replacement of REP           B.    Implement a satisfactory
licenses   by   the   Eximscrip          program    of   reductions   and
increased the volume of certain          elimination   of  the  official
canalized items  also importable         foreign exchange allocated to the
by private individuals or firms          public   sector   agencies   in
using these licenses.  A number          connection with the phasing out
of minor items decanalized (i.e.,        of dual pricing  of previously
for those  item   public sector          decanalized  item.   Decanalize
import monopoly eliminated)  In          all remaining canalized products
August 1991.   Private  imports          except    petroltam    products,
allowed under OGL in ame cases           fertilizers, oltseeds, cereast,
and in others using Eximocrip.           certain  fatty  acids  and  acid
oils,   and   other   acceptable
products.   In the case of the
products   for   which   private
importers swAt use Eximscrip.
either require the canalizing



- 62 -
AREAS OF REFORM                           A. NEASUtES ALREADY TAKEN                  S. ACTIONS TO BE TAKEN PRIOR
TO SECOND TRANCHE RELEASE
agency to also use Eximscrip from
the date of decanalization or
announce a satisfactory program
of progressive reductions and
elimination of official foreign
exchange to the public sector
agencies in order to phase out
dual pricing.
Reduction in oRs an capital goods
0.4  Atlow all unlisted capitat
goods  to  be   imported   with
Eximscrip whether or not the
Eximacrip is earned by the
exports of the importing firm.
Remove a substantial proportion
of capital goods (corresponding
to  at  least  50  percent  of
protected domestic production)
from the capi:at goods restricted
List (Appendix IA). Production
from which protection by inport
Licensing is removed wiLL not
include capital goods the inport
of which remains restricted for
health, environmental or security
reasons.
Increased flexibility of isport
regim
A,    Since April 1990 imports            B.    Abolish the "Actual Useru
under transferable REP Licenses           requirement for imports.
have not been subject to "actual
user" conditions.   Actual user
conditions also do not apply to
the   uch   larger  volume  of
Eximscrip fmports.
tncreased tranuorpwcy In iqport
reime
&A       In   October   1991   a         LAo       Abolish   the   Limited
computerized  list corresponding          Permissible  List (Appendix 3).
to    Customs    Tariff    HSC           Announce that all products not on
elassifications  giving  import          Restricted lists, the Canalized
control status of each product            lists,  or  the  oGL  lists  are
was issued.                               importable  with  the  use  of
Eximscrip.
LI       Abolish   the   purchase
preference    given    by    the
Directorate General of Supply and
Disposal (DGS&D) and to domestic
suppliers over the duty paid
price of fmports.



- 63 -
AREAS OF REFORM                           A. MEASURES ALREADY TAKEN                  a. ACTIONS TO OE TAKEN PRIOR
TO SECOND TRANCHE RELEASE
Exprt  renttvea and rovel of
nm-tariff barriers to exports
& In August 1991 a new Advance
License  Scheme  was  introduced
which broadens, simplifies and
speeds up export incentives for
manufactured soods.
A.8      GOl  decanalized  some          L    Remove all export ti censino,
exportable products on August 13,         canalization and minimum export
1991 and decontrolled some others        prices except for a satlsfactorr
on September 4, 1991.  Further           negative list.
decontrol measures were taken in
October 1991. GO0 is continuing
to review export controLs and
export    canalization,    in
particular   existing   policies
towards agricultural and mineral
exports.
Tarlff reform
&.2 The Govermvent has partially         L2   Coapletion of the cusatom
rolled back the earlier tariff            tariff review and adoption of a
increases adopted in the context         satisfactory medium term ptan to
of fiscal adjustment of December         meet the objectives set out In
1990 and the maximun  ad valorem         A.10.    A  substantial  initial
tariff (basic plus auxiliary) was         reduction of the maximum customs
towered to 150 percent.                  tariff to be introduced in the
1992/93 budget.
A 10 The GOI is undertaking a
comprehensive  review  of  the
custoff tariffs in order to
recommnd among other things,
ways  and  means  for:        (i)
substantially    reducing    the
average level of tariffs; (ii)
significantly    lowering    the
maximum level of tariffs; (iii)
simplifying the structure of
tariff rates with a view to
substantially   reducing   their
variability and the incidence of
exemptions   and    partial
exeaptions; Civ) minimizing the
use of specific tariffs; (v)
obtaining   alternative  revenue
sources to  coepnsate  for an
reduction in total goverrent
revenue which may follow from the
tariff reform.



- 64 -
AAEAS OF REFORN                           A. MEASURES ALREADY TAKEN                  B. ACTIONS TO BE TAKEN PRIOR
TO SECOND TRANCHE RELEASE
FINANCIAL MARKETS AND INSTITUTIONS
Interest rote tibertization
A.1 Significant progress has been
achieved in introducing greater
flexibility and autonomy in the
determination of term lending
rates. Ninimm lending rates for
both   commercial    banks    and
financial institutions have been
increased   to   20X   and   15X
respectively,    with    both
institutions given the freedom to
add   margins,   depending    on
borrowers' creditworthiness and
market conditions.
A.2 Term deposit rates have been
increased across the board by 1 to
2   percentage  points  (deposit
rates, however, remain still under
the administrative control of the
RBt).
s9edtion in the setep  of directed
credft eltocation smchs
A.3       A   panel   Ctarasitwham
Committee)  has been  established          B.1   With the reduction of the
with the mandate to review all             fiscal    deficit    of    Central
relevant  aspects  of  structure,          Goverrment as a proportion of GDP
organization,    functions    and          take  measures  to  progressively
procedures   of   the   financial          reduce  the  Statutory  Liquidity
system, and make recommendations           Ratio required to be maintained by
for reforms by mid-November 1991.          the  scheduled commerciat banks,
starting from April 1992.
9.2 Based on the recoamendations
of   the   Narasimham   Committee,
formulate a satisfactory program
of action to reduce interest
subsidies in areas of directed
Capital  m*rket  regulatory  and                                                      credit, beginning in April 1992.
niwtl*tutft reforu
i Restrictions on interest
rates for debentures issued by
corporations in capital markets,
both    convertible   and   non-
convertible, have been completely
removed (exemption appLies however
to tax free bonds issuee by the
public sector).
&J. The Coupon rate on Govenrnent
securitIes has been raised by one-
half of a percentage point from
11.5X to 12X (20-year bond).



- 65 -
AREAS OF REFORM                           A. NEASURES ALREADY TAKEN                  B. ACTIONS TO BE TAKEN PRIOR
TO SECOND TRANCHE RELEASE
A.6 Announcement has been made to          f.3    Prepare  and  present  to
grant full statutory powers to the         Parliament  legislation  to  give
Stock  Exchange  Board  of  India          SEBI statutory status in order to
(SEBI)   under   the   Securities          operate    as    an    independent
Contracts (Regulation) Act and the         regulatory body, including power
Company Act.                               to investigate with due diligence.
A.? Announcement has been made to          B.4  Adopt a satisfactory Program
introduce a comprehensive package          of action to reform the trading
of reform  to improve the trading          mechanism  of  stock  exchanges,
mechanism  of  stock  exchanges,           including a  system  of national
including  a  system  of national          clearing   and   settlement   and
clearing   and   settlement   and          setting up a central depository
setting up a central depository            trust.
trust.
Private sector participation in
the inital funds industry
A.8 The mutual funds industry is           L5  Based on the recommendation
being opened for private sector            of Dave Committee, formulate and
participation.    A  high  level           implement a satisfactory Program
Committee  (Dave  Committee)  has          of action for setting up of mutual
been  established  to  review  the         funds in the private sector.
existing regulatory framework for
the mutual funds industry with a
view   to   preparing   a   draft
legislation for regulation of
mutual funds and other offshore
funds, including such funds which
may be a step up in the Joint/
private sector, and to make
recomendations   on   any   other
matters which is relevant for the
orderly growth of mutual funds.



- 66 -
AREAS OF REFORM                           A. MEASURES ALREADY TAKEN                  B. ACTIONS TO BE TAKEN PRIOR
TO SECOND TRANCHE RELEASE
PUBLIC ENTERPRISES REFOR
Ratimtizing the scope uW the
role of the pblic sector
A.1     The   Government   has
aswounced that the public sector
is to concentrate on essential
infrastructure, exploitation of
oil and mineral resources, crucial
areas where private investment is
inadequate, and strategic-related
activities. It was announced that
the existing portfolio of public
enterprises witl be reviewed, with
a view to focusing the public
sector on strategic areas, high-
tech,   and   essential   infra-
structure. The list of industries
reserved for the public sector has
been reduced from 18 to 8.
Reiwtion in buabetary support to
pabic sector enterprises
AAJ  Budgetary support to central         B.1   As part of its program  of
public   enterprises   has   been         fiscal adjustment and to ease the
reduced   significantly,   with           burden   on   the   budget,   the
nonptan  loans and  transfers  to         Government will adopt and initiate
public  enterprises  projected  to        the    implementation    of   a
drop by about 25X in 1991-92 and          satisfactory phased action plan to
budgetary   plan   support   for          eliminate   within   three   years
investment by pubtic enterprises          (i.e.,  by  the end  of  1994/95)
(loans and equity contributions)          budgetary transfers and loans to
by 10X.                                   sick central public  enterprises
and budgetary plan support (loans
and equity) for public enterprise
investments except in energy,
transport, and other
infrastructure. Under the action
plan, Goverrmnent guarantees of
central    public    enterprise
borrowings will be limited to
essential   infrostructure,
exploitation of oil and mineral
reserves, and strategic-related
activities.
Fweutatifa of an exit policy for
pMic en*erprises
ft   The Governnent is developing         L2  In the case of units that are
an   exit  policy   for   public          patently wiviabte, the Goverment
enterprises.                              mill form  a satisfactory  action
program to initiate restructuring
and closure procedures.



- 67 -
AREAS OF REFORM                            A. MEASURES ALREADY TAKEN                  S. ACTIONS TO 8E TAKEN PRIOR
TO SECOND TRANCHE RELEASE
El3   The  Goverment will  take
actions to ensure that, except for
central pubtic enterprises already
determined to be unviable by the
Goverinent   (B.2),   all   public
enterprises    that    are   sick
according    to    the    criteria
specified in the Sick Industrial
Coeqnies Act (SICA) henceforth
will automatically be referred to
the Board for Industrial and
Financial Reconstruction (lIFR)
for assesssent of their prospects
and subsequent winding up or
rehabilItation. All such sick
central public enterprises mill be
referred to BIFR.
Dtvestiture
LA4  Government disinvestment of           8.4    The detailed  program  for
20X of  the equity  of selected            disinvestment of 2OX of equity in
public   enterprises   has   been          selected public enterprises, to
announced; shares would be sold to         yield  Rs  25  billion,  mill  be
mutual furds and other financial           finalized  and  approved  by  the
institutions,  which  will  then           Goverrment and implemmntation of
resell them to the general public.         the program  will be completed by
Distnvestment is expected to yield         the end of 1991/92.
proceeds of at least Rs. 25
billion for the budget in 1991-92.
L3      Building  on   the   20X
disinvestment,   a   satisfactory
action program to progressively
increase the private equity share
in  profitable   central   public
enterprises to 49X within three
years will be promulgated by the
Government, along with a list of
the companies concerned and a
timetable for implementation.



- 68 -
Pag I oR 4
THE STATUS OF AN GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND tDA CREDITS
(As of September 80, 1901)
USJI Mlli  Ion
(not eo  ncl ltiion.)
Loan or      FPrcal Year
Credit No.  of Approvrl    Purpose                                   80          IDA 1/      Undilurse  2/
t7 Loans/                                                           5486.2          -                    -
164 Credit. tully diebursd                                           -          10708.2                 -
1172-IN        1982       Korba Therml Power I                        -           400.0             20.16
1177-IN        1982        Madhya Pradesh Major Irrigation            -           220.0             47.08
1178-IN        1902       West Bengal Social Forestry                 -            20.0              0.24
207t-IN         1982      Rangundam Thermal Power II                 280.0         -                  9.61
1280-IN        1988       Gujarat Water Supply                        -             72.0             24.94
1819-IN         1988      Haryana Irrigation II                                    150.0             26.20
1856-IN        1988       Upper Indravati Hydro Powor                 -            170.0             85.69
2276-IN         1988      Upper Indravati Hydro Power                156.4          -               156.01
1800-IN         1098      Calcutta Urban Development III              -           147.0             790.64
2268-IN         1988       Central Power Transmission                260.7          -               120.78
2295-IN         1983      Himalayan Watershod Management              81.2          -                8.46
1888-IN         1988      Uaharashtra Water Utilization               -            82.0               1.40
2829-IN         1988      Madhya Pradosh Urban                        18.1          -                 5.64
1424-IN         1984      Ralnfed Arose Watershed Dev.                -            81.0              26.09
1426-IN        1984       Population III                              -            70.0               2.06
1432-IN         1984      Kernataka Social Forestry                   -            27.0               7.25
2887-IN         1984      Nhava Shove Port                           260.0          -               20.01
28983-N         1964      Dudhichus Coal                             109.0         -                 16."
2408-IN         1984                   Potrleum                      218.5          -                 4.08
2416-IN        1984        Mhy  Pra         Fertilizer               172.6         -                 6.44
1454-IN        1904       Taml Nu We  Supply                          -            80.5              20.44
SF-12-IN        1964      l.Mi Nadu Wtr Supply                        -             86.5             82.50
SF-16-IN        1084      Perlyar Vaigal II Irrigation                -             17.6             11.80
148-IN         1984       Uppr Gng  IrrIation                         -           125.0             8.68
1490-IN        1984       Oujorat Medium Irriation                    -           172.0             81.50
2416-IN         1984       Indira Sarovr Hydroelectric                 17.4         -                12.40
SF-20-IN        1984      Indira Sarovar Hydrolectric                 -             18.6             17.00
1618-IN        1985       Indire Srovar Hydroalectric                 -            18.2             10.87
2417-IN         1964      Railway  ElwctrsiCati on                   270.2         -                 24.78
2442-IN        1984       Farakka II Therml Power                    800.8         -                116.14
2452-IN         1984      Fourth Trombay Thermal Power               185.4         -                 10.70
1602-IN         1084      National CooperatIve
Development Corporation III               -            220.0             70.22
1514-IN         1985      Kerala Social Forestry                      -             U1.              18.11
1523-IN        195        National Agric. Extenalon I                 -            89.1             26.56
1644-IN        1086       Bombay Urban Development                    -           188.0             102.88
2497-IN        1985       Nrd  (surat) Daw and Powr                  200.0         -                200.00
1662-DI         1856      Narmada (au    ) Da  and Power              -           100.0              84.91
1663-IN        1965       Naa  (Iu a) Canal                           -           160.0              76.68
1600-IN        1905       Second National Agricultural Ext.           -            40.0             26.02
161l-IN        1985       National SocIal Forsry                      -           165.0             01.65
2498-IN        1985       Jhorl Coking Coal                          57.7          -                 5.28
2534-rN         1986      Second National Highway                    200.0         _                186.64
2644-IN         19865      Chandrapur Therml Poer                     800.0         -               12.56
2665-IN         1985      Rihand Power Tranamision                   260.0          -                69.1
2582-IN         1985      Kerala Power                                176.0        -                17. 2
lol%-IN        1988       West Bengal Minor Irrligtlon                -            08.0             109.18



- 69 -
ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 4
US8 Millon
(not of concellation.)
Loan or     Fiscal Year
Credit No.  of Approval      Purpose                                 IBRD        IDA 1/      Undisbursad 2/
1621-IN         1986       Maharashtra Composite Irrigation            -           100.0            179.08
1622-IN        1986       Kerala Water Supply and Sanitation           -            41.0             80.47
1623-IN        1088       West Bensal Population                       -            61.0             25.66
1631-IN        1980       National Agricultural Research II            -            72.1             58.62
2829-IN         1986       Industrial Export Dew. Finance              90.0         -                12.66
2630-IN         1986       ICICI-Indus. Exp. Dov. Flnence             160.0         -                26.60
1043-IN         108B      Gujarat Urban                                -           62.0              46.48
2660-IN         108        Cement Industry                            165.0         -                89.94
2661-IN         1988       ICICI - Cement Industry                     85.0         -                15.97
168s-IN         1986       Andhra Pradesh II Irrigation                -           140.0            145.12
2662-IN         1986      Andhra Pradesh II Irrigation                181.0         -               181.00
2674-IN         1986       Combined Cycle Power                      485.0          -                86.64
2730-IN         1986       Cooperstive Fertilizer                     118.8         -                24.68
1737-IN        1987       Bihar Tubowells                             -            08.0              67.16
2769-IN         1987      Bombay Water Supply &
Sewerage III                               40.0         -                40.00
1750-IN        1987       Bombay Water Supply A
Sewerage III                               -           146.0            105.76
1764-IN        1987       National Agric. Extension III               -            86.0              61.37
1757-IN        1987       GuJarat Rural Roads                         -           119.8            104.46
1770-IN        1987       National Water Management                   -            114.0           90.05
2765-IN         1987      Oil India Petroleum                         140.0         -                60.46
2790-IN         1987       Coal Mining A Quality Improvment           840.0         -               122.37
2813-IN         1987      Telecommunications IX                       198.0         -                35.41
2797-IN         1987       Utter Pradesh Urban Development             20.0         -                20.00
1780-IN         1987      Uttar Pradesh Urban Development              -           180.0            06.64
2827-IN         1987      Karnataka Power                            880.0          -               289.85
2844-IN         1987      National Capital Power                     425.0          -               280.22
2845-IN         1987      Tlocher Thermal                            875.0          -               827.80
2846-IN         1087       Madras Water Supply                         68.0         -                44.61
2898-IN         198       National Dairy II                          200.0          -               200.00
1859-IN         1988      National Dairy II                           -           160.0             61.07
2904-IN         1988       Western Cas Development                   268.2          -                10.27
2928-IN         1986       Indus. Fin. A Tech. Aso                   860.0          -               110.07
2935-IN        1988       Railway Modernization III                  890.0         -               265.87
2938-IN         1988      Karnstake Power II                         260.0         -                28.29
2967-IN         1988       Uttr Pradosh Power                        860.0          -               802.96
1923-IN        1988       Tamil Nadu Urban Dev.                       -           800.2             216.16
1931-IN         1988      Bombay A Madras Population                  -            57.0              18.00
2904-IN         1989       States Roands                              170.0         -               170.00
1969-IN         1989      States Reads                                 -           60.0             56.82
8024-IN         1989      Nathpa Jhakri Power                        485.0          -              448.29
1952-IN         1989      National Seeds III                          -            150.0            102.49
8044-IN         1989      Petroleum Transport                        840.0          -               806.00
2008-IN         1989       Vocational Training                         -           260.0            224.78
8046-IN         1989       Vocational Training                         80.0         -                80.00
2010-IN         1989      Upper Krishna Irrigation IT                  -           180.0            126.46
8o0o-IN         1989      Upper Krishna Irrigation II                 166.0         -               165.00
8056-IN         1989       Export Development                         120.0         -                09.44
8069-IN         1989       ICICI - Export Development                176.0          -               186.04
2022-IN         1989       National Sericulturs                        -           147.0            1269-8
8066-IN         1989      National Sericulture                         80.0         -                80.00
8008-IN         1980      Electronices Industry Dev.                    6.0         -                 7.60
8094-IN         1989       ICICI - Eloctronic Ind. Dow.              101.0         -                64.09
8095-IN         1980      IDo8  - Electronice Ind. Dev.               101.0         -                79.19
a808-IN         1980       Maharashtra Power                          400.0         -               876.66
2067-IN         1989       Nat'l. Family Weltfre Trng.                 -           118.8             06.71
810$ -IN        1998       Nat*l. Family Welfare Teng.                 11.8         -                11.80
8119-IN         1990       industrial Technology Development          146.0         -               121.00
2064-IN         1990       Industrial Technology Development           -            66.0             58.60



- 70 -
Page  otf 4
US Million
(net of cSncel lations)
.oan or     FisoCl Year                                           --------------------------------------
:redit No.  of Approval    Purpose                                  18D         IDA 1/      Undlsbursed 2/
1144-IN        190       Punjab Irrigation/Drainage                  1S.0         -                1S.00
2076-IN        1900       Punjab Irrigation/Dralnage                  -           150.0            147.91
2116-IN        190        Hyderabad Water Supply                      -            79.0             77.28
1181-IN        1990       Hyderabad Water Supply                      10.0         ^                 10.00
1190-IN        10         Cement Industry Restructuring              800.0                         298.78
1756-IN        1990       watershed Dev lopment (ifil)                1;.0         -                 18.00
2100-IN        1990       lltershed Developent (Hilla)                -            75.0              77.27
8196-IN        1990       Technician Educatlon I                      26.0          -                26.00
2130-IN        1990       Technician Education I                      -           285.0             220.98
8197-IN        1990       Watershed Developmnt (Plains)                7.0          -                 7.00
2131-IN         1990      Watershed Developmnt (Plain.)               -             65.0             64.91
8199-IN         1090      Population Training VII                      10.0         -                10.00
2133-IN         1990       Population Training VII                     -            8o.7             81.80
2168-IN         1990       Tamil Nbdu Integrated Nutrition IX          -            965.             98.96
8287-IN         1090       Northern Region Transmtssion               486.0         -               442.75
8289-IN         1990       Private Powr Utilities I (TEC)*             98.0         -                98.00
3253-IN         1991      IC0S I (Orisa & Andhra Pradesh)              10.0         -                10.00
2173-IN         1991      IC0S I (Oniess & Andhra Pradesh)             -            98.0             98.7s
3268-IN         1991       Petrochemicals Ir                           12.0         -                11.00
3269-IN         1991       Petrochemicals II                          288.0         -               199.67
8260-IN         1991       A.P. Cyclone Emergency Reconstruction       40.0         -                40.00
2179-IN         1991       A.P. Cyclone Emergency Reconstruction       -           170.0            127.56
3800-IN         1S9        Tamil Nadu Agricultural Development         20.0         -                20.00
2216-IN         1991       Tamil Nadu Agricultural Devolopmont         -            92.8             82.10
2223-IN         1991      Technician Education It*                     -           807.1            290.48
2234-IN         1991       Maharashtra Rural Water Supply              -           109.9             97.81
8326-IN         1991      Dam Safety                                   28.0         -                28.00
2241-IN         1991       Dam Safety                                  -           180.0            122.68
8884-IN         1991       Industrial Pollution Control.              124.0         -               124.00
2262-IN         1991       Industital Pollution Controlo               -            81.0 41.9U
8844-IN         1991      Private Power Utilities I  (aSES)           200.0         -               167.46
3884-IN         1991       Gas Flaring Reduction                     4SO.0          -               860.00
8391-IN         1992       Oil and Gas Sector Developmnt              150.0         -                60.00
2800-IN         1992       Child Survival and Safe Motherhood*         -           214.6            218.88
Tote I                                                 10818.0      18047.1           12886.9
of which has been repaid                                8008.6        788.4
Total now outstanding                                  16809.4      17308.7
Amount Sold                                   188.0
of which has been repald                      188.0
Total now held by Bank and IDA 8/                      15809.4      17808.7
Total undlebursed (excluding o)                         7697.8       4470.4
1/ IDA Credit amountn for SOR-donominatod Credits ar expressed In terms of their US dollor
equivalents, as established at the time of Credit negotiations and as subsequently
presented to the Board.
2/ Undisburmod amounts for SDR-denominated IDA Credits ore derived as tho unditbursed balance
expressed in SOR equivalents (in turn derived as the differnco between the original principal
expressed In SDRe (based on the exchange rate In effect at neotiations) and the cumulative
disbursements converted to SOR quivalents at the exchange rates prevailing at the respective
dates of disbursements less cncellations  xpressed In SON equivalents at the exchange
rates prevailing at the date(s) of cancellations) converted to US dollar equlvalent at
the SR/US do IIor exchenge rate In effect on September 80, 1991.
8/ Prior te exchange adjustment.
o Net yet effective.



- 71-                                 A         IV
Pag 4 of 4
8. STATEIMENT OF IFC INVESTMWS
(As of September 80, 1991)
Amount USl  IIlIon)
Fiscal Year            Company                                Loan            Equity             ToIl
1969            Republic Forge Company Ltd.                    1.60               -               1.60
1969            Kirlooke Oil Engines Ltd.                      0.6               -              0.85
1960            Asoam Sillimanits Ltd.                         1.86               -               1.86
1981            K.S.B. Pump. Ltd.                             0.21                -              0.21
1983-56         Precision Bearings Indla Ltd.                 0.66              0.88              1.08
1964            Fort Cloater Industries Ltd.                  0.81              0.40              1.21
1964-76-79/90   Mahindre Ugine Steel Co. Ltd.                 11.81             2.64             14.85
1964            Lakehnl Machine Works Ltd.                    0.96              0.86              1.a2
1967            Jayehroe Chemicals Ltd.                        1.06             0.10              1.15
1967            Indian Explosives Ltd.                         6.80             2.80             11.40
1969-70         Zuarl Agro-Chemicala Ltd.                     15.15             8.76             19.91
1977-07         Escorts Limited                               15.56               -              16565
1978-67/91      Housing Development Finance Corp.            104.00             2.10            106.10
1980/82/87/89   Deepak Ferti i zor and
Petrochemicals Corporatlon Ltd.               7.50              4.28            11.78
1982            Coromandel Fertilizers Limited                16.88               -              15.88
1981-86-89      Tate Iron and Steel Company Ltd.              72.08            21.40             98.49
1981-82         Nagerjune Coated Tubes Ltd.                    1.60             0.24              1.74
1952-86-87/91    Nasarjuna Signods Limited                     2.99             0.41             8.40
1961-82         Nagarjuna Steele Limited                       2.68             0.24             8.12
1982            Aghok Leyland LImited                         28.00               -             28.00
1982            The Bombay Dyeing and                                                            0.00
Menufacturing Co. Ltd.                      16.90                -             18.80
1988            Bharat Forge Company Ltd.                     16.90               -              15.90
1982-87         The Indian Rayon Corp. Ltd.                   14.57               -              14.57
1984-86         The Owalior Rayon Silk Manu-
facturing (Weaving) Co. Ltd.                15.95                -             15.95
1985/91         Bihar Sponge                                  15.24             0.68             15.92
1985            Bej8J Auto Ltd.                              28.98                -              28.98
19865           Modi Cement                                   13.05               -              13.05
1985-86/90-91    India Lease Development Ltd.                 8.50              0.78             9.28
1986            Larsen and Toubro Ltd.                        18.67               -              18.67
1986            India Equipment Leaeing Ltd.                  2.60              0.80             2.80
1986            Baja] Tempo Limited                           80.64               -             80.54
1986-87         The Great Eactern Shipping
Company Ltd.                                 6.00             10.66            18.66
198?            Gujarat  ariade Valley Fertillzr             86.07               -              88.07
1097            HQrO Honda Motors Ltd.                         7.74               -               7.74
1987            Wlico Limited                                 4.70                -              4.70
1987-89/90      Titan Watches Llmited                        22.02              0.56             22.56
1987            Export-Import Bank of India                  14.66                -              '4.5
1987            Gujarat Fusion Olaes Ltd.                      7.62             1.70              9.22
1987            The Gujarat Rural Housing                                                        0.00
Finance Corp.                                                  0.19             0.19
1987            Hindustan Motors Ltd.                        38.18                -              38.13
1988            Invol Transmissions Ltd.                        -               1.07              1.07
1989            IBI Advanced Technology                                         0.20             0.20
1989-90         Keltron Telephone Instruments, Ltd.             -               0.40             0.40
1989            Oujarat State Fertilizer                      29.44               -              29.44
1989            Ahmedabad Electricity Company, Ltd.           20.98               -              20.98
1990-91         Tote Electric                                106.18               -             108.18
1990            JSB India Securities Ftres                      -               0.87             0.87
1981-90         Mahindra A Mahindra Ltd.                      28.19             6.97             87.16
1990            UCAL Fuel System. Ltd.                                          a."8             0.98
1991            Indust. Credit A Investment Corp. of India      -              26.00             25.00
1991            CESC Ltd.                                     21.04               -              21.04
1991            Hordile Oxides and Electronics Ltd.             -               0.29             0.29
1991            Infrastructure Leasing a Financial Servies   15.00              1.01             16.81
1991            Trivenl Pool Intalrdril Ltd. (TPIL)                             0.55             0.55
1991            Bombay Electric                              6.00                 -              68.00
1991            Verun Transport, Storage a Comunicotions      2.04              1.71             3.75
1991            TDICI Development Finaneo Coqmpanie                             2.19              2.19
1991            Export Finance                                0.48                -              0.41
1992            alock KQ-OS-IY                                                  *.20             8.20
TOTAL GROSS CCOMITMENTS                     904.60            106.84          1010.50
Loes: Cancellation, Terminations,
Repayments and Sale.                                486.61             28.82           468.68
NoW Hold                                             468.05             78.82           640.87
Undiabureed                                          194.24             82.46           226.70



- 72 -
ANNEX V
INDIA
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN/CREDIT
Supplementary Loan Data Sheet
I.   Timetable for Key Events
(a)   Time Taken to Prepare the Project:  three months.
(b)   Appraisal Mission:  September 30-October 10, 1991.
(c)   Completion of Negotiations:  October 30, 1991.
(d)   Planned Date of Effectiveness:  December 1991.
II.   Special Conditions
None.



