Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                               LOAN NUMBER 3421 IN
                          Loan Agreement
                   (Structural Adjustment Loan)
                              between
                               INDIA
                                ant
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                      Dated December 5, 1991
\0c                                               LOAN NUMBER 3421 IN
                          LOAN AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated December 5, 1991, between INDIA, acting by
its President, (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUC-
TION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
      WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received a letter dated November 11,
1991 from the Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives
and policies designed to achieve structural adjustment of the
Borrower's economy (hereinafter called the Program), declaring the
Borrower's commitment to the execution of the Program, and request-
ing assistance from the Bank in the financing of urgently needed
imports required during such execution;
      (B)   the Borrower has also requested the International
Development Association (the Association) to provide additional
assistance in support of the Program and by an agreement of even
date herewith between the Borrower and the Association (the
Development Credit Agreement), the Association is agreeing to
provide such assistance in an aggregate principal amount equivalent
to one hundred eighty three million eight hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 183,800,000) (the Credit);
      (C)   the Borrower and the Bank intend, to the extent
practicable, that the proceeds of each tranche of the Credit as set
forth in the Development Credit Agreement be disbursed on account of
Page  2
expenditures in respect of the Program before disbursements of the
proceeds of each respective tranche of the Loan as set forth in this
Agreement are made; and
      (D)   on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Bank has
decided in support of the Program to provide such assistance to the
Borrower by making the Loan in two tranches as hereinafter provided;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January l, 1985, with the
modifications thereof set forth below (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
\0c      (a)   Section 2.01, paragraph 11, shall be modified to read:
            "'Project' means the imports and other activities that
      may be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan pursuant to
      the provisions of Schedule l to the Loan Agreement.n;
            "Section 9.07 (c) shall be modified to read:
            "(c)  Not later than six months after the Closing Date
      or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between
      the Borrower and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and
      furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and in such detail
      as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution of the
      program referred to in the Preamble to the Loan Agreement, the
      performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their respective
      obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment of
      the purposes of the Loan.";
      (c)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted; and
      (d)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as
sub-paragraph (l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:
            "(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under
      which any further withdrawals under the Loan would be
      inconsistent with the provisions of Article III, Section 3 of
      the Bank's Articles of Agreement. n
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
      (a)   "SITC" means the Standard International Trade Clas-
sification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev. 3), published by the United
Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986); and
      (b)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.\0c                            ARTICLE II
                             The Loan
      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of two hundred fifty million dollars ($250,000,000),
being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each
withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement.
      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Program,
Page  3
open and maintain in the Reserve Bank of India a special deposit
account on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits
into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1992 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to
time.
      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of l%). On each of the
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding
during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the rate
applicable during such Interest Period.
      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.\0c      (c)   For the purposes
of this Section:
            (i)   Interest Period" means a six-month period ending
                  on the date immediately preceding each date
                  specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
                  beginning with the Interest Period in which this
                  Agreement is signed.
            (ii)  "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
                  reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed
                  as a percentage per annum, of the outstanding
                  borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
                  1982, excluding such borrowings or portions
                  thereof as the Bank has allocated to fund: (A)
                  the Bank's investments; and (B) loans which may
                  be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing
                  interest rates determined otherwise than as
                  provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
            (iii) "Semester" means the first six months or the
                  second six months of a calendar year.
      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months' notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:
      (a)   The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount
of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate
for each Quarter equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
determined in respect of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one
percent (1/2 of l%). On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06
of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest Period,
calculated at the rates applicable during such Interest Period."
      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings determined in respect of such Quarter. n
            "(c)  (iii) 'Quarter' means a three-month period
      commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a
      calendar year."
      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on February 1 and August 1 in each year.\0c      Section 2.07. The Bo
Page  4
rrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
                       Particular Covenants
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Bank shall from time to
time, at the request of either party, exchange views on the progress
achieved in carrying out the Program and the actions specified in
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
      (b)   Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Bank for its review and comment a report on the
progress achieved in carrying out the Program, in such detail as the
Bank shall reasonably request.
      Section 3.02. Without limitation or restriction upon the
provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall no
later than January 31, 1992 discuss with the Bank the progress
achieved in carrying out the Program and the actions specified in
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
      Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained sound accounting practices the
expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section including those for
                  the Special Account for each fiscal year audited,
                  in accordance with appropriate auditing
                  principles consistently applied, by independent
                  auditors acceptable to the Bank;
            (ii)  furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                  any case not later than six months after the end
                  of each such year, a certified copy of the report
                  of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and
                  in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
                  requested; and
            (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information
                  concerning said records and accounts and the
                  audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time
                  reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
                  with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
                  accounts reflecting such expenditures;
            (ii)  retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                  has received the audit report for the fiscal year
                  in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
                  Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
                  invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                  evidencing such expenditures;
            (iii) enable the Bank's representatives to examine such
                  records; and
Page  5
            (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are
                  included in the annual audits referred to in
                  paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report
                  of such audit contains a separate opinion by said
                  auditors as to whether the statements of
                  expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                  together with the procedures and internal
                  controls involved in their preparation, can be
                  relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
                            ARTICLE IV
                  Additional Event of Suspension
      Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely,
that a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the
Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Effective Date; Termination
      Section 5.01. The following event is specified as  an
additional condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions,
namely, that all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
Development Credit Agreement shall have been fulfilled, other than
those related to the effectiveness of this Agreement.
      Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
            Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 6.01. The Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint
Secretary, Director, Deputy Secretary, or Under Secretary of the
Department of Economic Affairs in the Ministry of Finance of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            The Secretary to the Government
              of India
            Ministry of Finance
            Department of Economic Affairs
            New Delhi, PIN 110001, India
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  ECOFAIRS                  953-3166175
                  New Delhi\0c      For the Bank:
            International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  INTBAFRAD                 197688 (TRT),
                  Washington, D.C.          248423 (RCA),
                                             64145 (WUI) or
Page  6
                                             82987 (FTCC)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
                        INDIA
                        By /s/ Abid Hussain
                                         Authorized Representative
                        INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                          RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                        By /s/ Joseph Wood
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                        South Asia
\0c                            SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    Sub;awaked to the provisions set forth or referred to in this
Schedule, the proceeds of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan
Account for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods required during the
execution of the Program and to be financed out of such proceeds.
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph l above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
      (a)   expenditures for goods included in the following SITC
groups or sub-groups, or any successor groups or sub-groups under
future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Bank by notice to
the Borrower:
      Group       Sub-Group         Description of Items
      112               -           Alcoholic beverages
      121               -           Tobacco, unmanufactured,
                                    tobacco refuse
      122               -           Tobacco, manufactured (whether
                                    or not containing tobacco
                                    substitutes)
      525               -           Radioactive and associated
                                    materials
      667               -           Pearls, precious and semi-
                                    precious stones, unworked or
                                    worked
      718         718.7             Nuclear reactors, and parts
                                    thereof, fuel elements
                                    (cartridges), non-irradiated
                                    for nuclear reactors
\0c      Group       Sub-Group         Description of Items
      728.43            -           Tobacco processing machinery
      897         897.3             Jewelry of gold, silver or
Page  7
                                    platinum group metals (except
                                    watches and watch cases) and
                                    goldsmiths' or silversmiths'
                                    wares (including set gems)
      971         -                 Gold, non-monetary (excluding
                                    gold ores and concentrates)
      (b)   expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for
goods supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
      (c)   payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement, except that withdrawals in an aggregate amount not
exceeding the equivalent of $50,000,000 may be made on account of
payments made for such expenditures before that date but after
July 31, 1991;
      (d)   expenditures for goods procured under contracts costing
less than $100,000 equivalent;
      (e)   expenditures for goods supplied under a contract which
any national or international financing institution or agency other
than the Bank shall have financed or agreed to finance; and
      (f)   expenditures for goods intended for a military or para-
military purpose or for luxury consumption.
3.    Withdrawals for expenditures under contracts for the
procurement of goods estimated to cost less than $5,000,000 may be
permitted by the Bank upon the basis of statements of expenditure
under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify.
4.    No withdrawal shall be made and no commitment shall be entered
into to pay amounts to or on the order of the Borrower in respect of
expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan after
the aggregate of the proceeds of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan
Account and the total amount of such commitments shall have reached
the equivalent of $150,000,000, unless the Bank shall be satisfied,
after an exchange of views as described in Section 3.01 of this
Agreement based on evidence satisfactory to the Bank.\0c
  SCHEDULE 2
                       Amortization Schedule
                                          Payment of Principal
      Date Payment                     Due expressed in dollars*
August 1, 1997                                  4,560,000
February 1, 1998                                4,735,000
August 1, 1998                                  4,920,000
February 1, 1999                                5,110,000
August 1, 1999                                  5,305,000
February 1, 2000                                5,510,000
August 1, 2000                                  5,725,000
February 1, 2001                                5,945,000
August 1, 2001                                  6,175,000
February 1, 2002                                6,415,000
August 1, 2002                                  6,660,000
February 1, 2003                                6,920,000
August 1, 2003                                  7,185,000
February 1, 2004                                7,465,000
August 1, 2004                                  7,750,000
February 1, 2005                                8,050,000
August 1, 2005                                  8,365,000
February 1, 2006                                8,685,000
August 1, 2006                                  9,020,000
February 1, 2007                                9,370,000
August 1, 2007                                  9,735,000
February 1, 2008                               10,110,000
August 1, 2008                                 10,500,000
February 1, 2009                               10,905,000
August 1, 2009                                 11,325,000
Page  8
February 1, 2010                               11,765,000
August 1, 2010                                 12,220,000
February 1, 2011                               12,690,000
August 1, 2011                                 13,185,000
February 1, 2012                               13,695,000
___________________
*     The  figures  in this  column represent  dollar  equivalents
      determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
      General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
\0c                      Premiums on Prepayment
      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan
to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the applicable
time of prepayment below:
      Time of Prepayment                  Premium
                                    The interest rate (expressed as
                                    a percentage per annum)
                                    applicable to the Loan on the
                                    day of prepayment multiplied
                                    by:
      Not more than three years                 0.15
            before maturity
      More than three years but                 0.30
            not more than six years
            before maturity
      More than six years but                   0.55
            not more than 11 years
            before maturity
      More than 11 years but not                0.80
            more than 16 years
            before maturity
      More than 16 years but not                0.90
            more than 18 years
            before maturity
      More than 18 years before                 1.00
            maturity
\0c                            SCHEDULE 3
                            Procurement
1.    Contracts for the procurement of goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $5,000,000 or more each shall be awarded through
international competitive bidding in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines), subject to the
following modifications:
      (a)   Paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines is deleted and the
following is substituted therefor:
            "2.8 Notification and Advertising
            The international community should be notified in a
      timely manner of the opportunity to bid. This will be done by
      advertising invitations to apply for inclusion in a bidder's
      invitation list, to apply for prequalification, or to bid;
      such advertisements should be placed in at least one newspaper
      of general circulation in the Borrower's country and, in
      addition, in at least one of the following forms:
Page  9
            (i)   a notice in the United Nations publication,
                  Development Business; or
            (ii)  an advertisement in a newspaper, periodical or
                  technical journal of wide international circula-
                  tion; or
            (iii) a notice to local representatives of countries
                  and territories referred to in the Guidelines,
                  that are potential suppliers of the goods
                  required."
      (b)   The following is added at the end of paragraph 2.21 of
the Guidelines:
            "As a further alternative, bidding documents may require
      the bidder to state the bid price in a single currency widely
      used in international trade and specified in the bidding
      documents."
      (c)   Paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines are deleted.
2.    Contracts for the procurement of goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of less than $5,000,000 shall be awarded:
      (a)   by purchasers required to follow the Borrower's public
procurement procedures for the importation of goods, on the basis of
such procedures, provided that such procedures shall have been found
acceptable by the Bank; and
      (b)   by other purchasers, in accordance with established
commercial practice, provided that such contracts shall be awarded
on the basis of evaluation and comparison of quotations obtained
from suppliers from at least two countries, except that direct
contracting procedures acceptable to the Bank may be used where
considered appropriate under paragraph 3.5 of the Guidelines.
3.    Subject to the prior approval of the Bank, commonly traded
commodities may be procured through organized international
commodity markets or other channels of competitive procurement
acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with procedures acceptable to
the Bank.
4.    With respect to each contract referred to in paragraph 1 of
this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, prior to the
submission to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract, two
conformed copies of such contract, together with the analysis of the
respective bids and recommendations for award, a description of the
advertising and tendering procedures followed and such other
information as the Bank shall reasonably request. Where payments
under a contract are to be made out of the proceeds of the Special
Account, such copies together with the other information required to
be furnished to the Bank pursuant to this paragraph shall be
furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence required under
paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
5.    With respect to each contract referred to in paragraphs 2 and
3 of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, prior to
the submission to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal
of funds from the Loan Account in respect thereof, such
documentation and information as the Bank may reasonably request to
support withdrawal applications in respect of such contract. Where
payments under a contract are to be made out of the proceeds of the
Special Account, the documentation and the information to be i h d
to the Bank pursuant to as part of the evidence required under
paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
6.    The provisions of the preceding paragraph 5 of this Schedule
shall not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from
the Loan Account are to be made on the basis of statements of
Page  10
expenditure.
\0c                            SCHEDULE 4
              Actions Referred to in Paragraph 4 (c)
                  of Schedule 1 to this Agreement
1.    That the Borrower has introduced in its Parliament a Bill to
amend its Sick Industrial Companies Act of 1985 (SICA), satisfactory
to the Bank, providing, inter alia, for the following:
      (a)   improving the criteria for determining sick industries;
and
      (b)   strengthening the Board for Industrial and Financial
Reconstruction (BIFR) created under SICA and improving and stream-
lining its functions and procedures.
2.    That the Borrower has specified, in respect of its National
Renewal Fund established for the purpose of financing unemployment
insurance and redeployment and retraining for public and private
workers, all relevant details including, inter alia, its objectives,
scope, structure, operations, sources and methods of funding,
criteria and mechanisms for providing support to workers and, nature
and amount of such support.
3.    That the Borrower has issued guidelines under its Industries
(Development and Regulations) Act 1951, as amended, clarifying that
industrial licensing decisions in respect of projects and facilities
located within less than 25 kms of cities of over one million
population will be based solely on environmental, safety, land-use,
congestion, urban planning, and other related considerations.
4.    That the Borrower has adopted a plan of action, including a
timetable for implementing such plan, satisfactory to the Bank, to
deregulate and decontrol the steel industry, such plan to provide,
inter alia, for the removal of price and distribution controls.
5.    That the Borrower has:
      (a)   completed a review of the relevant laws and regulations
governing labor relations and transfer of land, the role of state
and local governments in industrial restructuring, and the proce-
dures for liquidation under the Borrower's Companies Act of 1956, as
amended;\0c      (b)   based on the recommendations of such review, formulated
a policy, including a timetable for implementing such policy,
satisfactory to the Bank, to facilitate the process of adjustment by
industrial firms, including rehabilitation, winding up and
liquidation, taking into account the need for adequate safeguards
for workers, including programs for redeployment, retraining, and
appropriate compensation where necessary; and
      (c)   begun the implementation of such policy in accordance
with such timetable.
6.    That the Borrower has adopted appropriate measures, as may be
required or necessary, in order to provide automatic approval for
the import of capital goods in projects requiring such imports,
where the CIF value of such imported capital goods is less than 50%
of the total value of plant and equipment (net of taxes) required
for such project and does not exceed Rs. 100 million.
7.    That the Borrower has adopted appropriate measures, as may be
required or necessary, to abolish the following restrictions imposed
by its Reserve Bank since October 25, 1990:
      (a)   cash margins requirement for imports;
      (b)   the requirement that capital goods are importable only
with foreign financing; and
      (c)   the preferential queuing system for approval of letters
of credit.
Page  11
8.    That the Borrower has adopted appropriate measures, as may be
required or necessary:
      (a)   to implement a program, satisfactory to the Bank, to
reduce and eliminate the availability of foreign exchange at the
official exchange rate to its public sector agencies for importing
those products with respect to which imports by the private sector
have been permitted solely with the use of Eximscrip;
      (b)   to further reduce the list of products with respect to
which its public sector agencies have the exclusive monopoly to
import so that private sector imports relating thereto are permitted
and such monopoly is retained only for the following products and
such other products acceptable to the Bank; petroleum products;
fertilizers; oilseeds; cereals; and certain fatty acids and acid
oils; and
      (c)   to require its public sector agencies, in respect of the
import of products for which private sector importers are required
to use Eximscrip, to also use Eximscrip from the date private sector
imports are permitted pursuant to clause (b) of this paragraph 8, or
to adopt an action plan, satisfactory to the Bank, to reduce and
eliminate the availability of foreign exchange at the official
exchange rate to its public sector agencies for such imports.
9.    That the Borrower has adopted appropriate measures, as may be
required or necessary, to permit such intermediate items, except
items related to health, environment and security, as set forth in
Appendix 2-B (Restricted List) of the Borrower's Import and Export
Policy, 1991-93 (hereinafter "Import and Export Policy") correspond-
ing to at least two-thirds of the domestic production of such goods
to be freely importable using Eximscrip or using Open General
License under Appendix 6 thereinafter "Open General License" of the
Import and Export Policy.
10.   That the Borrower has adopted appropriate measures, as may be
required or necessary, to permit the import of all unlisted capital
goods with Eximscrip whether or not such Eximscrip is earned by the
exports of the importing firm.
11.   That the Borrower has eliminated licensing requirements for
imports of such capital goods, except capital goods related to
health, environment and security, included in the Capital Goods
Restricted List as set forth in Appendix l-A of the Import and
Export Policy corresponding to at least 50 percent of the aggregate
domestic production of such goods.
12.   That the Borrower has abolished the requirement that importers
actually use the items imported.
13.   That the Borrower has adopted appropriate measures, as may be
required or necessary, to abolish the Limited Permissible List as
set forth in Appendix 3 to the Import and Export Policy and to
revise such Policy so as to permit any item not included in any of
the Appendices to be imported with the use of Eximscrip.
14.   That the Borrower has adopted appropriate measures, as may be
required or necessary, to abolish the preference provided by its
Director General of Supplies and Disposals in the procurement of
goods to domestic suppliers over the duty paid price of imports.
15.   That the Borrower has removed export licensing, canalization
and minimum export price requirements for all products except those
included in a negative list, satisfactory to the Bank, with respect
to which such requirements are retained.
16.   That the Borrower has completed a review to reform the customs
tariffs and, based on the recommendations of such review, has: (a)
adopted a medium-term plan of action, including a timetable for
implementing such plan, satisfactory to the Bank, in order to
simplify the structure of tariff rates so as to substantially reduce
Page  12
their variability and the incidence of exemptions and partial
exemptions, minimize the use of specific tariffs, and substantially
reduce the average and maximum levels of tariffs; and (b) reduced
the maximum level of customs tariffs to a level satisfactory to the
Bank.
17.   That the Borrower has:
      (a)   adopted a plan of action, including a timetable for
implementing such plan within a period of three years from the date
of such adoption, satisfactory to the Bank, in order to:
            (i)   eliminate budgetary transfers and loans to
                  central public enterprises deemed to be sick
                  under criteria set forth in SICA, as such
                  criteria may be amended;
            (ii)  eliminate budgetary plan support through loans
                  and equity for public enterprise investments
                  except in the energy, transport and other
                  infrastructure sectors; and
            (iii) limit government guarantees of central public
                  enterprise borrowings to those enterprises
                  engaging in essential infrastructure,
                  exploitation of oil and mineral reserves, and
                  strategic activities; and
      (b)   begun the implementation of such plan in accordance with
such timetable.
18.   That the Borrower has: (a) adopted a plan of action, including
a timetable for implementing such plan, satisfactory to the Bank, in
order to initiate the closure or winding up of unviable central
public enterprises in accordance with existing procedures; and (b)
taken all necessary steps, satisfactory to the Bank, in order to
require central public enterprises deemed to be sick under criteria
set forth in SICA, as such criteria may be amended, to be referred
to BIFR for assessment of their prospects and subsequent rehabilita-
tion or winding up and that all such enterprises meeting such
criteria have been referred to BIFR and the procedures for such
assessment have been initiated, except in respect of those enter-
prises for which closure and winding up proceedings have already
begun prior to requiring such enterprises to be referred to BIFR.
19.   That the Borrower has completed the divestment of at least 20%
of the equity of selected central public enterprises satisfactory to
the Bank so as to yield a sum of at least Rs. 25 billion.
20.   That the Borrower has adopted a plan of action, including a
timetable for implementing such plan within a period of three years
from the date of such adoption, satisfactory to the Bank, to
increase the private equity share in profitable central public
enterprises to at least 49 per cent, including preparation of a list
of such enterprises.
21.   That the Borrower has adopted measures, satisfactory to the
Bank, to gradually reduce the Statutory Liquidity Ratio required to
be maintained by Scheduled Commercial Banks, in a manner consistent
with the reduction of the Borrower's fiscal deficit, such measures
to be implemented beginning in April 1992.
22.   That the Borrower has completed a review to reform the
financial system and, based on the recommendations of such review,
has adopted a plan of action, including a timetable satisfactory to
the Bank, to gradually reduce and eliminate interest rate subsidies
in direct credit schemes, such plan to be implemented beginning in
April 1992.
23.   That the Borrower has introduced in its Parliament appropriate
legislation, satisfactory to the Bank, to confer on the Stock
Exchange Board of India statutory powers to operate as an indepen-
dent regulatory body, including power to investigate with due
diligence.
Page  13
24.   That the Borrower has adopted a plan of action, including a
timetable for implementation, satisfactory to the Bank, to reform
the trading mechanism of stock exchanges, including a system of
national clearing and settlement and setting up a central depository
trust.\0c25.   That the Borrower has adopted a plan of action, including a
timetable for implementation, satisfactory to the Bank, for setting
up of mutual funds in the private sector, and has begun the
implementation of such plan in accordance with such timetable.
\0c                            SCHEDULE 5
                          Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods required during the
execution of the Program and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement; and
      (b)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $100,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as
the Borrower shall have requested.
      (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                  deposits into the Special Account at such
                  intervals as the Bank shall specify.
            (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents
                  and other evidence required pursuant to paragraph
                  4 of this Schedule for the payment or payments in
                  respect of which replenishment is requested. On
                  the basis of each such request, the Bank shall,
                  on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
                  Account and deposit into the Special Account such
                  amount as the Borrower shall have requested and
                  as shall have been shown by said documents and
                  other evidence to have been paid out of the
                  Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account in the respective equivalent amounts as shall have been
justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits
Page  14
into the Special Account:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or
      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan, less the
amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect
to the Program, shall equal the equivalent of $100,000,000.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan shall follow such procedures as the
Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further with-
drawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank
shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit
in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request,
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.
      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.
