                               Document of
                            The World Bank




                                                       Report No: ICR2437



         IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                          (IDA-42990)



                                 ON A

                                CREDIT

                  IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 167.9 MILLION

                      (US$259 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                TO THE

                           REPUBLIC OF INDIA

                                FOR A

              THIRD NATIONAL HIV/AIDS CONTROL PROJECT



                             March 26, 2013




Human Development Sector
South Asia Region
                       CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

            (Exchange Rate at Closing on September, 31, 2012)

                         Currency Unit = Rupees (Rs)
                             Rs52.75 = US$1.00
                          US$1.00 = SDR 0.64843

                                FISCAL YEAR
                               April 1- March 31

                  ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AIDS     Acquired immune deficiency syndrome
ANC      Antenatal care
ART      Antiretroviral therapy
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
CBO      Community-based organization
CD4      Cluster of differentiation 4 (HIV receptor in humans, a glycoprotein found
         mainly on the surface of helper T cells)
DIR      Detailed Implementation Review
DfID     Department for International Development, United Kingdom
FA       Financing Agreement
FSW      Female sex workers
GFATM    Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria
HIV      Human immunodeficiency virus
HRG      High-risk groups
IBBS     Integrated bio-behavioral survey
ICR      Implementation Completion Report
ICTC     Integrated Counseling and Testing Center
IC-WM    Infection Control and Waste Management
IDA      International Development Association
IDU      Injecting drug user
LAC      Link ART Centre
MDG      Millennium Development Goal
M&E      Monitoring and evaluation
MSM      Men who have sex with men
MTR      Mid-term Review
NACO     National AIDS Control Organization
NACP     National AIDS Control Program
NGO      Nongovernmental organization
NRHM     National Rural Health Mission
PAD      Project Appraisal Document
PDO      Project Development Objectives
PLHIV    People living with HIV (includes people with AIDS)
PMTCT    Preventing maternal-to-child transmission
PPTCT    Prevention of parent-to-child transmission
QALP-2   Quality Assessment of Lending Portfolio Review
QER      Quality Enhancement Review
Rs       Rupees
RTI      Reproductive tract infection
SACS     State AIDS Control Societies
SMART    Specific, measureable, actionable, realistic, time-bound (variations exist)
STI      Sexually transmitted infection
TA       Technical assistance
TAP      Tribal Action Plan
TB       Tuberculosis
TI       Targeted interventions
UN       United Nations
UNAIDS   Joint United Nations Program on HIV/AIDS
UNDP     United National Development Program
UNICEF   United Nations Children’s Fund
USAID    United States Agency for International Development
WB       World Bank
WHO      World Health Organization


                         Vice President: Isabel M. Guerrero
                      Country Director: Onno Ruhl
                        Sector Manager: Julie McLaughlin
                   Project Team Leader: Sameh El-Saharty
                      ICR Team Leader: Sameh El-Saharty
                                                         INDIA

                   THIRD NATIONAL HIV/AIDS CONTROL PROJECT



                                                    CONTENTS
Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

  1. Project Context, Development Objectives, and Design .............................................. 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 5
  3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 14
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 24
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 24
  6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 28
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 29

  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 30
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 31
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 34
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 36
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 38
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 39
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 43
  Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 44
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 45
A. Basic Information
                                                                         India: Third National
Country:                India                   Project Name:            HIV/AIDS Control
                                                                         Project
Project ID:             P078538                 L/C/TF Number(s):        IDA-42990
ICR Date:               12/26/2012              ICR Type:                Core ICR
                                                                         GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     SIL                     Borrower:
                                                                         INDIA
Original Total
                        XDR 167.90M             Disbursed Amount:        XDR 156.21M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         XDR 167.86M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
National AIDS Control Organization, Department of AIDS Control, Ministry of Health and
Family Welfare
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:
Department for International Development, United Kingdom (DfID)
B. Key Dates
                                                                               Revised / Actual
     Process              Date            Process              Original Date
                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review:        06/16/2005    Effectiveness:             09/05/2007       09/05/2007
Appraisal:             07/28/2006    Restructuring(s):
Approval:              04/26/2007    Mid-term Review:                            12/07/2009
                                     Closing:                   09/30/2012       09/30/2012

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Low
Bank Performance:                               Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings          Borrower              Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory       Government:         Highly satisfactory
                                           Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                           Satisfactory
                                           Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                               Overall Borrower
                        Satisfactory                           Satisfactory
Performance:                               Performance:
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                             Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry
                           No                                              Satisfactory
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           No                                              Satisfactory
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Highly Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original                Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                     15                   15
Health                                                                40                   60
Other social services                                                 25                   15
Subnational government administration                                 20                   10


                                                                  Original                Actual
Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
HIV/AIDS                                                              29                   40
Health system performance                                             29                   25
Other social development                                              14                   10
Other social protection and risk management                           14                   15
Population and reproductive health                                    14                   10

E. Bank Staff
       Positions                          At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:            Isabel M. Guerrero                   Praful C. Patel
Country Director:          Onno Ruhl                            Isabel M. Guerrero
Sector Manager:            Julie McLaughlin                     Anabela Abreu
Project Team Leader:       Sameh El-Saharty                     Kees Kostermans, Suneeta Singh
ICR Team Leader:           Sameh El-Saharty
ICR Primary Author:        Joy de Beyer
      F. Results Framework Analysis

      Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
      The objective of World Bank support is to contribute to the NACP III goal of halting and
      reversing the AIDS epidemic by attaining the following project development objectives in
      accordance with two of the national program's strategic objectives:
        1) achieving behavior change by scaling up prevention of new infections in high-risk groups
            and the general population; and
        2) increased care, support, and treatment of people living with HIV/AIDS (PLHIV).

      Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)

       Not applicable

       (a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target   Formally Actual Value           Remarks
                                Baseline    Values (from     Revised  Achieved at
          Indicator
                                 Value        approval        Target Completion or
                                            documents)        Values  Target Years
Percentage of FSW who                                                                  Mean [range]
report using a condom with       50%            80%             NA       91% [83-97%] estimates from BSS
their most recent client                                                               data in 6 states,
Percentage of male sex                                                                 2009 (unpublished).
workers who report using a                                                             Current value is
                                 20%            60%             NA      86% [43-100%] consistent with data
condom with their most recent
client                                                                                 from Integrated Bio
Percentage of IDUs who have                                                            Behavioral
adopted behaviors that reduce                                                          Assessment,
transmission of HIV, that is                                            (a)            southern high HIV
who (a) avoid both sharing                                              62% [43-91%] prevalence states
injecting equipment during       30%            70%             NA      (b) condom use (2006 and 2009)
the last month AND (b) who                                              88% [77-95%]
report using a condom with
their most recent sexual
partner
                                                                                        Source: CMIS
                                                                                        NACO (JIR, June
Number of people with
                                                                                        2012) 516,412
advanced HIV infection
                                42,000        340,000           NA          516,412     adults alive and on
receiving antiretroviral
                                                                                        ART including
combination therapy
                                                                                        4,208 persons on
                                                                                        second line ART
   (b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                            Original              Actual              Remarks
                                             Target     Formally  Value
                                   Baseline Values      Revised Achieved at
           Indicator
                                    Value    (from       Target Completion
                                            approval     Values or Target
                                           documents)             Years
                                                                              Based on CMIS data;
                                                                              targeted interventions
Percentage of FSW reached
                                                                              (TI) have reached 88% of
through TI in the last 12           20%      60%          NA       88%
                                                                              FSW (770,000) in past 12
months
                                                                              months (as of September
                                                                              2012)

                                                                              Based on CMIS data; TI
Percentage of IDUs reached
                                                                              have reached 80% of
through TI in the last 12            20      80%          NA       81%
                                                                              IDUs (142,000) in past
months
                                                                              12 months (as of
                                                                              September 2012)
                                                                              Based on CMIS data; TI
Percentage of MSM reached                                                     have reached 67% of
through TI in the last 12            NA      80%          NA       67%        MSMs (274,000) in past
months                                                                        12 months (as of
                                                                              September 2012)
                                                                              NACO funded are 1,631
Number of TI implemented by
                                    1,000    2,100        NA       1821       and 190 transitioned from
target group
                                                                              DP in September, 2012.
Percentage of SACS who
achieve at least 80% of              Nil     80%          NA        NA
planned expenditure targets
                                                                              One time activity with
                                                                              recurring site validation
                                                                              process. Mapping
                                                                              completed for 21 out of
Percentage of districts which
                                     Nil     80%          NA       75%        28 states. In addition, in
have done high-risk mapping
                                                                              the context of the Link
                                                                              Worker scheme, mapping
                                                                              was done in rural areas in
                                                                              127 districts of 18 states.
Percentage of SACS that                                                       July - September 2012.
submit their most recent             Nil     80%          NA       97%        Source: NACP-III
dashboards to NACO on time
Percentage of relevant districts                                              All 192 districts with
which have mapped HRG in                                                      minority tribal
                                     Nil     100%         NA       100%
tribal areas and developed                                                    populations developed a
Tribal Action Plans.                                                          Tribal Action Plan
                                                                              This is a core indicator
Health personnel receiving
                                 1500     200,000       NA          249,112   added after program
training (number)
                                                                              implementation started.

   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                     Actual
            Date ISR
    No.                             DO                         IP                Disbursements
            Archived
                                                                                 (US$ million)
     1     06/26/2007           Satisfactory             Satisfactory                       0.00
     2     12/21/2007           Satisfactory          Highly Satisfactory                 35.00
     3     07/21/2008           Satisfactory          Highly Satisfactory                 35.00
     4     01/18/2009           Satisfactory             Satisfactory                     63.27
     5     06/16/2009           Satisfactory             Satisfactory                     63.27
     6     01/18/2010        Highly Satisfactory         Satisfactory                     86.24
     7     06/19/2010        Highly Satisfactory         Satisfactory                     95.93
     8     01/29/2011        Highly Satisfactory         Satisfactory                    101.06
     9     06/13/2011        Highly Satisfactory         Satisfactory                    142.23
    10     02/07/2012        Highly Satisfactory         Satisfactory                    191.99
    11     09/26/2012        Highly Satisfactory         Satisfactory                    218.90


   H. Restructuring (if any)
   Level 2 restructuring was approved in June 2010 to change financing shares, amend duplicative
   audit requirements, adjust procurement thresholds in line with inflation, and allow additional
   consultant procurement methods.

   I. Disbursement Profile
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

The project was prepared during a time of very rapid economic growth (6.5% per capita in 2005-
09), an impressive reduction in poverty (from 37% in 2004/05 to 30% in 2009/10, estimated by
the government), and more gradual but steadily improving health outcomes. But global
experience has shown how sharply acquired immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS) could reverse
health gains.

HIV trends. Prevalence of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection in India was
estimated to have reached 0.9% of India’s adult (15–49 years) population by 2005, mostly
concentrated in groups engaging in high-risk behaviors of unprotected sex with multiple partners,
unprotected anal sex, and injecting drug use with shared needles. National surveillance data
showed rising HIV rates in rural areas and among women, suggesting its potential to spread in the
general population. As six states (30% of India’s population) and several districts in three other
states already had high HIV prevalence by UNAIDS criteria, India seemed to be closely
approaching a generalized high prevalence epidemic. 1 Existing social power dynamics, gender
imbalance, poverty, harmful traditions, and discriminatory legal frameworks and practices
heightened risk and vulnerability to HIV, and there was real concern that economic and social
changes might change sexual behaviors in ways that would undermine the protection provided by
India’s low rate of multiple concurrent sexual relationships.

People living with HIV. By 2007, at appraisal, there were an estimated 5.7 million people living
with HIV (PLHIV) in India, most unaware of their infection.2 Stigma and discrimination in
workplaces, medical settings, and society was a deterrent to being tested for HIV. The need to
scale up HIV testing, and provide appropriate care, treatment, and support to successively larger
cohorts of PLHIV posed a formidable health system challenge.

Government response. The government had gradually enhanced its response after creating a
National AIDS Control Program (NACP) in 1986, and had set ambitious goals for halting and
reversing India’s HIV/AIDS epidemic by 2011, ahead of the 2015 Millennium Development Goal
(MDG) 6 target. Following International Development Association (IDA) credits of
US$84 million in 1992 and US$191 million in 1999, NACP III was the third phase of sustained
Bank support that helped the government develop an effective blood safety program; increase the
numbers of clinics for sexually transmitted diseases and centers for voluntary counseling and
testing; expand prevention of parent-to-child transmission services delivered through the quasi-
autonomous National AIDS Control Organization (NACO); strengthen state-level implementation
structures; and undertake widespread education and information efforts. The NACP began
providing free antiretroviral therapy (ART) in high-prevalence states in April 2004, benefiting
37,368 people by March 2006, and over 47,000 people by early 2007.

Rationale for Bank involvement. The government requested continued IDA support to help
ensure adequate, flexible, and continuous financing for the NACP. Despite significant increases
in financing for HIV from other development partners, IDA’s engagement was important for

1
  UNAIDS criteria: a generalized, high-prevalence epidemic - above 1% in antenatal care (ANC) attendees
and above 5% in high-risk groups (HRG); a moderate, concentrated epidemic- above 5% in HRG, below
1% in ANC attendees.
2
  The estimate was revised down to 2.49 million later in 2007 based on new data and estimation methods.


                                                   1
supporting strategic, well-targeted scale-up of effective prevention and faster expansion of
government-funded treatment, care, and support for PLHIV. IDA brought particular added value
through (i) strong technical expertise in HIV epidemic analysis and tailored, cost-effective
program response; (ii) convening power to help the NACO/government lead a well-coordinated
and coherent effort; (iii) ability to support government efforts to increase convergence of NACP
with other health programs through ongoing projects supporting health sector reform and the
centrally sponsored Reproductive and Child Health and Tuberculosis Control Programs; and (iv)
IDA’s experience under NACP I and II. The project aligned fully with (i) the Country Assistance
Strategy (CAS) “focus on outcomes… and …selectivity? in supporting carefully targeted
activities to achieve MDG 6; with priority given to AIDS in the South Asia Regional Strategy; (ii)
the focus on prevention in the South Asia Region (SAR) HIV Strategy; and (iii) the government’s
conviction that “AIDS is now becoming a major national problem and we need to tackle this on a
war-footing? (Prime Minister Manmohan Singh, Independence Day address as reported in The
Hindu, August 15, 2005).

While the project was being appraised, there was controversy and uncertainty about the size of
India’s epidemic. Some experts believed that actual numbers were far higher than the estimates.
In fact, new data and better estimation models suggested that HIV prevalence (the percentage of
the adult population infected) and the total number of PLHIV were far lower (see section 3.1).
This raised concern that the finance ministry might reduce funding and priority for HIV.
However, experts pointed out that the adjusted estimates did not change the need for effective
prevention, nor the estimated size and high infection risk among the groups where most new
infections were occurring—men who have sex with men (MSM), injecting drug users (IDUs), sex
workers and their clients, and their sexual partners. Thus, even with the revised much lower
estimates, the project objectives and design were fully relevant and important.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

The Project Appraisal Document (PAD) states:
“The objective of World Bank support is to contribute to the NACP III goal of halting and
reversing the AIDS epidemic by attaining the following project development objectives in
accordance with two of the national program's strategic objectives:
    • achieving behavior change by scaling up prevention of new infections in high-risk groups
        (HRG) and the general population; and
    • increased care, support and treatment of PLHIV.?

The Financing Agreement (FA) statement of the objectives differs:
“The objective of the project is to support the third phase of the Recipient’s National AIDS
Control Program (2007-2012) through:
   • promotion of behavior change by scaling up prevention efforts in the high-risk groups
        and the general population; and
   • increased care, support and treatment of People Living with HIV/AIDS.?
The FA requires only that the project “support the third phase of the NACP … through promotion
of behavior change? whereas the PAD requires the project to “contribute to … halting and
reversing the AIDS epidemic … by achieving behavior change?. This report will assess the
project against both the FA and the more demanding PAD standard, which is consistent with the
key project indicators.




                                                2
“The key indicators which will be used to track the project development objectives of World
Bank support to NACP III are:
   • percentage of female sex workers who report using a condom with their most recent
       client
   • percentage of male sex workers who report using a condom with their most recent client
   • percentage of injecting drug users who have adopted behaviors that reduce transmission
       of HIV, that is who avoid both sharing injecting equipment during the last month AND
       who report using a condom with their most recent sexual partner
   • number of people with advanced HIV infection receiving antiretroviral combination
       therapy.?

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and key indicators, and
reasons/justification
There was no formal revision to the PDO or key project indicators. One IDA core indicator
(number of health providers trained) was informally added in 2009.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries
Two primary target groups were defined: PLHIV, and groups whose behaviors put them at
highest risk of HIV infection and their sexual partners. The HRG—notably sex workers, MSM,
and IDUs, and their sexual partners—would benefit from more intensive and effective prevention
efforts supported by the project; PLHIV would benefit from increased access to testing, ART,
care, and support. The general population—especially women, young people, and others made
more vulnerable by their social or economic situation—would also benefit from effective
prevention. Activities aimed at strengthening capacity to provide HIV services at national, state,
and district level would benefit hospitals, clinics, and other health service providers. NACO
would benefit from support to expand and strengthen its capabilities, especially through support
for a strategic information management unit to collect, analyze, and use data for program
decisions.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)
IDA’s funding for NACP III was explicitly intended to be flexible, depending on specific
government needs and support from other development partners. There were four components
(program/project costs are shown in parentheses):

Component 1: Scale Up Prevention Efforts ($1,652 million/$424 million). Prevention among
HRG was explicitly stated as the project’s top priority. The main activities planned were:
  • 2,100 targeted interventions (TI) to reach 1 million female sex workers (FSW) and their
     partners, 1.15 million MSM, and 190,000 IDUs and their partners;
  • scale up interventions targeting highly vulnerable groups identified as long-distance
     truckers (3 million) and short-duration migrant workers (8.9 million); and
  • devise strategies to address the most vulnerable among the general population, including
     youth and women.

Component 2: Strengthen Care, Support, and Treatment ($414 million/$28 million). Within
a comprehensive strategy to strengthen family and community care, provide psychosocial support
for PLHIV, and ensure accessible, affordable, and sustainable treatment services; the activities
under this component were to provide:




                                                3
    •   care and support services to 380,000 PLHIV including through strengthening PLHIV
        networks and linking them to service centers and risk-reduction programs;
    •   ART to 340,000 people including 40,000 children (in the public sector); and
    •   treatment of opportunistic infections to 330,000 persons and tuberculosis (TB) treatment
        to 2.8 million persons.

Component 3: Augment Capacity at District, State, and National Level ($254 million/
$27 million). The main activities were to:
    • develop standard operating procedures for crucial HIV services and set up internal and
        external quality assurance systems;
    • establish improved and performance-based contracting arrangements with private
        providers; and
    • upgrade capacity to extend the program, and strengthen training and technical support
        capacities within government, as well as nongovernmental and community-based
        organizations (NGOs and CBOs).

Component 4: Strengthen Strategic Information Management ($76 million/$33 million). The
main activities were to:
   • strengthen the monitoring framework to provide more accessible and ready-to-use
       information across program content and management functions;
   • enhance HIV surveillance systems to provide epidemiological, clinical, and behavioral
       data, especially for specific high-risk behaviors, at state and sub-state levels; support a
       strategic information management unit; and train program officers to use available
       information for evidence-based planning; and
   • conduct independent evaluation and research to inform and support program
       implementation.

The causal linkages between the first two components and the PDO of preventing new HIV
infections and providing care, support, and treatment to more PLHIV are self-evident.

1.6 Revised Components—No components were revised.

1.7 Other significant changes

The project was implemented very largely as planned. Three changes needed formal approval by
the Regional Vice-President (level 2 project restructuring approved in June 2010); namely:
    • A change in the financing shares, by “depooling? part of the government’s financial
        contribution, with a corresponding increase in the percentage of eligible expenditures in
        categories (1) and (2) financed by IDA from 48% to 55% and by DfID from 35% to 45%
        with effect from 1 April 2008. This was to speed up lagging disbursements and enable
        full disbursement of IDA and DfID funds, and enable the government to pay for a very
        large single-source information, education, and communication (IEC) contract that IDA
        preferred not to reimburse. There was no change in overall financial contribution levels.
    • The Management Audit (FA Schedule 2, Section II D) for the State AIDS Control
        Societies (SACS) was merged with the internal audit to streamline the auditing process,
        which had proved duplicative.
    • Minor changes in procurement methods were authorized (adding two additional
        consultants hiring methods—Fixed Budget contracts and contracts with United Nations
        (UN) agencies, and relaxing the requirement that even those medical supplies not
        procured under international competitive bidding be governed by World Health


                                                4
        Organization (WHO) Good Manufacturing Practices) and, to adjust for inflation,
        increases from US$75,000 to US$100,000 were agreed for both the prior review
        threshold for single-source consultancy contracts issued to firms and the annual ceiling
        for NGOs and CBOs for contracting for TI/care, support, and treatment services.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

The project was prepared in two years (2005 to 2007), 3 a reasonable time given the scope,
programmatic approach, and thoroughness of preparation. This is in the typical range for India.
Project design benefited from the recommendations of a technical quality enhancement review
(QER) panel of the World Bank in July 2006, shortly before appraisal.

The Bank team included recognized world experts in HIV prevention and treatment. The co-task
team leaders combined extensive AIDS experience and good understanding of the country
context. There was close collaboration and coordination with key development partners (DfID,
USAID, GFATM, Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, UNAIDS, WHO, UNDP, UNICEF, and the
Clinton Foundation), exemplifying the “Three Ones? approach (which applies the Monterey
Consensus and Rome Declaration on Harmonization of Development Assistance to HIV/AIDS).
Mutual respect and trust is evident in correspondence between the Bank, the client, and other
partners.

Solid rationale for Bank involvement. The clear rationale is well reflected in the project
objectives and design: “to help ensure adequate, flexible and continuous funding? to meet the
“urgent need to strategically scale up prevention, care and treatment.? The PDO and two main
components focus fully on this need, and the other two small components support that focus.
Institutions and procedures had all been well tested in previous projects, so preparation could
build on strengths and work with NACO to make improvements.

Responsive PDO. These reflect an effective response to India’s circumstances and priorities. It
would have been preferable to ensure consistent specification in the PAD and FA (section 1.2
notes the differences). While the PDO are qualitative, a set of “SMART? project indicators are
specified.

Strong government commitment and stakeholder engagement. These are evident in the
preparation and participation of a wide range of stakeholders. 4 “The process for preparing the
project seems very inclusive and positive? (QER, July 10, 2006). A NACO planning team led
preparation of the Strategic Framework for the NACP; 14 working groups gave detailed expert
consideration to specific topics 5 including human resources requirements and improving the


3
  The project identification mission took place in January/February 2005, pre-appraisal in October 2005,
appraisal in July/August 2006, negotiations on February 26, 2007, Board approval on April 26, 2007, and
effectiveness on October 5, 2007.
4
  Stakeholders included the public and private sectors, civil society, PLHIV and other high risk groups,
academics, and development partners.
5
  The 14 topics: TI; STI/RTI treatment and convergence with reproductive and child health; Condom
programming; Communication, advocacy and community mobilization; Mainstreaming and partnerships;
Gender, youth, adolescents, and children; Service delivery; Care, support, and treatment; Greater
involvement of people living with HIV/AIDS (GIPA), human rights, and legal and ethical issues;


                                                    5
financial management processes and system. There were consultations with the public through
the internet, and face-to-face with civil society organizations and HIV-positive people; two state
and one national "Three Ones" consultations; and state-level meetings. (Reports are available
summarizing these consultations). An important part of preparation was a two-day workshop 6 for
SACS heads and other key stakeholders to explain the logic, science, and evidence behind the
project design.

Benefits of key lessons incorporated in project design. The design was strongly guided by
lessons from the previous two AIDS projects and other IDA health projects in India, which
helped to deepen understanding of the factors driving the HIV epidemic, and to bring global and
regional experience and knowledge to bear. 7

Rigorous background analysis. Specifically for the project, it was extensive and much of it of
excellent quality. A detailed analysis of the epidemiology and response (“AIDS in South Asia?,
World Bank, 2006) was peer-reviewed by global experts. The main findings and
recommendations of six research studies that informed project design are summarized in the PAD
Annex 16 (studies on MSM, HIV among police and paramilitary forces, rural populations, health
workers, social marketing and communications), and a social assessment of HIV among tribal
populations was the basis for a Tribal Action Plan. Analysis of the project economic and financial
aspects, and cost effectiveness comparisons of various prevention and treatment scale-up options
are documented in PAD Appendix 10. A detailed Governance and Accountability Plan was
developed.

Straightforward and coherent project design. The project had four components reinforcing
each other. The programmatic approach ensured full alignment of project goals with national
goals. The complexity of working with 38 states was well recognized and managed in part by
prioritizing states and districts with greatest prevalence and largest increases in new infections.



Programme management; Financial management; Research, development, and knowledge management;
Surveillance; and M&E.
6
  In this workshop, the dynamics of the epidemiology of HIV in India were explained, the biology of HIV
infection and treatment, and the Chief Executive Officer of the Avahan project (a renowned management
consultant) talked about the business imperative of reducing stigma and discrimination, which are major
barriers to reaching the project objectives.
7
  Key lessons noted in the PAD and reflected in the project design (and subsequent implementation)
included: (i) the most effective and cost-effective way to stop HIV infections is to scale up targeted
prevention with “laser-like focus? on groups and areas where most new infections occur, with high
coverage of groups at highest risk of becoming infected and spreading infection; (ii) NGOs/CBOs have
proved most able to reach highly marginalized HRG (MSM, sex workers and IDUs), especially using peer
groups; (iii) sentinel surveillance data must be triangulated with data from behavioral surveys and
geographical mapping to track epidemic trends and patterns; (iv) HRG are fluid and mobile so small-area
mapping must be repeated periodically to identify coverage gaps; (v) mapping is done best using CBOs and
participatory methods; (vi) a more rigorous NGO/CBO selection process, careful monitoring, and quality
assurance and standards can improve accountability, quality, and results; (vii) attention needs to be given to
the enabling environment within which interventions are implemented (e.g. working with the police and
local authorities, raising awareness among the general population, and combating stigma); (viii)
convergence between HIV services and broader reproductive health and infectious disease services can
improve effectiveness and efficiency of all programs; (ix) prevention and treatment are mutually
reinforcing because of their biological and social synergy; and (x) sustained support can do much to
strengthen management capacities (including financial management, procurement, and information
systems) at central and state levels.


                                                      6
The design also recognized the need to enhance capacity within NACO (components three and
four).

Design improvements. The project improved on earlier projects in six main ways: (i) a much
stronger focus on TI aiming to fully cover clearly identified HRG; (ii) improved information
systems and more strategic and routine use of data for program management and to adjust plans;
(iii) progressive decentralization of activities to states and districts to better respond to local
conditions, coupled with continuous technical support and capacity building; (iv) more attention
to the enabling environment and to ownership by and organization of target communities;
(v) more strategic, professional, and well-coordinated IEC; and (vi) taking advantage of the
recently (2005) established National Rural Health Mission (NRHM) and increasingly integrating
HIV services—especially testing, counseling, and treatment—with other health care services,
providing the necessary skills training for health care providers. To this effect, one of the
preparatory studies assessed changes needed in institutional and organizational arrangements and
supplies in health facilities, and in the knowledge of medical and paramedical personnel and their
attitudes to HRG and others seeking HIV-related services.

Generally appropriate risk assessment. The pre-appraisal decision meeting (July 2006)
considered whether risks had been appropriately assessed and addressed. Hindsight suggests that
most were, except for two: (i) the ability to identify, reach, and effectively change the behaviors
of MSM and IDUs was overestimated; and (ii) early-expenditure disallowances related to central
procurement and supply of drugs and the ensuing decision by NACO to withhold submission of
all reimbursement claims until after the expenditures were audited (instead of submitting claims
against Interim Unaudited Financial Reports) was not foreseen—an unprecedented change in
procedure that meant that many of the measures to strengthen and streamline financial
management did not produce the intended results in avoiding disbursement delays.

2.2 Implementation

Factors contributing to consistently strong implementation of planned activities. They
included the following:
•   Continuity of a strong Bank team, with one task team leader for most of the project,
    supported by a local team with excellent working relationships with NACO, as well as a
    Delhi location of the senior Regional AIDS coordinator until the final months of the project.
    Supervision was systematic, detailed, and every six months throughout implementation, with
    an intensive Mid-term Review (MTR).
•   Good donor coordination and harmonization among all the large development partners. This
    is reflected in joint support for the national program, reliance on a single program monitoring
    system, information sharing, and Joint Implementation Reviews throughout the project. These
    measures avoided duplicative reporting, saved much time for NACO, and enabled the donor
    group to do more thorough reviews and field visits to at least four states a year (five during
    the MTR visit.)
•   Clearly documented procedures, guidelines, and standards for all project aspects. They were
    in place when implementation began: all manuals and guidelines had been reviewed during
    preparation and many were revised and improved.
•   Consistent strong government commitment to the national AIDS response. This is reflected,
    among other areas, in adequate counterpart funds and the decision to allocate limited IDA
    resources to AIDS; assignment of highly competent and experienced officials to run NACO;



                                                 7
    permanent civil service posts for NACO and SACS financial managers and other key posts
    (not fixed-term contractual staff as is the norm for other projects). This provided continuity in
    staffing and low turnover, and enabled the NACO and SACS teams to become increasingly
    skilled and knowledgeable.
•   A strong computerized management information system (CMIS) and surveillance data
    triangulation. The CMIS included financial management information, and data were
    triangulated with data from surveillance and special studies that were used in making
    decisions, directing efforts, and improving activity implementation. All states were classified
    by prevalence rates (and later by level of risk) and periodically reclassified in response to data
    trends. NACO customized and adjusted interventions as the epidemic patterns changed. This
    exemplifies best practice advice from the Bank, UNAIDS, and others to “know your
    epidemic? and match the HIV response to the epidemic’s particularities and trends.
•   High caliber of NACO management, and good use of technical assistance. For example, the
    contract to develop and continuously upgrade a customized computerized Centralized
    Program Financial Management System included two IT/financial specialists working on site
    at NACO for the project duration. After inevitable “teething? problems with the system in the
    first year or two, it proved a time-saver and a good tool for project management.
•   Numerous “best practice? innovations by NACO. These included the Link-Worker Scheme,
    Link and Link-plus Centers; the computerized financial management system; initial capacity
    assessment and annual performance reviews of NGOs; and methods for assessing the
    numbers of HRG (see Annex 6).
•   Very thorough preparation for the MTR, including analysis and recommendations from 10
    special studies. These studies assessed impact, coverage, and quality of interventions; NACO
    management capacity and performance; and budget projections and gap analysis. Also,
    suggestions were solicited from implementers, beneficiaries, and other stakeholders through
    the Solution Exchange Network. 8
•   Constructive and real beneficiary participation in planning, evaluation, data collection, and
    outreach to peers. Some support was provided to build capacity and organizational skills in
    target groups to enable an increasing role in implementation.
•   Attention to quality and efficiency. Elements included Technical Support to states, districts
    and implementers, as well as clear procedures, guidelines and manuals, and regular training
    (some details are provided in section 3.3).
•   Greatly accelerated demand for ART. In 2008, the High Court of India ruled that no PLHIV
    who met the ART eligibility criteria should be denied access to treatment. In 2011, in line
    with revised UNAIDS and WHO evidence-based good practice guidance, the CD4 count
    threshold for starting ART was raised from 250 to 350, instantly increasing the number of
    eligible people.

Factors causing implementation difficulties. They included the following:
•   India’s immense size and diversity. This posed a particular challenge for a national program
    that had to reach some of society’s most marginalized groups and to change deeply personal,
    often secret, taboo and illegal behaviors.



8
  An online forum that enables people from the grassroots, NGOs, multi- and bilaterals, private sector,
academia, activists and government to share experience and knowledge and facilitate collaboration.


                                                     8
•   Huge project scale and scope. The project funded about 10% of a $2.575 billion multifaceted
    program that included an enormous range of activities and technical areas. For example, the
    MTR Aide Memoire had 100 specific recommendations. Any program of such scale and
    scope poses management and implementation challenges, exacerbated by the complexity and
    sensitivity of many aspects of HIV.
•   Federal–state allocations of responsibilities. Health is a state-level responsibility in India, so
    states are responsible for implementation, and the central level for oversight and support.
    Accountability to the Bank was at central level. The center has few levers and little direct
    authority over the states, making the relationship between the national Implementing Agency
    (NACO) and the states (SACS) key. Fund transfers to the states are triggered not by
    performance, but against work plans, audit certificates, and fund utilization certificates. This
    is a challenge for all centrally sponsored programs in India, inherent in the political realities
    of India’s federal structure. Yet staff in the country office note that this project has been
    significantly more successful than most, given the best practice manuals, guidelines, and
    financial management system; frequent supportive supervision; and intensive technical
    support and training.
•   Some SACS had difficulty filling finance positions. There were a very few instances of
    incomplete or destroyed project spending records, which prompted thorough investigations,
    and recovery of any funds that could not be fully accounted for.
•   Slow procurement and disbursement. The Detailed Implementation Review (DIR) by the
    Bank’s Integrity Vice Presidency (INT) on five health projects in India, including the
    precursor AIDS project, was under way during project preparation (final report January 2008)
    and led to very conservative procurement and disbursement decisions that were more
    restrictive than warranted by the DIR findings. Although the trust and positive personal
    relationships between NACO and the project team largely insulated the project from the
    tension caused by the DIR, a lawsuit by one of INT’s consultants against the NACO director
    (for telling a newspaper that he was in error) was disruptive. (The court ruled in the director’s
    favor.) Instances of risk aversion within the Bank slowed some decisions—delays in one very
    large IEC procurement decision9 contributed to static disbursement and then to the change in
    financing shares (see section 1.7). The procurement restrictions and early decisions by
    auditors to disallow some expenditures were a disincentive to draw on IDA funds, and with
    adequate non pooled government and other donor funding to use instead, IDA disbursements
    were well below schedule for most of the project. Also, NACO decided not to claim
    reimbursement against Interim Unaudited Financial Reports but to wait for Audited Annual
    Reports. So instead of credit withdrawals processed three to four months after the close of the
    financial year (as planned in project design), it took at least nine to ten months. In the final
    two years, disbursements were shifted back to Interim Unaudited Financial Reports and
    accelerating disbursement became an increased focus of supervision. Frequent and regular
    follow-up with NACO (as often as weekly meetings) sharply accelerated disbursement in the
    final year.
•   A too-steep learning curve for the procurement agent. Contracting an agent to procure and
    deliver inputs to users across all of India solved some problems but created others. The agent
    had virtually no experience in Bank-financed procurement and required extensive hand-
    holding and support from the Bank team. Reimbursement claims could not be submitted to

9
  The selected IEC contractor with unmatched capacity for the task would not submit to external audit as
required by WB rules. The project team’s solution was for NACO to contract instead a media buying
agency that agreed to be audited. The “no objection? decision was referred to an unusually high level
within the Bank, where the decision was left pending.


                                                    9
     the Bank until the agent had sent NACO all the paperwork relating to import, delivery,
     testing, and quality assurance that had to be collected from hundreds of different points and
     could amount to “trucks full of documents?. Additional delays were caused by the decision to
     replace the procurement agent.
•    Financial oversight and flow of funds with a plethora of NGOs. The project involved around
     1,200 NGO front-line implementers of the TI in 38 states was a constant challenge and also
     slowed disbursement. One of the major concerns in the DIR was the large advances to NGOs
     and inadequate accountability for funds. In response, NACP III financial management
     arrangements required NGOs to document expenditures using quarterly statements of
     expenditures, which SACs could compile and submit through NACO for reimbursement, and
     which would be adjusted if required after annual audit reports. However, varied practices
     emerged across the states: some required the NGOs to submit complete supporting
     documentation or audited financial statements before the expenditures were documented in
     SACS books of accounts and submitted to NACO and on to IDA. NACO adopted a robust
     transparent system of selecting and appraising NGOs with periodic evaluations against
     performance norms and targets, which were then not aligned with the conservative fiduciary
     arrangements of input-based funding. This caused tension between the NGOs and NACO as
     delayed funding flows to the NGOs inhibited their effectiveness. The difficult experience
     with the DIR contributed to NACO’s reluctance to bring financial management of NGOs in
     line with the focus on performance instead of inputs, and was a missed opportunity for the
     Bank to introduce good practices from elsewhere in performance-based payments to NGOs.
•    Overambitious target for CBO TI. NACO set the ambitious target that 50% of all TI should
     be CBO led by 2012, for reasons of efficacy and sustainability. But there were far too few
     CBOs among HRG, and most had very limited organizational and technical capacity.
     Resources were simply too few for NGOs to build CBO capacity and take on the TI. Also,
     too few NGOs had relevant experience or ability in working with MSM and IDUs, a major
     barrier to scaling up at the speed and to the level needed.
Neither of the two safeguard policies triggered (see section 2.4) was an important factor affecting
implementation or outcomes. The Quality Assessment of Lending Portfolio review (QALP-2,
May 2010) summary of the project was as follows:

         “The combination of a team of competent and experienced Bank staff with a politically
         committed government fully aware of the need to reduce a serious threat to the health of
         the population and to the economy of the country has resulted in a well-designed and
         executed operation. This good practice is reflected in the ratings.? 10

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation, and Utilization

The M&E design is best practice. The PAD (Annex 3) defines a clear project results framework,
with a parsimonious set of SMART indicators (four to measure PDO progress and six


10
   The detailed ratings were: “The likelihood of achieving the DOs is rated 2 - likely. The Quality of Design
and the three sub-dimensions of design (Strategic Relevance and Approach; Fiduciary, Safeguards and
GAC; and Realism of Project Design and Risks) are rated 2 - satisfactory. Implementation Progress is rated
a 3 - moderately satisfactory mainly because of the moderately satisfactory ratings for fiduciary and
safeguards. Quality of Bank Supervision is rated 2 - satisfactory; the sub-dimensions: Focus on
Development Effectiveness, Fiduciary/Safeguard Aspects, and Supervision Inputs and Processes are rated 2
- satisfactory; Candor and Realism of ISRs is rated 3 - moderately satisfactory.?



                                                     10
intermediate outcome indicators) all with baseline, mid-term, and end targets, data sources, and
frequency of data collection. India has steadily expanded and improved its HIV surveillance, and
the data sources combined the use of surveillance data, routine health system records, routine
project data (with important improvements in the CMIS supported by the project), and special
studies. The PAD also lists 23 core indicators with sources and targets used for annual “state of
the epidemic and response? reports, organized by project component. These indicators measure
behavior change, intervention coverage and planning, coverage of services for people with HIV,
resource availability and management, and strategic information flows and use. As recommended
by the QER, a Dashboard of 21 indicators was defined to help NACO focus on crucial
management information to monitor and support implementation performance by the SACS. The
indicators were defined in line with accepted best practice as defined by the UNAIDS M&E
Technical Expert Group.

The project also stands out in its M&E implementation and use. A dedicated component and
adequate resources promoted strong attention during implementation to data quality, on-time
collection, compilation, and use. The program allocated 3.5% of the total budget to M&E, well
above the norm for AIDS programs and projects. Appropriate epidemic data were collected
regularly using best practice collection methods. Surveillance sites were added, especially among
sex workers, MSM and IDUs. India pioneered use of small-area mapping and methods to make
direct estimates of the size of the highest-risk groups in urban and rural areas in 2009. With these
data, the unit of data collection and use shifted from states to districts and subdistricts, enabling
interventions to be better targeted. In 2010, another highly detailed HRG mapping study was done
to investigate emerging new pockets of infections, and these results and data triangulation were
used to reclassify districts by risk and epidemic level (although NACO could have been faster in
finalizing the revised district categories). Resources and efforts were redirected based on these
new data for changed epidemic patterns, so as to increase interventions and supportive
supervision in districts with high epidemic potential.
The MTR report (p. 57) states that “The use of data for programming in NACO – be it routine
monitoring, surveillance or special evaluation and operations research such as the MTR studies –
is a global best practice.? There are numerous examples of M&E data—including special studies
to assess impact and effectiveness of activities—being used to make improvements: The Link
ART Centre (LAC) and LAC-plus centers 11 were set up in response to the findings of evaluations
of ART patient experiences, and the protocol changed to provide patients with drugs for two
months instead of one. A study on causes of low retention of people who tested positive led to
changes in tracking and follow-up that increased the proportion who registered for treatment from
50% in 2007, to 80% in 2012. Evaluations of the impact of the “Red Ribbon Express? led to
changes in the messages, organization, and services provided to increase its reach and impact.
NACO’s original migrant strategy had low reach using one-to-one sessions at migrants’ homes or
workplaces. It was completely redrawn after extensive consultations, to focus on hot spots in
districts with high in-migration and high HIV prevalence among antenatal care (ANC) attendees.
A well-justified investment in continuous on-site Technical Assistance (TA) throughout the
project enabled the CMIS to be developed and deployed on time. Periodic system upgrades
improved its speed, accuracy, and usefulness (for example, moving from data transfer using
floppy disks, to web-enabled direct data entry by reporting units in 2011). NACO’s reports to


11
   LACs were not part of the original project design. They offer ART services at testing centers in
district/subdistrict hospitals, to reduce the distance for patients. LAC-plus are LACs which also offer pre-
ART management, to deal with problems found in evaluation that 25–30 percent of people who test
HIV positive had no access to care, support, and treatment.


                                                     11
project review missions contained consistently informative and comprehensive data throughout
implementation.

Yet there are two data weaknesses. First, the MTR report notes that incomplete reporting from
intervention sites and clinics made NACO data on prevalence of sexually transmitted infections
(STI) inadequate as a basis for estimating the STI burden of disease, leading to possible
overestimation of NACP III STI treatment targets. Second, a nationwide behavioral survey
integrated with HIV testing (integrated bio-behavioral survey, or IBBS), planned for 2011/12 to
provide end-project data, has been delayed to late 2013. This leaves a data gap for assessing the
project’s final outcome on behavioral change. Happily, a better measure of project results is
available—the latest estimates of new infections, an impact measure that is directly and closely
linked to condom use and needle sharing (see section 3.2).

Data quality from behavioral surveys is always suspect because of social desirability bias.
Validation is difficult. The MTR report was skeptical of 86–91% levels of self-reported condom
use with last sexual partner by MSMs, IDUs, and FSW in 2009 behavioral surveys in six states.
NACO triangulated the data against similar data collected in (some of) the same states by the
Avahan project 12, and found overall similar levels. The results of the delayed IBBS will show
whether the reported behavior change is sustained and validated by HIV levels of these groups.

Overall, the continuous improvement in the M&E system functioning and efficiency, its
consistent use by almost all SACS, and its demonstrated value in freeing time of NACO
managers and providing detailed information on program implementation and finances, bode well
for its sustainability. The follow-on project continues and builds on the strong M&E developed
under NACP III.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
Two safeguard policies applied. Both were handled satisfactorily.
(a) Environmental Assessment
A sound and comprehensive Infection Control and Waste Management (IC-WM) plan to ensure
efficient and sustainable management of potentially harmful HIV-infected medical waste was
developed, discussed with stakeholders, and finalized during appraisal. Its implementation and
adequacy were assessed at mid-term, and again near the end of the project, and the findings
confirmed those of supervision missions:
• satisfactory awareness and IC-WM practices in most ART centers, STI clinics, and
     prevention of parent-to-child transmission (PPTCT) centers and hospitals where these
     facilities are located;
• training and capacity building has been undertaken widely; IEC materials and personal
     protective equipment supplies appear adequate; most staff have been vaccinated against
     Hepatitis B; and
• compliance with IC-WM activities such as disposal of needles and coordination with district
     hospital for sharps disposals is routinely monitored and reported by program officers of TI
     project areas.

Some minor gaps in the IC-WM plan and shortcomings in its implementation and suggestions for
improvements were noted and are being taken up in the follow-on project: (i) better waste
management systems—particularly for sharps—in blood donation camps; (ii) standardized simple

12
  The Avahan program applies modern business-management principles and a very strong results focus
and has been independently evaluated and globally recognized.


                                                 12
protocols for off-site infection control and waste management; (iii) standardized double-meshed
containers for used sharps to prevent double-handling; (iv) continued capacity building and
training on waste management; (v) and work with states to replicate cost-effective, simple,
innovative practices used in various hospitals and centers for efficient waste management.

A key challenge as AIDS is increasingly integrated into broader health services is that the project
has very little leverage on the overall health care waste management systems of the hospitals and
healthcare facilities where HIV services are offered. Moreover, it is inefficient for each health
project to undertake a similar environmental assessment and develop its own IC-WM plan. This
is an issue best addressed systemwide at state level. (Rajasthan and Tamil Nadu have moved in
this direction, with their State Health Systems programs taking a lead role in initiating
convergence through the Directorate General of Health Services and Department of Health and
Family Welfare, in consultation with NRHM and the single-focus programs.)

(b) Indigenous Peoples
To ensure that India’s tribal populations received culturally appropriate benefits to prevent HIV
infection, and care if HIV-infected, a Tribal Action Plan was developed, informed by a social
assessment of issues relating to access to program benefits by tribal people. Comprehensive
Operational Guidelines for implementing the Tribal Action Plan (TAP-OG) were finalized in
April 2009. They covered prevention, communication, public–private partnerships, capacity
building, M&E and surveillance, research, mainstreaming, and implementation management, with
detailed guidelines to help states, districts and integrated tribal districts develop and implement
plans. More than 14,000 people were trained.

The focus of TAP implementation is in 65 A/B category districts (50% or more tribal people) in
13 states (a third of the 192 integrated tribal districts). Progress in implementing their TAPs is
uneven across these 13 states. At IDA’s recommendation, a study was done in 2010 to better
understand specific HIV vulnerability related to tribal status. It found no difference in HIV
prevalence between tribal and nontribal populations in study-area ANC clinic data, and no
specific vulnerability to HIV due to tribal status. Rather, like other people, tribal people are
vulnerable to HIV because of migration, sex work, and low media reach, etc., that may in some
cases correlate with (but are not a result of) tribal status, except in the case of the few tribal
groups with institutionalized economic reliance on sex work.

Rather than segmented efforts for tribal peoples, and consistent with NACP's evidence-based
approach, NACO believes it is more effective to address the causes of vulnerability and to target
sex workers (for example) and to extend access to needed HIV services to all areas, including
tribal areas, with TI appropriate to local conditions—such as special folk programs in tribal
languages, and IEC in tribal languages, etc.—than to have special HIV programs for tribal
peoples. So although implementation of the TAP in itself must be judged as inadequate, this
review agrees that NACO’s integrated targeted approach is the optimal one, and that effort to
implement the TAP would undermine, rather than improve, achievement of project objectives.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
Planning for a follow-on operation began before the end of NACP III, and the transition is
expected to be smooth, with adequate other funding to continue activities until the new project
becomes effective (expected June 2013). Many activities funded by IDA under NACP III are now
being fully supported by the government from the domestic budget. This enables the follow-on
project to focus more narrowly on remaining challenges, with continued support for improving
effectiveness and coverage of evidence-based TIs, supported by limited funding for behavior


                                                13
change communication and institutional strengthening. The Bank and other donors are phasing
out funding counseling and testing. NACO is continuing to support integration of HIV services
into the NRHM.
The systems established during NACP III (and previous projects) remain used by NACO and are
embedded in the design of the new project—for example, the maintenance and use of the
computerized, web-based financial management system, and use of a contracted procurement
agent.

3. Assessment of Outcomes
Bank-financed projects that provide programmatic support must be judged by their
contributions—financial and technical—to outcomes attributed to the overall program. IDA
financed about 10% of total program costs, and nearly half the total project funding, with DfID
providing 35% and the government 16% of project costs. IDA’s technical contribution was
important—it helped NACO to ground decisions firmly in evidence and global best practice, and
supported an impressive array of studies and analyses that kept the program focused on the most
cost-effective approaches, met all aspects of the comprehensive institutional strengthening effort
detailed in the FA, and made major improvements in M&E of both the program and the epidemic.
This section details impressive project achievements in all three aspects—relevance, meeting and
exceeding objectives, and efficiency, with many innovations and best practices that could be
replicated in other countries. However, disbursement was slow, and challenges remain, especially
in reaching IDUs, streamlining some processes, and ensuring continued TI quality assurance.

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design, and Implementation
The project’s relevance is High in all respects—objectives, design, and implementation. On the
relevance of government policy priorities and global goals, India is strongly committed to the
MDGs—halting and reversing the HIV epidemic is one of the targets for MDG 6—and it has
repeatedly stated its commitment to achieving universal access to needed HIV prevention, care,
and treatment (as strongly advocated by UNAIDS). India sent a large government and civil
society organization delegation to the 2011 UN High Level Meeting on AIDS, and approved the
Declaration, whose stated goals echo the project objectives. There are many explicit high-level
statements of India’s commitment to addressing AIDS, such as the prime minister’s address and
statements at the July 2011 National AIDS Convention. Even more compelling is that the
government budget and IDA funding allocations align with these repeated statements of
commitment—AIDS is one of only a small number of national level initiatives in health, and the
only one with a dedicated agency led by a special secretary and coordinating body chaired by the
prime minister.
Objectives. While India has made notable progress in stopping the AIDS epidemic, maintaining
that progress requires persistent and more effective prevention of new infections among groups
with high-risk behaviors, especially in the pockets of high and even rising rates of new infections.
There is also a clear and growing need for treatment of PLHIV, and only highly effective
prevention will make high treatment coverage feasible.
The following shows the continued relevance of the project objectives. In July 2007 (just before
the project became effective), HIV estimates for India were revised substantially—from 5.2
million (0.9% of the population aged 15–49) to 2.5 million (0.36%), on the basis of important
new data from three sources: an HIV component of the large 2006 national health survey of the
general population, 461 new HIV sentinel surveillance sites, and data from the first Integrated
Behavioural and Biological Assessment of HRG in states with high HIV prevalence.



                                                14
The new data and estimates reflected a more detailed understanding of where and how most new
infections were occurring in India, and validated the project objectives and strong prioritization of
focused prevention among sex workers, IDUs, and MSM, as well as their sexual partners—the
“bridge populations? through which infections spread to the general population.
UNAIDS summarized the key findings as showing that “overall, the HIV epidemic shows a stable
trend in the recent years (but)…variation between states and population groups…high levels of
infection among…MSM…and IDU… Prevalence levels are declining among sex workers in
areas where TI have been implemented, particularly in the southern states, yet overall prevalence
levels among this group continue to be high necessitating focused prevention interventions?
(UNAIDS Press Release, New Delhi, July 6, 2007).
The latest estimates (released November 2012) show continued decline in prevalence and
estimated new infections in the general population and among sex workers and MSM, stable
trends among IDUs nationally with declines in the North Eastern states but newer pockets of high
HIV prevalence among IDUs in nine other states and several pockets of higher HIV prevalence
among MSM.
Design. The sharply focused major components relate clearly and directly to the PDO, and the
two smaller components strengthen capacity to carry out planned activities, and enhance strategic
information for stronger management and a more efficient program. The project’s strong focus on
HRG and their sexual partners and its evidence-guided and decentralized approach, strong
partnership with beneficiaries and increasing integration of testing, counseling and treatment with
other health services all exemplify good practice in HIV programs, as promoted by the Bank’s
Global AIDS Program, UNAIDS, and WHO. The project also aligns with the emphasis in India’s
11th Five Year Plan on inclusive growth, by reaching out to marginalized groups as its main target
beneficiaries.
Implementation. The project responded to changes in the health sector—notably the
development of national rural health services, to increasingly deliver HIV services through and
integrated with other health care. It also carefully tracked changing HIV epidemic patterns and
redirected effort and resources in response, maintaining relevance in implementation.
The PDO align with the India CAS 2005-2008 strategic principle of “focus on outcomes? by
aiming to help achieve an MDG6 target. The TI emphasis on groups in which most new
infections were occurring fit the CAS principle of “selectivity?. The CAS recommended co
financing under common arrangements for national programs, as done with DfID. The project
exemplified the global AIDS community best practice “Three Ones? approach with all donors
aligned behind one national AIDS strategy and one national M&E system, and supporting one
national coordinating authority (NACO).

The project remains relevant to priorities set out in the current CAS (2009-2012), in particular,
the focus on improving service delivery effectiveness: “The Government of India has requested
the World Bank to place special emphasis in its new strategy on centrally sponsored schemes that
aim to achieve the MDGs.? The CAS summary notes that “Public services … have little or no
accountability to the ultimate client, and outdated management systems are unable to provide the
information needed for decision-making. These issues are particularly acute in centrally
sponsored schemes which are designed and funded by the central government but implemented
by the states and lower echelons of government. Given the importance of these schemes, systemic
improvements in design and governance are crucial to get results from public spending.? NACP
III’s implementation stands out for the attention paid to improving management and information
systems, supportive supervision and strong oversight of the state AIDS agencies, and its efforts to




                                                 15
assure quality, efficiency, and accountability by the subcontracted NGOs, districts, and state
agencies responsible for project implementation, and working with beneficiaries and civil society.

3.2 Achievement of PDO
The wording of the PDO in the legal agreement set a less ambitious objective for the project—“to
support the third phase of the Recipient’s National AIDS Control Program (2007-2012)? than the
PAD. These PDO have been fully met by financing about 10% of the costs of India’s NACP and
through regular technical advice and supportive supervision. The PDO continue: “…through
promotion of behavior change by scaling up prevention efforts in the High Risk Groups and the
general population; and increased care, support and treatment of People Living with HIV/AIDS?.
Achievement of these PDO defined in output terms requires only that the project activities be
successfully implemented, and indeed most output targets have been exceeded, with only minor
shortfalls in the number of TI as a result of the decision to improve efficiency by having fewer
interventions each covering more beneficiaries. The 80% coverage goal for targeted prevention
interventions for the main HRG was exceeded for FSW (88%) and IDUs (81%) with a modest
shortfall for MSM (67%), and substantially surpassing the target for treatment (152%).
The PAD PDO wording and the key indicators for tracking project objectives require the project
to contribute toward achieving an impact objective: “to contribute to the NACP III goal of halting
and reversing the AIDS epidemic? or at least the outcome objective of “achieving behavior
change...? (There is no difference between the PAD and FA in the wording of the outcome
objective of “increased care, support and treatment of PLHIV?, which is addressed separately,
later in this section.) The causal chain is clearly laid out: the TI aim to change behaviors
(specifically correct and consistent condom use, and for IDUs, also not sharing injecting
equipment) that are known to protect against HIV infection, and therefore prevent new infections.
Scaling up ARV treatment prevents AIDS-related deaths and helps prevent new infections by
greatly reducing viral load.
So the key questions are: Did the project interventions increase condom use and decrease sharing
of injection equipment? Did the number of new HIV infections and AIDS-related deaths
decrease? And if so, Can the changes be attributed to the interventions supported by the project,
or might other factors be responsible?
Did the interventions that the project supported increase condom use and decrease sharing of
injection equipment? The primary data source to measure behavior change is self-reported
behavior from surveys, which, as noted, is subject to social desirability bias. IBBS in which
respondents are also tested for HIV improve the validity of reported behavior to some extent, but
do not solve the verification problem. Unfortunately, the national IBBS originally planned for
2011/12 will only take place in 2013. The most recent behavioral data are from a 2009 IBBS in
six high-prevalence states, which indicate that project targets were substantially exceeded
(Table 1). Although there is no objective measure of their reliability, and they were not intended
to be nationally representative.
Table 1: Most Recent Behavioral Data, 2009
Indicator                                        Baseline Target       Mean Value        Range
                                                                       2009, 6 states
Percentage of FSW who report using a             50%         80%       91%               83-97%
condom with their most recent client
Percentage of MSM who report using a             20%         60%       86%               43-100%
condom with their most recent sex partner
Percentage of IDUs who report not sharing        30%         70%       88%               77-95%
needles and syringes in past month


                                                16
Source: 2009 IBBS.
These values are similar to 2006 and 2009 data from IBBS in Avahan intervention areas in high
HIV prevalence states in the south. The consistency gives some comfort by showing that to the
extent that both surveys are reasonably reliable, interventions supported under the project are
achieving similar behavior change results as the “best practice? Avahan program. But there is no
counterfactual and no way to assure that reported behavior closely reflects actual behavior. And
of course these data cover only six states and were collected only two years into the project. If
project impact can be assessed, then this data gap is of less concern—a measure of impact is a
stronger criterion for project success than outcome measures.
Did the number of new HIV infections decrease?
In November 2012, NACO and the India National Institute of Medical Statistics released new
estimates of HIV prevalence and new infections (incidence), using data from the 2011 population
census and an expanded number of sentinel surveillance sites. While subject to (specified) levels
of uncertainty, the estimates meet the “gold standard? of reliability given India’s improved
surveillance data collection and quality assurance methods, global best practice estimation models
with India-specific parameters derived from extensive research, and the world-class group of
national and international technical experts responsible for the estimates.
The results confirm that India’s HIV epidemic trend was “stable to declining from 2007 to 2011?.
The national trends from 2007 to 2011 are “primarily attributable to the roll-back of the epidemic
in the high prevalence categorized states of Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Maharashtra, Manipur
and Nagaland…? where annual new HIV infections fell 76% during the period. “Post 2010,
however, the epidemic is generally stable in these states? (p. 30, Technical Report, pre-
publication draft).
Nationally, estimated annual new HIV infections fell from 143,000 in 2007 at the start of the
project, to 130,000 in 2010 (Table 2 and Figure 1). There was a marginal increase of “few
hundred cases? in 2011 due to increases in some states (Assam, Chhattisgarh, Delhi, Haryana,
Jharkhand, Odisha, Punjab and Uttarakhand), possibly because some of these states had relatively
lower prevalence rates at the outset and less resources were allocated to the TI. These increases
“may not be significant enough to currently impact on the overall national trend, they
nevertheless provide evidence on the changing trend of the epidemic and need for appropriately
tailoring the response? (Technical Report).
So yes, the data show about 10% fewer new infections in 2011 than in the first year of the project,
but they also show a marked slowing of the decreasing trend in new infections, and perhaps a rise
in the later years. The PDO can be judged to have been met, but continued effort is needed to
sustain and continue the gains.
            Table 2: Estimated Number of New Annual HIV Infections in India, 2007-11
       Year                            2007       2008        2009        2010        2011
       New HIV infections (Total)     143,856   134,776     132,033     130,594     130,977
       Lower uncertainty bounds       104,131    928,72      880,79      841,32      825,35
       Upper uncertainty bounds       203,470   197,506     200,337     206,437     218,551
Source: Technical Report, HIV Estimates—2012, NACO.




                                                17
           Figure 1: Estimated Number of New Annual HIV Infections in India, 2007-11




Source: Technical Report, HIV Estimates—2012, NACO.
What about infections among HRG?
For HRG, only prevalence trends are available, which reflect the net effect of deaths and new
infections. Considerable declines in HIV prevalence are recorded among FSW at national level
(5.06% in 2007 to 2.67% in 2011) and in most states. Declines also have been achieved among
MSM (7.41% in 2007 to 4.43% in 2011), although there are several pockets where HIV
prevalence among MSM has not fallen. Given the large expansion of ART and resulting decrease
in AIDS-related deaths, this suggests that new infections are very likely to have fallen
significantly among these groups during the project period.
Prevalence trends during the project years are stable among IDUs at national level (7.23% in
2007 to 7.14% in 2011). In North Eastern states, where the TI for IDUs have mainly focused,
declines have been achieved, but newer pockets of high HIV prevalence among IDUs have
emerged in Punjab, Chandigarh, Delhi, Kerala, Mumbai, Odisha, Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh
and Bihar, prompting NACO to increase prevention efforts among IDUs.
Preventing maternal-to-child transmission (PMTCT). The target defined in the PAD is to
increase the number of HIV-positive pregnant women and their babies receiving a complete
course of ART from 8,000 to 76,500. Data from the 2012 Technical Report indicate only a
relatively small increase to 12,000–13,000, with numbers actually falling in the later years of the
project (Table 3). However, this shortfall must be judged in the light of the relative contribution
of parent-to-child transmission to all new infections, and the 2007 revised epidemic estimates
which halved the estimated need from over 100,000 HIV-positive pregnant women to 51,375 in
2007, with new data indicating steady annual falls in the estimated number of HIV-positive
pregnant women to 38,200 in 2011 (Figure 2). The coverage rate rose from 18% to 32%, but this
is still well below the (implied) original target of around 75% coverage.




                                                18
  Table 3: Estimated Mothers Needing PMTCT in India and the Proportion Receiving Treatment,
                                               2007-11
   Year      Mothers Needing PMTCT Mother Receiving PMTCT (%)                  Mothers Receiving PMTCT (N)
   2007                 51,375                           18.04                               9,268
   2008                 47,122                           27.35                              12,888
   2009                 43,788                           29.72                              13,014
   2010                 40,767                           30.83                              12,548
   2011                 38,202                           32.10                              12,269
Source: Technical Report, p. 43. Number of mothers receiving PMCTC calculated for ICR from Table 3.6
data.

Figure 2: National Estimated Need, and Percent and Numbers of Mothers Receiving PMTCT, 2007–
2011




Source: Technical Report, p. 43. Number of mothers receiving PMCTC calculated for ICR from Table 3.6
data.

About 5% of new HIV infections in India arise from parent-to-child transmission. The risk of
infection at birth falls from around 20% to 11% with single-dose Nevirapine and from 0.75–1.5%
per month after birth (because of breast-feeding) to 0.3% if the mother is on triple therapy ART.
With prevalence among pregnant women in India at about 0.33%, identifying HIV-positive
women requires testing large numbers, raising the cost and reducing cost-effectiveness of
PMTCT, and likely contributing less cost-effectively to stopping the spread of HIV than
prevention among higher-risk groups. For example, only 0.18% of pregnant women tested in
2011 were HIV positive, compared to 1.5% of all others tested (general population and HRG).
This meant that 5,427 pregnant women were tested for each HIV-positive woman detected.
PMTC has large benefits for HIV-positive mothers, their infants and families, but is far less cost-
effective in preventing new infections than TI among HRG, which have an estimated cost of only
$105 per new infection averted (see Annex 3).

Assessment of treatment, care, and support versus prevention. Outcomes of increased
treatment, care, and support for PLHIV and attribution to the interventions and activities
supported by the project are much easier to assess than the prevention PDO. The key outcome
indicator target—the number of eligible persons with advanced HIV infection receiving ART—
was exceeded by more than 150%, with 516,412 people on treatment by June 2012 compared
with the target of 340,000. This includes fewer children than planned—30,802 against the target
of 40,000. The survival rate for all those who have started treatment is 79%, which indicates good
compliance and quality of treatment services, supported by PLHIV care coordinators who help
patients adapt to treatment regimens and maintain adherence. In 2012 the goal of no drug stock-


                                                 19
outs reported by any ART center was reached (down from 3–10 centers each quarter in the
previous two years), an extremely important indicator of quality and efficiency.

Figure 3: Estimated Number of Annual AIDS Related Deaths (All Ages) in India and
Number of People (All Ages) Receiving ART, 2004-11




Source: Technical Report, HIV Estimates—2012, p. 38, NACO.
ART impact. The new November 2012 HIV estimates include the impact of the expanded access
to ART: estimated annual deaths from AIDS-related causes fell to 148,000 in 2011, a 29%
reduction during NACP-III (2007-121). Estimates use global best-practice methods and updated
evidence on survival with and without treatment. States with especially large declines in
estimated annual deaths have had the greatest scale-up of free ART.

Link to project outputs. The scale-up in treatment was matched by related project outputs also
exceeding targets—355 functioning ART centers (142% of the target of 250), plus 739 Link ART
centers that decentralize treatment access and decongest ART centers, and 10,515 Integrated
Counseling and Testing Centers (210% of the target of 4,994). The total number of people tested
annually for HIV increased to 19.47 million in 2011-12, 12.5% short of the end-of-project target
of 22 million, but still a strong achievement from the 3 million baseline and 15.8 million people
tested in 2010-11. Especially important is that the numbers tested from HRG more than doubled
from 0.7 million in 2009-10 to 1.5 million in 2011-12.

Care and support. ART centers are linked to a network of 253 community care centers that
provide related care, support, and training. In addition, the 739 Link and Link plus centers offer
pre-ART management services to 41,500 PLHIV. The project has also worked with states to
mainstream care and support for PLHIV, through schemes that provide nutritional support,
subsidies for travel to ART centers, legal aid, pensions, safe shelter for women and children with
HIV, income support, occupational skill training, education benefits, and setting up PLHIV
mutual help groups in 60% of designated districts.

Can the outcomes and impact be attributed to the activities supported by the project, or might
other factors be responsible?
The change in the law guaranteeing ART access to people who meet the criteria, and the change
in the CD4 level for initiating treatment will have increased demand, but the successful treatment
outcome and impact could not have been achieved without the project activities adequately
expanding the availability of quality testing and free treatment with a reliable supply of drugs,
and providing support for patients to promote high treatment compliance. The outcome indicator


                                                20
for treatment includes only ART provided free under NACP III. Treatment provided through the
private sector would increase the numbers on ART by less than 10% (data from Avert.org, 2009),
with a correspondingly modest contribution to the impact on AIDS-related deaths.

Confidence in attributing lower incidence and behavior change to the project is less certain, but
still high, for three reasons. First, the project supports the national program, which encompasses
most prevention efforts in the country. Second, the pattern of new infections across states
correlates strongly with the allocation of NACP III effort supported by the project. Third, it is
highly unlikely that decreases in incidence are the results of the natural course of the epidemic
rather than of concerted prevention efforts, extrapolating epidemic patterns observed across India
and in other countries with similarities in epidemic patterns and underlying social and behavioral
risk factors.

3.3 Efficiency

The project performed well on both allocative efficiency (spending on the “right things? most
likely to achieve the desired outcomes) and technical efficiency to keep the cost per unit of the
outcome as low as possible.

(i) Effort and project funding were strongly focused on “best practice? targeted prevention efforts
for groups at most risk of infection and HIV “hot spots?, with periodic remapping of HRG to
guide reallocation of resources and focus where most needed. This is in sharp contrast to many
“comprehensive? country programs that fail to prioritize based on epidemic data and evidence of
effectiveness. For example, only 3% of Round 8 AIDS funding from the Global Fund for AIDS,
Tuberculosis and Malaria was allocated to sex workers and their clients (and much less for IDUs
and MSM), whereas about two-thirds of NACP III funds were allocated to interventions targeted
to these groups. The UNAIDS/WHO Annual State of the Epidemic Report 2011 notes that India
is one of only three low- and middle-income countries that meet the recommended target of
providing at least 200 clean needles/syringes to each IDU. In 2010 India provided 228, far above
the median of 51 for all countries that reported. Although only 3% of India’s estimated numbers
of IDUs were on opioid substitution therapy in 2010, this service had only just started in India,
and even so, India was above the median of 2.4% for all reporting countries.
In efficient use of resources for HIV prevention, what is NOT done is as important as what is,
given the tendency of most programs to do what is easiest rather than the more difficult but most
strategically important things. India is the only non-African UNAIDS priority country for scaling
up the percentage of pregnant women tested for HIV because the sheer number of pregnant
women in India mean that India contributes a large proportion of global parent-to-child
transmission, despite relatively low prevalence among pregnant women. However, in India’s
highly concentrated epidemic and low and falling prevalence among pregnant women, scaling up
testing of this group is not the highest priority. India has managed to balance steadily increasing
HIV testing among pregnant women from 2% in 2005 to 23% in 2010, while appropriately
resisting pressure to dilute its higher priority focus on rapid expansion of testing for groups with
much higher HIV prevalence and risk.
(ii) The project ceased support for TI that evaluations found to be relatively ineffective. The same
numbers of beneficiaries were reached with 20% fewer TI, by significantly increasing the average
number of beneficiaries served per TI from 475 to 595. The average cost per HIV infection
averted for the TI was around $105, highly cost-effective compared with the cost of treatment,
which is estimated at roughly the same per year for first line treatment, and six times as much for
second-line treatment (Hindustan Times, December 2011).



                                                 21
(iii) Investing in activities that reinforce each other also enhanced impact and improved project
efficiency. Three examples are: (a) expanding treatment offers an incentive for testing which
provides opportunities for prevention counseling, and treatment reduces viral load and the risk of
infecting sexual partners; (b) NACP III shifted the use of IEC from generating awareness to
behavior change and demand creation linked to service expansion (HIV testing, ART and
PPTCT); (c) components 3 and 4 were designed to enhance capacity in NACO, states, districts,
and NGOs to expand and improve treatment and prevention.
(iv) Costs were cut by integrating HIV services into existing service delivery channels. Stand-
alone counseling and testing centers (CTCs) were transitioned to fully integrated centers at
NRHM-supported facilities, increasing the proportion of these centers from 20% in 2009 to 57%
in 2012. Partnership agreements with “preferred private providers? take advantage of India’s very
large private sector. Having private and public sector providers initiate testing for pregnant
women enabled rapid increase in coverage of HIV tests and ART prophylaxis for positive
women) and of STI detection and treatment. Cross-referral of TB and HIV patients improved
detection, treatment, and survival rates for both.
(v) The project’s rigorous attention to quality is also likely to have contributed to efficiency.
Guidelines, protocols, and performance standards were set and applied and good practices shared
for all aspects of the project. NACO identified 40 institutes of excellence to deliver training and
required pre- and post-testing to ensure learning goals were met; when 20 of the institutes failed
to meet NACO’s quality standards in an evaluation, they were dropped. To ensure quality of HIV
testing a state-of-the-art External Quality Assessment Scheme was implemented in most states.
NACO set up a decentralized support and supervision system to assure and improve the quality of
clinical services, with additional supervision provided to improve poorly-performing facilities.
Systematic collaboration among ART centers, community care centers and PLHIV networks
helped reduce loss to follow-up. A smart card program was piloted successfully and rolled out in
2010, enabling continuity of ART treatment for patients who seek care at different facilities.
(vi) Improvements in procurement and supply management of condoms, drugs, and other supplies
reduced costs. Stock-outs of test kits, ART and condoms fell over the course of implementation,
and the speed of resupply when stock-outs were reported improved. The MTR reported a 30%
reduction in the cost of ARV drugs, CD4 tests and bulk purchases of HIV testing kits, and that
NACO had achieved savings of Rs 500 million by streamlining free condom distribution and
setting up systems to estimate condom demand in each TI and track supply and usage. Prevention
costs were reduced by setting cost norms, and more than halving the number CBOs to achieve
economies of scale, and selecting those that proved the most efficient.
(vii) NACO shifted to electronic transfer of funds in 2007/08 to speed fund release, which had
been a barrier to efficient implementation in the previous project. Procedures for preparing and
approving annual work plans and budgets were streamlined—from 2008, annual plans submitted
by states were put on the NACO website with the approved budget against the proposal. The
Financial Management Manual was updated to improve and streamline processes and incorporate
and spread good practices identified in a review of states.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
(combining relevance, achievement of PDO, and efficiency)

Rating: Achievement of PDO and efficiency are judged satisfactory, relevance is highly
satisfactory, for an overall outcome of satisfactory. Achievement of many objectives exceeded
targets, and although there are no national data on behavior change and no more recent data than
2009, there is strong evidence of impact and a causal chain linking that impact to project outputs.



                                                22
Shortcomings in achieving some objectives are judged to be minor as they had little effect on the
project’s contribution to impact on the epidemic.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
The project addressed poverty and vulnerability by reducing inequity in access to HIV prevention
and treatment, and by supporting PLHIV, especially the poor who qualify for social protection
programs. The TI that are a centerpiece of the project specifically address the needs of
marginalized/stigmatized groups who face social exclusion: sex workers, IDUs, and men who
have sex with men. A Link Worker outreach scheme extended project benefits to these target
beneficiaries in rural areas and to other vulnerable groups—migrants, women household heads,
truckers, PLHIV, and the partners and spouses of high-risk and vulnerable groups. Project
innovations to increase access to HIV services for socially disadvantaged groups include mobile
counseling and testing services and boat clinics in Assam and West Bengal, and piggy-backing on
cultural festivals.
While the project results matrix set no specific results targets for gender equity, social inclusion
or special activities for tribal populations, the actions proposed in the PAD (main text para. 62)
for addressing barriers to social inclusion were far exceeded—policies were developed for
mainstreaming gender in HIV/AIDS, greater involvement of PLHIV, and universal access for
children affected by HIV; guidelines were prepared for treating children with HIV and AIDS, and
for mainstreaming HIV/AIDS for women's empowerment; SACs were given specific instructions
on preventing stigma and discrimination; a massive IEC campaign targeting youth and students
was rolled out in more than 100,000 schools and three phases of the Red Ribbon Express HIV
information campaign; and mobile services travelled to hundreds of rural and urban areas across
the country, reaching about 16.5 million people. Folk media were used extensively in rural areas
especially in tribal districts to reach 13 million people in a single year, and were identified as best
practice in a mid-term study of “social inclusion and equity? commissioned to identify project
achievements and areas for improvement. Technical training and standardized scripts ensured
correct technical messages.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
The QALP-2 gave institutional development the highest rating (1). The recommendations of an
organizational assessment of NACO led to strengthening of its staffing and capacity. Strategic
and effective use was made of TA, and a procurement agent hired to address NACO’s shortfall in
procurement capacity and difficulties in hiring appropriately experienced staff. A systematic
program of training for SACS and other implementers was undertaken by training institutes that
had to meet NACO quality/excellence criteria, and NACO provided specialized TA to enhance
implementers’ capacity to undertake key project activities well. All of the institutional
developments listed in the FA are in place.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)
• The extent to which the project catalyzed and shared innovations
• Introduction of smart cards to enable centralized, computerized data storage and retrieval of
    patient records to cope with patient mobility—especially to help ensure uninterrupted
    supplies of ART drugs, but also enable easy linking with other social and health schemes, and
    facilitate the generation of important MIS reports.




                                                  23
3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops: N/A

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Negligible risk that the PDO as stated in the FA will not be realized and maintained.
Negligible to low risk that the PDO as stated in the PAD will not be realized and low risk that it
will not be sustained.

The risk that new HIV infections could rise again in future might be considered moderate,
because HIV epidemics can ignite and spread very rapidly if IDUs share needles and their sexual
networks intersect with those of sex workers, and if effective, well-focused prevention efforts that
achieve high coverage of these marginalized, difficult-to-reach populations are not sustained.
There are many mitigating factors that are good cause for optimism in India, justifying a risk
assessment of low rather than moderate: (i) the clear recognition of the risk and understanding of
HIV transmission dynamics in India; (ii) appraisal of the proposed follow-on project shows
continued strong government commitment and full ownership of the NACP; (iii) good availability
of government and donor financing; (iv) strong track record of NACO and most SACS in
sustained strong implementation performance; and (v) outstanding surveillance and track record
of reallocating effort and resources to areas of new infections to match India’s HIV response to
the changing epidemic.

India has made sound strategic decisions, balancing dedicated stand-alone management, quality
assurance, and implementation of HIV services with progressive mainstreaming and converging
or integrating of services where efficiencies, cost-savings, and faster scale-up can be achieved.
However, if India were to decide to phase out the vertical or specialized part of the HIV/AIDS
program, the PDO might not be sustained in future. Since this is not an idea with any currency in
India, the risk is not considered significant.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Satisfactory

The Bank team performed extremely well in delivering a project that was fully aligned with
government and Bank priorities and global development goals, informed by excellent and wide-
ranging analytical work, and that fully reflected lessons learned from previous Bank projects and
many of the recommendations of the Independent Evaluation Group’s 2005 Review of the Bank’s
AIDS portfolio. Detailed tested implementation arrangements and covenants to ensure that key
staff would be in place contributed to a rapid start to implementation. The project design and
approach are best practice in many respects, especially in quality assurance, and use of data to
focus effective targeted prevention interventions on high coverage for groups where most new
infections were occurring. M&E was best practice. Risk assessment has proved generally sound.
Attention to issues related to poverty, gender, and the environment was appropriate.
The two-year period for identification, preparation, and appraisal was reasonable for a complex
national program in such a huge and diverse country with such a large number of implementing
agencies, and given the thoroughness of the analysis and planning. The schedule was also partly
dictated by the programmatic approach and consequent need to keep in step with the



                                                24
government’s own program planning schedule, and the close collaboration with all the many
development partners active in HIV/AIDS in India.
Three shortcomings are noted. Project design might have been more innovative in the fiduciary
arrangements for NGO and CBO implementers; however, the difficult situation of an ongoing
DIR produced a very low tolerance for innovation and extreme risk aversion in the Bank. The
interpretation of the safeguard policy related to Indigenous People as requiring a Tribal Action
Plan seemed more designed to satisfy the letter of the law than to tackle the many very complex
and sensitive social issues involved in an HIV prevention project that needs to reach, engage, and
support behavior change among the highly marginalized and often hidden groups of sex workers
and their clients, IDUs, and MSM. And measures to ensure smooth and timely disbursement did
not function as anticipated after the government changed the basis for submitting reimbursement
claims.

The “bottom line? judgment of the QER made shortly before the decision to proceed to appraisal
generally endorsed the design: “There are clear strengths in the design of the program, including
the micro-mapping and TI along with other sets of interventions and capacity building activities.
The team has clearly done a great job in taking the project preparation to this stage? (p. 6).
However, the QER team questioned the sustainability of a vertical AIDS program; recommended
more attention to the role of private health care providers; found the decision to set up about 600
district-level implementing structures “not very appealing?; thought the institutional
arrangements too rigid and hierarchical; and suggested trying to “change the orientation of the
management to one that focuses on performance … and link payment to results, while
encouraging states and districts to come up with their own organizational approaches.? The May
2010 QALP-2 review rated Quality of Design and the three sub dimensions of design 2, or
satisfactory.

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Satisfactory

The project was supervised by a very high-caliber and strongly committed, diligent, and proactive
task team, many of whom were based in the country office, with the advantage of a deep
understanding of the country context and dynamics and easy access to and for the client. There
was strong continuity in the team membership, and people with additional specialized expertise
were added to the team as needed. The mutual respect and excellent working relationships
between the project team and government counterparts were clear in the tone of supervision
reports and comments made by NACO. This respect and regard were especially important during
the tense period of strained relationship between the Bank and the government during and after
the DIR investigation, when implementation began. That implementation proceeded smoothly
with no change in the cordial, constructive, and frank nature of supervision missions attests to the
high regard in which the team was held (and to the professionalism of the client).
Supervision took place regularly and predictably every six months, and the reports reflect
attention to detail with precise recommendations and follow-up actions for all aspects of the
program, combined with thoughtful strategic focus on the big picture, and overall development
goal. The team was diligent in monitoring safeguards, including recommending special
assessment studies to provide additional information, and also in ensuring fiduciary compliance
(financial management and procurement) throughout the project, with especially strong efforts in
the final year of the project to ensure that persistent systemic lags in disbursement were finally
remedied to achieve almost full use of the project funds. Preparation of a follow-on project to
continue support to the national program in future started well before the project closing, and



                                                25
supervision consistently reflects strong attention to sustainability and continued strong
performance beyond the end of the project.
The persistent disbursement lag that developed after the first six months was much less of a
shortcoming than would have been the case had implementation of planned activities not been
proceeding very strongly throughout the project periods. Moreover, the Bank team’s strong
support to the procurement agents while they became familiar with Bank procurement
requirements helped ensure that all procurement of goods, test kits, and other supplies were
completed smoothly without causing any stock outs.

This rating is consistent with the QALP-2 (May 2010) rating of Quality of Bank Supervision at
2, or satisfactory. The sub dimensions Focus on Development Effectiveness, Fiduciary/Safeguard
Aspects, and Supervision Inputs and Processes are rated 2, or satisfactory; Candor and Realism of
ISRs is rated 3, or moderately satisfactory. The QALP-2 noted that “The task team and its
immediate management spotlighted and responded to problems effectively and in a timely
manner…. This project is an example of effective supervision in all aspects. The Sector Manager
and Country Management Unit paid close attention to this operation.?

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

With a rating of satisfactory for preparation and supervision, overall Bank performance is rated
satisfactory.

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government performance
Government ownership and commitment to the overall project objective is clear and strong, seen
in high-level public statements and consistent provision of adequate government funding. Such
funding also ensured no hiatus between projects, and the use of career civil servants rather than
the usual practice of fixed-term contracted staff for financial posts (which resulted in tighter
financial control). High-level and highly competent government officers were assigned to manage
the project with minimal turnover, and the project director post was upgraded from Additional
Secretary to Full Secretary and a Department of AIDS Control was created within the Ministry of
Health and Family Welfare to reflect the importance and role of NACO.

The government provided a supportive policy and legislative environment for the project, most
notably by legislating the right to free ART, offering strong political backing for the bold and
critical focus on marginalized groups at highest risk (including from the parliamentarian forum),
and changing the Penal Code (Law 377) in 2009, which decriminalized sex between men after the
decision of the Delhi Supreme/High Court, in a legal process driven by collaboration between
government and civil society with full backing of the Department of AIDS Control, to reduce the
difficulty of reaching out and working with MSM.

(b) Implementing Agency
NACO was consistently competent and committed and effectively overseeing the project,
monitoring and coordinating implementation by SACS, contracting NGOs and CBOs, and
resolving issues. The Implementation Completion Report agrees with the MTR description of
NACO as “a high performing organization?, noting in particular the best practice explicit
operational guidelines; regular training and supportive supervision for SACS and NGOs/CBOs as
well as systematic TA provided as needed for all key project activities through specialized TA


                                                 26
units; attention to quality and performance-contracts of underperforming NGOs were not renewed
following annual reviews against goals and national guidelines; and a formal and disciplined
system of reporting, planning, and reviews for close monitoring of the program and unusually
good use of rich M&E data to adjust activities and reallocate effort and resources.

Beneficiaries were consulted and involved in a meaningful way. (For example, committees of
beneficiaries advised NACO on various aspects of the project, especially the implementation in
prevention interventions, which an LBGT activist and transgender NACO consultant described at
NACO’s March 2012 Innovation Dissemination summit as “a hugely successful addition to
NACP III?. Extensive stakeholder consultations organized by NACO in preparing the project and
for the MTR benefited project design and implementation. The centralized Program Financial
Management System (CPFMS) specially developed for NACO with on-site TA throughout the
project enabled financial data from all the states and other implementers to be compiled in a day,
monthly reports were consistently sent on time, and Aide Memoires consistently noted the
comprehensive and clear reporting for Joint Implementation Reviews. Data collection was
continuously improved, and information from sentinel surveillance, HIV services data, HRG
mapping, and an extensive program of relevant research was used for program decisions.

NACO established a network of Indian institutions for HIV/AIDS research (NIIHAR) to
participate in studies, training, and capacity-building activities to inform priority program areas,
and assessments and evaluations of many program aspects were used to guide decisions to
improve quality and impact. There has been no interruption in activities since the closing of the
project. The Implementation Completion Report also notes the very strong coordination of
development partners, with all reviews jointly conducted by NACO and development partners, all
documents shared, and duplication of reporting, assessment, and other effort avoided.

The shortfalls in performance noted are: delays in recruiting qualified procurement personnel at
NACO, small delays in submission of audits by NACO, delays in procuring services including
that of a procurement agent, significant delay in the national bio-behavioral survey, and delays in
requesting reimbursement from IDA that resulted in disbursements falling off schedule after the
initial six months of project implementation, and not recovering until the end of the project.
These delays did not, however, affect smooth, vigorous, and timely implementation of project
activities, and should therefore be given far less weight.

Examining the quarterly dashboard of 21 indicators used by NACO to monitor performance by
the SACS shows generally good performance in most states with some variability and only a few
instances of late submission of audits by state agencies, problems in decentralized procurement of
contracts, and minor instances of fraud and corruption, which NACO investigated promptly and
dealt with decisively.

(a) Government Performance
Rating: Highly Satisfactory

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Satisfactory, combining the ratings of satisfactory for Implementing Agency performance,
and highly satisfactory for government performance.




                                                27
6. Lessons Learned 13

1. Evidence-based cost-effective interventions targeted to the groups, behaviors, and geographic
   areas where most new HIV infections are occurring, working closely with the affected
   communities, can be highly effective in preventing new HIV infections. But the HIV
   epidemic is dynamic, and the prevention strategy needs strategically collected data to monitor
   impact and trends and to identify and respond to new hot spots of infection.
2. Business management principles can be applied successfully to HIV prevention interventions
   for sex workers, MSM, and IDUs when they are regarded as clients to whom services need to
   be marketed and delivered, with rigorous attention to results, quality, and efficiency, and
   detailed monitoring using a management information system in which data are collected
   routinely and used to guide decisions, adjust operating procedures, and propagate good
   practice.
3. Prevention can be effective when a tailored localized HIV response relies on trusted CBOs
   and NGOs as front-line implementers. Clear performance criteria with initial and annual
   evaluations and action to terminate poor performers or to help them improve can ensure
   strong performance. Requiring records of all expenditures to be submitted, checked, and
   audited, makes oversight onerous, and can delay flows of funds and be frustrating and
   counterproductive to a strong focus on results. Performance-based funding in NGO/CBO
   contracts might be a better alternative to traditional input-based funding, and is worth at least
   a small pilot trial.
4. Detailed procedural and protocol manuals, guidelines, and standards—backed with regular
   training, with periodic review and updating to reflect best practice—can greatly enhance the
   efficiency and quality of program implementation.
5. Developing a computerized management system is a process, and investment in on-site long-
   term technical IT support can have a strong pay-off in debugging the system in its initial
   stages, and then in seeking ways to improve and enhance the system to take advantage of
   changing technology and to continuously look for ways it can better support management
   decisions.
6. In such a large country where the Bank often has several health projects under way at any
   time, it is inefficient to address common safeguard issues such as infection control and health
   waste management project by project. A systematic, sector-wide approach would be far better,
   especially in a country with a strong federal structure like India, when the relevant
   responsibilities rest at subnational and not central level, and compliance with the safeguard
   policy relies on actions by actors not under the authority of the main implementing agency (as
   is the case of NACO and the health facilities where HIV services are converging with the
   National Rural Health Mission and urban healthcare facilities). Country- and context-specific
   judgment is needed in deciding which safeguard policies should usefully apply, instead of
   bureaucratic “box-ticking? compliance that uses scarce time and other resources without
   adding value or gains for intended beneficiaries.



13
   All these lessons are well reflected in the follow-on project, with the exception of piloting performance-
based funding for NGOs/CBOs (in lesson 3), and lesson 6 which is being taken up by the India
environment staff as regards health care waste management. Lessons 1 and 2 have strong general
applicability for HIV projects in all countries, and 5 applies to any projects with multiple implementers and
many ways possible ways to carry out activities. Lesson 6 applies to all projects in all countries, and lesson
7 to large countries with multiple concurrent projects in the health sector.


                                                     28
7. A contract with a procurement agent needs to include clear agreement on the timeline,
   frequency, and procedures for closing out all paperwork related to procurement to enable
   timely submission to IDA for reimbursement. Roles and responsibilities need to be clearly
   defined so that this does not “slip between two stools? of procurement and financial
   management units in an implementing agency.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies
None received

(b) Cofinanciers
None received




                                              29
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (US$ million equivalent)
                               Appraisal Estimate      Appraisal     Actual/Latest Percentage of
           Components            Full Program Estimate-Project         Estimate     Appraisal
                                 (US$ million)     (US$ million) 1/ (US$ million)2/
Prevention                            747                 424            403            95%
Care, Support, and Treatment            51                 28             47           170%
Program Management, Capacity
                                        43 + 43/           27             30           113%
Building
Strategic Information
                                        58                 33             31           95%
Management
       Total Financing Required                8984/ + 4
        Financing gap at appraisal              390
     Total Financing available at
                                                512                    512
                       appraisal
Note: For simplicity, this table shows only the project contribution (the final column in Annex 5 Table 1 of
the PAD) and not the full program costs
1/Assumes that project financing was allocated across components proportionately to component share of
total program cost.
Latest estimate as of March 20, 2013, 10 days before final closing of project account. Primary source:
category wise disbursements data in the Loan records.
2/ $4 million provided by the Bank toward consultancy charges of the procurement agent. See footnote 10
on page 41 of the PAD. No explanation given in the PAD for omitting this amount from the PAD table.
3/ Numbers in this column sum to 899, not 898 as shown in the PAD Table, the discrepancy is assumed to
be because of rounding.

(b) Financing
                                             Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                                                       Percentage of
           Source of Funds                   Estimate      Estimate
                                                                        Appraisal
                                           (US$ million) (US$ million)
 Borrower                                             83            99        119%
 UK: British Department for
                                                       179             172             96%
International Development (DfID)
 International Development
                                                       250             241             96%
Association (IDA)
                               Total                   512             512           100%




                                                      30
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

NACP III completed most planned activities, and exceeded targets for many. The matrix below
summarizes the outputs delivered within the project period, by component:

Sl.No                                      Component wise outputs
     1 Component 1: Scaling up Prevention Efforts
   1.1 Established 1821 Targeted Interventions under the Projects in the country.
   1.2 Reached out to 678,000 out of 868,000 estimated FSWs with prevention services through the
       targeted interventions.
   1.3 Reached out to 274,000 out of 427,000 estimated MSMs with prevention services through the
       targeted interventions.
   1.4 Reached out to 142,000 out of 177,000 estimated IDUs with prevention services through the
       targeted interventions.
   1.5 Targeted interventions for bridge population have reached out to 2.8 million migrants and 2
       million truckers with prevention services like behavior change communication, condoms and
       referral services to STI, ICTC and ART.
  1.6 Established 1,122 designated STI clinics in government health facility, 4,018 Preferred Private
      Providers for HRG and 28,000 STI clinics under NRHM at CHC/PHC level.
  1.7 Developed standard treatment protocol for STI management and customized the drugs for
      treatment into color coded kits. All the STI clinics in the country are branded to improve the
      visibility.
  1.8 Program has established 3 million condom outlets across country.
  1.9 Established link workers scheme to cover 209 districts across 20 states. The intervention provides
      the prevention services in rural areas and covers the vulnerable populations like women, youth,
      PLHIVs and other high-risk groups.
`1.10   Established 10,515 ICTCs (4533 stand alone and 5982 facility integrated). The program has also
        established about 902 ICTCs in private sector and run 105 mobile ICTCs in the hard to reach
        areas.
 1.11 Developed multi-sector behavior change and IEC strategy. The program has successfully
      launched the second phase of Red Ribbon Express project that covered 162 stations across 23
      states in the country.
 1.12 About 561,000 frontline workers (AWW, ANM, ASHA), SHG workers, PRI members and
      personnel from various government departments, representatives of civil society organization and
      member of public and privates sectors have been trained on HIV/AIDS to address the issues
      related to stigma and discrimination and to carry forward the message in their ongoing programs.
 1.13 Developed a comprehensive adolescent education program on HIV and life skills for the school
      children and covered more than 50,000 schools every year.
 1.14 Organized the National Convention of Parliamentarians, Legislators, Zila Parishad Chairpersons
      & Mayors on HIV/AIDS. More than 800 elected representatives comprising of Parliamentarians,
      Legislators, Zila Parishad Presidents, Mayors, senior officials from government and international
      organization, civil society & community representatives participated.
    2 Component 2: Strengthening Care, Support, and Treatment
  2.1 Established 355 ART centers and 739 link Art centers.




                                              31
2.2 A total 263 CD4 machines have been procured and installed in the country to serve 355 ART
    centers.
2.3 The project provided ART treatment to 541,000 PLHIVs (including 30,802 children) eligible
    with advanced HIV infection (Cumulative Total). And 4208 patients are receiving second line
    ART drugs.
2.4 Developed standard HIV and opportunistic infections management guidelines including improved
    referral to the Revised National Tuberculosis Control Program for TB treatment.
2.5 Establishing 253 number of community care centers which will provide outreach, referral,
    counseling and treatment, and patient management services
2.6 As efforts toward ZERO discrimination, developed Greater involvement of people living with
    HIV/AIDS (GIPA) policy and operational guidelines which were approved in principle by the
    National AIDS Control Board.
2.7 Established 10 centers of excellence and 7 exclusive pediatric centers of excellence.
2.8 Established state level, Grievance Redressal Committee has been constituted to review the
    functioning of the ART Centers.
2.9 Established system for decentralized supply chain management of ARV drugs.
  3 Component 3: Augmenting Capacity at District, State and National Level
3.1 NACO developed comprehensive operational guidelines for all program components:
       - Operational guidelines for High Risk Group (HRG) Interventions
       - Operational guidelines for Migrants and Truckers Intervention
       - Operational guidelines for NGO / CBO selection
       - Operational guidelines for STI/RTI service
       - Operational guidelines for Condom promotion
       - Operational guidelines for IDU interventions (waste disposal)
       - Operational guidelines for financial management
       - Operational guidelines for procurement
       - Operational guidelines for link workers
       - Operational guidelines for ART and Link ART
       - Operational guidelines for Community care centre
       - Operational guidelines for Strategic Information Management System
       - Operational guidelines for surveillance
       - Operational guidelines for blood safety
       - Operational guidelines for DIC
       - Operational guidelines for prevention of parent to child transmission (PPTCT)
       - Operational guidelines for HIV TB
       - Operational guidelines for District AIDS Prevention and Control Unit

3.2 Performance based contracting system developed for NGOs implementing targeted interventions.
3.3 Established Technical support unit at National and state level, 189 District AIDS Prevention
    Control Unit in all A and B category districts, and established State AIDS Control societies
    across the country.
3.4 Technical support group established at National level for strengthening the condom promotion
    and truckers program.
3.5 NACO has strengthened their procurement system by recruiting the procurement agent for
    carrying out procurement of pharmaceuticals, medical supplies, and other goods and works
    required under the project




                                           32
3.6 Developed computerized financial management system for effective monitoring of funds across
    states.
3.7 Established State Training Resource Centre (STRCs) across 18 states.
3.8 Developed training modules on more than 150 topics across program components.
  4 Component 4: Strengthening Strategic Information Management
4.1 NACO has developed the computerized Management Information system which is percolated
    down till reporting unit.
4.2 Established reporting system in 35 SACS and 3 Municipal AIDS Control Societies, 9,459
    Integrated Counseling and Testing Centers (Standalone ICTCs, Facility Integrated ICTCs and
    PPP sites), 1,785 Targeted Intervention facilities, 1,200 Blood Banks, 255 Community Care
    Centers and 1,112 Sexually Transmitted Infection Clinics.
4.3 NACO has strengthened their surveillance system and established 1359 number of surveillance
    sites across country.
4.4 NACO has published evidence based estimation report to provide better data and analysis for
    decision making.
4.5 All the states have conducted the HRG mapping exercise.
4.6 All the states have conducted data triangulation to identify the drivers of epidemic.
4.7 Developed Dashboard indicators for management attention and effective monitoring of the
    program. Presently, 97% of the states update the dashboard indicators every quarter and send it to
    NACO.
4.8 Developed thematic monographs and publications on program activities and innovations
         - Red Ribbon Express monograph
         - Condom monograph
         - M&E monograph
         - ART monograph
         - TI monograph
         - The 360 degree surround BULADI Campaign
         - Field Impact Study of NACO Campaign—A Report
         - NACP-III—To Halt and Reverse the HIV Epidemic in India
4.9 Conducted studies for making program decisions.
         - Assessment of ART centres in India: Clients’ and providers’ perspectives
         - Baseline CD4 count of PLHIV enrolled for ART in India
         - Assessment of Link ART Centres in India
         - Assessment of the Centres of Excellence (COE) in India
         - Assessment of Regional Pediatric centres
         - Assessment of Community Care centres in India
         - Factors affecting enrolment of PLHIV in ART centres
         - Baseline CD4 count of healthy adult population
         - Study of prevalence and types of baseline HIV drug resistance in the ART naive and
             previously treated HIV infected Northern Indian population.
         - Determination of reference ranges for CD4+T cell count and percentages for Adult
             Indian population.
         - Determining factors associated with ART drug adherence among HIV positive patients in
             India—A Multi centric Study
         - Psychosocial need and stresses in people infected with HIV/AIDS.




                                            33
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

World Bank’s financial support to NACO during NACP-III was about 20% of NACO’s total
expenditure during NACP-III, and strategically very important. 14 The component that received
the bulk of WB funding (4/5th of total WB support) supported a package of Targeted
Interventions (TIs) for preventing HIC, delivered mainly through NGOs. A huge scale up of TIs
(from 778 in 2007 to 1655 in 2012) to extend the reach of these services to cover at least 80% of
the main high-risk groups (HRGs) is the prime reason behind a significant reduction in annual
new HIV infections witnessed during NACP-III (refer table 1 below).
Table 1: Total Number of New Annual HIV Infections in India
Year                     2007       2008     2009      2010                2011        Total
New HIV infections 143856 134776 132033 130594                             130977
(Total)
Fall in new Infections
(2007 as baseline)                  9080     11823     13262               12879       47044
Source: NACO, Technical Report, November 2012

Taking 2007 as the baseline, the total reduction achieved in the number of new annual HIV
infections from 2007 to 2011 was over 47,000 cases. The main text discusses the link between the
reduction in new infections and the investments in expanding Tis. It should also be noted that TIs
not only contributed to averting new infections but also played an important role in other ways
too, notably in referring HRGs to HIV testing Centers, and referring those found positive to
antiretroviral treatment (ART) centers. Together with reducing the number of new infections
through behavior change especially among HRG, increasing ART coverage was a complementary
main objective of the project. There has been steep increase in the both the numbers of people
receiving ART (by 425.5%), and in coverage—the percentage of people who need ART who are
actually receiving it—from 16% in 2007 to 50% in 2011 (Table 2). Note that the increase in
coverage is despite the change in eligibility criteria for ART (a raising of the CD4 threshold)
which caused a large increase in the number of people needing ART in 2009, accelerating the
increase in need, which rose about 29% over the project period. TIs contributed a great deal in
ensuring the uptake of ART.
Table 2: PLHIV patients needing and receiving ART
           Need for Total        Number Unmet                    % receiving
 Year      ART       Receiving ART         Need                  ART
 2007      614,472   99,964                514,508               16%
 2008      636,662   168,156               468,506               26%
 2009      783,441   243,402               540,039               31%
 2010      830,032   338,622               491,410               41%
 2011      860,598   428,347               432,251               50%

Cost-effectiveness of TIs in India has been established in peer-reviewed literature. Two recent
studies, one an independent impact evaluation15 and the other a cost-effectiveness analysis 16 of


14
   During 2007-2012, total NACO expenditure was INR 5366 crores (about US$ 1073 million), of which
WB support was US$ 218 million or just more than 20% of the total.
15
   R. Kumar, S. Mehendale, S. Panda, et al. “Impact of Targeted Interventions on Heterosexual
Transmission of HIV in India.? BMC Public Health 2011, 11:549.


                                                34
India’s response to HIV, have found the TIs for female sex workers (FSWs) to be associated with
the national decline in HIV prevalence, averting an estimated three million new infections. The
cost-effectiveness analysis estimated that the Government and development partners spend on
average US$104 (INR4680) per HIV infection averted, and US$10.7 per disability-adjusted life-
year (DALYs) averted. Discounting at 3%, in India TIs for FSWs cost US$105.5 (INR4748) per
HIV case averted and US$10.9 per DALY averted. Given India’s GDP per capita, targeted
interventions are a cost-effective strategy for HIV prevention in India. The findings of these
studies are, of course, based on data that cover a much longer period than covered by NACP-III.

Besides supporting TIs, institutional strengthening was another component supported by the WB
project under NACP-III. Under this component capacities at national, state and district levels
were strengthened for better management of the national AIDS program, especially in contracting
of NGOs and management of finances. Although the share of funding to this component was
relatively small (US$12 million or about INR 60 crores), there were significant efficiency gains
achieved through this intervention. This helped enable NACO to exceed yearly targets for NGO
contracting almost every year during the project period. For example, the NGO contracting target
set for 2011-12 was 170 but the actual number of NGOs contracted by the project was 208.

Strengthening program information management system nationwide was yet another component
of WB support under NACP-III. Under this component full M&E system was developed and
made functional up to the lowest service delivery point. This component resulted in improved
reporting system. For this reason, 97% of SACS could send at least 80% of computerized
management information system (CMIS) reports and 97% of SACS could submit dashboard
indicators regularly. Periodic reporting from CMIS has helped program managers become well-
informed and enabled detailed reviews of the program through data triangulation at district level.
This data triangulation fed into development of detail epidemiological profiles for each district,
which contributed to better understanding of key drivers of HIV epidemics and tailoring of the
response and allocation of effort across the country. Although the funding that went into
developing M&E was relatively small (US$16 million or INR 80 crores), the gains that accrued to
the overall program are judged to be significant.




16
   S. Prinja, P. Bahuguna, S. Rudra, et al. “Cost Effectiveness of Targeted HIV-Prevention Interventions
for Female Sex Workers in India.? STI 2011, 87:354–61.


                                                    35
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a) Task Team members
          Names                             Title                          Unit
Lending
Mario E. Bravo            Senior Communications Officer            EXTOC
Mam Chand                 Consultant                               SARPS
Meera Chatterjee          Senior Social Development Spec           SASDS
Mariam Claeson            Program Coordinator                      SASHN
Mohan Gopalakrishnan      Senior Financial Management Specialist   SARFM
Michele Gragnolati        Sector Leader                            LCSHD
Julie-Anne M. Graitge     Program Assistant                        SASHD
Cornelis P. Kostermans    Lead Public Health Specialist            SASHN
Kelechi O. Ohiri          Health Specialist                        HDNHE
Roselind Rajan            Program Assistant                        SARDE
Sandra Rosenhouse         Senior Population & Health Specialist    SASHN
Suneeta Singh             Senior Public Health Specialist          EASHD
Ruma Tavorath             Senior Environmental Specialist          SASDI
Supervision/ICR
Neera Bhatia              Temporary                                SASDO
Anne M. J. Bossuyt        Operations Officer                       AFTHE
Mariam Claeson            Program Coordinator                      SASHN
Sameh El-Saharty          Senior Health Specialist                 SASHN
Mohan Gopalakrishnan      Senior Financial Management Specialist   SARFM
Manvinder Mamak           Senior Financial Management Specialist   SARFM
Julie-Anne M. Graitge     Program Assistant                        SASHD
Puneet Kapoor             Consultant                               SASGP
Shanker Lal               Senior Procurement Specialist            SARPS
Arun Manuja               Senior Financial Management Specialist   SARFM
Satya N. Mishra           Social Development Specialist            SASDS
Robert Oelrichs           Senior Health Specialist                 HDNHE
Roselind Rajan            Program Assistant                        SARDE
Shafali Rajora            Team Assistant                           SASHD
Suneeta Singh             Senior Public Health Specialist          EASHD
William Starbuck          Senior Operations Officer                SASHN
Ruma Tavorath             Senior Environmental Specialist          SASDI
Bathula Amith Nagaraj     Operations Officer                       SASHN
Joy de Beyer              Health Economist                         WBIHS




                                           36
(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                     Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                      US$ thousand (including
                                   No. of staff weeks
                                                          travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY05                                    24.97                      129.50
  FY06                                    49.51                      188.53
  FY07                                    73.58                      300.07
  FY08                                     0.00                        3.20
                          Total:         148.06                      621.30
Supervision/ICR
 FY07                                      3.55                       30.43
 FY08                                     20.80                      169.10
 FY09                                     35.51                      773.83
 FY10                                     45.31                     773.36
 FY11                                     32.82                     313.49
 FY12                                     26.55                     464.99
 FY13                                     18.50                     174.10
                          Total:         173.04                     2,699.3




                                       37
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
(if any)

N/A




                                      38
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

NACO organised a 3-day National Summit of stakeholders in April 2012 to discuss and
disseminate good practices and innovations practiced during NACP-III, to stock, reflect
collectively, exchange experiences and, last but not least, be able to continue to improve the
effectiveness of India’s HIV response and health outcomes.

Participants: The summit was attended by multi-stakeholders from across the country
representing diverse constituencies—government represented by NACO and other ministries,
donor agencies (USAID, UNAIDS, World Bank, Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, DfID),
implementation partners, and numerous representatives from CBOs working with/for high-risk
groups and PLHIVs.

Learning and innovations discussed by stakeholders: The summit was structured in 5 tracks,
and a total of 85 participants presented good practices and innovations demonstrated during
NACP III. A wide range of topics were discussed under each track, which are listed below, with
details provided on a selected few:

Track 1- Governance & Project Management/ Integration Mainstreaming and Partnership
focused on the integrated approaches tried and tested in areas of targeted interventions, social
protection for HRGs, improved access to health services in government health facilities and
performance management system for service delivery. The innovative techniques for program
management, institutional strengthening through local governance and use of media for harm
reduction were also discussed.

Track 2- Targeted Interventions had the most presentations, and covered a wide range of issues.
The key innovations were in the following areas: (i) STI management and Syphilis Screening; (ii)
responding to changing patterns of sex work practice; (iii) harm reduction and Opioid
Substitution Therapy (OST); (iv) positive prevention; (v) community accountability and tracking;
(vi) community mobilization and violence; and (vii) use of technology for outreach and service
delivery; (vii) selection, evaluation and performance management of NGOs/CBOs.

NACO’s process for selecting NGOs and CBOs to implement the targeted interventions (TI) is
detailed in an Operational Guide. The selection process entails detailed review and capacity
assessment of the NGOs that express interest in implementing a TI. NGOs are appraised in the
field and scored on seven categories: governance structure, staffing, institutional experience,
procurement system, financial management, planning and monitoring, and relationship with
external partners. Based on the scores, and a detailed needs assessment, a short-list of NGOs are
selected to submit proposals which are evaluated and approved for contracting. NACO uses an
NGO Evaluation Tool to evaluate three aspects of the performance of NGO/CBOs in
implementing TIs: finance, organizational capacity, and program delivery, scoring them on
clearly defined indicators and standards for all three aspects. A weighted average of all scores is
calculated for each NGO. This evaluation is done annually and NGO are categorized into three
groups based on the number of years they have been implementing TIs. The TIs are evaluated
using various qualitative and quantitative tools and techniques including focus groups, key
informant interviews, and participatory observations. Relevant documents and registers are also
verified by the evaluators. Based on the weighted average, the NGO are ranked and weak NGO
are provided support for strengthening their implementation. Contracts of NGO that are evaluated



                                                39
to be non-performing are cancelled. For example, as of December 2010, 14 percent of the
evaluated organizations did not pass the evaluation and half had their contracts terminated and
the others were put on a three month improvement plan.

Track 3- Care, Support and Treatment had highly technical discussions as well as sessions on
community participation and use of technology for improving access to ART services and
adherence. The innovations presented by the stakeholders included: (i) comprehensive Value
Based intervention Model for Children with HIV; (ii) instituting Client Oriented Provider
Efficient Services (COPE) in ART Centers; (iii) better ART-ICTC-PPTCT-RNTCP Linkage to
minimize lost follow up; (iv) macro-nutrient supplementation improves Nutrition Health
Outcomes; and (v) improving access to public and private resources to meet the needs of PLHIV.

Track 4- Community Mobilization & Demand Generation included: (i) strengthening
community structures for community participation; (ii) rights-based instruments for redressing
Stigma, Discrimination and Crises; (iii) risk-based segmentation for BCC to improve service
uptake; (iv) social marketing through the community; (v) innovative communication methods for
support system including a help line; and (vi) collectivization of community members for
alternative livelihoods.

Track 5- Strategic Information discussions were around evidence based planning and innovative
techniques used by states to make effective use of data for decision making. The innovations
described in the sessions included: (i) impact evaluations among HRGs; (ii) use of information
technology for reporting system; (iii) monitoring tools and techniques; (iv) surveillance systems
and enhancing data quality.

The computerized financial management system and management information system, and
NACP III dash board proved very useful managerial tools for monitoring the program at national
and state levels and providing data that could be used to inform planning and programming at all
levels, including triangulation at state level (2010) to inform annual planning and national priority
setting.
 The Computerized Program Financial Management System (CPFMS) is a web-based tool
that facilitates accounting and reporting for multi-donor funding. It is operated from NACO, and
connects with all State AIDS Control Societies (SACS) for on line monitoring of financial data.
Standard books of accounts on a double entry basis (cash and bank books, journals, fixed assets
register, advance registers) are available in the CPMS which are maintained by NACO/SACS.
The CPFM allows quarterly target setting, regular review of the finance performance at state and
national levels, monitoring of spending patterns and prompt release of funds. The modules on line
contain all financial data from voucher entry, journal, inter-fund adjustments, bank reconciliation
etc so that all financial reports are generated through the system. It also provides a menu of
options for creating reports apart from the requirements of Donors so that effective financial
monitoring can be done at SACS level.
The Computerized Management Information System (CMIS) used in NACP III captures
various reports, such as the ones generated by the CPFMS, which are produced in a routine
manner. The CMIS provides information on input and output level indicators useful for the
program managers at the facility and district levels.
The NACP 3 dashboard of crucial information from the CMIS is a set of 21 operational
indicators that require management attention. These indicators inform managers whether the
program is on course (compared with targets) and provides early warnings of weaknesses or
failing processes. At each Joint Implementation Review by NACP III pooling partners (World



                                                 40
Bank, DfID and NACO) and other development partners it provided an up to date snap shot of
key indicators and focus for action. For example, at the JIR May 2011, it was agreed that NACO
would follow-up with each SACS that reported stock-out of drugs, test kits or condoms urgently to
identify local and generic solutions, and report on action at next JIR.
Some sample dashboard indicators: # TIs; # TI's reporting condom stock-out in last month; #
clients tested; # HIV positive pregnant women receiving complete course of ART prophylaxis; %
blood units provided by voluntary blood donors; % districts with at least one functional PLWHA
network; % SACS with Project Director in-charge of SACS for more than one year; % SACS
with at least 80% CMIS reporting; # ART centers reporting drugs stock-out.
Performance management tools and other M&E tools and processes are used by NACO
strategically, as shown below:
    Product/Tool            Levels                    Purpose/Audience                    information
                                                                                            Sources
Program Reports            National,    Program management of specific areas           Computerized
(Monthly/Quarterly)        State,       e.g., blood safety for program managers at     Management
                           District     the national, state and district levels        Information
                                                                                       System (CMIS)
Dashboard                  National,    Used by National AIDS Control Board            CMIS
(Quarterly)                State        (NACB) to monitor NACO & NACO to
                                        monitor State AIDS Control Societies           State dashboards
                                        (SACS)
                                        Management tool for NACO and partners
State of the Epidemic      National,    Strategic management and accountability        CMIS
and Response               State        tool for NCA, NACB, NACO, SACS,                Surveillance
(Annual)                                partners, Government public and DPs, for       Special surveys
                                        planning, monitoring, accountability,          Research
                                        quality and dissemination
External Program           National,    Measurement of progress against                Annual reports,
Evaluation Reports         State, and   objectives for NCA, NACB, NACO,                special surveys,
(Mid-term; End of          District     SACS and DPs                                   evaluation process
Program)
Published Research/        Any          NACO, SACS, partners, wider audience           Research studies
Other Reports                                                                          Surveys
(Periodic)


Innovations to scale-up prevention included: (i) Peer led high-risk group (HRG) mapping to
enable effective scale-up of targeted interventions (TIs); (ii) link workers scheme as a strategy for
reaching high-risk populations in rural areas; (iii) public-private partnership to expand treatment
for sexually transmitted infections (STI), integrated counseling and testing centers (ICTC) and
prevention of parent to child transmission services; (iv) providing opioid substitution therapy for
IDUs in public health settings and through public-private partnerships; (v) using nurse
practitioners to provide HIV services to people as part of primary health services is a step toward
greater convergence with government health facilities; (vi) master health check-up program in
Tamil Nadu linked to existing government services normalized health services for HRGs; (vii)
single prick syphilis/HIV tests (viii) pre-specified color coded drug kits to treat common STI/RTI
syndromes.




                                                 41
Innovations relating to IEC: (i) Using marketing professional approach and new media in
developing and implementing communication activities; (ii) first use of mass media to address
Sexually Transmitted Infections; (iii) Development and implementation of composite mid media
and outdoor campaign in sync with the national mass media calendar; (iv) Reaching and engaging
youth in the 8 North Eastern states through sports (football) and music concerts; (v) Developed
designated IEC toolkit for service centers like ICTC/PPTCT, ART centers; (vi) User friendly
material for FSW, MSM, IDU and Migrants for use in TIs.

Innovations to strengthen care, support and treatment for PLWHAs include: (i) decentralized
HIV treatment through linked ART centers; (ii) electronic patient card (smart card) for improved
access to ART across the country; (iii) involvement of DAPCU as district level functionary to
improve access to government social protection schemes for HRGs and PLWHAs; (iv)
introduction of health insurance for PLWHAs; (v) the provision of legal aid services at ART
centers. These innovations enabled NACO to increase the number of people who received ART
and other social entitlements.

Innovations to strengthen the information management system include: (i) the patient
monitoring system; (ii) broad mapping of HRGs; (iii) district epidemiological profiling using data
triangulation; and (iv) use of Strategic Information Management System—a web based reporting
system for effective program monitoring. These innovations improved NACO monitoring and
evaluation system, allowing easy transfer of data and knowledge dissemination.

Performance management innovations include: (i) a web-based computerized financial
management system linked with program performance; (ii) TI NGO selection and evaluation
procedures that assess NGOs compliance against a standard set of performance criteria, including
fiduciary issues, governance, human resource and program performance; (iii) a dash board that
provides crucial information for program monitoring, generated from the computerized
management information system (CMIS), including a set of 21 operational indicators that require
management attention; and (iv) NACO operational guidelines on every component of the
program.




                                               42
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR


No ICR report or comments were received from NACO.




                                          43
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders


No comments were received from DfID




                                         44
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

   •   Project Appraisal Document (PAD), Third National HIV/AIDS Control Project.
   •   Financing Agreement (Third National HIV/AIDS Control Project) between INDIA and
       International Development Association, July 5, 2007
   •   Aide Memoire of all missions conducted under the project.
   •   Implementation Status and Results (ISR) documents from the project.
   •   Department of AIDS Control, Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, Government of
       India. NACO Annual Report, 2011-12
   •   NACO NEWS, A Newsletter of the National AIDS Control Organisation, various issues.
   •   Adolescent Sexual Behavior and HIV/AIDS—An exploratory Research Conducted in Six
       Districts of Rajasthan. Aide et Action, NACO, UNDP
   •   NACP III Dissemination Summit 2012. Good Practices, Innovation and Impact, 25th-27th
       April 2012. Abstract Book. NACO
   •   National AIDS Control Programme: Response to HIV Epidemic in India
   •   Targeted Interventions: National AIDS Control Programme, Phase-III, India
   •   Condom Promotion: National AIDS Control Programme, Phase-III, India
   •   Care Support & Treatment: National AIDS Control Programme, Phase-III, India
   •   Red Ribbon Express: National AIDS Control Programme, Phase-III, India
   •   Strategic Information Management: National AIDS Control Programme, Phase-III, India




                                           45
