India: The National AIDS Control Program
                                                                                               93505
                                                                                               May 9, 2012




 Scaling up the Response to HIV and AIDS to Successfully Halt and
 Reverse The Epidemic


Overview
The Government of India estimates that about 2.4 million Indians are living with HIV, ranking
the country third globally in number of people with HIV and AIDS. However, HIV prevalence
has declined from 0.39 percent in 2004 to 0.31 percent in 2009 and recent data show that the
number of new infections was halved in the last decade. An impact evaluation conducted in
2011 points to a decline in HIV among female sex workers attributable to the program, and a
2011 cost effectiveness analysis indicates that three  million new infections will be averted by
the national program by 2015.


Challenge                                               MULTIMEDIA
A major challenge to the national AIDS program
has been to launch an effective prevention
strategy that would reach those who need the
services the most, and encourage significant
behavior change that would reduce transmission.
India also needed to build the institutional and
human resource capacity required to tackle the
epidemic at all levels: national, state and district.
With overall low HIV prevalence, but
concentrated epidemics among most at risk
populations, overcoming stigma and
discrimination was also a huge challenge to the         MORE
national program, requiring involvements of key
                                                         Moving Mumbai into the Future
stakeholders including civil society and
communities at risk.                                     Self Help Groups in India


Approach
The World Bank and the Government of India are in the third           More Results
phase of the National AIDS Control Project, which was first
established in 1991. In this third phase, India has scaled up
targeted HIV prevention interventions for most at-risk
populations and expanded its management information and
HIV  surveillance systems to generate district level data. This
new knowledge helped the government better understand
                                                                      50%
                                                                      decline in the case of new
the heterogeneous epidemic, identify which Indian states and          infections between 2000 and
                                                                      2009
districts were most affected by HIV, and which populations
were most at risk (namely sex workers and their clients, men
having sex with men, and injecting drug users). The main


                                                                  81%
approach is to focus about two-thirds of the program’s
resources on the targeting of HIV prevention interventions
among these population groups, and contracting non-
governmental and community based organizations to deliver         of female sex workers have been
                                                                  reached by the program
services. The government utilized a strong evidence base,
and epidemic and economic modeling, as well as public and
private consultations. The efficient allocation of resources, a
reliance on participatory approaches, and effective donor         MORE INFORMATION
coordination has made this approach a global best practice.        Project Documents

                                                                   SAR Aids Website
Results
                                                                   India Natioanl AIDS Control
HIV prevalence declined from 0.39 percent or 2.6 million           Organisation
people in 2004 to 0.31 percent (2.4 million people) in 2009.
                                                                   India Country Site
New infections declined by 50 percent from 2000 to 2009.
The national program reached 81 percent of female sex              End Poverty in South Asia Blog
workers, 66 percent of men having sex with men, and 71             Connect with us on Facebook
percent of injecting drug users, while treatment coverage
increased by 30 percent between 2009 and 2011. Deaths              Talk to us on Twitter
from HIV declined from 199,502 in 2006 to 172,041 in 2009.
It is estimated that some three million HIV infections will be
averted by 2015 by the targeted prevention interventions.


Voices


     There has been a tremendous scale-up of prevention and
   treatment interventions under this program, which has led to an
   overall reduction in new infections and AIDS-related deaths in
   India.  
           ——Mr. Sayan Chatterjee, Secretary and Director General
                    of India’s National AIDS Control Organisation



Bank Contribution
IDA has supported the foundation of a national program that is averting three million new
infections—a 60 percent reduction in the HIV epidemic from around 5.5 million cases to 2.4
million cases—during the period 1995-2015.More than US$640 million in financing from the
International Development Association has helped to create the institutional framework of
India’s HIV response at national and state levels, including a strong HIV surveillance system
that has helped India to effectively tailor the epidemic response. The Bank has also financed,
through pooled funding with the Indian government and the U.K.’s Department for International
Development (DFID), more than 1,300 targeted interventions for those most at risk, reaching
more than 70 percent of female sex workers and increasing the use of condoms. This has
helped contain HIV prevalence in the general population. In addition to lending, the Bank has
supported community innovations to tackle the stigma related to HIV through a South Asia
Regional Development Marketplace. The Bank’s regional AIDS program has also helped to
inform government policy and priorities through a series of regional analytical work (see links
below).

Partners
The Bank and DFID are pooling partners with the Government of India in the Third National
AIDS Control Project. A large consortium of development partners are working in partnership
with the Government of India, contributing significantly to the national AIDS response by
closely coordinating their various efforts.

Toward the Future
Although the overall HIV prevalence rates among high risk groups are declining, they remain
high according to 2008-09 data (9.2 percent among injecting drug users, 7.3 percent among
men having sex with men and 4.9 percent among female sex workers), and there are
significant variations across and within states, which warrants an expansion of efforts to the
hard-to-reach populations in these areas. Moving forward with the preparation for the fourth
phase of the national response, 2012 – 2017, the Government of India is mobilizing domestic
financial support and seeking sustained support from development partners, including the
Bank. The Bank has been asked by the Department of Economic Affairs to support the fourth
phase of the program as it aims to accelerate reversal of trends and integrate components of
the program with other health services and programs over the next program phase. The
national program will continue to innovate and generate lessons from its innovative
performance management system.  
