CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 538 MLI
Development Credit
Agreement
(Livestock Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF MALI
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED APRIL 11, 1975


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 538 MLI
Development Credit
Agreement
(Livestock Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF MALI
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED APRIL 11, 1975


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 11, 1975, between REPUBLIC OF MALI
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated March 15, 1974, with the same force and effect as if they were
fully set forth herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "ODEM" means Opration de D i'eloppement de I'Elevage de la Rdgion
de Mopti to be established under the Laws of the Borrower as provided under
Section 3.10 of this Agreement;
(b)   "MF" means Mali francs in the currency of the Borrower; and
(c)   The term  "Special Account" means the account referred to under
Section 3.14 of this Agreement.
ARTICLE 11
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to thirteen million three hundred thousand
dollars ($13,300,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the
Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule I to this Agreement,
as such Schedule may be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,


﻿4
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)   Without limitation on the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section
the Association shall, promptly after the Effective Date, withdraw from the Credit
Account and deposit in the Special Account an initial amount in the currency
of the Borrower not exceeding $200,000 equivalent and shall thereafter, at the
request of the Borrower, further withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit
in the Special Account such amounts as shall be required to reimburse the Borrower
for payments made out of the Special Account for expenditures for the Project
eligible for financing under the Development Credit Agreement but only to the
extent that the amount of any such deposit, together with any amount on deposit
in the Special Account as of the date of such request, shall not exceed in the
aggregate the equivalent of $200,000.
(c)   Nothwithstanding the foregoing no further deposit shall be made to
the Special Account and no other withdrawal shall be made from the Credit
Account when the total amount theretofore withdrawn from the Credit Account
pursuant to paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section, together with the amount of
any special commitment entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02
of the General Conditions shall have reached in the aggregate the equivalent of
$13,100,000.
(d)   The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw from the Credit Account
pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section the unwithdrawn amount
of the Credit in excess of $13,100,000, if and only to the extent that the
Association shall have been satisfied that all payments were made by the Borrower
out of the Special Account for expenditures eligible for withdrawal from the Credit
Account.
(e)   If the Association shall have determined that payments have been made
by the Borrower out of the Special Account for expenditures not eligible for
withdrawal from the Credit Account, the Borrower shall, upon notice from the
Association, deposit in the Special Account an amount equal to the amount of
such payments.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the gooos,
works and services (other than consultants' services) for the Project to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be procured in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.


﻿5
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1979 or such other
date as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on January 1
and July 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each January 1 and July 1 commencing
July 1, 1985, and ending January 1, 2025, each installment to and including the
installment payable on January 1, 1995 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of
1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby spec.fied for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project with the assistance
of ODEM and its departments and agencies with due diligence and efficiency and
in conformity with appropriate agricultural, administrative, engineering and financial
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the purpose.
(b)  The Borrower shall, under terms and conditions which shall have been
approved by the Association, make available to ODEM:
(i)        by way of a grant that part of the proceeds of the Credit required
for the execution of Parts A, B, D(ii), E, F, G, H, I and J of
the Project; and
(ii)       on a quarterly basis by way of a grant such funds in such
amounts as shall be required to cover ODEM's expenditures as
estimated in ODEM's quarterly budgets.


﻿6
Section 3.02. In order to assist ODEM in (i) the preparation of detailed
plans and specifications and the preparation of bidding documents for the carrying
out of Part E, and (ii) in the carrying out of Part I of the Project, the Borrower
shall cause ODEM to employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms
and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.03. In carrying out Parts D(ii), E, F, G and J of the Project, the
Borrower shall employ or cause ODEM to employ contractors acceptable to the
Association upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure or cause to be insured,
or make adequate provision or cause adequate provision to be made for the
insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to
the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be
payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to replace or repair such
goods.
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used
exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports,
contract documents and work and procurement schedules for the Project, and any
material modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association
shall reasonably request.
(b)   Without limitation or restriction on the generality of the provisions
of the foregoing paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower shall cause its Ginie
Rural within its Ministry of Production to prepare the plans, specifications and
bidding documents for the construction of the facilities to be constructed under
Parts C, F, G and J of the Project, all to be in a form acceptable to the Association.
(c)   The Borrower: (i) shall maintain or cause to maintain records adequate
to record the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify
the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose
the use thereof in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's accredited
representatives to visit the facilities and construction sites included in the Project
and to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any
relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish or cause to be furnished
to the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request


﻿7
concerning the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the
goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall take all such action as may be necessary
to cause ODEM to prepare the terms and conditions under which the trial station
to be constructed under Part G of the Project shall operate and its yearly work
programs, all to be acceptable to the Association.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken all such action
as shall be necessary to acquire as and when needed all such land and rights in
respect of land as shall be required for the construction and operation of the.
facilities included in the Project and shall furnish to the Association, promptly
after such acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the Association that such land and
rights in respect of land are available for purposes related to the Project.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall cause ODEM to carry out the tiaining and
functional literacy programs referred to under Part H of the Project in accordance
with the plan of action referred to in Schedule 4 to this Agreement, as such
Schedule may be amended from time to time with the approval of the Association.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall:
(a)   cause its National Functional Literacy Service to make available no
later than one year after the Effective Date (or such other date as the Association
may agree) to ODEM     an experienced and qualified officer;
(b)   cause ODEM    to employ, no later than October 15, 1975 (or such
other date as the Association may agree) eight senior staff members whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Association; and
(c)   cause ODEM    to employ a Director, two Deputy Directors and an
Administrative Officer, whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions
of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.10. The Borrower shall establish and thereafter maintain ODEM
under its laws and regulations, with such powers, responsibilities, authority
(including inter alia the authority to grant in the Borrower's fifth region user rights
for grazing land and watering facilities to pastoral groups, to issue and enforce
the grazing control regulations in the said region and to levy slaughter fees in
Mopti-S6var) and management resources as shall be acceptable to the Association.


﻿8
Section 3.11. (a) The Borrower shall cause its Operation Puits within its
Ministry of Public Works and ODEM to carry out Parts D(i) and D(ii) of the Project,
respectively, in accordance with the timetable and the plan of action referred to
in Schedule 5 to this Agreement as such Schedule may be amended from timne
to time.
(b)   Notwithstanding the provisions set forth in paragraph (a) of this
Section and in Schedule 5 to this Agreement the Borrower shall cause ODEM not
to proceed with the construction of the wells referred to in paragraphs (h) and
(i) of such Schedule until the Borrower, the Association and ODEM shall have
evaluated the results of the study referred to under paragraph (g) of Schedule
5 to this Agreement.
(c)   The Borrower shall cause its Genie Rural within its Ministry of
Production to (i) carry out Part C of the Project in accordance with a Plan of
action acceptable to the Association, and (ii) to supervise the construction of the
facilities to be constructed under Parts E, F, G and J of the Project.
Section 3.12. The Borrower shall transfer to ODEM no later than one month
after the Effective Date (or such other date as the Association may agree) the
staff members and facilities from its Livestock Service within the Borrower's fifth
region.
Section 3.13. The Borrower shall cause the Institut d'Economie Rurale (i)
to prepare a program to monitor the Project to be submitted to the Association
for its approval no later than one year after -he Effective Date (or such other
date as the Association may agree), and (ii) to make a livestock specialist available
on a permanent basis for monitoring the Project.
Section 3.14. The Borrower shall, for purposes of execution of the Project,
open a special account on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association
in a bank in the territory of the Borrower acceptable to the Association.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause ODEM to maintain records
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting
practices the operations and financial condition of ODEM.
(b) The Borrower shall cause ODEM to: (i) have its accounts and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related


﻿9
statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with sound auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association; (ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case
not later than five months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies
of its financial statements for such year as so audited and (B) the report of such
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall
have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Association such other
information concerning the accounts and financial statements of ODEM and the
audit thereof as the Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall cause ODEM to take out and maintain
with responsible insurers, or to make other provision satisfactory to the Association
for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with
appropriate practice.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall take all such action as may be necessary
to:
(a)   control after December 31, 1979 the infectious diseases referred to
in the description of Part B of the Project; and
(b)   appropriately maintain the ponds and wells to be constructed under
Parts C and D of the Project.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall afford the Association a reasonable
opportunity to comment on:
(a)   the proposed structure and level of livestock taxes to be determined
on the basis of the recommendations of the study to be carried out under Part
I of the Project;
(b)   the proposed levels of grazing and water fees to be charged and
collected by ODEM during the execution of the Project.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall take all such action as may be necessary
to entrust ODEM with the collection of charges for animal health services and
to cause such charges to be collected promptly as and when due.
Section 4.06. The Borrower shall cause ODEM to manage its affairs, plan
its future expansion and carry on its operations, all in accordance with appropriate
administrative, financial, engineering and agricultural practices, under the
supervision of experienced and competent management assisted by qualified and
competent personnel in adequate number.


﻿10
Section 4.07. The Borrower shall use its best efforts to make arrangements
satisfactory to the Association so as to ensure that (i) no slaughter shall be licensed
within the municipality of Mopti-Sevare, except in the abattoir to be constructed
under Part E of the Project, and (ii) slaughter taxes presently levied in said
municipality shall be abolished.
Section 4.08. The Borrower shall take all such action as may be necessary
to cause ODEM to levy slaughter fees to be applicable in the Mopti-Sevare abattoir
facilities, to be fixed at such level as shall be sufficient to produce revenues
sufficient to cover the Mopti-Sevare abattoir expenses.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 12.01(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)   ODEM    has been established as provided in Section 3.10 of this
Agreement;
(b)   A director, two deputy directors and an administrative officer have
taken up their post with ODEM; and
(c)   The Borrower has opened the Special Account.
Section 5.02. The date July 9, 1975, is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections 3.10, 3.12,
4.01, 4.02, 4.03, 4.04, 4.05 and 4.06 of this Agreement shall cease and determine
on the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on
a date 20 years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:


﻿11
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Bamako, Koulouba
Republic of Mali
Cable address:
MINIFINANCES
Bamako
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF MALI
By  /s/ Seydou Traor%
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s / E. Peter Wright
Director, Country Programs Department
Western Africa Regional Office


﻿12
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each
Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated             % of
(Expressed in           Expenditures
Category                   Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1)   Expenses for the                1,300,000          95% of local
incremental local                                  expenditures
staff of ODEM and
of the Institut
d'Economie Rurale
within the Bor-
rower's Ministry
of Production, ex-
penses for staff of
the Mopti abattoir
for its first year
of operation and
local training
expenses of ODEM
staff
(2)   Expatriate person-               950,000           100% of foreign
nel, consultants'                                  expenditures
services and
training abroad
of ODEM's staff
(3)   Civil Works (in-               3,600,000           75%
cluding prepara-
tory work)
(4)   (i) Vehicles and                 450,000           100% of foreign
equipment and (ii)                                 expenditures or
livestock for the                                  75%
Mopti trial station


﻿13
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in          Expenditures
Category                  Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(5)   ODEM's operating               3,100,000         75%
expenses not in-
cluded in Category
(1) (including re-
habilitation and
renting of offices
and staff houses
and purchase of
equipment but ex-
cluding operating
expenditures of
the livestock mar-
kets under Part F
of the Project, of
the Mopti abattoir
under Part E of the
Project beyond its
first year of opera-
tion, and vaccines
(for anthrax, black-
leg and haemorrhagic
septicaemia), drugs,
insecticides and
mineral blocks paid
by livestock owners
beyond the second
year of Project ex-
cution)
(6)   Unallocated                    3,900,000
TOTAL         13,300,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule: (a) the term "foreign expenditures" means
expenditures for goods or services supplied from the territory, and in the currency,
of any country other than the Borrower; and (b) the term "local expenditures"


﻿14
means expenditures in the currency of the Borrower, and for goods or services
supplied from, the territory of the Borrower.
3.    The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compliance with the
policy of the Association that no proceeds of the Credit shall be disbursed on
account of payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on
goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply
thereof; to that end, if any event occurs which shall affect the amount of any
such taxes included in the cost of any item to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, correspondingly
adjust the disbursement percentage then applicable to such item.
4.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.    Notwithstanding  the allocation of an amount of the Credit or the
disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph I above, if the
Association has reasonably estimated that the amount of the Credit then allocated
to any Category will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all
expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category to the extent required to meet the estimated shortfall
proceeds of the Credit which are then allocated to another Category and which
in the opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other expenditures, and
(ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the
disbursement percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that further
withdrawals under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.
6.    If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the procurement
of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred
to in this Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association under the
Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount
of the Credit as in the Association's reasonable opinion, represents the amount
of such expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out
of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿15
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is part of the Borrower's program to achieve a rational use of
pastoral land and water in the Borrower's fifth region and to rebuild and improve
the herds owned by families of pastoralists in such region and protect these herds
against future droughts. The Project consists of:
Part A:      Provision by ODEM's Service Pastoral of livestock extension services
to pastoralists, including: (i) introduction of grazing control measures
in two areas west of the Niger delta where water supplies would be
provided along traditional cattle routes and in the Seno Mango area;
(ii) introduction of fire control measures in the Seno Mango area; and
(iii) planting, coordinated with the Borrower's Water and Forest
Service, of fodder trees and shrubs for the purpose of soil and moisture
conservation. To that end, ODEM's Service Pastoral will be provided
with a Head of Service, 4 extension officers, 11 assistant extension
officers, 24 extension assistants and about 25 other staff and facilities
(including construction of four extension posts and eight extension
outposts, and vehicles and equipment).
Part B:      Five-year vaccination campaign in the Borrower's fifth region against
rinderpest, contagious bovine pluropneumonia, anthrax, blackleg and
bovine/ovine haemorrhagic septicaemia, and the provision, for such
purpose, in the three areas referred to under Part A of the Project
of drugs, insecticides and mineral blocks, the strengthening of ODEM's
staff with about 60 additional staff (including veterinarians, livestock
assistants and support staff), provision of infrastructure equipment
(including transport, veterinary and laboratory equipment) and the
construction of three veterinary posts, about ten vaccination yards and
five cattle dips.
Part C:      Rehabilitation or const.uction of about fifty water retention ponds
in the lower rainfall areas of the wet season grazing areas East and
West of the Niger Delta.
Part D:      Construction of up to: (i) 10 wells West of the Niger Delta and of
about 20 wells in the Seno Mango region, and (ii) 40 additional wells
in the Seno Mango region.
Part E:      Construction along the all-weather Mopti-Bamako highway at about
15 kilometers from Mopti and I kilometer from Sevare, of abattoir


﻿16
and hide drying facilities with a daily capacity of about 48 cattle and
about 100 sheep and goats.
Part F:     Construction, maintenance and operation of five livestock market
facilities each with a weekly capacity ranging from 400 to 800 head
of cattle and from 1000-1200 head smallstock to be located at Boni,
Douentza, Kona, Sevare and Tenenkou.
Part G:     Establishment of a 150 hectare trial station for fodder and livestock
studies to be located at about 8 kilometers north of Mopti.
Part H:     Training for ODEM staff in livestock extension methods and range
management and testing of a functional literacy program for
pastoralists.
Part I:     Preparation of a second phase livestock Project and carrying out of
a study on livestock taxation in the Project area.
Part J:     Construction of ODEM headquarter facilities at Mopti-Sevare.
Part K:     Carrying out by the autonomous evaluation unit created within the
Institut d'Econonie Rurale of the Borrower's Ministry of Production,
of an evaluation of the effects of the Project on the population in
the Project area and on the economy of the Borrower.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1979.


﻿17
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.    General Procedures
1.    Except as provided in Part A.3 hereof, contracts shall be let under procedures
consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement under World
Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in April 1972, as revised
in October 1972 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of international
competitive bidding.
2.    Identical or similar items shall, to the extent possible, be consolidated in
a single invitation for the purpose of bidding.
3.    Contracts for small items which, when bulked together, are estimated to
cost $50,000 or less shall be awarded on the basis of local advertising in accordance
with local competitive bidding procedures to be acceptable to the Association.
4.    Notwithstanding the provision of paragraph A.3 of this Schedule, small items
(including, but without limitation, vaccines) for which competitive bidding
procedures are impractical may be purchased directly following quotations from
local suppliers, provided, however, that the aggregate amount of all items to be
so purchased shall not exceed $ 1,500,000.
B.    Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for Domestic
Manufacturers
1.    For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the supply of
goods: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry)
price for imported goods, or the ex-factory price for domestically-manufactured
goods; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales
and similar taxes on domestically-supplied goods, shall be excluded; and (iii) the
cost to the Borrower of inland freight and other expenditures incidental to the
delivery of goods to the place of their use or installation shall be included.
2.    Goods manufactured in Mali may be granted a margin of preference in
accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
(a)   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall clearly
indicate any preference which will be granted, the information required to establish
the eligibility of a bid for such preference and the following methods and stages
that will be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.


﻿18
(b)   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in one of the
following three groups:
(1)   Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Mali if the bidder
shall have established to the satisfaction of the Borrower and
the Association that the manufacturing cost of such goods
includes a value added in Mali equal to at least 20% of the
ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2)   Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured in Mali.
(3)   Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c)   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared among
themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import taxes on goods to be
imported and any sales or similar taxes on goods to be supplied domestically, to
determine the lowest evaluated bid of each group. The lowest evaluated bid of
each group shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this
comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected
for the award.
(d)   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) above, the lowest
bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids shall be further compared with the
lowest evaluated bid from group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the
imported goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of customs duties and other
import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to pay for the importation
of the goods offered in such group C bid, or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of
such goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If the group
A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award;
if not, the lowest evaluated bid from group C shall be selected.
C.    Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Civil Works; Preferences fbr Domestic
Con tractors
With respect to any contract for civil works included under Category 3 of
the table set forth in Schedule 1 to the Credit Agreement, the Borrower may
grant a margin of preference of 7-1/2% to domestic contractors, in accordance
with, and subject to, the following provisions:
(a)   Contractors shall be required to prequalify as provided in Part 2.2 of
the Guidelines and applicants for qualification applying also for such preference


﻿19
shall be asked to provide, as part of the information for qualification, such
information, including details of ownership, as shall be required to determine
whether, according to the classification established by the Borrower and accepted
by the Association, a particular firm or group of firms qualifies for a domestic
preference. The bidding documents shall clearly indicate the preference and the
method that will be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids to give
effect to such preference.
(b)   After bids have been received and reviewed by the Borrower, responsive
bids will be classified into the following groups:
(i)         bids offered by domestic contractors eligible for preference; and
(ii)        bids offered by other contractors.
For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids an amount equal to 7-1/2%
of the bid amount shall be added to bids received under group (ii) above.
D.    Procurement Without Contracting
Works for construction and rehabilitation of (i) about 50 ponds under Part
C of the Project, and (ii) of about 20 wells in the Seno Mango area and of about
10 wells west of the Niger river delta, all to be constructed under Part D(i) of
the Project, may be carried out by force account.
E.    Review of Procurement Decisions by Association
1.    Review of prequalification.
In the cases where the Borrower grants a margin of preference to domestic
contractors under Part C above, the Borrower shall, before qualification is invited,
inform the Association in detail of the procedure to be followed and shall introduce
such modifications in said procedure as the Association shall reasonably request.
The list of prequalified bidders, together with a statement of their qualifications
and, where applicable, of their eligibility for domestic preference under Part C
above and of the reasons for the exclusion of any applicant for prequalification
and for such eligibility shall be furnished by the Borrower to the Association for
its comments before the applicatns are notified, and the Borrower shall make such
additions to, deletions from, or modifications in, the said list as the Association
shall reasonably request.
2.    Review of invitation to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:


﻿20
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000
or more:
(a)   Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and
other bidding documents, together with a description of the advertising procedures
to be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Association's concurrence
before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b)   Promptly after the bids have been received, the Borrower shall inform
the Bank of the names of the bidders and the respective amounts of the bids.
(c)   After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower shall, before
a final decision on the award is made, inform the Association of the name of
the bidder to which it intends to award the contract and the reasons for the
intended award and shall furnish to the Association, in sufficient time for its review,
a detailed report, on the evaluation and comparis.on of the bids received, together
with the recommendation for award and such other information as the Association
shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it determines that the intended
award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform
the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(d)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the
Association's concurrence, materially differ from those on whi ;h bids were asked
or prequalification invited.
(e)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the
Association promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the
Association of the first application,for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account
in respect of such contract.
3.    With respect to each contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit and not governed by the preceding paragraph, the Borrower shall furnisli
to the Association, promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to
the Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract,
together with the analysis of bids, recommendations for award and such other
information as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if
it determines that the award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such
determination.


﻿21
SCHEDULE 4
Personnel Training of ODEM and
Functional Literacy Programs
I.    ODEM's staff shall carry out a training program to be organized as follows:
(a)   Four-month courses in livestock extension and range management will
be organized once a year at the Borrower's National Livestock Research
Center of Sotuba. During the first two years of Project execution these
courses will be organized for about 30 participants and for the third,
fourth and fifth year of Project execution for about 20 participants.
(b)   Two to three day seminar will be organized for all Project staff in
Mopti on the status of the Project's progress and future work programs
once a year.
(c)   Six two-month fellowships for senior ODEM     staff to visit livestock
projects in other parts of Africa.
(d)   Four man-years of overseas training, mainly in development planning
and management, for four Malian graduates.
II.   ODEM's Pastoral Service shall with the assistance of the Borrower's National
Functional Literacy Center design, develop and evaluate a functional literacy
program for pastoralists to be organized as follows:
(a)   ODEM's Pastoral Service shall identify and set up about twenty
functional literacy groups to be instructed by specially trained cattle
owners selected by the Pastoral Service and using materials developed
in the local language.
(b)   At the end of the above referred to instruction period the participants'
comprehension and application of the new procedures introduced by
said Pastoral Service shall be assessed and compared with those of a
control group of illiterate pastoralists in the Project.


﻿22
SCHEDULE 5
Timetable and Plan of Action
for implementation of Part D
of the Project
Part D of the Project shall be implemented in accordance with the following
timetable:
Starting Date
(a)   Carrying out of an inventory                  March 1, 1975
of pastoral resources in the
rangeland to be improved in
the Borrower's fifth region
(b)   Carrying out of a census of                   March 1, 1975
persons and livestock likely
to use the grazing areas in
Project Area and their
patterns of movement
(c)   Carrying out of a plan for the                March 1, 1975
sub-division of the Project Area
into grazing units and of a study
to determine, with due regard for
ecological conditions, the exact
siting of wells to be constructed
in the Seno Mango Region
(d)   Identification of pastoral groups             October 1, 1975
and preparation of a settlement
plan for the rangeland to be
improved in the said pastoral areas
areas
(e)   Creation of a Service Pastoral within         October 1, 1975
ODEM establishing a framework for ex-
tension services in the pastoral zones
to be developed
(f)    Constructing of about 30 wells                March 1, 1976
in the Seno Mango Region


﻿23
Starting Date
(g)   Carrying out of a study to review             March 1, 1977
the results of grazing control
around the wells referred to
under paragraph (f) of this
Schedule
(h)   Constructing of about 30 additional           March 1, 1977
wells in the Seno Mango Region
(i)   Constructing of about 10 wells along          March 1, 1978
the cattle migration route between
the Mema area and the western area
of the Central Niger River Delta
and the Sahel and the Western Area
of the Niger River Delta


