I
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 189 COB
Development Credit
Agreement
(Highway Improvement Project)
BETWEEN
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED MAY 28, 1970


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 189 COB
Development Credit
Agreement
(Highway Improvement Project)
BETWEEN
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED MAY 28, 1970


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 28, 1970 between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF
THE CONGO (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Development Credit Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and
effect as if they were fully set forth herein (said General Conditions Applicable
to Development Credit Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the
General Conditions).
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in this Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to,
an amount in various currencies equivalent to one million five hund;ed thousand
dollars ($1,500,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The Association shall open a Credit Account on its books
in the name of the Borrower and shall credit to such Account the amount of
the Credit.
(b)   The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit Account
as provided in, and subject to the rights of cancellation and suspension set forth
in, this Development Credit Agreement and in accordance with the allocation of
the proceeds of the Credit set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such
allocation shall be modified from time to time pursuant to the provisions of such
Schedule or by further agreement between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.03. The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw from the Credit
Account in respect of the reasonable cost of goods or services required for the
Project and to be financed under this Development Credit Agreement:


﻿4
(i)        such amounts as shall have been paid (or, if the Association
shall so agree, shall be required to meet payments to be made)
for goods or services included in Categories II and III of the
allocation of the proceeds of the Credit referred to in Section
2.02 of this Agreement; and
(ii)       the equivalent of seventy per cent (70%) of such amounts as
shall have been paid (or, if the Association shall so agree, shall
be required to meet payments to be made) for goods or services
included in Category I of the allocation of the proceeds of the
Credit referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement, which
percentage represents the estimated foreign exchange component
of the cost of such goods cr services;
provided, however, that if there shall be an increase in the estimate of such
payments for goods or services included in Category 1, the Association may by
notice to the Borrower adjust the stated percentage applicable to such Category
as required in order that withdrawals of the amount of the Credit then allocated
to such Category and not withdrawn may continue pro rata with the payments
remaining to be made for goods or services included in such Category.
Section 2.04. No withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be made on
account of payments for goods produced in, or services supplied from, the territories
of the Borrower and to be financed under Category II of the allocation of the
proceeds of the Credit referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement, or for taxes
imposed by the Borrower or any of its political subdivisions on, or in connection
with the importation or supply of, goods or services included in Category III of
said allocation of the proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.05. The currency of the United States of America is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of I%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on May 15 and
November 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn from the Credit Account in semi-annual installments payable on each
May 15 and November 15 commencing November 15, 1980 and ending May 15,


﻿5
2020, each installment to and including the installment payable on May 15, 1990
to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal
amount.
ARTICLE III
Use of Proceeds of the Credit
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall apply the proceeds of the Credit in
accordance with the provisions of this Development Credit Agreement to
expenditures on the Project, described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, (i) the goods
and services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be procured
on the basis of international competitive bidding in accordance with the Guidelines
for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits, published by the Bank
in August 1969, and in accordance with such other procedures supplementary
thereto as are set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement or as shall be agreed
between the Borrower and the Association, and (ii) contracts for the procurement
of such goods and services shall be subject to the prior approval of the Association.
Section 3.03. Except as the Association may otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to
be used exclusively in carrying out the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Particular Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with sound engineering, administrative and
financial practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the purpose.
(b)   In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project, the
Borrower shall employ engineering consultants acceptable to the Association upon
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
(c)   In carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall employ contractors
acceptable to the As;ociation upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association.


﻿6
(d)   The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to the Association,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, contracts and work
schedules for the Project and any material modifications subsequently made therein,
in such detail as the Association shall request.
(e)   The general design standards to be used in carrying out the Project
shall be as set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement, as such standards may be
modified from   time to time by agreement between the Borrower        I;d the
Association.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records
adequate to identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit, to disclose the use thereof in the Project, to record the progress of the
Project (including the cost thereof) and to reflect, in accordance with consistently
maintained sound accounting practices, the operations, administration and financial
condition of any department or agency of the Borrower, including the Regie
Nationale des Transports et des Travaux Publics, responsible for the carrying out
of the Project or any part thereof and shall enable the Association's representatives
to inspect the Project, the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and
any relevant records and documents.
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully
to ensure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party, exchange views through their representatives with regard to the performance
by the Borrower of its obligations under this Development Credit Agreement, the
administration, operations and financial condition of any department or agency
of the Borrower, including the Regie Nationale des Transports et des Travaux
Publics, responsible for the carrying out of the Project or any part thereof and
other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b)   The Borrower shall furnish to the Association all such information
as the Association shall reasonably request concerning the expenditure of the
proceeds of the Credit, the goods and services financed out of such proceeds, the
Project, and the administration, operations and financial condition of any
department or agency of the Borrower, including the Regie Nationale des Transports
et des Travaux Publics, responsible for the carrying out of the Project or any part
thereof. On the part of the Borrower, such information shall include information
with respect to financial and economic conditions in the territories of the Borrower
and the international balance of payments position of the Borrower.


﻿7
(c)   The Borrower shall promptly inform the Association of any condition
which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the accomplishment of the
purposes of the Credit or the maintenance of the service thereof or the performance
by the Borrower of its obligations under this Development Credit Agreement.
(d)   The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for accredited
representatives of the Association to visit any part of the territories of the Borrower
for purposes related to the Credit.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall establish and maintain facilities adequate
to collect and record, in accordance with appropriate statistical methods and
procedures, such information concerning road traffic, road construction and
maintenance costs as shall be reasonably required for proper planning of
maintenance, improvements and extensions of its public roads system.
Section 4.05. Upon receipt by the Borrower of the recommendations for
the improvement of road maintenance to be prepared by the consultants referred
to in Section 4.01 (b) of the Development Credit Agreement dated May 26, 1969
between the Borrower and the Association, the Borrower and the Association shall
exchange views thereon with a view to agreeing upon a schedule for the
implementation of a program to improve the organization, planning and execution
of road maintenance operations in the territories of the Borrower.
Section 4.06. (a) The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall
be paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes, and free from all
restrictions, imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
(b)   The Development Credit Agreement shall be free from any taxes that
shall be imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories
on or in connection with the execution, delivery or registration thereof.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
shall occur and shall continue for the period, if any, therein set forth, then at
any subsequent time during the continuance thereof, the Association, at its option,
may by notice to the Borrower declare the principal of the Credit then outstanding


﻿8
to be due and payable immediately together with the service charges thereon and
upon any such declaration such principal, together with such charges, shall become
due and payable immediately, anything in this Development Credit Agreement to
the contrary notwithstanding.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The tollowing event is specified as an additional condition to
the effectiveness of this Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 10.01 (b) of the General Conditions, namely:
The consultants referred to in paragraph (b) of Section 4.01 of this
Development Credit Agreement shall have been employed.
Section 6.02. The date of September 1, 1970 is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Section 4.05 of this
Agreement shall terminate on the date on which this Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate or on a date ten years after the date of this Development Credit
Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Miscellaneous
Section 7.01. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1973 or such other date
as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 7.02. The Ministre des Finances of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 9.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 7.03. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Le Ministre des Finances de la
R6publique Populaire du Congo
Brazzaville, Republique Populaire du Congo


﻿9
Alternative address for cables:
Minifinances
Brazzaville
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Alternative address for cables:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Development Credit
Agreement to be signed in their respective names and to be delivered in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO
By /s / Luc Marsala
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s / J. Burke Knapp
Vice President
0


﻿10
SCHEDULE 1
Allocation of Proceeds of Credit
Amounts Expressed in
Category                                    Dollar Equivalent
1.         Improvement of the Pointe-
Noire-Makola Road                                1,100,000
11.         Consultants' services for
supervision                                        140,000
III.        Subsistence allowance for
consultants                                         30,000
IV.         Unallocated                                       230,000
Total               1,500,000
Reallocation Upon Change in Cost Estimates
1.   If the estimate of the cost of the items included in any of the Categories
I to III shall decrease, the amount of the Credit then allocated to, and no
longer required for, such Category will be reallocated by the Association
to Category IV.
2.    If the estimate of the cost of the items included in any of the Categories
I to III shall increase, an amount equal to the portion, if any, of such increase
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit (or, in the case of Category
I, an amount equal to 70% of such increase) will be allocated by the
Association, at the request of the Borrower, to such Category from Category
IV, subject, however, to the requirements for contingencies, as determined
by the Association, in respect of the cost of the items in the other Categories.


﻿11
SCHEDULE 2
Description of Project
The Project consists of:
(1)  the improvement of 34.1 km of road from Pointe Noire to Makola;
and
(2)  supervision by consultants of the civil works included in (1) above.
The Project is expected to be completed by August 31, 1972.
0


﻿12
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
The following procurement procedures will be applied for the selection of
firms and for the award of contracts with respect to goods and services included
in the allocation of proceeds of the Credit referred to in Section 2.02 of this
Agreement:
1.    The goods and services included in Category I of the aforesaid allocation
shall be awarded in one contract. The list of contractors to be invited to bid will
be determined by the Borrower through prequalification after broad call to
international competition. The prequalification of contractors and the award of
the contract will be in accordance with the procedures set forth in the "Guidelines
for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" dated August 1969
and with the following supplemental procedures:
(a)   Prior to inviting application for prequalification the Borrower shall
submit to the Association for its approval information concerning the advertising
coverage and prequalification procedures.
(b)   The time interval between the invitation to submit application for the
prequalification and the closing date for receiving such application will not be less
than forty-five (45) days.
(c)   Before inviting bids, the Borrower will submit to the Association for
its approval the list of firms from whom applications were received, the Borrower's
evaluation thereof and the list of firms prequalified for the bidding. No later than
thirty (30) days after obtaining the Association's approval required herein, the
Borrower shall invite prequalified firms to submit bids.
(d)   The time interval between the invitation to bid and the opening of
the bids will not be less than sixty (60) days. During this period an opportunity
will be afforded to the contractors to visit the site and to meet and discuss with
the Regie Nationale des Transports et des Trav)aux Publics any question concerning
contract works.
(c)   Before awarding any contracts, the Borrower will submit to the
Association for its approval an abstract and an evaluation of the bids received
and the Borrower's proposal concerning the contract and the award. The Borrower
shall employ consultants to assist in evaluating said bids. The contract will be


﻿13
awarded to the bidder offering the lowest evaluated bid determined to be the most
favorable in regard to technical and financial considerations and practices. The
Borrower shall award the contract no later than sixty (60) days after obtaining
the Association's approval required herein, and shall send two conformed copies
thereof to the Association promptly upon its execution and prior to the first
application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.
(f)   The bidding documents shall state that the goods required for the
works included in Category I of the above-mentioned allocation of proceeds shall
be imported free from customs duties and taxes. Consequently, the bidders must
submit a schedule of unit prices excluding such customs duties and taxes. The
evaluation of bids and the selection of a contractor shall be made on the basis
of such schedules of unit prices.
(g)   The successful contractor will furnish a performance bond in an
amount equal to the contract price or a bank guarantee equal to 10% of such
price. In addition, the contract will provide (i) for the retention of 10% of the
amount paid under each monthly invoice until an amount equal in the aggregate
to 5% of the contract price will have been retained, or (ii) for a bank guarantee
equal to 5% of the contract price. Any amounts thus retained or guaranteed will
remain in effect as a guarantee against defective work until one year after
completion of the contract.
2.    The consultants to be engaged for carrying out the supervision of the civil
works included in the Project shall be employed in accordance with the "Guidelines
for Uses of Consultants by the World Bank and its Borrowers," dated September
1966, and with the following additional procedures:
(a)   Prior to selecting the consultants, the Borrower will submit its choice
to the Association for approval.
(b)   The draft contract of employment will be communicated to the Bank
for approval before its signature.


﻿14
SCHEDULE 4
Design Standards
Design speed (km/h)              100      (exceptionally 85)
Minimum radius of
horizontal curves (m)            500      (exceptionally 300)
Maximum grades (%)                 6      (exceptionally 8 in the
Pointe Noire to Makola
direction)
Platform width (m)                11
Pavement width (m)                 7
Shoulder width (m)                 2
Pavement design axle
load (ton)                        13


