Documet of
The World Bank
FOR OFmFCIAL USE ONLY
C.q /OY-90
Report No. P-4474-SO
-4
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED SDR 10.6 MILLION (US13.4 MILLION) CREDIT
TO THE
SOMALT DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
FOR A
SEMI-MECHANIZED RAINFED AGRICULTURE PILOT PROJECT
March 12, 1987
This document has a retricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perrormance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY AND EQUIVALENT UNITS
Somali Shilling (So.Sh.)                =  100 cents
US$ 1.00 (at time of appraisal -        =  So.Sh.  70   (official rate)
June, 1986)                     So.Sh. 152   (free market rate)
US$1.00 (January 1987)                     So.Sh.  91.4 (official rate)
=  So.Sh. 135   (free market rate)
W4EIGHTS AND MEASURES
1  Hectare (ha)            =  10,000 m2
1  Square Kilometer (km)  =  100 ha
1  Metric Ton (mt)         =  1,000 kg
ABBREVIATIONS
ADC      -  Agricultural Development Corporation
AFMET    -  Agricultural Farm Management and Extension Training (Project)
ARI      -  Agricultural Research Institute
ASAP     -  Agricultural Sector Adjustment Program
AWP      -  Annual Work Program
CARS     -  Central Agricultural Research Station
FEA      -  Field Extension Agent
FMU      -  Farm Management Unit
GOS      -  Government of Somalia
ITCZ     -  Inter Tropical Convergence Zone
MOA      -  Ministry of Agriculture
ONAT     -  Organizzazione Nazionale Agricultura Trattore
(Government Tractor Hiring Agency)
PIU      -  Project Implementation Unit
SDA      -  Settlement Development Agency
SOE      -  Statements of Expenditure
SMR      -  Semi-Mechanized Rainfed
T and V  -  Training and Visit System (of Extension)
WFP      -  World Food Programme
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR oMcL4 USE ONLY
SOMALIA
SEMI-MECHANIZED RAINFED ACRICULTURE PILOT PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:       Somali Democratic Republic
Beneficiary:   Ministry of Agriculture
.mount:         SDR 10.6 million (US$ 13.4 million equivalent)
Terms:         . Standard
Cofinancing:   US$ 0.1 million equivalent in food commodity aid from the
World Food Programme.
Project Description Objectives:
This project is a continuation of the pilot field trials
started at Kurtun Waarey and Sablaale in 1981 to develop an
improved rainfed agricultural technology for Somalia's semi-
arid zones. Overall, the project aims to put in place a
technical and organizational system as part of a larger
strategy which includes irrigation, livestock, health and
range development projects. The project would (i) refine
and improve semi-mechanized rainfed (SMR) technology in
Somalia through onsite adaptive trials; (ii) study the
institutional structure for semi-mechanized farming
activities and propose a self-sustaining model for expansion
of rainfed farming; (iii) transfer skills to Somalis to
manage che enterprises and to farmers to use StR farming
technology through training and extension; and (iv) within
the narrow limits of the pilot area, increase smallholder
crop and livestock production and incomes for 400
smallholder families.
Benefits:       This is a pilot project with broad potential impact.  The
immediate benefits would be the provision of a settled
livelihood and increased income for 400 landless families as
well as increased production of maize, sunflower, safflower
animal feed and livestock and fuelvood self sufficiency.
They would also benefit from better roads and water
supplies. The project would generate incremental employment
amounting at full developmnent annually to 135,000 man days
of family farm labor and 32 man years of unskilled labor.
The benefits from development of an environmentally sound
rainfed agricultural system with suistainable productivity
increases would enhance the prospects of Somalia's semi-arid
zones.
Risks:          The project's economic viability is sensitive to yield
levels which would be Influenced by drought, interruption of
input supply and lack of proper and timely care of crops.
The project is designed to minimize these risks and includes
provisions for close monitoring and assessment of experience
gained. The risks associated witlh foreign exchange
availability and exchange rate fluctuations, and with the
maintenance of adequate producer price incentives are being
addressed by the Government, with IDA support through
agricultural policy adjustment Lending.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Project Components:                            Local       Foreign      Total
------US$ million---
PIU
-  Central Services                        0.6          2.5       3.1
-  Farm Development                        0.3          1.5       1.8
-  Farm Management Units                   0.8         2.0        2.8
-  Training                                _            0.4       o.4
-  Project Studies and
Environmental Measures                            0.6        0.6
SUB TOTAL                                  1.7          7.0       8.7
Ministry of Agriculture (MOA)
-  Monitoring and Evaluation               0.1          0.2       0.3
Settlement Development Agency (SDA)
-  Farmer Assistance                       -            0.3       0.3
Central Agricultural Research Station
(CARS)/PIU
-  Adaptive Research                       0.3          1.2       1.5
Agricultural Farm Management and
Extension Training Project (AFMET)/PIU
-  Extension                               0.1         -          0.1
SUB TOTAL                                  2.2         8.7       10.9
Physical contingencies                            0.2          1.0        1.2
Price contingencies                               0.7          2.2        2.9
TuTAL COSTS 1/                            3.1         11.9       15.0
Financing Plan:
IDA Credit                                        1.6         11.8       13.4
World Food Programme (WFP)                        -            0.1       0.1
Government of Somalia                             1.5         -           1.5
3.1        11.9       15.0
Estimated Disbursements:
IDA FY   1988   1989   1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995   1996
…-                 --    -(US$ million)--
Annual           1.4    2.2    2.6    1.9    1.2    1.8    1.1        0.8   0.4
Cumulative       1.4    3.6    6.2    8.1    9.3   11.1   12.2    13.0  13.4
Estimated Economic
Rate of Return:       Not applicable
Maps:  ISRD Nls. 20U01, 20002 and 20003
17 Taxes and duties are not included since Government investments are
exempt.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE SOMALr DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
FOR A SEMI-MECHANIZED RAINFED AGRICULTURE
PILOT PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Somali Democratic Republic for SDR 10.6 million
(US$13.4 million equivalent) on standard IDA terms to help finance a Semi-
mechanized Rainfed Agriculture Pilot Project.
PART 1 - THE ECONOMY
2.       A report on the economy entitled: "Somalia - Recent Economic
Developments and Medium-Term Prospects" (Report No. 6542-SO) was
distributed to the Executive Directors in February, 1987.
The Resource Base
3.       Somalia is large and sparsely populated.  Its varied topography
includes a hot and arid coastal plain, rugged mountains and plateaus, and
lowlands of varying fertility and uncertain rainfall. Its population of
about 5.8 million (including some 500,000 refugees) is unevenly distributed
over a land area of nearly 638,000 square kilometers of semi-desert. There
is as yet no census, but there is evidence of heavy migration to the
capital, Mogadishu. Population growth in recent years has been about 3
percent which will result in long-term pressure on the fragile resource
base. Only about 13 percent of the land is suitable for cultivation, but
with water being the main constraint, only a small fraction (8.5 percent)
of this potentially arable land is cultivated. The country has only two
rivers of any consequence. The waters of the Shebelli reach the sea only
in exceptional years, being used for irrigation, albeit inefficiently. The
Government proposes to control the Juba river through construction of a
large multi-purpose dam at Bardhere, a project currently under study by the
Bank.
4.       The mainstay of the economy has long been nomadic pastoralism.
About 50 percent of the population are nomads and semi-nomads who depend on
livestock for their livelihood. Livestock production accounts for about 39
percent of GDP and about 80 percent of export earnings. Crop production
generates about 12 percent of GDP.
5.       Apart from the traditional export of livestock, commercial
agriculture is centered mainly on the production and export of bananas and
the production of sugar, sorghum, and maize for the domestic market.
Expansion of the manufacturing and service sectors is limited by the small
size of the domestic market, poor infrastructure, and shortages of capital
and entrepreneurial experience. The existence of several minerals has been
confirmed, but their exploration is still at an early stage.
6.       A number of foreign companies have been engaged in onshore and
offshore exploration of hydrocarbons but so far no commercially viable oil
prospects have emerged. Investigations for natural gas, under an IDA
credit, have proved disappointing. In the absence of other known resources,



-2-
Somalia's prospects depend upon agricultural and livestock development,
whose progress will depend upon careful management of the scarce land and
water resources, and improvements in anical health.
7.       Somalia is among the poorest countries in the world and is
classified by the United Nations as a least-developed country. Per capita
income was estimated at $260 in 1984. Other indicators of the country's
low level of social and economic development include: a crude death rate
estimated at 20 per thousand population (compared to a crude birth rate of
50 per thousand); an average life expectancy of only 45 years; an infant
mortality rate of approximately 142 per thousand live births; primary and
secondary enrollment ratios of 19 percent and 11 percent, respectively; and
the literacy rate is as low as about 10 percent.
Past Development Strategy and Performance
8.       Following its assumption of power in 1969, the Government adhered
to a program of 'scientific socialism" whose stated objectives were
egalitarianism and social justice, development through the public sector,
nationalization of certain foreign enterprises, and the format.. n of
cooperatives. Public ownership and management expanded both through
nationalizations and through the creation of new public enterprises. The
parastatal sector established in the 1970s included about 45 autonomous
agencies which eliminated private enterprise in wholesale trade and banking
and which dominated manufacturing.
9.       In the early 1970s Somalia made considerable progress in meeting
certain basic needs. A program of literacy and primary education had
notable results, and an effective system of food distribution was also
established. In other respects, however, the record in the social sectors
has been less impressive, particularly in water supply, sanitation and
health, where services have frequently been biased in favor of the urban
population. Moreover, there are indications that there has been a trend
towards increasing income differentiation within the rural sector.
10.      During the 1970s the Somali economy experienced stagnation in
production and a decline in per capita income. Only the services sector
grew during the period, by 3.5 percent per year, and the growth in
government services, at an annual rate of about 7 percent, was particularly
striking. Beginning in 1981, the economy witnessed a reversal of the past
trend, with real GDP in 1981-82 growing on average by 6.4 percent per year
notwithstanding some decline in the services sector.
11.      Over 100,000 Somalis have migrated to work in the Gulf area, which
has led to severe depletion of Somalia's already small number of qualified
and skilled manpower. The savings of these emigrants are potentially an
important resource for the economy, but despite major adjustments to the
exchange rate, only a small proportion of emigrants' savings is remitted,
largely through unofficial channels.
12.      Following a border conflict with Ethiopia in 1977178, there was a
great surge in Government expenditures which resulted in widened deficits
in both the budget and the balance of payments. During 1978-80, the
Government's financial situation deteriorated rapidly, mainly because of
the sizeable expansion in expenditures consequent upon the border conflict,
the cost of maintaining large numbers of refugees, and the wage bill



-3-
associated with the Government's policy of guaranteeing employment for
secondary school leavers. At the same time, official foreign aid declined.
This resulted in Government recourse to deficit financing. With further
deterioration in the budgetary situation in 1979 the Government's recourse
to the Central Bank rose to record levels (about 13 percent of GDP). This,
in turn, led to rapid inflation, from 10 percent in 1978 to 60 percent in
1980.
13.      Official data on Somalia's balance of payments are incomplete, but
it seems that the country had a reasonably comfortable overall balance of
payments position up to the beginning of 1979. The stagnation in exports
and surge in imports since 1979 resulted in a widening of both the current
and overall balance of payments deficits. The current account deficit
during 1980-83 averaged $290 million, as compared to $110 million in the
years 1977-78. Total international reserves, which rose steadily in the
1970s to $158 million in March 1979, dropped to $15 million at the end of
December 1980, and have since dwindled to nearly zero.
14.      The stagnation of export earnings and a near zero level of
domestic savings have rendered Somalia entirely dependent upon external
assistance for the financing of develor3ent. After joining the Arab League
in 1974, Somalia mounted a successful effort to attract funds from the Arab
petroleum exporting countries. After 1977, the sources of foreign
assistance shifted from the centrally planned economies (except for the
People's Republic of China, which maintains a large program) towards Arab
bilateral and multilateral institutions and OECD countries, several of
which have had substantial assistance programs for a number of years.
According to OECD data, Somalia's receipts of ODA during the period 1980-
1982 averaged nearly $400 million per year, equivalent to some $75 per
capita per year.
15.      Somalia's external debt burden has grown rapidly in recent years
and amounted to about $1.4 billion at end 1984. The structure and terms of
borrowing have also hardened. The debt service ratio in terms of
obligations rose from 7 percent in 1979 to nearly 50 percent in 1983 and is
projected at about 100 percent in 1986. The country also has accumulated
debt service arrears.   Despite the debt rescheduling at the Paris Club in
March 1985 for about $150 million, debt service arrears at end 1985
remained high and increased further by December, 1986.  IKF and World Bank
staff have encouraged the Government to seek further debt relief where
possible on concessional terms.
Policy Changes
16.     As the financial crisis deepened through 1978-1980, the Government
became convinced of the need to take remedial action and embarked on a
course of moving towards a more market-oriented economy. Beginning in early
1981, the Government successfully implemeuted two successive stabilization
programs supported by IMF Standby Arrangements. The measures taken under
these programs included adjustment of the exchange rate, fiscal and
monetary restraint, and significant liberalization of agricultural
marketing. Under the first Standby program, a dual exchange rate was
introduced, producer prices for agricultural crops were increased, and
banana growers received the full benefit of devaluation. This program also
involved a substantial reduction in Government recourse to the banking



-4-
system and increased interest rates.
17.      Following the completion of the 1981182 program, a new
stabilization program was adopted in mid-1982, supported by the IMF with an
SDR 60 million 18-month standby arrangement for the period July 1982-
December 1983. The dual exchange rate was unified on July 1, 1982, the
Somali shilling was again devalucd, interest rates were raised, and fiscal
and monetary expansion was restricted. In January 1983, a bonus scheme was
introduced providing for a premium of 25 percent in foreign exchange terms
of inward remittances and capital inflows by Somali nationals. In mid-
1983, a more flexible exchange rate system was introduced whereby the
Somali shilling was pegged to the SDR adjusted by the relative rates of
inflation between Somalia and the five countries in the SDR basket.
is.      The Government decided in 1983 to abandon its policy of guaranteed
employment to high school leavers. The Government is in the process of
determining which public enterprises should be phased out of operation,
which privatized, and which retained in the public sector.   Another step
to liberalize the economy was the de facto elimination of the Government
monopoly on grain purchases.
19.      The policy reforms introduced by the Government from 1981-83 had a
positive impact on the economy. Reductions were effected in the rate of
growth of the money supply, in Government recourse to the banking system,
and in the rate of inflation. There was also some increase in commodity
production and exports.   These measures represented the first stage in the
formulation and implementation of a policy agenda directed at restoring
financial equilibrium, rehabilitating and making fuller use of existing
agricultural and industrial productive capacity, and establishing the
foundations for long-term growth.
Z0.      In March 1983 the Government requested the Bank to organize a
first Consultative Group meeting for Somalia. It prepared a Medium Term
Recovery Program (MTRP) for the Consultative Group meeting, consisting of
(i) a program of phased policy measures aimed at restoring the balance of
payments and public finances and at rationalizing the pricing and incentive
structure; and (ii) a resource-constrained Public Investment Program (PIP)
for the period 1984-86. The formulation of this recovery program
represented a major accomplishment.
21.      The inaugural meeting of the Consultative Group for Somalia was
held in October 1983. Participants were encouraged by the remedial policy
measures taken by the Government. They welcomed in particular the
substantial adjustments made by the Government in the size and composition
of the investment program. These adjustments included postponing some new
projects pending results of new studies, rephasing the Implementation of
ongoing projects and introducing new high-priority schemes such as the
rehabilitation of irrigation in the Shebelli region. It was recognized at
the meeting that further financial aid to Somalia should be on highly
concessional terms and that Somalia should attempt to secure debt relief,
also on concessional terms.
22.      Following the Consultative Group Meeting, intensive discussions
between the Government and donors were held concerning follow-up action on
the development of the Juba Valley, including the proposed Bardhere Dam,



-5-
and agreement was reached with the Bank on terms'of reference and a
timetable for a study of interim water solutions, financed under the first
IDA Technical Assistance Credit. A USAID financed Civil Service Study has
been reviewed by the Government and arrangements for follow-up are being
made.
23.      Somalia's economic recovery suffered a major setback in 1984 owing
to a suspension of cattle imports into the traditional market, the impact
of the 1983 drought on domestic production, and the Government's decision
not to implement further policy reforms as identified under a draft EFF.
Consequently, the overall budget deficit rose sharply, public sector
borrowing from the banking system doubled in one year, and the inflation
rate reached a record 92 percent. Exports fell to 45 percent of the level
recorded in 1982 and debt service arrears increased to about US$190
million. At end 1984, Somalia's outstanding external debt was larger than
its GDP.
24.      Recognizing the seriousness of the situation, the Government
adopted a major adjustment program for 1985, supported by an I1F Stand-by
Arrangement, to restore financlial equilibrium and to lay the basis for
sustained economic growth. The Government made considerable progress in
further dismantling price controls, adopting more liberal marketing
policies, removing foreign trade restrictions, undertaking a major
devaluation of the official exchange rate, introducing a free-floating
exchange rate for most private transactions, providing export incentives
through increased acceptance of the free exchange market, and pursuing a
restrained monetary and fiscal policy. These measures, combined with
favorable weather conditions, led to substantial lncreases in the output of
all major crops and, with expansion of livestock and banana exports the
incrsase in production resulted in a 6.3 percent increase in real GDP in
1985, and a reduction in the inflation rate to about 37 percent.
25.      Despite these improvements, together with debt relief obtained
from the Paris Club and other creditors plus additional aid pledged at a
special donors' meeting in early 1985, the Stand-by Arrangement was
suspended in mid-year in consequence of arrears in Fund obligations and
non-compliance with some provisions of the Arrangement. Subsequent to the
clearance of the arrears to the Fund and the Government's agreement in late
1985 to implement further policy reforms, the 1985 Stand-by program was
extended through September 30, 1986. A Fund mission visited Somalia in
December 1986 to negotiate a new Stand-by Arrangement, but had only a very
limited success.
26.      An Integral element of Fund negotiations has been unification of
foreign exchange markets in Somalia. Since early 1985, Somalia has had a
complex exchange rate system which has already undergone some
simplification: a free market rate for most private foreign transactions
except for the export surrender requirement, an official rate for
Government transactions and for the export surrender requirement (currently
50 percent of export earnings), and a third rate that emerged from the
recently initiated auction system. The commercial rate, which applied to
tourist receipts, overseas travel, and some imports coming to Somalia under
aid-financed Commodity Imports Programs (CIPs), was merged with the
official rate in October 1986. The auction rate is increasingly being
utilized for the foreign assistance programs. Although the spread of these
rates has been substantially reduced, they are still large, and distort the



-6-
efficient allocation and use of scarCe foreign exchange resources, and
reduce incentives to repatriate foreign exchange earnings.
27.      Recognizing the harmful effects of the present exchange rate
system, the Government has expressed its committment to unify the exchange
markets at an appropriate exchange rate in 1987. The achievement of this
objective has been facilitated by the bimonthly foreign exchange auction
introduced since September 1986 under an IDA Credit for the Agricultural
Sector Adjustment Program (ASAP) and the continued devaluation of the
official rate by 4.0 shillings per month as agreed under the 1986 Fund
program. The appropriateness of the unified rate as well as the procedures
to maintain its flexibility will be a subject of negotiations between the
authorities and Fund mission, that is expected to conclude a Stand-by
Arrangement ana a Structural Adjustment Facility (SAF) in early March 1987.
A Paris Club meeting is expected to be convened soon thereafter. The next
Consultative Group meeting is scheduled for March 1987.
28.      In sum, Somalia has made notable overall progress in recent years
in terms of moving from the dirigiste, socialist economic regime of the
1970s to a much more liberal economic system in the mid-1980s. While the
implementation of stabilization and adjustment policies has been uneven and
interrupted, the incentive structure has been rationalized to a
considerable extent through trade liberalization, exchange rate reform, and
the dismantling of agricultural pricing and marketing controls. These
reforms have stimulated a recovery in production and exports, and the
growth of foodgrain production in particular has been remarkable. Unlike
in many other African countries, therefore, there has been some real albeit
modest growth in per capita income over the past five years.
29.      At the same time, however, Somalia's financial and external
Imbalances remain precarious, and in several important respects the process
of structural adjustment has hardly begun. The magnitude of the adjustment
effort which lies ahead is indicated by the facts that: export earnings are
still equivalent to only about a quarter of imports; the external current
account deficit exceeds 20 percent of GDP (as measured in terms of an
appropriate exchange rate); aggregate consumption exceeds GDP; external
debt arrears remain substantial, total debt exceeds GDP, the debt service
ratio (before rescheduling) exceeds 70 percent, 1 and on non-reachedulable
debt alone the debt service ratio is 40 percent; Government revenues are
equivalent to only 6-7 percent of GDP, equivalent to less than one-third of
total Government expenditures; public investment remains more than three
times larger than private investment; the existing paristatal sector
remains as a whole inefficient, unprofitable, and a drain on credit
allocations; and inflation, while lower than before, at the current rate of
35 percent, is still excessively high.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN SOMALIA
30.      Bank Group commitments to Somalia to date total US$302 million,
consisting of 31 IDA credits and two IFC investments. Fourteen projects
11 The numerator of the debt service ratio here defined as comprising
exports of goods and services plus private transfers.



-7-
aro under Implementation. Over thirty percent of total IDA lending has
been for agriculture, twenty five percent for transport and the rest about
equally divided over education, water supply, ports, energy, industry and
technical assistance. An agricultural inputs program and a livestock
health service project were approved In FY85. An IDA credit, supplemented
by the SFA and the SJF to total $62 million for agricultural sector
adjustment was approved in June 1986. In FY87, a Port. Modernization
project was approved. The IFC investments in Somalia are a US$375,000 loan
for a molasses terminal for the Juba Sugar Project and Sw. Fr. 1,550,000
for a polypropylene bag project.
31.      Physical progress in implementing development projects in Somalia
has been mixed. Some projects have suffered from over-ambitious design,
and co-financing arrangements have caused some difficulties. Progress of
the North West Region Agricultural Development Project - Phase I has been
good and the main production targets estimated at appraisal have been met
or exceeded. Projects for roads, ports, water and education have been more
successful than in the agricultural sector. Some IDA-financed projects
have experienced delays in execution. Staffing and management problems
have impeded effective preparation and implementation of projects.
32.      Somalia's disbursements performance on projects assisted by the
Bank Group has been good. The FY86 disbursement rate was 47.1 percent, as
compared to 27.8 percent for Eastern and Southern Africa and 25.0 percent
Bank/IDA-wide.
IDA StrateRY
33.      We propose to continue to assist the Government to devise and
implement policies and programs to improve the efficiency of both the
public and private sectors, to improve the macroeconomic framework for
domestic and external resource mobilization and allocation, improve pricing
administration and marketing systems, and to increase production and
exports. We aim to support further use of existing capacity and to help
lay the foundations for longer term growth. Issues in public enterprise
reform are expected to become an increasingly important component of our
policy dialogue, and we intend to support Government in its stated policy
of disposing of unviable public enterprises, and in stimulating the private
sector.
34.      We are giving particular attention to aid coordination and
management issues, and have undertaken an assessment of technical
assistance to Somalia jointly with the UNDP. An energy assessment has been
completed, as has a review of population, health and nutrition issues. A
collaborative review with the Government and donors of major issues in the
agricultural sector has been made with support from an SPPF. We are
cooperating with the Government in the preparation and review of
periodically updated public investment and expenditure programs at both the
global and, increasingly, at the sector level. The Advisory Committee for
Juba Valley Development established by the Consultative Group at its
October 1983 meeting provides an important forum for review and
collaboration on issues affecting the development of Somalia's major water
resource.
35.      In IDA's lending work, it is planned to emphasize productive



-8-
investments and rehabilitation programs. An irrigation rehabilitation
project is being prepared to help increase productivity and farmer incomes
in the Shobmlli Valley. Most projects have been cofinanced with a number
of other donors, and this is expected to continue in the future. For
example, an IDA comuodity import program was cofinanced by a grant from the
Federal Republic of Germany and Japan, and IDA administers additional
commodAty assistance on behalf of Italy. The economic and sector work
program strives to support the macroeconomic reform process and to provide
analytical inputs for the work of the Consultatije Group for Somalia.
Relationship to Other Aid Flows
36.      IDA disbursements represent about eight percent of total aid flows
to Somalia. We expect that this relationship will continue at about the
same level during the next several years. IDA coligations represent about
11 percent of Somalia's total outstanding and disbursed debt up to December
31, 1985. Debt service payments to IDA represent a very small proportion
of Somalia's total debt service obligations. In 1984, payments to IDA were
estimated at only about one percent of total debt service payments for that
year. This trend is expected to continue in the future.
PART III - ISSUES AND STRATEGIES IN THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
37.      A major factor in sector performance and future possibilities in
agriculture in Somalia is the arid to semi-arid climate. Rain falls mostly
in the Guu (mid April-June) and Der (October-December) seasons. This
bimodal pattern means that rainfed crop production is risky and has a high
variability. Droughts occur regularly and the past average is three
seasons out of eight. In this harsh environment the choice of dryland
production technology and the availability of irrigation become important.
At present crop production takes place on no more than 1 million hectares
(1.1 percent of the area suitable for cultivation). Some 50-100,000
hectares along the Shebelli river and to a lesser extent the Juba river
benefit from largely seasonal, flood irrigation with low water use
efficiency (20-25 percent).
38.      Nomadic livestock grazing on an estimated 44 million hectares of
rangelands is the traditional occupation of most Somalis. It is the
logical adaptation to the dry and variable environment and is the dominant
activity in the sector and in the economy. Some 4 million cattle, 6
million camels, 18 million goats and 12 million sheep are maintained.
Performance of the Agricultural Sector
39.      The agricultural sector (including crops, livestock, forestry and
fishing) has, on average, contributed about 57 percent of total GDP during
the period 1970-85, with livestock accounting for about 39 percent in 1985,
crop production 12 percent, forestry 5 percent and fisheries 1 percent.
Crop production has therefore played a modest but significant role in the
past, and fisheries has been less important.
40.      Livestock dominates the economy, but income from animals is
heavily dependent on the quality and carrying capacity of the natural
range. There are some indications from ongoing research work, however,
that the rangelands are at or near their limit of carrying capacity.



-9-
Although livestock will continue to be significant contributors to GDP, the
limited natural resource base will probably constrain the growth of
livestock production to around 2-3 percent per annum.
41.      Crop production, after many years of stagnation, increased rapidly
ln the early 1980's following deregulation of the grain market. However,
the growth was not sufficient to recoup the declines in per capita food
production experienced in the 1970s. The years of stagnation resulted in
increasing cereal imports which peakea to about 400,000 tons In 1981.
About half of this volume was food aid.  Since that time dependence on
external cereal supply has declined to an average of about 325,000 tons in
recent years, but food aid has become dominant, accounting for as much as
90 percent of grain imports in 1985, namely about 280,000 tons.
42.      An important underlying factor leading to increase in area
harvested for maize and sorghum was that in 1981, there was a de facto
introduction of a free market for all grains. Decontrol of the market
reversed the deteriorating incentives for producing a marketable surplus.
Prices paid to producers by the Government grain purchasing monopoly had
been falling significantly in real terms during the 1970's; the rise after
decontrol had a substantial impact. Statistical analysis confirms that
production increases for maize and sorghum can be explained in part by the
previous year's average price received by farmers.
43.      The preliminary evidence of the impact of GOS price policy on
agrlcultural production is important because about 80 percent of employment
in the economy is in the agricultural sector. While about 60 percent of
these people are employed in the livestock sector, grain production is
growing rapidly in importance. Primary commodities account for most
merchandise exports. Livestock and their product3 (e.g. hides and skins)
account for about 90 percent of exports in most years, bananas about 6-7
percent and fish, frankincense and myrrh the remainder.
Policy Issues in the Agricultural Sector
44.      IDA has maintained an active dialogue with the GOS on agricultural
policy issues.   This was intensified in the course of the preparation and
implementation of the Agricultural Inputs Program (AIP I, Cr. 1612-SO).
The primary conditionality under that progran was jointly to review policy
issues in the agricultural sector. The Government and major donor agencies
provided staff and funding assistance. This process began in April 1985.
Five major task force groups, each chaired jointly by a Somali official and
an international expert, reported extensively on all major aspects of
agriculture, including livestock ard fisheries in September of 1985.
Subsequently, high level preliminary reviews were held. The work of these
task forces was consolidated into an Agricultural Sector Survey, which
examined the main issues in the sector and suggested strategies for
addressing those issues. A joint meeting of the GOS, IDA and other donors
in Mogadishu in March 1986 reached agreement on the most important policy
issues and strategies.
Price Policy and Markating
45.      Price policy and marketing of agricultural products in Somalia
have Improved significantly. Eliminating the Government monopoly on grain



- 10 -
marketing (achievei legally in 1984) was a major advance. At present the
Agricultural Development Corporation (ADC) operates as a buyer of last
resort in the market for coarse grains, whereas in earlier days, farmers
were legally required to sell all production to ADC. The main problem
facing farmers now is not market control, but considerable fluctuations in
domestic market prices. The coefficient of variation for maize prices
during the years 1977 to 1985 was about 30 percent. The variability has
been largely due to the production peaks and intermittent, uncoordinated
additions of food aid on to the market.
46.      In future the nature and extent of the Government's role in grain
marketing needs to be defined clearly. The objective of any intervention
should be to limit domestic price fluctuations broadly within a band
defined at the lower limit by the export parity price and at the upper
limit by the import parity price. The policy should ensure that incentives
for private sector grain marketing and storage functions are not
detrimentally affected by intervention, while at the same time ensuring
that the food security of low income groups is not jeopardized because of
sharp increases in the prices of staple grains. Changes in ADC operations
and policies are being addressed in the Bank assisted Agricultural Sector
Adjustment Program (Cr. 1711-SO and A-20-SO).
47.      Food aid accounted for about 90 percent of grain imports in 1985.
Total grain imports accounted for about 45 percent of total grain supplies
to Somali consumers. While domestic grain production is increasing
rapidly, food aid is still expected to play an important role in the grain
market in the foreseeable future. In 1985 about half of all food aid went
to refugees. The rerainder was distributed in two ways. About half of it
was sold in the local market for domestic currency which was then
transferred into a special account used to supplement GOS budget resources.
The GOS institutions involved in those sales are the National Commercial
Agency (ENC) and the ADC. The other half was distributed to Government
agencies (e.g. the army, jails, GOS ministries and food processors) for the
feeding of employees and others.
48.      There are two major problems with the present food aid management
system. First, the sales of food grain and flour aid can, and often have
taken place at prices well below the prevailing market prices. These sales
have consequently created severe distortions in the local grain market.
While the effect has been to provide urban consumers with unexpectedly low
priced grain, the impact on producers' expectations about market prices and
on traders holding stocks has been devastating. The GOS has agreed as a
condition of the Agricultural Sector Adjustment Program (ASAP) that all
food aid in the form of grain and flour introduced into the market should
be sold at prices determined in a properly constituted food aid auction
with a floor price set at import parity using the market exchange rate.
49.      The second problem is that distribution of food aid to Government
institutions has been at prices below the market price, resulting in
further distortions when this food is resold (processed and unprocessed) at
correspondingly .ow prices. The GOS has agreed, again as part of ASAP,
that any food grain and flour aid transferred to GOS institutions and
agencies should be transferred at prices no less than prices determined at
the most recent food aid asction.



- 11 -
Public Investment and Public Enterprises
50.      Public investment programs in agriculture in Somalia have often
exceeded implementation capacity, included projects of low priority, lacked
realism about the availability of domestic and foreign resources and have
been supported by inadequate cost recovery performance. In the short tern,
public investment strategies can be improved on several fronts: first, by
ensuring that the institutional mechanisms for policy analysis and the
choice of investments are strengthened to improve the efficiency of public
investment programs; second, by ensuring that recurrent costs are provided
for through equitable and efficient cost recovery; and third, by Improving
operational efficiency of those public sector enterprises which should be
retained. Finally, the appropriate institutional arrangements and
organization for policy and investment planning in agriculture require
action. Part of that action is improvement in the statistical base
available to the Ministry of National Planning.
51.      A difficult longer term strategic question for investment in the
agricultural sector is the appropriate balance of future investment between
subsectors. For the livestock subsector it is clear, however, that future
investments will need to improve productivity on existing rangelands while
at the same time ensuring that there is not irreversible destruction of
natural resources. Choosing between rainfed and irrigated crop subsectors
is more controversial. On the one hand relatively simple low cost, but
admittedly risk prone, technologies introduced recently for rainfed
agriculture show considerable potential. On the other hand, traditional
irrigation in this drought prone region can yield considerable economic
benefits. This project continues the efforts directed at consolidating the
advances already made in rainfed farming.
Rural Finance
52.      The formal rural finance system is dominated by the Government.
Two institutions are involved: the Somali Development Bank (SDB) for
medium-term (2-6 years) lending, and the Commercial and Savings Bank (CSBS)
for short-term (10-12 months) lending. There is virtually no long ternm (7-
20 years) lending. The SDB has a centralized organization whereas the CSBS
has branches in most major towns. The most important issues in rural
finance in Somalia are first, the need to improve the institutions
responsible for credit; second, to stimulate savings; and finally, to
achieve positive interest rates for lending.
53.      At present there are many shortcomings in the CSBS and the SDB
related mainly to their limited capacity to evaluate loan proposals
adequately, monitor use of funds, and recover repayments. IDA has provided
assistance to the SDB to strengthen the work of that institution. The
results, however, fell short of expectations and the OED audit report was
critical of the project's performance. One of the subsequent developments
has been an increase in technical assistance to the SDB and the CSBS
through various studies and advisors (mainly financed by the Federal
Republic of Germany). Consideration is being given by the GOS to the
establishment of a private commercial bank in Somalia. Such a development
would provide increased competition in financial markets and offer an
alternative source of credit. It could also result in a major improvement
in the level of savings because to a large extent the low savings rate in



- 12 -
Somalia has probably been due to low deposit interest rates.
54.      While substantial progress has been made recently in aligning
interest rates charged to agricultural borrowers with the rate of
inflation, real interest rates are still negative on the basis of current
inflation rates (about 34 percent). Rates for small farmers are 15
percent. By comparison, when demand management policies are in place, the
inflation rate in Somalia is projected to be about 20 percent. Experience
In many countries has shown that subsidized interest rates for agriculture
have generally not had long run beneficial effects on production and income
and have mainly benefitted the larger farmers. The GOS recognizes the need
to move towards positive interest rates in the economy and has agreed to
continue its adjustment of lending rates such that they will become
positive in real terms.
Input Supply
55.      The GOS has reduced considerably the centralized control over the
marketing of agricultural inputs. The private sector has subsequently
increased substantially its role in the marketing of these inputs. Farmers
have also shown a keen and increasing interest in using private facilities.
Research and Extension
56.      Agricultural research in Somalia has lagged behind improvements in
the agricultural extension service. In the short term research strategy in
Somalia should be directed to adapting existing technologies to make
maximum use of existing capacity for food crops production and improving
water ma-ngesent in irrigation areas. The longer term strategy should
include the building of appropriate institutional arrangements, mAnpower
development, and the formulation of a balanced program of livestock, food
crop and cash crop and farming system research. Extension programs should
reinforce progress made already with an emphasis on Irrigated areas and,
over time should broaden support to rainfed areas while reducing extension
delivery costs for the whole program.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
57.      The proposed project was appraised in June 1986 and the Staff
Appraisal Report No. 6494-SO dated March 2, 1987 is being circulated
separately. Supplementary project data is attached in Annex III.
Negotiations were held in Washington from February 9-12, 1987. The Somali
delegation was led by Mr. Mohamoud AbdI Nur (Vice Minister of Agriculture).
Description and Obiectives
58.      This project is a continuation of the pilot field trials started
at Kurtun Waarey and Sablaale in 1981 to develop an improved rainfed
agricultural technology for Somalia's semi-arid zones. Overall, the
project Alms to put in place a technical and organizational system, as part
of a larger strategy which includes irrigation, livestock, health and range
development projects. The project would (i) refine and improve semi-
mechanized rainfed (SIR) technology in Somalia through onsite adaptive
trials; (ii) study the institutional structure for semi-mechanized farming
activities and propose a self sustaining model for expansion of rainfed



- 13 -
farming; (iii) transfer skills to Somalia to manage the enterprises and to
Somali farmers to use SKR farming technology through training and extension
activities; and (iv) within the narrow limits of the pilot area increase
smallholder crop and livestock production and incomes for 400 smallholder
families.
Project Rationale
59.      The Somali economy is dominated by the agriculture sector.
Although the country possesses an abundance of land relative to its small
population, the low and variable rainfall places considerable constraints
on both livestock and crop production, and new technologies are necessary
if Somalia is to expand agricultural output. The promising results of the
earlier semi-mechanized rainfed field trials have enabled the expansion of
crop production into previously uncropped areas. The farming system
introduced has resulted in a five fold average yield increase. However,
the system needs further refinement and adapting to specific Somali
conditions particularly as regards those which would further increase and
stabilize crop yields and determine the most suitable crop rotations. The
proposed technology has the potential to be a model for similar schemes
elsewhere in the country, and is therefore consistent with the Bank's
strategy of accelerating Somalia's productive output in the context of a
liberalized production and trading system.
Detailed Project Description
Central Services (US$3.1 million)
60.      To manage project implementation, a Project Implementation Unit
(PIU) would be foamed reporting to the General Manager, SDA. The PIU would
initially operate from SDA's offices in Mogadishu, but move to the field on
completion of houses, a machinery compound, office and storeroom at both
Kurtun Waarey and Sablaale. Vehicles, equipment, staff including an
internationally recruited Deputy Project Director, Financial Controller,
and Agricultural Engineer and operating costs would also be provided. The
PIU would expand as FMUs begin operating. Hence additional houses for
senior staff in the field, an officelstoreroom, water supply facilities,
seed ard chemical stores, vehicles, equipment, and staff-and operating
costs would be provided.
Farm Development (US$1.8 million)
61.      Farm development consists of land clearing for cultivated areas
and bush strips, construction of flood protection bunds, road construction
for internal accessibility, nursery establishment for bush strips and
construction of facilities at each FMU, such as buildings and water supply.
The project would provide buildings, bulldozers and necessary equipment for
land clearing, inputs for reforestation and staff and other operating
costs.
Farm Management Units (US$2.8 million)
62.      At the field level, there would be 6 FMUs (2 existing and 4 new
units) of 1,200 hectares each, consisting of 780 hectares of cultivated
area and 420 ha of bush strips. Each PMU would consist of 100 farnm



- 14 -
families, and would be serviced by 3 four wheel drive tractors and related
agricultural and other equipment and a pick up vehicle. Staff, consisting
of a farm manager, a mechanic, tractor drivers, laborerslwatchmen, farm
inputs, vehicles, machinery, equipment operating costs and other
miscellaneous operating costs would be provided by the project.
Training (US$0.4 million)
63.      Farm managers for the proposed 6 FMUs under the project and for 6
FMUs proposed under the second phase project, together with PIU senior
management, would receive training provided by the project.
Studies and Environmental Measures (US$0.6 million)
64.      The project would provide for aerial photography, soil, livestock
and environmental impact studies, and subsequent project preparation if the
mid-term review indicate the feasibility of developing a second phase
project.  It would also finance the implementation of mitigatory measures
to be recommended in the environmental study. Assurances were obtained
from the Government at negotiations that the study's recommendations would
be submitted to IDA for comments not later than December 31, 1990.
Monitoring and Evaluation (US$0.3 million)
65.      The project would strengthen the Planning and Statistics
Department of the MOA by providing accommodation for enumerators, vehicles,
equipment, staff, operating costs and a specialist who would be recruited
internationally in project year 1 who would spend one to two months each
year assisting in baseline studies and subsequent evaluation of project
activities and beneficiaries. Project monitoring would be carried out by
the PIU.
Farmer Assistance (US$0.3 million)
66.      The project would provide commodity aid to farmers under the World
Food Programmes (WFP's) Food for Work project in Somalia. The aid would
provide food for newly settled farmers (I) for 18 months on a full ration
basis during their first two harvests before the bare fallow system would
be able to effectively conserve moisture; and (ii) for 24 months on a
quarter ration basis as an incentive to prevent livestock grazing on the
newly established saplings.
Adaptive Research (USS1.5 million)
67.      The project would strengthen adaptive research to refine SMR
farming technology by providing an office/laboratory, houses, small seed
and chemical stores, water supply facilities, vehicles, machinery and
equipment, staff and operating costs and an internationally recruited
agronomist. The adaptive research work would be conducted under the
technical direction of the Central Agricultural Research Station (CARS) at
Afgoi, for which a Research Coordinator would be appointed and provided for
under the project.



- 15 -
Extension (US$0.1 million)
68.      The Agricultural Farm Management and Extension Training unit
(APHET) would be responsible for the technical direction of extension in
crop husbandry and management. To facilitate implementation, the project
would rehabilitate one classroom each at Kurtun Waarey and Sablaale, and
build six low cost, local design settlement meeting centers (one at each
FMK), and four houses for extension staff, as well as provide vehicles,
equipment, staff and operating costs.
Project Implementation
Human Settlements
69.      General.  The project would involve the settlement of 400 farm
households in addition to the 200 families in the existing pilot project,
and about 60 support staff and their families in the project area. Also, a
considerable number of people providing social and commercial services
would settle in the area. The total population in the project area would
probably reach 800 households or about 5,000 people when the project is
complete.
70.      Settlement Strategy.  Farming operations would be organized in
FHLs of 1,200 hectares and 100 settlers each with holdings of just over 7
hectares of arable land and nearly 5 hectares of bush strips. Each FMU
would have 7 staff providing appropriate mechanization and other farm
services. An area of 30 hectares has been allowed for the settlement area
of each farm unit. Important considerations in choosing the sites for
settlements would be providing easy access for settlers to their farming
areas which should be less than 2 km from their houses, the availability of
water and avoiding clay soils which provide poor foundations for local
buildings.
71.      Settler Selection.  To contribute as much as possible to the
social objectives of the Government, displaced nomadic pastoralists in the
existing settlement areas would be eligible for selection to join the
project. The Government, as part of its policy to reduce the number of
civil servants, also wishes to provide opportunities for them to become
farmers. Finally, other landless residents in and around the project area
have indicated their interest in joining the project, with several hundred
people having already formally registered their interest. Settler
selection would be carried out by a Settler Selection Committee set up in
the PIU at the commencement of project implementation.  Agreement was
obtained at negotiations that the committee would be formed with terms of
reference and settler selection criteria acceptable u.o IDA.
Settlement Development Agency (SDA)
72.      Overall responsibility for project implementation would rest with
SDA, a semi-autonomous agency of MOA. A PIU reporting to the General
Manager, SDA, would be set up and would be primarily involved in carrying
out the actions necessary to implement the proposed project.



- 16 -
Project Implementation Unit (PIU)
73.      The day-to-day project implementation would be handled by the PIU
which would prepare reports on the project, organize the project budget,
carry out project procurement and hiring, acquire land required for the
project, select settlers, supervise settlement, arrange land clearing, and
coordinate the activities of other GOS agencies in project implementation.
PIU would provide mechanization and other services to settler farmers, and
make proposals for the type of self-sustaining organization to be
introduced either later under this project or the second phase project
through a Future Organization Structure Committee. Assurances were
obtained at negotiations that the terms of reference for the Committee
would be satisfactory to IDA and that it would submit its proposals for
midterm review. Its operations under the project ould be financed by
allocations from GOS and charges collected from settlers. Given the
experimental nature of the project, the need to refine the technology, and
the small number of FMUs, the-costs of common services provided by PIU
would be financed as a grant from Government during the life of the
project, but cost recovery of the operating and capital costs of each FMU
would be in effect (para. 87). The PIU would be headed by a Project
Director who would be supported by a Deputy and include a Financial
Controller, an Agricultural Engineer, a Deputy Financial Controller, a Land
Clearing Specialist, and a Surveyor, a Workshop Manager, 6 FMU Managers and
a Senior Agronomist. The PIU would also work with CARS in carrying out the
adaptive research program and with AFHET in the extension work.
Settler Organization
74.      Settler Committees have been formed on the existing pilot farms
and, although not legally constituted, operate satisfactorily. Similar
committees for each new FMU would be set up under the project. They would
consist of ten elected members who would meet regularly with the FMU
Manager. They would be responsible for disseminating extension and other
information from PIU management, and for collecting production charges from
settlers.
Land Tenure and Leases
75.      Settlers will need secure land tenure.  Initially this would
require an official designation by GOS that identified project land (IBRD
Map No. 20003) would be specifically for development and use by the project
which would be a condition of Credit effectiveness. The most suitable form
of tenure for the project would be a 50 year renewable leasehold of project
land in the name of SDA with settlers given sub-leases of twelve hectares
of land subject to their adherence to agreed conditions. Assurances were
obtained from Government at negotiations that project land would be passed
on to SDA In the form of a standard lease by January 1, 1988, and that land
would then be passed on to settlers as sub-leases in a manner satisfactory
to IDA.
Adaptive Research
76.      The project would provide facilities for adaptive research on
about 60 hectares of land each at Kurtun Waarey and Sablaale to be carried



- 17 -
out by CARS under the technical direction of a Research Coordinator.
Agreement was obtained from Government at negotiations that the Research
Coordinator and an internationally recruited Senior Agronomist would be
appointed by January 1, 1988. CARS would also second two research
agriculturalists and two recorders. It would be essential that adaptive
research staff liaise with international research centers, especially
ICRISAT and IITA. Funds would be provided for farmi to collect seed, to
establish scientific links and to encourage international research
scientists to take an active role in the adaptive research program.
Finally, in order to ensure that research is directed to the needs of
farmers, a Research and Extension Committee would be formed and chaired by
the Director, PIU. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that this
Committee would be formed under the chairmanship of the Director of PIU and
would formulate a long term research program by July 1, 1988.
Reforestation
77.      Management of bush strips as an integral part of SMR farming
systems is important since it provides shelter belts against wind, thereby
reducing evaporation and wind erosion, and minimizes disruption of
ecological balance in the settled area.
Livestock
78.      Project support would consist of providing settlement areas with
adequate water and providing holding areas to prevent land degradation.
Stock are herded out of the tsetse belt during the rains, but nomadic herds
and settler stock reenter the area in the tsetse free dry season. Acacia
thorn bushes cleared from the cropped strips would be used to fence the
seedlings. Later as settlers become more aware of the value of their
windbreaks, they would be encouraged to cut and carry fodder rather than
allow indiscriminate browsing.
Staff Development and Training
79.      Training programs would cover:  (i) senior management courses in
administration for PIU executives; (ii) management courses to prepare
experienced FMU managers to fill more senior management positions; (iii) a
land clearing study tour; (iv) workshops for the mechanics in PIU to study
modern methods of machinery maintenance and workshop management; (v)
training in dryland farming research; (vi) basic training for more farm
managers; and (vii) short courses in areas such as farm economics,
extension, and monitoring and evaluation.  In addition to these formal
training components, training would be a major part of the responsibilities
of technical assistance personnel.
Extension
80.      Under the ongoing IDA-assisted AFMET project (Cr. 905-SO), Lower
Shebelli,Middle Shebelli and Bay Regions are covered by the T&V system of
extension. AFMET has so far been providing extension services to farmers
who have been practicing settled farming for many years, and the T&V system
of extension has proved to be effective in this situation. However, in the
project areas, most settlers will be new to settled farming. The TfV
approach would have to be supplemented with institutional training to



- 18 -
farmers. To carry this out, a coordinator from AFMET would be appointed to
provide technical direction and coordination and to place two field
extension agents (FEAs) each in Kurtun Waarey and Sablsale. Assurances
were obtained during negotiations that existing classroom facilities at
Kurtun Waarey and Sablaale would be made available by the Ministry of
Education and that the above arrangements would be put In place.
Annual Work Programs
81.      An AWP would be required prior to the start of each fiscal year,
which would enable SDA and MOA to monitor progress, scrutinize forthcoming
programs and provide the necessary budgetary and other support needed for
the project. The AWP covering the ensuing fiscal year beginning January 1,
would be prepared by PIU, submitted to SDA by October 1 each year and to
IDA by November 1 each year for acceptance. Assurances to this effect were
obtained at negotiations. The initial work program would be prepared
within two months of Credit signing.
The Semi-Mechanized Rainfed FarminR System
82.      The SMR farmilg system works in semi arid areas of the world where
rainfall and soils are similar to those found in the project area.. To
ensure the success of the system, assurances were obtained at negotiations
that only nonsaline soils suitable for rainfed farming would be developed
for crop production. In addition, the design and layout of the farms and
the proposed farming systems would be reviewed by IDA as part of the review
of AWPs.
Crop Rotations
83.      Various combinations of crops and short and long bare fallows have
been tested under practical SMR farming conditions since the pilot project
began in 1981. The system which has given the most consistent results
involves four crops -- maize and cowpeas or sunflower grown in the guu
season, and cowpeas and safflower grown in the der season. Each crop is
preceded by two bare fallru seasons, which should be adequate even in poor
rainfall years to fill the soil reservoir. The full rotation is 6 years,
so that pest build up is minimized. Maize follows at least one and often
two seasons of cowpeas and thus benefits from nitrogen fixation by the
legume. No fertilizers have been used in the project area to date.
Project Cost Estimates and Financing
84.      Total cost of the project is estimated at US$15.0 million
equivalent, of which US$11.9 million, or 79 percent, is foreign exchange
costs, and US$3.1 million, or 21 percent, is local costs. No duties and
taxes have been included since Government investments are free of duties
and taxes. Of the total project cost, US$6.1 million consists of
investment costs while US$B.9 million consists of recurrent costs. Cost
estimates are based on January 1987 prices and reflect recent quotations
and appraisal estimates. Physical contingencies of 15 percent have been
applied to all civil works and of 10 percent to all other project
components. Price contingencies amount to US$2.9 million or 26 percent of
base costs plus physical contingencies. The proposed IDA Credit of US$13.4
million equivalent would finance US$11.8 million equivalent of foreign



- 19 -
exchange costs and about US$1.6 million equivalent of local costs or 89
percent of total project costs. The World Food Programme (WFP) would
finance US$O.1 million equivalent of foreign exchange cost. The Government
would provide US$1.5 million equivalent of local costs.
85.      In order to maintain the momentum of activities from the existing
pilot project, a PPF of US$1.3 million has been approved to cover the cost
of: (i) facilities, vehicles, equipment, initial staffing including
technical assistance and other operating costs of the PIU (US$644,000);
(ii) purchase of machinery and equipment for land clearing, flood bund and
road construction, and inputs for reforestation (US$755,000); and (iii) a
study tour for the land clesring officer (US$12,000). The PPF would be
refinanced out of the proceeds of the proposed IDA credit.
86.      Under cofinancing arrangements WFP would provide commodity aid
under its Food for Work Project. However, this project is scheduled to
close on December 31, 1989. Although likely, WFP can give no official
assurance that commodity aid would be financed by them in 1990 and 1991.
Consequently IDA and GOS would cofinance the two later years.
Cost Recovery
87.      Cost recovery in local currency equivalent would begin in 1988
following project start-up and the harvesting of crops from the existing 2
FMUs. For these two FMUs cost recovery would consist of full operating
costs and also their capital cost bearing in mind that the latter would be
recovered over ten years with a two year period of grace and an interest
rate of not less than 15Z. For the new FMUs cost recovery would commence
at the end of the first year of harvest, and would cover the sme costs as
the existing FMUs with the exception that only 252 would be recovered
initially, followed by 50Z by the next year, 75% at the end of the third
year and 100% from the fourth year of harvest and thereafter. Cost
recovery of the new FMUs would commence in 1990 whilst 100X cost recovery
for all the FMUs would commence in 1994. Agreement to the above
arrangement was reached with Government during negotiations.
Reporting and Monitoring
88.      Accounting systems would be established, and regular reporting and
annual budgets and financial statemeats would be prepared under the
project. In addition, the PIU would prepare a project completion report no
later than six months after the completion of the project. Project
components would be monitored by PIU and the information would be made
available as and when necessary. Annual as well as quarterly progress
reports would be prepared and submitted to SDA and copied to IDA.
Assurances to this effect were obtained at negotiations.
Procurement and Disbursement
89.      Items to be financed by IDA would be procured in accordance with
IDA guidelines. Contracts for civil works, totalling US$1.3 million, would
be grouped into packages to cost the equivalent of $0.1 million or more
each for International Competitive Bidding (ICB). Erected windmills and
accompanying jackpumps for the water supply sites, totalling US$0.2
million, would be also procured under ICB. Civil works would qualify for a



- 20 -
7.5 percent domestic preference under ICB. Classroom rehabilitation and
settlement meeting centers and the remaining works at the water supply
sites, totalling US$0.3 million, would be let under Local Competitive
Bidding (LCB) procedures which were reviewed during appraisal and found to
be adequate. Land clearing and road building works would be carried out by
a unit specially created for the task because of the otherwise excessive
cost of using foreign or local contractors. Vehicles, machinery and
equipment including spares totalling US$2.4 million would be grouped into
procurement packages and procured under ICB. For fuel and lubricants and
farm inputs totalling US$2.0 million and services for aerial photography,
Limited International Bidding (LIB) procedures would be used. For
purchases of :pare parts totalling US$1.1 million, negotiated contracts
with manufacturers or authorized dealers would be concluded. For other
goods costing under US$20,000 per item and totalling no more than
US$200,000 local shopping or purchasing off-the-shelf after obtaining at
least three quotatious would be used. Detailed procurement arrangements
are shown in Annex IV. All bidding packages for works and goods estimated
to cost over US$0.25 million equivalent would be made subject to prior IDA
review of procurement documentation. This would result in a coverage of
about 80 percent of the total estimated value of the contracts. Consultant
services would be procured according to IDA guidelines. Overseas training
would be subject to IDA approval. Assurances were obtained at negotiations
that the procurement procedures described would be observed.
90.      The proceeds of the Credit would be disbursed over nine years in
line with Somalia's disbursement profile against the following categories
of expenditure: (a) civil works -- 100 percent of foreign and 90 percent
of local expenditures; (b) vehicles, machinery and equipment - 100 percent
of foreign and 90 percent of local expenditures; (c) technical assistance,
training, studies and farmers assistance - 100 percent; (d) operating cost
of vehicle, machinery and equipment, farm inputs, and supplies and
maintenance costs - 100 percent of foreign and 90 percent of local
expenditures; and (e) salaries - 90 percent. Disbursements under the
project are expected to be completed by June 30, 1996. Disbursements would
be fully documented; for disbursement against force account, salaries,
assistance to farmers, purchase orders and operating costs of less than
$20,000 equivalent, certified statements of expenditures (SOEs) would be
used. To ensure availability of funds, a foreign exchange special account
totalling US$0.4 million (corresponding to about three months' expenditure)
would be established. All disbursements from the account would be
authorized by the Director and Deputy Director, PIU.
Government Contributions
91.      In order to ensure that Government contributions to project costs
are available when needed, the Government would establish a bank account
with the Central Bank of Somalia into which it would deposit its share of
project costs at the beginning of each quarter. The initial amounts to be
deposited, corresponding to about three months' project expenditures, would
be So.Sh. 5 million. Establishment of this account and the deposit of
So.Sh. 5 million by GOS would be a condition of Credit effectiveness.
Accounts and Audit
92.      PIU would maintain its accounting system in accordance with sound



- 21 -
and generally recognized accounting principles and practices acceptable to
the Association. In order to assist in this, the project would provide an
internationally recruited Financial Controller from the inception. Project
accounts as well as SOEs for the various components would be maintained by
the implementing agencies.
93.      Balance sheets, income statements and statement of sources and
applications of funds (financial statements), and a receipts and payments
account (project account) would be prepared following the close of each
fiscal year.  Accounts audited by an independent auditor satisfactory to
IDA would be sent to IDA initially within nine months of the close of the
fiscal year. This would be reduced to six months from the fiscal year
ending December 31, 198S.  Assurances were obtained during negotiations on
the above points.
Evaluation and Mid-Term Review
94.      Overall project evaluation would be carried out by MOA's Planning
and Statistics Department. The Department would initially carry out a
baseline study on the project's intended beneficiaries, and would
subsequently build up a system to gather information on the variables
affecting farmers' incomes. The Department would also carry out studies on
alternative farming systems around the project area for comparison with
results obtained under the project. A project mid-term review would be
conducted jointly by Government and IDA no later than December 31, 1991, or
at such other time as may be mutually agreed between IDA and GOS.
Assurances to this effect were obtained from Government during
negotiations.
Environmental Impact
95.      The project has been designed to minimize the effects of land
clearing on the environment. Forty percent of the area would be left in
bush strips which would be aligned as shelter belts to prevent soil
erosion. Trees would be planted within the bush strips to increase cover
and to produce fuelwood and fodder. Protection of the bush strips as part
of the farming system would be emphasized in settler training programs. An
environmental reconnaissance mission concluded that the project area now
has limited conservation value. But to prevent possible further
degradation of the area, the project would provide funds for an
environmental study and the implementation of mitigatory measures.
Benefits
96.      The immediate benefits accruing from the project would include:
(a) provision of a settled livelihood and increased income for 400 landless
families; (b) generation of incremental employment amounting annually to
135,000 man days of family farm labor, and 32 aman yeare of unskilled labor
for project services each year at full developmenct; and (c) increased
production of maize, sunflower and safflower, animal feed (oilseed cake),
and livestock production (cattle, poultry, goats). The project would also
produce future medium and long term benefits as a result of the adaptive
research program. These benefits, unquantifiable at this stage, are likely
to include improved productivity as a result of the introduction of new
crop rotations or higher yielding varieties/cultivars, and increased
efficiency or cost reduction in machinery use and crop storage. The



- 22 -
benefits from the adaptive research program would extend to areas well
beyond the project area, resulting in the development of an environmentally
sound agricultural system for semi-arid areas.
97.      In view of the pilot nature of this project and high fixed coats,
the economic analysis assesses the viability of future expansion to full
scale production of 12 operating FMUs envisaged under this and the follow
on project. The analysis shows that a 6.5 percent increase in yields of
those presently assumed would give a rate of return of 12 percent while a
19.5 percent yield increase would give a rate of return of 15 percent.
These increases are modest in the context of achieved yields to date, and
also given that yields used in analyses assume no benefit from adaptive
research which could result in increases in productivity of 20 percent or
more. In addition, selection of non saline soils for the project should
result in improvements in production over the levels achieved on the
variable soils of existing units.
Risks
98.      Project risks include possible drought, interruption of input
supply, and farmers' lack of care of crops. Project analysis takes the
drought risk into account in projected yieli,s and provides the necessary
investments to minimize input shortages. Provision of settlement areas and
water supply close to farmers' fields, and the prospect of substantial
increases in incomes and training and extenoir'n would ensure the
maintenance of farmers interest in their crops. Risks external to the
project but directly relevant to it involve changes in government policy in
the areas of: (a) markets for grain crops; and (b) the role of private and
public sector enterprises. The Government has indicated its intention to
continue its open grain marketing policy and to continue to move towards
reducing the role of parastatals. IDA projects (AIP and ASAP) support
these trends in Government policy.
99.      During implementation, the project would address the conditions
necessary to ensure project sustainability. Key factors which would hamper
project sustainability are the project's heavy dependence on external
support and inadequate preparation for operation after the project is
completed. The project is designed to reduce these risks by measures such
as providing local staff training and introducing cost recovery. The
Agricultural Sector Adjustment Credit (Cr. 1711-SO/A-20-SO) would also
alleviate the shortage of foreign exchange and other constraints affecting
the sector.



- 23 -
PART XV  RECOtMNDATION
I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of A;reeaaent of the Association and recoumuend that the Executive
Directors approve the proposed credit.
Attacbments
Barber B. Conable
President
March.12, 1987
WaVatiugton DC
I~~~~~~~



r24...                             Annex I
Page 1 of 2
SMnAmT COnu DATA
tonlc  Indicators
06 Per Capita - US$266 (1982) 5/
hAid Rate of Croucb of CF
Gross National Product In 192 I/                                   at Costeac Pactor Cost (2)
-(Fsa  TYears)
MSS Mln.          2                   1977-0        1981     1982
CDP at Narte Prices           1339.1          100.0                   -3.0       4.4       8.5
Iveunet                        267.5          20.0
Reource Blance                -292.6           21.9
iport of Goods sd NS           152.4           11.4
'qport of Goods al NFS         484.2           36.2
Output In FT1982
Value Added
US$ Iln. 
Agricultue                        5.4         49.9
Industry                          133.4       1 1.2
Serviles                          462.8       38.9
1249.6      100.0
1979      1960       1981       1982       1983      1984
(MiT11on  So. Sl.)                (Rev. Est.)
Total Revenue                       1526       1421      2263       2760       4075      3971
Ourrent Expendlture                 1573       1670      2295       2750       4470      7965
Current Surplus or 1Oficlt 4-)       47       -249        -32         10       -395     -3994
Other Expenditures                  1684      1462       1425       2616       2097      3299
Overall lbftcit                     1731      1771       1457       2626       2492      7293
I/ Bead  on prelilliary etistes of National Aewucst recently prepered by UUC.



- 25 -                           Annex I
Page 2 of 2
BALANCE OF PAYNES
1979   1980 1/   1981   1982   1983    1984       1985
(Estimate)
Merchandise Exports (f.o.b.)       106    133       114    137    100       62        107
Merchandise Imports (c.i.f.) 1J   -394   -461      -422   -484  -450    -6           -400
Trade Balance                     -288   -28       -308   -347   -350    -346        -293.
Non-factor services and
farmer ianne, nt                 -12     -8        -1      9       4     -47        -51
Private transfers, net              36     57        64     11      19     72          33
Current Account Balance           -264   -279      -245   -327   -327    -321        -311
Direct Lnvestment                   -      -         -      -      -       -           -
Official Grant Aid                  58    143        150    157    148     174        168
Private, net                         4    -          -       -     -        -          -
Official, net                       84    87         79    123    100       46        114
Use of Fund Credit                  -       4        30     34      44      -3         32
Errors and Omissos    .             19    21          3      3   -14    -40           -40
Overall Balance                    -99    -24         17   -10    -49    -141         -37
RATE OF ECAG
Officil Rate
From 1973 to June 30. 1981 - US$1.00 - So.Sh. 6.295
July 13 1981-June 30, 1982 - A dual exchange rate with:
US$1.00 - 6.295 (for essential imports)
US$1.00 - 12.59 (all other foreign transactions)
July 1, 182-Oct. 22, 1983 - US$1.00 - So.Sb. 15.227
Oct. 23, 1983-Sept. 14, 1984 - US$1.00 - So.Sh. 17.55
Sept. 15, 1984-1tc. 31, 1984 - US$1.00 - So.Sb. 26.00
Jan. 1, 1985-March, 1985 2/ - US$1.00 - So.Sb. 36.00
Official Rate        Market Rate
1985  [urch-           37.0                 91.0
June             40.6                 99.0
Sept.            40.6                101.4
Dec.             42.5                115.0
1986  Jan.             54.5                120.0 3/
Feb.             58.5                130.03/
march            62.5                140.0 :/
April            66.5                145.03/
it 7he import data for 1979-1981 include Prana Valuta tiport.. -
2/  Rate for almst all private era  cons i dstezt=Ld In a free foreign exchang markmt.
3. Fatfmted averag_.



- 26 -
Annex II
Page 1 of 2
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN SOMALIA
STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of September 30, 1986)
Amount
Loan or                                                           (US$ Million)
Credit                                                           Less Cancellations   Undis-
Number      Year    Borrower           Purpose                    Bank       IDA       bursed
Eighteen credits fully disbursed                                          116.27
Cr. 905-SO   1979   Somalia      Agriculture ExtensionlRes.                 10.5         .74
Cr. 906-S0   1979   Somalia      Central Rangelands Dev.                    8.0          .73
Cr. 972-SO   1979   Somalia      Bay Region Agriculture                     12.0        4.32
Cr.1105-SO   1981   Somalia      Fourth Education                           10.2        2.98
Cr.1236-SO   1982   Somalia      Second Hog. Water Supply                  15.0         1.45
Cr.1324-SO   1983   Somalia      Fourth Highway                            23.0         2.96
Cr.1464-SO   1984   Somalia      Afgoy Gas Delineation                      18.0        7.57
Cr.1465-SO   1984   Somalia      Fisheries Explo. Prom.                    13.5         7.61
Cr.1538-SO   1985   Somalia      NW Region Agric. Dev.                     10.6        11.49
Cr.1612-SO   1985   Somalia      Agricultural Inputs
Program I                               10.0        1.87
Cr.1711-SO   1986   Somalia      Agricultural Sector
Adjustment Credit                       30.0       24.33
Cr.AOW-SO1  1986   Somalia       Agricultural Sector
Adjustment Credit                       32.6       27.83
Cr.1647-S02  1986   Somalia      Livestock Health Serv.                     4.3         4.3
Cr. 1723-SO   1986   Somalia     Ports Modernization                       22.6        22.6
Total  ----------------------                        336.17
of which has been repaid                             3.05
Total now held by IDA                                333.52
Total Undisbursed                                                120.78
NOTE:
1. Special African Facility.
2. Credit No. 1647-SO, $4.3 million from IDA for Livestock Health Services
was signed on February 5, 1986, but is not yet effective.



- 27 -
Annex II
Page 2 of 2
STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of September 30, 1986)
US$ Million
Fiscal                                      Type of                Amount
Year         Oblisor                        Business     Loan      Equity    Total
1981     Somali Molasses Co. Ltd.                         0.37       -        0.37
1985     Polypropylene Bag Co.                            0.95       -        0.95
Total Gross Commitments                          1.32                1.32
Less cancellation                                0.21      -         0.21
Total now held by IFC                            1.11      -         1.11
Total undisbursed                                0.95      -         0.95



- 28 -
Annex III
Page 1 of 2
SOMALIA
SEMI-MECHANIZED RAINFED AGRICULTURE PILOT PROJECT
Supplementary Data Sheet
Section I-Timetable of Key Events
(a)    Time taken to prepare project:      Three years
(b)    Project prepared by           :      Government of Somalia consultants
(c)    Identification mission        :     November 1983
(d)   Appraisal mission                     June 1986
(e)    Negotiations                  :     February 1987
(f)    Planned date of effectiveness:      July 1987
Section II - Special I=n lementation Action:
Provision made for a Project Preparation facility advance of US$1.3 million to
finance project start-up activities.
Section III - Special Conditions
Conditions of Effectiveness
(a)    Identified project land would be designated by Government of Somalia as
specifically for development and use by the project (para 75); and
(b)    An initial payment of So.Sh. 5 million would have been made by
Government into the project's bank account (para 91).



- 29 -
Annex III
Page 2 of 2
Other Conditions
(a)    A Settler Selection Committee would be formed with terms of reference
and settler selection criteria acceptable to IDA (para. 71).
(b)    Project land would be passed on to SDA in the form of a standard lease
by January 1, 1988, and that land would be passed on to other farmers
as sub-leases, the terms of which would be acceptable to IDA (para 75).
(c)    The PIU would form a Research and Extension Committee which would
formulate a long term project research program by July 1, 1988, (para
76).
(d)    CARS would be responsible for the technical direction of the adaptive
research component, and a Research Coordinator and an internationally
recruited Senior Agronomist would be appointed by January 1, 1988 (para
76).
(e)    Cost recovery would consist of full FMU operating costs and the FMUs'
capital costs, which would be introduced in accordance with an agreed
schedule. The capital costs would bear an interest rate of not less
than 15 percent and ould be repayable after 10 years with two years
period of grace (para. 87).



- 30 -
Annex IV
Procurement Arrangements I/
Procurement Method                Total
Project Element                ICB     LCB    Other 2/        N.A 3/  Cost
USS million
- Civil Works                     1.5      0.3                            1.8
(1.2)   (0.3)                          (1.5)
- Vehicles, Machinery and         2.4                                     2.4
. Equipment                   (2.3)                                   (2.3)
- Training                                                     0.6        0.6
(0.6)     (0.6)
- Project Studies and                                          0.9        0.9
Environmental Measures                                    (0.9)     (0.9)
(0.6)     (0.6)
- Farmer Assistance                                 0.2        0.2        0.4
-(*-)     (0.2)     (0.2)
Annual Operating Costs
(a)  Salaries                                                1.7        1.7
(1.5)     (1.5)
(b)  Technical Assistance                                    2.9       2.9
(2.9)     (2.9)
(c)  Vehicles, Machinery                                     2.7       2.7
and Equipment                                          (2.5)     (2.5)
(d)  Inputs                                                  0.6       0.6
(0.5)     (0.5)
(e)  Supplies and maintenance                                1.0        1.0
(0.5)     (0.5)
TOTAL                    3.9     0.3      0.2        10.6      15.0
(3.5)   (0.3)     (-)        (9.6)    (13.4)
Figures inj parenthesis are amounts financed by IDA.
21 Includes items funded by the other cofiuancier and wili-be procured in
accordance with their regulations (US$0.1 million in commodity aid by
HFP).
3/ Includes limited international bidding, purchases off the shelf,
negotiated contract and engagement of consultants.



Mogadishu                                                                          J                    1.'
°Krtu  Waarey                                                          ;              Old Soblacle
a      <;e.~r      Sobicaale
f   >-     Ind;.1r~~L-  Oe[ - - -; -                                 5y-  - - -.                                                        =
ni, . (IL                                             - .
;Kisntoyo
ETHIOPIA
0         1         2          3         4
nmemma -o-   aefl - te 7buM So*  The ISbn Satw at                   d  2w
Mogadu                        Fm   Corp_  S   _a, dIwrhw um_ md NW bcwflnc Scam an gs  m wSd AI
KENYA |sMgdsu.mo q *
en ff. epw , . b uno  o     w "Nos  arw  edmassw Facwme Capwafuo  a9fluUtI
.1'                                                                                                                                 396 meA
/_ _    _     _    _    _     _    _    _             IX



IBRD 20001
SOMALIA                                     ll
3 t SEMI-MECHANIZED RAINFED AGRICULTURE PROJECT
DETAILED SURVEY OF PROPOSEDX FARM STRIPS
Sablalle Area
LAND SUITABILITY FOR
RAINFED AGRICULTURE
Moderately Suitable:                            isting-
IFlooding hazard                         _     Permanent settlements
1--lSalinity and flooding hazard                IRoinfed form
I-ISoil texture. erosion, and                    Irrigation wonals
surfalce condifions                         River course
Moarinally Suitiable                   ---=  Abandoned river channel
t   Floodirng hazard                              Motorable tracks
I   Salinity and flooding hazard               -Survey boundary
1....:1Flooding and soil texture
1s Soil kexture, erosion, and                    International bounrJaries
surface conditions
F-7 Individual form strips and number
of forms per strip
396 s   Width of strips
4455
AUGUST 1986



463eou l,l1l                                                           SEMI-MECHAN
w7.Sx   . -- .                                               DETAILE-
ETHIOPIA                      - _._   =  *:                         ULAND SUITABIUTY FOR RAINFED A,
/   t  .                              moderately Suitable:
i~J ¢ .-.- Flooding hazard
India,n              EE-3- -i Salinity and flooding hazard
bo     ~Occeon
I         * = Mogadishu                             Morgjnaly Suitable:
KENYA  !                                            I         Flooding hozard
l.  i                                       '.f.'r.'ZX$ iSoil texture
.t-:- - 2  Salinity and flooding hazard
Salinity, flooding, and soil drainage
lp                   hMogadishu3  Salinity, erosion, and surface conditions
Kurtun Woorey
. Sablaale                                                                    $5
/    /                                                        i L~f
0       100
J LJ
giuncyo       la~KLOMErERS
Brova Yare
o      1       2       3       4
KILOMETERS
-   -  -  -  -  -   -  -  -  -  -  -- 



IBRD 20002
SOMALIA
:IZED RAINFED AGRICULTURE PROJECT
D SURVEY OF PROPOSED FARM STRIPS
Kurtun Waarey Area
3RICULTURE
Permanently Not Suitoble:                          Existing:
Soil texture                                      Permanent settlements
Soil texture, surface conditions,         [J   Rainfed farm
and non-uniform                ~                River course
Motorable tracks
[;; Individual form strips and number                       Walking track
of forms per strip                            -   Survey boundary
396 metm Width of strips
International boundaries
Arbowoheerow
X       9                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~prevaliling wind direction/
2~~~~~~T ,
-x~~~~~~~~~~1
_             4
-                                ..-                                                      19.b
The flfra &W*-. ~ -m,
re.dua &,.* .Oka-* Iw Nw
*rd VW m w,tmv a FeW,0
~ WNW
.,.ePM %W d
P M of v nb &.*l in a.
rtw"Fmw C.painmt
*nyPjAXdg., 1, Me kw show
.f., R. M1, -.MY
AUIGUSr 1986



SOMALIA
SEMI-MECHANIZED RAINFED AGRICULTURE PROJECT
RELATIVE POSITIONS OF THE PROJECT AREAS
Kurtun Waarey and Sablacle
PROPOSED
--  Areas surveyed for project forms management
6     Farm unit boundaries and numbers
O     New villages in project and existing farms
Roads
V  -   Project Implementation Unit I Rainfed Farming Services Corporation
EXISTING:
z   Rainfed forms                                  \;                                      4Erz
- Main tar road                               bc                                  _______;_
Motorable tracks
.-      Walking Irack
-rac'    *    Machinery compound and houses                                  -
Flooding in Ouu season                      - _                  a
m:.  Flood protection bund                              a     -                B     Yr          / /    =
(requires maintenance)                     - .      -                                       _,_
-     Irrigation canals                        2           - -      - *
450 mm. isohyet (approx. position)    a                    A
X    Towns                         (TŽ.. a *-      ^h   4\
*   s   Swamp                        -a-   a                                                           A
River                             Ga: a-                eumarto
International boundaries    - ^
:~~~~~~~~~l SablL zf \e
-lo                                                  Muduabloal
To Kiw       \         r    m 6 km, / -: ' .  .A
I   43o50'  .    275 km.  ff   \  J4eaO'       /    ,, -    ' - - ;



4410                                              44'20 o                                    IBRD 20003
44-k~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IE
Arbowohoorow            /
: = ,/ . 2    A      
5=%~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
f0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~h *,% A.--*'s                   Ike
-   8   -'/                             /               /                               ; ,z3,:  _. - 
-'            \             /                       '                       _ 1 d w   _ -  11t
ws -  -  A      , iS'M d F o r  IW
\ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ \     .IS-                                  _F Uwijc
/ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~-  |~I  BUa   4W~                     ., ;a.h/
\   /       -~~~~~~~~~~~ -                      !2D'   n ~~~~~~~~~~~~Kurfun ' - vrey,      = 
//gile                                                    -  ~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~Sablaclee  
Eergile~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~b,.hMe..Cp,a
{~~~~a -n a.a d,,a Cr a ;-
,   Indion       Ocean               K|                 I Ksmnyo  d
.S~~                                                     ~   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  S (   -.i 
/                           .                            (^8~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~)BOUTI'n 
/  oo-krtilOPIA     -a7 T  -
0 @- ~~~~~~; >                                          h   <   '    .^ ~~~~~~~~~~Mogadishu
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ --- y@0                                        ,
EerI~le 
AUtGUST IM



