Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report N.. 6494-SO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SOMALIA
SEMI-MECHANIZED RAINFED AGRICULTURE PILOT PROJECT
March 2, 1987
Eastern and Southern Africa Region
Northern Agriculture Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by reciplents only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank bAhorizltion.



CURRENCY AND EQUIVALENT UNITS
Somali Shilling (So.Sh.)               =  100 cents
US$ 1.00 (at time of appraisa? -       =  So.Sh.  70   (official rate)
June, 1986)                  =  So.Sh. 152   (free market rate)
US$1.00 (January 1987)                 m  So.Sh.  91.4 (official rate)
=  So.9h. 135   (free market rate)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1  Hectare (ha)            -  10,000 in
I  Square Kilometer (km)  -  100 ha
1  Metric Ton (mt)            1,000 kg
ABBREVIATIONS
ADC      -  Agricultural Development Corporation
AFMET    -  Agricultural Farm flanagement and Extension Training (Project)
ARI      -  Agricultural Research Institute
ASAP     -  Agricultural Sector Adjustment Program
AWP      -  Annual Work Program
CARS     -  Central Agricultural Research Station
FEA      -  Field Extension Agent
FMU      -  Farm Management Unit
GOS      -  Government of Somalia
ITCZ     -  Inter Tropical Convergence Zone
MOA      -  Ministry of Agriculture
ONAT     -  Organizzazione Nazionale Agricultura Trattore
(Government Tractor Hiring Agency)
PIU      -  Project Implementation Unit
SDA      -  Settlement Development Agency
SOE      -  Statements of Expenditure
SNR      -  Semi-Mechanized Rainfed
T and V  -  Training and Visit System (of Extension)
WFP      -  World Food Programme
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
SOMALIA
SIMI-MECHANIZED RAINFED AGRICULTURE PILOT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
CREDIT AND PROJECT SITMMARY ...............    .......   i - ii
I. *COUNTRY CHARACTERISTICS AND THE AGRICULTURE SECTOR  ...    1
A.  Country Charactetistics .......     ...................    1
B.  The Agriculture Sector        ...........................    1
C.  Prospects for Rainfed Agriculture       ................    2
D.  Bank Group Mtole and Strategy......................    4
II.      THE PROJECT AREA AND PROJECT FORMULATION   .............   5
A.  The Project Area ..........................            5
-  location and Population ***......... ...,***O..     5
-  Land Form and Vegetation ......     ................    5
-  Soils ..........   ...............................    6
Climate .. .6
-  Water Resources                                     7
-  Land Tenure and Use                                 7
-  Institutions ... o.o...o..... . .. .   o...o.o...   8
-  Infrastructure and Marketing ..................    9
B.  Project Formulation and Rationale                      9
III.     THE PROJECT .. . . . . . . . . .                          11
A.  Project Objectives ..............................    11
B. Project Description ooooooooooooooooo*oo*oooo*oooo  11
C.  Detailed Features                                     12
-  PIU - Central Services ooo*...................    12
-  PIU - Farm Development ........................   12
-  PIU - Farm Management Units ........*.........    13
-  PIU - Training  ..oooo.000. 000000. 000...000.  13
-  PIU - Project Studies and Environment
Measures ............... ...... .o.....    13
-  MQA - Monitoring and Evaluation o..............   14
-  SDA - Farmer Assistance oo.....................   14
-  CARS/PIU - Adaptive Research ..................   14
-  APMET/PIU - Extension **0*****,*****.****.*    15
This document has restricted ditribution and may be used by recipients only in the peformane
of their ofcial dutia. Its contents may not otherwiu be disclosed whout World Bank authorization.



Pae No*
De Status of Engineering *.is....................    15
Le  Cost Estimates  ...........o....5...............    1S
P.  Financing Plan  .................................    17
G.  Procurement *i*s***,***    18
He Disbursement                          .............    20
It Information Systems, Accounts and Audit .........    21
J. Environmental Impact *                                  22
IV.      ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT   ........................    22
At General                                                 22
Be Project Execution                              ....    23
- Human Settlements                                    23
- Settlement Development Agency                       24
- Project Implementation Unit                         24
- Settler Organization . ...                          23
- Land Tenure and Leases ..                           26
- Project Sustainability                              26
- Role of Women .                                     26
- Adaptive Research                                   26
- Reforestation                                       27
- Livestock    .                                      27
- Staff Development, Training and Extension           28
- Monitoring and Reporting                            29
- Annual Work Programs   .                            29
- Evaluation and Mid Term Review                      29
V.       TECHNOLOGY, AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION, MARKETS
AND PRICES                                              30
A.  Technology                                            30
- The Semi-Mechanized Rainfed Farming System *....    30
- Crop Rotations  ..........e.....                    30
- Settlement Layout ................                  31
D.  Agricultural and Livestock Production ............    31
- Yields                                              31
- Production .......o.    32
C.  Markets .......... o00.0.e.*0o ...... o e.o0000oo     32
- Local Demand                                        32
-* Market Outlets                                     33



- {it -
Pate N.
- Ikize ant Cowpeas ..................,.....*..........*.*.    34
- Oilseeds                      *...**.*.*.***35
- Livestock .......................,............ *. .....    35
VI.      FINANCIAL ANALYSIS ..*0................*......*....*..    35
A.  Project's Financial Objectives    ...................  35
D. Farmers' Incomes *3..............................,    35
C.  Project Implementation Unit Finances s.............    37
- Introduction ............*.........* ** *.          37
- PIU's Revenue Sources  ........................     37
- PIU's Financial Results ..............*........    38
- PI's Future Direction      8........................    36
'.  Other Implementing Agencies ......................    39
- SDA, MOA, AFMET and CARS *.................*...    39
Z.  Government Cash Flow                                  39
VII.    ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION .......000........    39
As Benefits ..................       . * 6 -. ..............    39
Be Economic Analysis  .................       . *.....    40
Cs Risks .o      o *.***o*** oo...........    OO**. oo............  41
VIII.    AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ***...o..oo.oooo    42



- iv -
List of Text Tables
Table 1.  Project Cost Summary .......................       16
Table 2.  Financing Plan ...........................    17
Table 3.  Financing for Different Categories of
Works, Goods and Services                       18
Table 4.  Procurement Arrangements                           19
Ta'ole 5. Estimated Annual Incremental Crop Areas and
Production at Full Development                  32
Table 6.  Estimated Annual Project Crop Production,
Consumption and Marketable Surpluses .....    33
Table 7.  Farmers' Estimated Annual Income and Cost
Recovery Position Under the Project ......    36
Table 8.  Comparison of Estimated Incomes for Three
Groups of Potential Farmers With and
Without Project                                 37
Table 9.  Required Yields to Achieve Assumed Economic
Rates of Return                                 41
ANNEXES:
1.     Financial Tables .. ........                                 45
Table 1.  Estimated Price Contingencies .............        45
2.  Estimated Schedule of Disbursements                46
39 Amount of Credit Proceeds                          47
2.     Climatological Tables                                        48
Table 1.  Monthly Averages of Rainfall  .... ..........    48
2.  Air Temperatures at Kurtun Waarey                  49
3.  Relative Humidity at Kurtun Waarey                50
4.  Evaporation Rates at Kurtun Waarey                 51
3.     Detailed Cost Tables                                         52
Table 1.  Project Components by Year                         52
2.  Summary Account by Project Component               53
3.  PIU - Central Services .....................    56
4.  PIU - Land Clearance and Earthmoving               59
5.  PIU - Farm Mane-gement Units                       61
6.  PIU - Training                                    62
7. PIU - Studies                                       63
8.  MOA - Monitoring and Evaluation .,...o......    64
9.  SDA - Farmer Assistance                            65



-v-
Page No
10.  CARS/PIU  - Adaptive Research ..............        66
11.  AFMET/PIU - Extension        ......................  67
12.  Items to be Financed under PPF .............p
4.     Implementation Tables                                          70
Iable 1.  Details of Technical Services Provided
Under the Project                                70
2.  Research and Extension Activities and
Methods in the Project Area                      71
3.  Crop Rotations                                      72
4.  Farm Layout          ............. .                73
5.  Project Area Maximum Crop Yields 1982-85 ...        74
6.  Projected-Ylelds ..................... ..*.         75
5.     Terms of Reference                                            77
A.  Studies ..........................................        77
B.  Project Personnel         ...............................  78
C.  Technical Services .........    ......................    81
Do Project Committees                ...................      87
6.     Settler Selection Criteria                                    90
7.     Conditions of the Sub Lease Between SDA and
the Settlers                                                91
8.     Project Sustainability                                        92
9.     Annual Work Programs    .        .     .     ..        .e     94
10.     Items for Inclusion in the Project Mid Term
Review   .........*.. ......... ......... ...               96
II.     Management Practices Under the Project ...............        97
12.     Economic and Financial Analysis Tables ...............    100
Table 1.  Projection of Economic Import Parity and
Farmgate Prices - Maize .............o....    100
2.  Projection of Economic Export Parity and
Farmgate Prices - Maize                         101
3.  Projection of Financial Import Parity and
Farmgate Prices - Maize                         102
4.  Projection of Financial Export Parity and
I    Farugate Prices - Maize                          103
5.  Projection of Economic Import Parity and
Farmgate Prices - Oilseeds                      104



- vI -
Page No
6. Projection of Flnancial Import Parity and
Farogate Prices - Oilseeds ...............    105
7.  Assumptions Incorporated in Economic
Analysis .......... .......................    106
8.  Farmer Income Stateptent (Current Prices) ...    107
9.  Farmer Income Statement (Assumed Drought
Conditions) *..*o**    109
10. Project Implementation Unit - Projected
Statements of Revenues and Expenditures ..   111
11.  Government Cash Flow        .......................    112
13.     Documents Available In Project File        ..................   3.13
ClfTS
1.  Organization Chart - Project Implementation Unit  ........       115
2* Proposed PEA Timetable ....................................    116
3*.  Iplemntation Schedule *........................ .0.......    117
MAPS
1. Detailed Survey of Proposed Farm Strips - Sablaale Area
(IBRD No. 20001)
2. Detailed Survey of Proposed Farm Strips - Kurtun Waarey Area
(IBRD No. 20002)
3. Relative Positions of the Project Areas - Kurtun Waarey
and Sablaale (IBRD No. 20003)



SOMALIA
8MI-M)CKNAIZED aIUNneD AGRICULTURX PILOT PROJECT
Credit and Prolect Summary
Sorrower:      Somali Democratic Republic
poeufictirv:   Ministry of Agrlculture
fmount:        SDR 10.6 million (US$ 13.4 million equivalevt)
___t__         Standard
Cof Inancns:  'US$ 0.1 million equivalent In food commodity ald from the
World Food Programme.
Project Deecriotlon Objectives:
This project Is a continuation of the pilot field trials
started at Kurtun Waarey and Sablaale In 1981 to develop an
improved rainfed agricultural technology for Somalia'ls *lm
arid zones. Overall, the project aims to put in place a
technical and organixational system as part of a larger
strategy which includes irrigation, livestock, health and
range deve4opment projects. The project iould (1) refine
and improve semi-mechanixed rainfed (SMR) technology in
Somalia through onsite adaptive trials; (ii) study the
Institutional structure for semi-mechanized farming
activities and propose a self-sustaining model for expaieom
of rainfed farming; (iii) transfer skills to Soai to
manage the enterprises and to farmers to use SMR farming
technology through training and extension; and (iv) within
the narrow limits of the pilot area, increase mallholder
crop and livestock production and incomes for 400
oaliholder families.
^nefites      This is a pilot project with broad potential Impact.  the
imediate benefits would be the provision of a settled
livelihood and increased income for 400 landless fmilies ae
well as Increased production of maize, sunflower, sfflowr
animl foed and livestock and fuelwood self sufficlency.
They would also benefit from better toads and water
supplies. The project would generate inermental mploy_mt
amounting at full development annually to 135,000 m  days
of family farm labor and 32 man years of unskilled labor.
The benefits from development of an environmentally sound
rainfed agricultural system with sustainable producttvity
increases would enhance the prospects of Somalia's sml-arid
zones.
U@USk          The project's economic viability is sensitive to yield
levels which wuld be Influenced by drought, interruption of
Input supply and lack of proper and timely care of crops.
The project is designed to minimize these risks and lncluds
provisions for close monitoring and assessment of eperienc
gained. The risks associated with foreign exchange
availability and exchange rate fluctuations, and with the
maintenance of adequate producer price Incentives are being
addressed by the Government, with IDA support througb
agricultural policy adjustment lending.



- ii -
Proj ect Components:                            Local       Foreign      Total
-----US$   dillion----
PIU
-  Central Services                        0.6          2.5        3.1
-  Farm Development                        0.3           1.5       1.8
-  Farm Management Units                   0.8          2.0        2.8
-  Training                                -            0.4        0.4
- Project Studies and
Environmental Measures                -            0.6        0.6
SUB TOTAL                                  1.7          7.0        8.7
Ministry of Agriculture (MOA)
-  Monitoring and Evaluation               0.1          0.2        0.3
Settlement Development Agency (SDA)
-  Fari'er Assistance                      -            0.3        0.3
Central Agricultural Research Station
(CARS)/PIU
-  Adaptive Research                       0.3          1.2        1.5
Agricultural Farm Management and
Extension Training Project (APNET)/PIU
-  Extension                               0.1          -          0.1
SUB TOTAL                                  2.2          8.7       10.9
Physical contingencies                             0.2          1.0        1.2
Price contingencies                                0.7          2.2        2.9
TOTAL COSTS 1/                             3.1         11.9       15.0
Financing Plan:
IDA Credit                                         1.6         11.8       13.4
World Food Programme (WEP)                         -            0.1        0.1
Government of Somalia                              1.5         -           1.5
3i.         11.9      15.0
Estimated Disbursements:
IDA FY   1988   1989   1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995   1996
= -   (US llion)--  --- -m-o-
Annual           1.4    2.2    2.6    1.9    1.2    1.8    1.1          0.8   0.4
Cumulative       1.4    3.6    6.2    8.1    9.3   11.1   12.2    13.0  13.4
Estimated Economic
Rate of Return:       Not applicable
Maps: IBRD Nos. 20(01, 20002 and 20003
1/ Taxes and duties are not included since Government Investments are
exempt.



SOMALIA
SEMI-IIECHMIZED RAINFED AGRICULTURE PILOT PROJECT
Is COUNTRY CHARACTERISTICS AND THE AGRICULTURE SECTOR
A. Country Characteristics
1.01      Somalia is located In the northeastern corner of Africa, bordered
by Ethiopia and Kenya to the west and south, and the Gulf of Aden and the
Indian Ocean to the north and east. The coastline is about 3,300
kilometers and the land area about 64 million hectares. The topography Is
varied and includes hot and arid _oastal plains, rugged mountains and
plateaue, and lowlands of varying fertility and rainfall. About 29.9
million ha (47% of the total) is classified as agricultural area, of which
28.8 million ha Is devoted to permanent pasture and 1.1 million ha is used
for crop production. Of the latter area some 50,000 to 100,000 ha along
the Shebelli and to a lesser extent the Juba rivers benefits from largely
seasonal, flood irrigation with low water use efficiency. Of the remaining
land area, 8.6 million ha (13% of the total) comprises forests and
woodlands, and 25.5 million ha (40% of the total) is generally unsuitable
for any farming activities.
1.02      In 1985 the population was estimated by the Government (GOS) to
be 5.8 million, growing at 3.1% per annum. The country is supporting some
300,000 to 700,000 refugees, depending on estimates. Per capita income in
1985 was estimated by GOS to be slightly less than $300 equivalent, giving
a total national income of about $1.7 billion equivalent. About 60% of the
-labor force are nomads and semi nomads who depend on livestock for their
subsistence; about 20% are farmers cultivating land along the Shebelli and
Juba rivers and in the higher rainfall Bay and North-West Regions; the
remainder (20%) are urban dwellers.
1.03      Somalia is amongst the poorer countries of the world with a
hostile physical environment and scattered population. It has poor
communications and the physical and institutional infrastructure needs
strengthening. These factors have created serious obstacles to
development.
B. The Agriculture Sector
1.04      The agriculture sector --  crops, livestock, forestry and fishing
-- contributed about 57% of total GDP during the period 1970-85. Of this,
livestock accounted for 39%, crop production 12%, forestry 5% and fisiheries
less than 1%. During the 1970's agricultural production stagnated and
crop production declined, so that by 1979 annual production was some 15%
less than in 1970. Production, especially of crops, improved
dramatically in the 1980's, although not sufficiently to recoup the
declines in per capita food production experienced in the 1970s. Crop
production improvement, caused mainly by area expansion, followed



-2-
deregulation of the grain market and the resulting significant increases in
producer prices.
1.05      Primary commodities account for virtually all merchandise
exports. In 1982, the peak export year, livestock products accounted for
82% of exports, bananas 10% and fish, frankincense and myrrh the
remainder. Livestock exports have since declined to about 70% of total
export due to a ban on cattle exports to Somalia's main market; at the same
time, the value of banana exports has been maintained.
1.06      The main issues In the agricultural sector are (a) price policy
and marketing; (b) public Investment and public enterprises; (c) rural
finance; (d) input supply; and (e) research and extension. The first four
issues are being addressed by the Government with support, inter alia, from
the Agricultural Sector Adjustment Program (para. 1.13) financed by the
International Development Association (IDA) and the Special Facility for
Africa. Research and extension are being addressed under ongoing projects
financed by IDA and other donors.
1.07       The Agricultural Sector Survey, currently under preparation,
examines these issues and highlights the new directions in which Somalia's
agriculture sector is moving. These include changes towards a more mixed
economy; liberalization of internal marketing for many crops and of foreign
exchange controls; major devaluations in real terms of the Somali Shilling
which have brought many internal prices closer in line with world prices;
transfer of some state farms to settlements tied to programs for reducing
the size of the civil service; and consideration by Government of divesting
the public sector of some enterprises or of converting them to commercial
or joint ventures. The results of the changes have been on balance very
positive which, together with favorable weather, has led to sharp increases
in food production, declines in food import requirements, and attraction of
private individuals to production and service activities in agriculture.
C. Prospects for Rainfed Agriculture
1.08      Although the country possesses an abundance of land relative to
its small population, the low and variable rainfall (less than 600 mm per
annum over most of the country) places considerable constraints on both
livestock and crop production. The present capacity of the range is at or
near the limit of animals that can be sustained. At the same time
additional pressures have been placed on Somalia's land resources by the
arrival of several hundred thousand refugees, many of them with livestock.
These pressures are evidenced by the growing number of noaadic pastoralists
who leave the rangeland to engage In settled agriculture, a process
Government is assisting.
1.09      In contrast to the limited proapects for future significant
growth in livestock output, crop production is likely to sustain its
present momentum. This rejuvenation in the crop production sector is due
first to the sharply improved incentives to increase grain production and
output of some other crops. In addition, the promising results of the
earlier semi-mechanized rainfed (SMR) production field trials (para. 1.10)



-3-
have enabled the expansion of crop production into previously uncropped
areas. The proposed project will help determine to what extent the
reported 6 to 7 million hectares of potential rainfed crop land can be
efficiently and effectively exploited. Augmenting this rainfed potential
are ongoing investments In Irrigation rehabilitation on the Shebelli river
and the more long term possibilities on the Juba River, based on the
construction of the Bardhere Dam. The Bank group is assisting these
efforts through a dual strategy of rainfed and Irrigated agriculture
development, coupled with the stated Government policy of settling nomads
(para. 1.08). It is against this background and agreed objectives that the
proposed SMR Project has been prepared by Government.
1.10      A promising start introducing SMR technology was made in the
ongoing field trials at Kurtun Waarey and Sablaale (paras. 2.19 and 2.20)
financed under the Drought Rehabilitation Project (Credit 623-SO).
Operations commenced in 1981 when a small team of consultants introduced
farming techniques and equipment based on regimes practiced in semi arid
regions of Australia and other countries.  Important aspects of the trials,
which currently consist of farming by 200 families on 1,800 ha., have been
to open up new land for cultivation, to minimize the effects of the
regton's erratic annual rainfall through a bare fallow system which
conserves soil moisture, and to integrate small farmers into a larger, more
beneficial farming system, which enables balanced use of family labor,
machinery and soil moisture conservation techniques. In addition, the
introduction of bush strips into the farming system has allowed
conservation of the natural fauna, augmented the local fuel supply and
permitted the integration of livestock and crops by providing fodder areas
for farmers' animals.
1.11      Based on these efforts alone the farming system introduced has
resulted in a five fold average yield increase, in an otherwise harsh, low
yield environment. However the level and type of technology have remained
essentially unchanged over the trials period, whilst the institutional
structure has relied heavily on Government support and involvement. Thus
the system aeeds further refinement and adaptation to specific Somali
conditions, particularly as regards those which would further increase and
stabilize crop y4elds and determine the most suitable crop rotations.
Consideration needs to be given to a self sustaining organization more
independent of Government and with greater farmer involvement*
Nevertheless, the system has shown its potential to increase crop yields
an$, hence production, and to settle former nomads as sedentary farmers on
land, not previously farmed. Based largely on these successful results, the
Somalia Agriculture Sector Survey will identify rainfed area expansion as a
key part ofiagiy future crop production strategy (para. 1.16).
1.12      The proposed project has predominantly experimental/adaptive
research elements and builds upon the achievements of the earlier trials.
The area under crops would increase from 1,800 ha. to 4,680 ha. and bush
strips from 600 to 2,520 ha. An additional 400 f.rm families would be
settled. A new organization, managerially and financially independent of
Government, warld be formulated and possibly introduced during project
1Implementatlan (para. 4.08).  Government realizes that the technology
N 0 developed to date needs refinement and is keen to continue developing the



SHR system. Building on the Bank's earlier support and involvement in
establishing the basic technology, continued Bank involvement is now
justified to ensure consolidation and refinement of the system in
preparation for wider expansion. The proposed technology also has the
potential to be a model for similar schemes elsewhere in the country, and
in other semi arid areas of Africa.
D. Bank Grou, Role and Strategy
1.13     Bank Group commitments to Somalia as of September 30, 1986 total
US$302 million, consisting of 31 IDA credits and 2 IFC Investments. Eleven
projects are under implementation. Over thirty percent of total IDA
lending has been for agriculture, twenty five percent for transport and the
rest about equally divided amongst education, water supply, ports, energy,
industry and technical assistance. An Agricultural Inputs Program (AIP)
was approved in FY85 and a livestock health services project in FY86. An
Agricultural Sector Adjustment Program (Credit Nos. 1711-SO and A-20-SO),
which has important conditionality both for the agriculture sector in
general and for this proposed project in particular 1/, received Board
approval in June 1986.
1.14       Project implementation experience in Somalia has been mixed.  A
number of agricultural projects suffered from over ambitious design, and
cofinancing arrangements caused some coordination difficulties, resulting
in major mid term reviews and reduced benefit expectations. Progress on
the North-West Region Agricultural Development Projects has been good
however, and the main production targets projected at appraisal have been
met or exceeded. Projects in the roads, ports and water sectors have been
more successful than in agriculture.  Staffing and management problems have
impeded effective preparation and implementation of some projects.
Somalia's disbursement performance on projects assisted by the Bank Group
has been satisfactory, being some 85 percent higher than the average for
Eastern and Southern Africa.
1.15       The Bank Group assistance strategy for Somalia is to devise and
implement policies and programs to improve the efficiency of both the
public and private sectors, to improve the macroeconomic framework for
domestic and external resource mobilization and allocation, to improve
pricing policy and marketing systems, and to increase production and
exports. The aim is to support further use of existing capacity and to
help lay the foundations for longer term growth. Issues in public
enterprise reform are expected to become an increasingly important
component of the policy dialogue, and the intention is to support
Government in its stated policy of disposing of unviable public
enterprises, and in its stimulation of the private sector.
1.16      Within this general approach, the strategy for the agriculture
sector, contained in the Agricultural Sector Survey (para. 1.07), proposes
a phased approach to enable Somalia to put into place a largely self
sustaining agricultural sector which supports overall economic growth,



-5-
provides for increased food production to increase farm incomes and reduce
import dependency, increased export earnings, and provides, to the extent
possible, productive employment in the sector. It highlights expanded crop
production as a priority in Somalia's future agricultural growth strategy
to be achieved through the expansion of areas under semi-mechanized long
fallow rainfed farming (the intent behind this proposed project) and
through irrigation rehabilitation and expansion. Both approaches will
require sound economic policies, which include incentive prices for
producers, further improvements in the marketing and input supply systems,
rationalization of the food aid program, and a realistic role for the
public sector vis a vis the emerging private sectoro Crop production
support such as targeted adaptive research, improvements in the extension
service, development of water use and drainage management systems,
introduction of equitable land tenure rights and adequate levels of cost
recovery are also needed.
II. THE PROJECT AREA AND PROJECT FORMULATION
A. The Project Area
Location and Population
2.01      The project area is situated in the Lower Shebelli region and
extends along the eastern side of the Shebelli River between the
settlements of Kurtun Waarey and Sablaale 2/ to the southwest of Somalia's
capital city, Mogadishu (IBRD Map No. 20003). Kurtun Waarey is about 140
km from Mogadishu at an elevation of 57 metres above sea level, and
Sablaale is 221 km from Mogadishu at an elevation of 50 metres. Both
settlements are about 25 km from the coast. The region has some 600,000
inhabitants, most of whom livu in isolated settlements. The principal
towns and their approximate populations are Merca (100,000) and Afgoi
(60,000). Kurtun Waarey and Sablaale have approximately 15,000 inhabitants
each. The region's total area of over 1 million ha has potential for
farming although a detailed agricultural characterization has not been
undertaken.
Land Form and Vegetation
2.02       The project area is located on the meander floodplain of the
lower reaches of the Shebelli River, which contains a variety of alluvial
deposits and erosion elements. The Shebelli has taken a series of
different paths across its floodplain producing this complex. There are
also beach remnants, part of a red, aeolian sand dune complex mostly
buried beneath later alluvium. Southeast of the project area is a
continuous coastal dune complex.
2.03       The pilot areas at Kurtun Waarey and Sablaale, formerly part of
a swamp, are quite flat with a gentle westerly slope. With surface
2/ Kurtun Waarey lies between latitude 1° 36'N and 10 38' 30"N and
longitude 440 16'E and 440 18' 45"E', Sablaale between latitude 1° 13'
45"N and 10 16'N and longitude 430 49'E and 430 52' 15"E.



gradients of 1 in 1,000 to 1 in 1,500, floodwaters follow the depressions
In coverplains between old major courses and only enter old river channels
if these converge with the current river course. However, local topography
can be irregular with slopes up to 5% around former channels. There are a
number of shallow drainage lines across the project strips but these
normally carry little surface run off and can be cross cultivated without
difficulty for most of the year. The natural vegetation of Kurtun Waarey
and Sablaale reflects distinct soil types and hydrology with different
groups of mixed vegetation, local ecologies and diverse flora and fauna.
The primary vegetation has superimposed over it secondary vegetation,
created from formerly cleared land, which is generally limited to a few
species of bush or shrub. Natural grasses are ephemerals.
Soils
2.04       The soils of the project area are of alluvial origin.
Predominant are grey brown and dark brown heavy clay soils with vertisolic
characteristics. The soils have nutrient retaining capacity, and are
alkaline, highly calcarAous and base saturated, with a low erosion hazard.
The upper horizons are moderately saline with salt levels rapidly
increasing with depth, which restricts root growth in the worst affected
areas. The organic matter content is generally low and micro nutrient
deficiency, particularly zinc, manganese and boron, has been recorded.
Given the low and irregular rainfall (Annex 2, Table 1), a major
consideration in selecting land for rainfed farming is soil moisture
holding capacity, determirid largely by the clay content. Studies
indicate water holding capacity of 500 mm/metre of depth with available
watex of about 143 mm. Of the major soil types in the project area, two
(haharro and aval) were assessed moderately suitable for rainfed
agriculture. A detailed soil survey of 25,500 ha identified about 10,000
ha suitable for SMR farming, from which 4,700 ha net farming area and 2,520
ha of bush strips were selected. These soil considerations and the desire
to further perfect the technology explain the area of the proposed project.
Climate
2.05     The climate in the project area is aemi arid tropical dominated by
annual monsoon cycles. The project area is close to the sea, which affects
humidity, rainfall and winds, and is in between 10 and 20 north of the
equator, a zone of low pressure and atmospheric instability. Rainfall is
bimodal, falling most in the Guu season, April - June (usually about 44
days of sporadic, intense local thunderstorms); Hagai from early June to
mid October, when variable rain occurs from coastal showers and storms;
and the Der season from late October to late November, a rainy season of
about 36 days.
2.06       Meteorological records have been kept in the project area only
since 1981. Results to date show rainfall is highly variable from year to
year and from place to place, even over very short distances. During five
years at Kurtun Waarey, annual rainfall averaged 588 mm, with a range from
357 mm to 832 mm. Slightly higher averages (612 mm) were recorded at
Sablaale (Annex 2, Table 1). On a number of occasions however, one site
received good seasonal rain whilst the other did not. Air temperatures are



-7-
relatively high (maximum about 350C) and relatively uniform (Annex 2, Table
2). Wind speeds are medium to high for a majority of the year. Soil
temperatures are uniformly in the upper 200C and lower 300C and cbange
little with depth. Relative humidity readings are high, ranging from 76X
in January to 92X in July (Annex 2, Table 3). Evaporation levels are very
high, with an annual average of about 2,700 mm which is 4 to 5 times
average annual rainfall.
Water Resources
2.07       Surface Water.  The Shebelli River flows in a south westerly
direction parallel to the coastline and adjacent to the western edge of the
project areas. It rises in the Etisiopian highlands, has a catchment of
300,000 sq. km and is over 700 km in length. Its unregulated flow averages
1,800 mcm per annum, most of the flow occuring In the guu and der seasons.
A study of the water resources of the Shebelli available for irrigation
shows that there is bare'ly sufficient capacity for irrigation of existing
schemes let alone expansion. The Shebelli is an important source of water
for nomadic stock especially when water holes (uars) go dry during the
Jilaal and Hagal periods. The river flows are neither regulated nor
managed to ensure continued water supplies for domestic and livestock
purposes for riparian dwellers.
2.08      Groundwater.  Groundwater is important for domestic and livestock
requirements.  Existing boreholes indicate a shallow aquifer exists near
the river, which increases in depth as distance from the river increases.
It is not available in sufficient volume for irrigation, but the depth and
quantity of the static water level, together with consistently high wind
speeds (para. 2.06), indicate adequate water supplies can be drawn up by
wind Dump for domestic and livestock requirements.
Land Tenure and Use
2.09      Legally all land in Somalia is owned by the State, but in
practice traditional tenure arrangements play an Important role. Since
1975 provision has been made for the issue of leases to individuals for a
maximum of 50 years, with a maximum individually leased area of 30 ha
irrigated or 60 ha rainfed crop land, and subject to the lessee developing
it within two years. In practice, formal lease arrangements have been
confined mainly to irrigated land, state farms and other larger scale
operations. Other farmers rely on traditional tenure and usage rights.
2.10      The area surveyed for the project covers 25,500 ha (para. 2.04),
but excludes a 5 km strip along the Shebelli river, which is cultivated
under controlled and uncontrolled irrigation. The survey area is mostly
unused for any purpose, and is covered by dense acacia scrub which is
virtually Impenetrable to both stock and humans. Tsetse fly is present in
the area limiting its use for livestock now, but with project development
infestation is greatly reduced and a variety of livestock activities become
possible. The project area is beyond the range of natural seasonal
irrigation from the Shebelli river. Within the 5 km strip west of the
project area, some 25,000 ha is accessible to controlled irrigation from
the Shebelli river, whilst another 25,000 ha receives highly variable flood



irrigation. However, salinity of Shebelli river water is a serious problem
compounded by a lack of drainage and no system for water allocation and
management. The proposed Jannale Irrigation Rehabilitation Project, part
of the Master Plan for irrigation of the Lower Shebelli plain, would remedy
some of the above problems, but the supply of irrigation water is clearly
limited on the Shebelli, whilst adjacent land fir rainfed production is
relatively more abundant.
2.11      Elsewhere in the region, traditional rainfed cropping by
smallholders is practiced in isolated small pockets of land, and is highly
risky and opportunistic. Cropping (mainly maize) is concentrated in the
gu season, and is especially uncertain in the der season when in addition
to cereals, sesame and legumes are also cropped. Large Quelea bird
populations restrict the growing of fine grain crops. Crop husbandry is
subsistence and traditional. There is thus a family labor/technology
constraint on the area cultivated and amount produced, which the proposed
project would relax. In addition, stock rearing which constitutes the
traditional pursuit of nomad families, is constrained in parts of the Lower
Shebelli region by fodder supply and by the presence of tsetse and animal
trypanosomiasis. The proposed project relaxes the fodder constraints;
human sleeping sickness has not been recorded in Somalia.
Institutions
2.12      Administration.  The Lower Shebelli region is administered by a
Governor assisted by Commissioners in the Districts of Afgoi, Brava, Kurtun
Waarey, Merca, Qorioley, Sablaale and Wanle Weyn. Civil order is provided
by a Police Commissioner and his force, and regional security by the army.
2.13      Cooperatives.  The bulk of agricultural production is private,
and there are no cooperatives In the districts of Kurtun Waarey and
Sablaale. Agricultural cooperatives of two main types nevectheless exist
in Somalia - multi purpose and group farm. They have, however, suffered
from a variety of problems and presently face limited acceptance fvim
outside and within their membership.
2.14      State Farms.  Of the country's 16 state farms, 9 are located in
the Lower Shebelli region, totalling 45,000 ha. The farms are under
utilized, have built up large losses and face financing, equipment and
working capital shortages, as well as management problems. Recent
government policy has been to settle smallholders on state farms, or
otherwise reduce the burden of the inefficient state farm operations.
2.15      Government Services.  Government has traditionally provided a
wide range of services to the agriculture sector, including extension
(through the IDA assisted Agricultural Farm Management and Extension
Training Project - APMET); animal health and forestry (through the Ministry
of Livestock, Forestry and Range); agricultural research (through the
Central Agricultural Research Station - CARS of the Agricultural Research
Institute - ARI); domestic and livestock water supply development (through
the Land and Water Resources Department); tractor and machinery hire
services (through ONAT); seeds (through the Seed Multiplication Center);
credit (through the Commercial and Saving Bank of Somalia and the Somali



-9-
Development Bank); and, to a decreasing extent, marketing (through ADC).
With the exception of extension however, all of the institutions involved
suffer from budgetary constraints, lack of trained staff, extremely low
salaries and benefits, and insufficient transport and housing, and the
services rendered are quite inadequate. It is often necessary to reinforce
such services wlthin a specific project, which is the case in the proposed
project.
2.16      Settlement Development Agency (SDA).  The SDA is designated
responsible for Government settlements. It is administratively linked to
MOA, as a semi autonomous agency, and has administered the field trials on
which the proposed project is based. SDA was established in the mid 1970s
to resettle drought stricken nomads, and at the height of its activity was
responsible for a number of large scale resettlement projects. With the
easing of the refugee crisis and the completion of most of the projects for
which it was responsible, the SDA workload is now much reduced. As a
result, there is considerable excess staff capacity within SDA.
Infrastructure and Marketing
2.17      Although the region has a limited road network, the project area
Is reasonably well served by roads. It lies to the northwest of the main
paved road from Mogadishu to Kismayo, with access to the settlements by an
all weather, paved road of 20 km to Kurtun Waarey, and a deteriorated all
weather, paved road of 26 km to Sablaale. There are, in addition, rough,
dry weather access roads within the project survey area along soil survey
tracelines. A wide range of commercial services is available in the nearby
large towns of Brava and Merca, with most goods and services required on a
routine basis being available at the settlements of Kurtun Waarey and
Sablaale as well as the small towns along the Mogadishu to Kismayo road.
2.18      ADC still maintains some activity in buying cereals in the area,
though its role has been greatly reduced as a result of changes in
Government policy which eliminated the Government monopoly on grain
marketing. It still operates as a buyer of last resort, and thie function
is important in Sablaale, where the commercial produce market is at
present relatively undeveloped. This role will be enhanced through
improvements in Government's role in grain marketing and the management of
food aid following the establishment of operating principles in these
areas, the latter being a condition of effectiveness of the Agricultural
Sector Adjustment Program (para. 1.06). At Kurtun Waarey a thriving town
market has developed and most surplus produce from the existing trials area
is sold there.
B. ProJect Formulation and Rationale
2.19      The settlements at Kurtun Waarey and Sablaale were &itablished in
1974 as relief camps following the 1973 and 1974 droughts. Af.ar the
emergency, attention turned to the question of providing gainful employment
for the refugees living in the camps. In 1976 a Drought Rehabilitation
Project was signed between the GOS and IDA which provided, amongst other
things, for the development of dryland farming at Kurtun Waarey, Sablaale



- 10 -
and a further refugee settlement at Dujuma. The project, at full
development after four years, was expected to produce 7,000 tonnes of maite
and sorghum per year, which would provide basic food for 7,000 families or
about 35,000 people. By 1979, however, after US$3.8 million had been
expended, only 1,275 ha had been cleared (compared to a target of 15,000
ha), and 860 ha was cropped, producing about 300 tonnes 3/. This failure
led to a mid term review in 1980, which resulted in consultants being
appointed to take over the rainfed farming operations at Kurtun Waarey and
Sablaale, to expand the area under cultivation, and to conduct large scale
trials of rainfed cropping using new techniques. In addition, a training
program for Somali staff was also instituted. As the Project Completion
Report notes concentration on the key aspects and introduction of the bare
fallow SMR farming system resulted in five fold increases in crop yields
(para. 1.11). It concluded that where the- potential for introducing the
SNR farming system exists, and the settlers' Interest in this type of
farming is established, future prospects based on the trial results are
promising. In addition the long term program to train Somali managers has
been successful, to the extent that they now competently handle farm
operations on the two existing farms. Meanwhile although the Project
officially closed in September 1984 and funds were fully disbursed, trials
and project preparation have continued 4/ with further experience gained
in implementing the technology and continued training of Somali managers.
2.20      However, the trials phase is incomplete, and full development of
the technology was not possible for a number of reasons. The project was
improvised with undisbursed funds from the Drought Rehabilitation Project,
whilst Interruptions In funding after the Credit was closed and In supplies
(e.g. fuel), due to country wide shortages, prevented continuous effective
implementation of the SMR system. As a result, a number of issues related
to the success of SMR were not fully evaluated. For example, soil
selection was poor, bare fallows could not be consistently maintained and
thus soil moisture conservation levels have been less than optimal. There
was a high dependence on maize in the cropping pattern and on foreign
exchange. The distance of settlers from their farms (up to 7 kms) was not
satisfactorily tackled, and has worked to the detriment of farmers'
interest in their land. In addition there was no operating extension
system through which to impart messages to farmers, and no cost recovery
mechanism. Yields and overall performance have therefore not been up to
projected potential, reflecting the sensitivity of the system not only to
good management, but also to the availability of necessary inputs and
motivated farmer participation. In general, there has been insufficient
time to fully evaluate the SMR system.
3/  the reasons for the shortfall are set out in the Project Completion
Report dated September 20, 1985, paras. 12 and 13 (available on Project
4/ These activities were financed under the Bay Region Agricultural
Development Project (Credit 972-SO) until September 1985. Thereafter
under the North-West Region Agricultural Development Project - Phase 1I
(Credit 1538-S0)*



- 11 -
2.21      The PCR sets out the future challenges to a successful expansion
of the basic concept of combining large scale mechanized farming and
smallholder crop management. They are: (1) austainability; (ii) building
local institutions capable of liplementing and managing large scale
production; and (iII) developing appropriate policies for cost recovery and
incentives to producers. Methods to resolve problems faced under the
existing trials project (para. 2.20) and the challenges outlined above have
been included in project formulatior. This pilot project would build upon
past success, addresses the challenges posed in the PCR and also ensures
that: (i) the viability of the system would be fully tested through the
addition of 4 FMUs (para. 3.01); (it) adequate resources would be available
for investment and inputs; (Wi) farmers would be located close to their
land in all locations (pata. 4.03); (iv) production would be sustainable
(para. 4.14); (v) an independent lnstitutioh for project implementation
would be formulated for later introduction (paras. 3.01 and 4.08); and (vi)
cost recovery would be introduced (para. 6.05). It should be noted that
producer incentives have already been Introduced and are stimulating grain
production nationally (paras. 1.04 and 1.07).
III. THE PROJECT
A. ProJect Objectives
3.01      The project would build on the existing field trials carried out
since 1981 on the two farm management units (FMUs) at Kurtun Waarey and
Sablaale (paras. 2.19 and 2.20). It would have development and production
objectives divided into two phases. Both phases together would result in a
farm of 12 farm management units (FMUs) of 1,200 ha. each. The first phase
project (a pilot) would approach that goal by adding a further 4 FMUs to
the two existing ones, whilst at the same time further developing the
technology and determining (and possibly introducing) the institution to
manage both phases (pars. 4.08). Thus over an eight year period the
project would: (i) further develop SMR farming technology In Somalia
through onsite adaptive research and trials; (11) investigate the most
appropriate Somali inastitutional structures to manage semi-mechanized
farming activities, which would be self sustaining and serve as models for
replication elsewhere; (iII) transfer management skills to Somalis to
manage the new enterprise, and farming skills to Somali farmers to benefit
from SMR farming technology; and (iv) increase cereals and other crop
production, and prospective and smallholder farmers' incomes.
B. MoJect Description
3.02      The project would include:
(a)  settlement of a further 400 failles making, together with the
existing settlers, a total of 600 families;
(b)  expansion of the present 1,800 ha to 4,680 ha of cultivated area,
and an increase from 600 ha to 2,520 ha of bush strip;



- 12 -
(c) provision of 35 km of earth roads for Internal accessibility;
(d)  provision of housing, office space and ,ater supplies at the FMUs
and at the propject headquarters at Sablaale;
(e)  provision of vehicles, machinery, equipment, staff (including
technical assistance) and inputs for project related management,
research, and monitoring and evaluation activities;
(f) assistance to settle project farmers and to establish their own
forest areas (commodity assistance and seedlings);
(g)  overseas training and study tours, and training of farmers in SMR
farming technology through extenision; and
(h) studies to determine the feasibility of expanding SMR farming,
including its environmental impact, detailed preparation of
future projects, as well as implementation of mitigatory
environmental measures.
C. Detailed Features 5/
PIU - Central Services (US$3.1 million)
3.03      To initiate project implementation a Project Implementation Unit
(PIU), headed by a Project Director with terms of reference (Annex 5)
acceptable to the Association, would be formed reporting to the General
Manager, SDA (para. 4.01),  The PIU would initially operate from SDA's
offices in Mogadishu, but move to the field on completion of two houses, a
machinery compound and office and storeroom at both Kurtun Waarey and
Sablaale. Vehicles, equipment and staff and operating costs would also be
provided. The PIU would expand as FMUs begin operating. Hence additional
houses for senior staff in the field would be provided as well as an
office/storeroom, water supply facilities, seed and chemical stores,
vehicles and equipment, and staff and operating costs. Included in the
staff costs are a Deputy Project Director (60 staff months), a Financial
Controller (60 staff months), and an Agricultural Engineer (39 staff
months) all of whom would be internationally recruited. Of the total 159
staff months of expatriate assistance, 21 staff months would be financed
under a PPF (para. 3.15).
PIU - Farm Development (US$1.8 million)
3.04      Farm development consists of land clearing for cultivated areas
and bush strips, construction of flood protection bunds, road construction
for internal accessibility, nursery establishment for bush strips and
construction of facilities at each FMU.  The project would provide the PIU
with buildings as well as bulldozers and necessary equipment for land
clearing and the necessary inputs for reforestation of bush strips. The
project would also provide staff and other operating costs during the
5/ All amounts in this Section are shown at base costs.



- 13 -
development phase. The bulldozers and major land clearing equipment would
be utilized in subsequent project development or could be sold.
PIU - Farm Management Units (US$2.8 million)
3.05      At the field level there would be six FMUs under the PIU of 1,200
ha each. The 6 units represent the appropriate size on which to carry out
experiments of a pilot nature and would give the P1U (para. 3.03)
experience in managing several units, whilst spreading the overhead costs
over a reasonable number. Each PNU would consist of 780 ha of cultivated
area and 420 ha of bush strips on which 100 farm families would be
settled. It would be serviced by 3 (100 HP) four wheel drive tractors and
related agricultural and other equipment, and a pick up vehicle. Staff,
consisting of a farm manager, a mechanic, tractor drivers and
laborers/watchmen would be provided by the project. In addition the
project would provide farm inputs, vehicle, machinery and equipment
operating costs and other miscellaneous operating costs.
PIU - Training (US$0.4 million)
3.06      Under the existing pilot project at Kurtun Waarey and Sablaale
six farm managers have been trained and a further two are presently under
training. The project would thus have enough trained farm managers to
operate the six FMUs. However both the farm managers and PIU's senior
management would be inexperienced in managing the commercial agricultural
entity envisaged either later under this project or in the second phase
project (para. 4.08), and therefore training courses would be provided. In
a3ddition the project would provide courses in workshop management, land
clearing and dryland farming research. Short term courses in farm
economics, extension, and monitoring and evaluation would also be
provided. Finally, in the expectation that the mid term review (para.
4.25) and studies (para. 3.07) would lead to the preparation of a second
phase project, training for an additional six farm managers would be
provided.
PIU - Project Studies and Environmental Measures (US$ 0.6 million)
3.07      In order to assess the environmental impact of the two phases of
this project (para. 3.01), the project would provide for a study, the
recommendations of which would be submitted to IDA for comments not later
than December 31, 1990. Appropriate assurances were obtained during
negotiations. A mid term review would then be carried out (para. 4.25)
which would, inter alia, assess the feasibility of developing the second
phase project. A decision would be arrived at by the end of project year 4
as to whether further projects are likely. On the assumption that they
are, the project would provide for aerial photography, soil and livestock
studies, and subsequent project preparation if expansion of the project
concept is deemed justified. It would also provide goods, services and
training to carry out mitigatory envi^onmental measures in line with the
recommendations of the environmental study.



- 14 -
MOA - Monltoring and Evaluation (US$0.3'mlllion)
3.08      Monitoring and evaluation in Somalia's agrlculture sector is at
present ad hoc, carried out by various project Implementing units. The
Planning and statistics Department in MDA9 which also carries out
monitoring and evaluation functions, attempts to keep track of each
project's status, but its facilities are inadequate. To assist the
Department in carrying out its evaluation function in this project (para.
4.24), accommodation for enumerators, vehicles and equipment and staff and
operating costs would be prov1ded. The project would also provide an
internationally recruited technical specialist (12 months) who would be
recruited In project year 1, and would spend one to two months each year
assisting in baseline studies and subsequent evaluation of project
activities and beneflciaries. Project monitoring would be carried out by
the PIU (para. 4.22).
SDA - Farmer Assistance (US$0.3 million)
3.09      The project would provide commodity aid to farmers initially
under the World Food Programme's (WFP's) Food for Work project in Somalia
(para. 3.17). The aid would: (i) provide food for 18 months on a full
ration family basis for newly settled farmers during their first two
harvests before the bare fallow system would be able to effectively
conserve moisture; and (11) assist farmers for 24 months on a quarter
ration family basis In establishing bush strips by providing food as an
incentive to prevent livestock grazing on the newly established saplings.
The food ald would consist of maize, oil and sugar but because the first
two commodities are in surplus In the project area, the project would
provide the cash equivalent from their sale in Mogadishu. The component
would be administered through SDA whose performance it administering this
kind of assistance has been satisfactory.
CARS/PIU - Adaptive Research (US$1.5 million)
3.10      The few adaptive trials carried out under the existing project
permitted only minor adjustments in the SMR farming technology used In
Australia. The very promising results obtained make it clear that further
substantial benefits - in yields, soil moisture retention and cropping mix
-- can be obtained from detailed and systematic research and adaptive
trials. To improve results In the proposed project and in preparation for
wider area expansion, continued and sustained adaptive research Is
supported under the project (para. 1.11): an office/laboratory, 3 houses,
4 small seed and chemical stores, water supply facilities, vehicles,
machinery and equipment, staff and operating costs. Included in staff
costs is an Internationally recruited Senior Agronomist (72 months). The
adaptive research work would be under the technical direction of CARS at
Afgol, the existing local research Institution, for which a Research
Coordinator would be appointed and provided for under the project. The key
staff would be appointed by not later than the start of the project
(January 1, 1988). Assurances on these arrangements were obtained at
negotiations.



15 -
APNET/PIU - Extension (US$0.1 million)
3.11      The earlier trials project provided only basic services in land
preparation and planting (paras. 2.19 and 2.20).   Extension would be
introduced under this project using technical direction and coordination
from APHET, the IDA supported extension service. AFMET would also be
responsible for organizing and supervising adaptive trials in crop
husbandry and management oi farmers' fields. To facilitate implementation,
the project would rehabilitate one classroom each at Kurtun Waarey and
8ablaale, and build six low cost, local design settlement meeting centers
(one at each FMU), and four houses for extension staff, as well as provide
vehicles and equipment, staff and operating costs.
D. Status of Engineeritng
3.12      All components of the project were prepared by the Government's
project preparation consultants, who have proposed design recommendations
and general specifications which have been modified as necessary, and
agreed between the IDA appraisal mission, SDA and MOA.
3.13      More specifically, agreement has been reached on (i) farm design,
location and layout, (li) land clearance methods, and machinery and
equipment requirements and specifications to carry out the work, (iii) road
design, location, layout, required materials, and machinery and equipment
requirements and specifications to carry out the work, (iv) design and
methods of providing water supply including windmill specifications, (v)
machinery and equipment requirements and specifications to carry out SMR
farming and adaptive trials, (vi) workshop and other equipment requirements
and specifications, (vii) spares requirements for all vehicles, machinery
and equipment, and (viii) outline designs of buildings and their
specifications.  Refinement of these engineering requirements would be
determined by specialists financed under the PPP (para. 3.15).
E. Cost Estimates
3.14      Total cost of the project is estimated at US$15.0 million
equivalent, of which US$11.9 million, or 79%, is foreign exchange costs,
and US$3.1 million, or 21%, local costs. No duties and taxes have been
included since in this, as in other IDA projects in Somalia, Government
investments are free of duties and taxes. Of the total project amount;
US$6.1 million consist of investmen' costs while US$8.9 million consist of
recurrent costs. Costs are based on estimated January 1987 prices and
reflect recent quotations and appraisal estimates. Physical contingencies
of 15% have been applied to all civil works and of 10% to all other project
components. Price contingencies amount to US$2.9 million or 26% of base
costs plus physical contingencies, and estimated rates are detailed in
Annex 1, Table 1. The Implicit exchange rate reflects price contingencies
based on constant purchasing power parity of the Somali Shilling, A
sumaary of project component costs over time is given In Annex 3, Table 1,
a table of summary accounts by project component in Annex 3, Table 2, and
details of component costs in Annex 3, Tables 3 to 11. A summary by
component is given in Table 1 below.



- 16 -
3.15             In order to maintain the momentum of start up activities from the
existing pilot project a PPF of US$1.3 million has been approved to cover
the cost of: (i) facilities, vehicles, equipment, initial staffing
(including technical assistance) and other operating costs of the PIU
(US$644,000); (ii) purchase of machinery and equipment for land clearing,
flood bund and road construction, and inputs for reforestation all of which
are part of Initial farm development costs (US$755,000); and (iii) a study
tour of land clearing techniques for the land clearing officer
(US$12,000). The PPF iould be refinanced out of the proceeds of the IDA
Credit. Details of the PPF are set out in Annex 3, Table 12.
Table 1
PROJfCT -MT SUINARY
(SO.SH: Million)                           WSS    _I lon)
I Total                                 t Total
I Foreign   ,"                          S Foreign  8&.
Lotl Foreign Total   Ehoh.w       Costs   tocal Foroign Total Exohanp   Co t
A. PROJECI IMPLENENTATION tUIT (P1WU
1. CENTRAL SERVICES                                             45.3   175.Y   221.2         80       29    0.6     2.5   3.2         60      29
2. FARIN DEVELOPIENT                                             20.0   100.0   126.0         84      Is    0.3     1.5   1.8         U4      Is
3. FAIN MAIIAAGEENT UNITS                                       54.3   138.9  t93.2           72      25    0.8     2.0   2.8         72      25
4. TRAINING                                                         -    26.5    IL65        tOO       J             0.4   0.4      100       3
5. PROJECT STUDIES AND
ENVIRONMEIItAL NEASURtS                                         -    42.4    42.4        tOo        6      -     0.6   0.8        tO0       6
Sub-lotal PROJECT IMPLENENTAT ION UNIT (PIP)                       II9.9   489.6  60.2           s0      S0    1.7     7.0   8. I        80      g0
. NINISTRY Of AGRICULTURE
.......................
1. MNITORING AND EVALUATION                                      6.4 * 14. f   20.5          59       3    0.1      0.2   0.8        6S        3
Sub-Total NINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE                                    6.4    14. 1   20.5        s9        3    0.1     0.2   0.3        6s        3
C. SETTLEMNT DEVELOPMENT AGENCY (SOA)
1. FARMER ASSISTANCE                                             2.9    17.8   20.7          II       3    0.0      0.3   0.3         86       3
Sub-Ttal SETTLEMENT DEVELOPMET AGCY  SOA)                            2.9    17.6    20.1         Sf8      3    0.0     0.3   0.3         a6       3
0. CENTRAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH STAt1ON 1CARS)I
PMOJECT IPLEEIITEtATION UNIT
1. ADAPTIVE RESEARCH                                            20.5    85.4   105.9         Sl       14    0.3     1.2   1.5         at      14
Sb-Total CENTRAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH STATION ICARS)/                   .      * -       - -       ------- ----- ------- _-_-  --------  -------
PROJECT INPLENENTATION UNIT                                     20.5    55.4  15.9          81        4    0.3     1.2   1.S         8t      14
E. AGRICULTURAL FARM MANAGEMENT AND
*EXTENSION TRAINING PRJECT (AFRET)
1. EXTENSION                                                     7.4      2.2     9.6        23        I   0.1      0.0   0.1        23        1
Sub-Total AGRICULTURAL FAIR NANAGENENT                                             I.-D
EXTENSION TRAINING PRMJECT (AFNEI)                               7.4      2.2     3.6        23        1   0. 1     0.0   0.1         23       1
T'tal BASELINE COSTS                                                 .       6091"   765.9         80     100    2.2     6.7  10.9         80     ;00
Phyesl Contfinpmin s                                               t9    64.6    81.5          79       It   0.2      0.9   1.2         79      It
Pr;oe Contingpnies                                               21.1  1 t30.    981.2         74      128    0. 7    2.2   2.9         77      26
Total PROWECT COSTS                                                  424.8 $,403.8 1,828.6         77     239    3.1    11.9  15.0         79     137
Baevsseys ISt,ta* 1   1a65st  ts5z x sx *a***
_,,___.__.._.....    .......................................................... .............................................__...............__..______________________________________
Fbrry  19, 1U9   18:55



-17-
F. Financing Plan 6/
3.16 '   ,roject costs would be financed in the following amounts and
proportvbn):,
Table 2
Financing Plan'
Local       Foreign             Z of Total
Source of             Currency    Exchange   Total   Project
Finance             Costs        Costs      Costs   Total Costs
I                --     --------- - US$ million --------
I      1.   IDA Credit                  1.6         11.8       13.4        89
2.   World Food Programme        -            0.1        0.1         1
3.   Government of Somalia       1.5          -          1.5        10
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS         3.1        11.9        15.0      100
The proposed Credit would be on standard IDA terms to GOS.  US$ 0.4 million
would be retained by Government for its MOA to carry out monitoring and
evialuation activities under the project.  US$10.5 million would be
allocated to PIU by Government for initial project implementation costs,
farm development costs, FIU capital equipment and operating costs,
technical assistance and implementation of the training and studies
components.  Of the amount passed on to PIU, US$3.0 million would be
recover*d from far*ers for the capital costs of the FMUs.  During
negoriations, assurances were obtained that US$0.2 million and US$2.1
million would be passed on as a grant to APHET and CARS for Implementation
of the extension and adaptive research components respectively; whilst
US$0.2 million would be passed on as a grant to SDA for farmer assistance;
and that the capital costs would bear an interest rate of not less than
15%, az4 would be recovered over 10 years with two years period of grace.
/ ` I
3.17 ',' Under cofinancing arrangements the World Food Programme would
pravM3' 'ommodity aid under its Food for Work Project (Project SON 719 -
Expans4on II) as described in para. 3.09. However this project is
"scheduled to 'close on December 31, 1989, some two years before required
assistance would end under this project.  Although likely, WFP can give no
official assurance that commodity aid would be financed by them in 1990 and
1991* Mi"equently IDA and GOS would cofinance the two later years, and
thie) as been included in the financing plan.
- $.18   Project financing by the financing agencies for the different
citegories of goods and services is set out in Table 3 below:
,j 
/ ;  All amounts In this section include contingencies unless otherwise
stated.



18 -
Table 3
Financing for Different Categories of Works, Goods and Services
Financing Category                    IDA         WFP       GOS        Total
        ----- US$ million
Civil Works                            1.5                  0.3          1.8
Vehicles, Machinery                   2.3                   0.1          2.4
and Equipment I/
Training                              0.6                                0.6
Project Studies and
Environmental Measures              0.9                                0.9
Farmer Assistance                     0.2         0.1       0.1          0.4
Annual Operating Costs
(a) Salaries                         1.5                   0.2          1.7
(b) Technical Assistance             2.9                                2.9
(c) Vehicles, Machinery              2.5                   0.2          2.7
and Equipment
(d) Innuts                           0.5                   0.1          0.6
(e) Supplies & Maintenance           0.5                   0.5          1.0
TOTAL                       13.4        0.1        1.5        15.0
I/ Including initial spares.
G.  Procurement 7/
3.19      Items to be financed under the IDA Credit would be procured as
outlined in paras. 3.20 to 3.23 and assurances to this effect were obtained
from Government at negotiations. Table 4 below summarizes the procurement
arrangements of all project items.
7/ All amounts in this section include contingencies unless otherwise
stated.



- 19 -
Table 4
Procurement Arrangements 1/
Procurement Method                Total
Project Blement                ICB     LCB    Other 2/        N.A 3/  Cost
Us$ million-
- Civil Works                     1.5      0.3                            1.8
(1.2)   (0.3)                          (1.5)
- Vehicles, Machinery and         2.4                                     2.4
Equipment                    (2.3)                                   (2.3)
- Training                                                      0.6       0.6
(0.6)     (0.6)
- Project Studies and                                           0.9       0.9
Environmental Measures                                    (0.9)      (0.9)
(0.6)     (0.6)
- Farmer Assistance                                 0.2         0.2       0.4
i )       (0.2)     (0.2)
- Annual Operating Costs
(a)  Salaries                                                1.7        1.7
(1.5)     (1.5)
(b)  Technical Assistance                                    2.9        2.9
(2.9)     (2.9)
(c)  Vehicles, Machinery                                     2.7        2.7
and Equipment                                          (2.5)      (2.5)
(d)  Inputs                                                  0.6        0.6
(0.5)     (0.5)
(e)  Supplies and maintenance                                1.0        1.0
(0.5)     (0.5)
TOTAL                    3.9     0.3      0.2        10.6      15.0
(3.5)   (0.3)     (-)        (9.6)    (13.4)
I/ Figures in parenthesis are amounts financed by IDA.
2/ Includes items funded by the other cofinancier and will be procured in
accordance with their regulations (US$0.1 million in commodity aid by
WP).
3/ Includes limited International bidding, purchases off the shelf,
negotiated contract and engagement of consultants.
3.20      Works.  Buildings at PIU Headquarters and at FMUs, as well as
those used in adaptive research, and for monitoring and evaluation,
totalling US$1.3 million, would be grouped into packages to cost the
equivalent of US$0.1 million or more each for tendering and erection as
prefabricated buildings and would be procured by ICB in accordance with
World Bank guidelines (issued May 1985) for works and goods. Erected
windmills and accompanying jackpumps for the water supply sites, totalling
US$0.2 million, would be also procured under ICB. Civil works would



- 20 -
qualify for a 7.5% domestic preference under ICB procurement. Classroom
rehabilitation and settlement meeting centers for the extension component,
and the remaining works at the water supply sites, totalling US$0.3
million, would be let under LCB procedures satisfactory to IDA (and which
would allow foreign firms to participate). Experience in other projects
indicates there is a local capacity to complete such works. Procurement
packages would cover all works under the project. Land clearing and road
building works would be carried out by a unit specially created for the
task because of the otherwise excessive cost of using foreign or local
contractors. Similar work has been carried out under the existing pilot
project and there are sufficient trained operators.
3.21      Goods.  Vehicles, machinery and equipment, including initial
spares totalling US$2.4 million for the PIII, land clearance, flood bund and
road construction, buildings, crop production by PIU and its FMUs, adaptive
research, monitoring and evaluation, and extension would be grouped into
procurement packages and procured under ICB. For fuel and lubricants and
farm inputs totalling US$2.0 million limited international bidding (LIB)
procedures would be used. For purchases of spare parts totalling US$1.1
million negotiated contracts with vehicle, machinery and equipment
manufacturers would be concluded. For other goods costing under US$20,000
equivalent per item and totalling no more than US$200,000, local shopping
or purchasing off-the-shelf after obtaining at least three quotations would
be used. Together with the items in para. 3.20 ICB procurement of works
and goods would account for 52% of IDA project procurement of works and
goods, LCB would be 4X, LIB would be 27%, and negotiated contract 15%. The
remainder (2%) would be by local shopping.
3.22      Contract Review.  All bidding packages for works and goods
estimated to cost over US$0.25 million equivalent would be subject to prior
IDA review of procurement documentation. This would result in a coverage
of about 80% of the total estimated value of the contracts. The balance of
contracts would be subject to random post review by IDA after contract
award.
3.23      Technical Services.  The consultants listed in Annex 4, Table 1
would be hired in accordance with the Bank's guidelines (issued August
1981) on the use of consultants. They would have terms of reference,
qualifications and terms and conditions of employment satisfactory to IDA.
Assurances to this effect were obtained from GOS during negotiations.
Services for aerial photography would be obtained through LIB.
H.  Disbursement 8/
3.24      The proceeds of the Credit would be disbursed over nine years
(Annex 1, Table 2) in line with Somalia's disbursement profile against the
following categories of expenditure: (a) civil works - 100% of foreign and
90% of local expenditures; (ii) vehicles, machinery and equipment - 100% of
foreign and 90% of local expenditures; (c) technical assistance, training,
8/ All amounts in this section include contingencles unless otherwise
stated.



- 21 -
studies and farmers assistance - 100%; (d) vehicle, machinery and equipment
operating costs, farm inputs, and supplies and maintenance costs - 100% of
foreign and 90% of local expenditures; (e) goods and services for
environmental measures - 100%; and (f) salaries - 90%. Further details of
the disbursement arrangements are outlined in Annex 1, Table 3.
Disbursements are expected to be completed by June 30, 1996.
3.25      Disbursement against all items would be based on full
documentation, except for force account, salaries, assistance to farmers,
and contracts for goods and services of less than $20,000 which would only
require Statements of Expenditure (SOEs). The project agencies would have
adequate staff and controls for the preparation of SOEs, for which
supporting documentation would be kept, and subsequently reviewed by
auditors (para. 3.30). The documentation would be readily available for
review by IDA representatives during the course of project supervision.
3.26      Special Account.  In order to ensure that funds for the project
would be made available when needed, and to reduce the number of small
applications to be processed, a special account would be established in US
Dollars at the Central Bank. Upon Credit effectiveness, IDA would deposit
an amount of US$0.4 million in the special account. This amount
corresponds to about three months expenditures under the project. All
disbursements from the account would be authorized by the Director PIU or
by his designated representative.
3.27      Government Contributions.  In order to ensure that Government
contributions to project costs are available when needed, the Government
would establish a bank account into which it would deposit its share of
project costs at the beginning of each quarter. The initial amounts to be
deposited, corresponding to about three months project expenditures, would
be So.Sh. 5 million. Establishment of this account and the deposit of
So.Sh. 5 million by GOS would be conditions of Credit effectiveness.
Disbursement authorization would be the same as for IDA's account (para.
3.26).
I. Information Systems, Accounts and Audits
3.28      Under the project, balance sheets, statements of revenues and
expenditures, and statements of sources and applications of funds
(financial statements) of PIU, and a receipts and payments account (project
account) would be prepared following the close of each fiscal year. An
auditor's opinion and long form report satisfactory to the Association on
such accounts and statements would be initially provided within nine months
of the close of the fiscal year. This would be reduced to six months from
the fiscal year ending December 31, 1989. Similar arrangements with
independent auditors acceptable to IDA are in place for other IDA assisted
projects in Somalia. Assurances were nbtained during negotiations on the
above points and also that accounts would be maintained in accordance with
sound and generally recognized accounting principles and practices
acceptable to the Association. In order to assist in this, the project
would provide an internationally recruited Financial Controller from the
formation of PIU, as well as the fees of an independent auditor.



-22-
3.29      Project accounts as well as SOEs (para. 3.25) for the APMET and
CARS administered components would be maintained by PIU, whilst those for
SDA's and MDA's components would be maintained by SDA and MOA
respectively. The same assurances on these accounts and SOE's as apply to
PIU's project account were obtained from Government at negotiations.
J. Environmental Impact
3.30      The project would be situated in an area of some 19,500 square
kilometers (1.95 million ha) of principally bush, sparsely populated by
nomadic herdsmen in the dry season and largely uninhabited in the wet
season when tsetse flies infest the land. The area had supported at one
time a large population of wild animals, especially deer, baboons, warthogs
and diverse bird species, although most of these are no longer present.
The establishment of the four new PMUs would involve clearing bush from
about 2,880 ha and settling some 400 families in four village settlements
within the project area. The project has been designed to minimize the
environmental effects of land clearing. Forty percent of the area would be
left in bush strips which would be aligned as shelter belts at right angles
to the prevailing wind to prevent soil erosion. Trees would be planted
within the bush strips to increase cover and to offset fuelwood and fodder
collection by settlers. Protection of the bush strips as part of the
farming system would be emphasized in settler training programmes. In
addition to the bush strips, large areas of land unsuitable for either
rainfed farming or settlement would be left uncleared.
3.31      An environmental reconnaissance mission 9/ concluded that the
proposed project area now has limited conservation value. But to prevent
possible further degradation of the area, the project would provide funds
for an environmental study and the implementation of measures to mitigate
any adverse impact on the environment (para. 3.07).
IV. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. General
4.01      Overall responsibility for project Implementation would rest with
SDA, a semi autonomous agency of MDA (para. 2.16). A PIU reporting to the
General Manager, SDA, would be set up and would be primarily lnvolved in
carrying out the actions necessary to implement the proposed project
(para. 4.08). In addition the farmers settling in the project areas would
play an important role in project implementation and execution.
9/ The report of the mission is on the Project File.



- 23 -
B. Project Execution
Human Settlements
4.02      General.   The project would involve the settlement of a further
400 farm households in addition to the 200 families in the existing pilot
project, and about 60 support staff and their families, in the project
area. Also, a considerable number of people providing social and
commercial services would cettle in the area to provide services to the
settler communities. The total population In the project area would
probably reach 800 households or about 5,000 people when the project is
complete.
4.03      Settlement Strategy.  Farming operations would be organized in
FMUs of 1,200 ha and 100 settlers each, which conforms to the area and
number of settlers appropriate to the capacity of a standard complement of
farm machlnery and holdings of just over 7 ha arable land per settler and
nearly 5 ha of bush strips. Each FMU would have 7 staff providing
mechanization and other farm services (para. 4.11). Allowance would also
be made for settlement of others who provide social and commercial
services.  An area of 30 ha would be allowed for these services in each
farm unit. Important considerations in choosing the sites for settlemetts
would be providing easy access for settlers to their farming areas, the
availability of water, and avoiding excessively clayey soils which provide
poor foundations for local buildings. The preferred farm layout would
Involve maximum distances from houses to farms of less than 2 km. In
practice, some modification of the layout would be necessary in order to
keep farming operations and buildings on suitable soils, but maximum
walking distance would be kept to a minimum.
4.04      A further settlement would be required at PIU headquarters to
accommodate the staff of the central support organization. Up to 20 people'.
would be employed by PIU and this site would develop into a general service
center for the entire settlement community in the same way that PIU would
provide central support services to farm operations. The headquarters site
would be provided, under the project, with all weather access to be able to
receive deliveries of fuel and other inputs at all times.
4.05      Settler Selection.  To contribute as far as possible to the
social objectives of the Government displaced nomadic pastoralists in the
existing settlement areas would be eligible for selection to join the
project. The Government, as part of its policy to reduce the number to
civil servants, also wishes to provide opportunities for them to'become
farmers. Finally other landless residents in and around the project area
have indicated their interest in joining an expanded rainfed farming
project, with several hundred people at each center having already formally
registered their interest. These people, being familiar with the pilot
projects and rainfed farming in general, would have the greatest chance of
success in the project. It is proposed that a proportion of the project
blocks be allocated to landless people from the area. Not only would they
be likely to succeed on their own land, but would be able to assist the
former public servants and pastoralists who would be less familiar with
rainfed farming.



- 24 -
4.06      Settler selection, using the above groupings as guidelines, would
be carried out by a Settler Selection Committee set up in the PIU at the
commencement of project implementation. The composition of the Committee
and its terms of reference are set out in Annex 5 and the detailed criteria
for settler selection are set out In Annex 6. Agreement was obtained at
negotiations to these arrangements.
Settlement Development Agency
4.07      SDA would have overall responsibility for project policy and
would review project progress with representatives of the project
agencies.
Project Implementation Unit
4.08      The day-to-day project implementation would be handled by the PIU
established under the project. During its existence, the PIU would be
responsible for preparing reports on the project, organizing the project
budget, carrying out project procurement and hiring, acquiring land
required for the project (para. 4.13), selecting settlers and supervising
settlement (para. 4.06), and carrying out land clearing (para. 3.04). Most
importantly the PIU would provide mechanization and other services to
settler farmers (para. 3.05), and would also make proposals for the type of
self sustaining organization to be introduced either later under this
project or in the second phase project through a Future Organization
Structure Committee (with terms of reference set out in Annex 5).
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the terms of reference for
the Committee would be satisfactory to IDA and that it would submit its
proposals in time for the mid term review (para. 4.25), when a decision
would be made as to whether an enlarged follow up project should be
prepared and if so, the proposals for future organization would be
reviewed. PIU's operations under the project would be financed by
allocations from GOS and charges collected from settlers. Given the pilot
nature of the project, the need to refine the technology, and the small
number of FMUs, the costs of common services provided by PIU would be
financed by an allocation from Government during the life of the project,
but cost recovery of the operating costs of each FMU would be in effect.
The financial structure of PIU and cost recovery is described more fully in
para. 6.05.
4.09      The PIU would be headed by a Project Director who would be
supported by a Deputy (provided under technical assistance) with wide
experience in the management of agricultural projects. Other executive
staff would include a Financial Controller, an Agricultural Engineer (both
provided under technical assistance), a Deputy Financial Controller, a Land
Clearing Specialist/Surveyor (during initial land clearing operations), a
Workshop Manger, 6 FMU Managers and a Senior Agronomist (technical
assistance). The Terms of Reference for the Deputy Financial Controller
are set out in Annex 5.
4.10      Organizationally the PIU would be divided into a Central Services
Department, 6 FMUs and a Financial Controller's Department (Chart 1). The
Central Services and Financial Controllers Departments would provide



- 25 -
general technical and managerial support for the farm units; they would
also buy supplies on behalf of all farm units, pay accounts and maintain
accounting records. A small central workshop would be maintained, with
spare parts and facili"Aes for major overhauls. The PIU would also operate
a bulldozer and a grader to maintain flood bunds and access roads
throughout the scheme. The Unit would have facilities to produce, acquire
and store seed for the project and, during the project period, would be
responsible for carrying out the training and studies components. Through
tbh Senior Agriculturalist, PIU would also work with CARS in carrying out
th, adaptive research program and with AFMET in the extension work on
FMUs. Assurances on the administrative arrangements for adaptive research
and extension activities were obtained from Government at negotiations.
4.11      Operations at the farm unit level, which cannot be performed by
settlers, would be performed by the PMUs including: land preparation and
sowing, maintenance of weed free fallows and acquisition of key Inputs
including seed, fuel and parts. Operations at the FMU level would be
controlled by a farm manager trained and experienced In the SMR farming
system. He would be assisted by support staff. Enough trained and
experienced Somalis are available to fill all farm manager positions on the
project. Each farm unit would need a small workshop, with a trained
mechanic for routine servicing and minor repairs of equipment. A storage
shed and office would also be required. Each PMU would operate
independently as far as routine farming operations are concerned. The Farm
Manager would make farming operation decisions within the established
framework of the SNR farming system and in consultation with the settlers
(para. 4.12). Separate accounts for each farm unit and for each settler
would be kept. Farm Managers would be responsible for ensuring that the
production charges on settlers are collected by Settlers Committees (para.
4.12).  The rights and responsibilities of Farm Managers would be set out
in a contract which would include provision for incentive payments related
to cost of services and crop yields.
settler Organization
4.12      Settler Committees have been formed on the existing pilot farms
and, although not legally constituted, operate satisfactorily. Similar
committees for each new FMU would be set up under the project. They would
consist of ten elected members and meet regularly with the PMU Manager.
They would be paid for their services in order to encourage the best
candidates to seek office, to enhance their status in the community and to
instill a sense of responsibility towards their role as settler
representatives. The Settler Committee would be a vital link between farm
management and settlers. They would be responsible for disseminating
extension and other information from PIU management, and they would collect
production charges from settlers. Farm management would be required to
consult the Committees on such matters as the amount of charges to be
collected. The Committees would also be responsible for the development
and administration of systems for disciplining fellow settlers for any
actions which would prejudice the efficient management of the project, and
for carrying out actions affecting settlers based on decisions made by the
PIU. Other settlers would also use committee members to convey their
concerns and suggestions to farm management.



- 26 -
Land Tenure and Leases
4.13      Settlers will need secure land tenure.  Initially this would
require an official designation by 00G that identified project land (IBRD
Map No. 20003) would be specifically for development and use by the
project. This would be a condition of Credit effectiveness. The most
suitable form of tenure for the project, which would complement both the
organizational structure, the technical procedures and the existing laws
(para. 2.09), would be a 50 year renewable leasehold of project land in the
name of SDA with settlers given sub leases. Settlers would thus be granted
a sub leasehold for their twelve hectares of land. Boundaries would be
competently surveyed and marked, and settlers would receive formal, secure
title to their land. Settlers r,ould be entitled to hold the sub lease on
thn land subject to their adherence to agreed conditions. The non
fulfilment of major conditions, particularly those relating to payment of
charges by farmers and maintenance of the farming system, would result in
the termination of the sub lease. Proposed conditions of the sub lease
between SDA and the settlers are set out in Annex 7. Because of the
importance of these arrangements, assurances were obtained from Government
at negotiations that project land would be passed on to SDA in the form of
a standard lease by January 1, 1988, and that land would then be passed on
to settlers as sub leases. Assurances were also obtained that the sub
leases would be satisfactory to IDA and include the provisions set out in
Annex 7.
ProJect Sustainability
4.14      During implementation of this pilot project, the conditions
necessary to ensure project sustainability, in particular maintenance of
production, would be Investigated. Key factors which could hamper project
sustainability are the project's heavy dependence on external support
during implementation and inadequate preparation for subsequent operation
without that support, particularly the development of staff skills,
adequate budgetary allocations, access to foreign exchange, seasonal
variations in production, machinery specifications and security of
machinery services, and incentives. An analysis of project sustainability
matters and the ways this pilot project would tackle them are set out in
Annex 8.
Role of Women
4.15      Women are likely to play a major role in agricultural production
in the project area. The project therefore aims to include women as well
as men farmers and specific steps would be taken to ensure this is
accomplished. These steps include modifications In extension methods,
accessibility to inputs and markets, and farmer representation. This would
require iaput during supervision to assess the situation of women, and to
suggest practical ways of involving them more effectively in agriculture.
Adaptive Research
4.16      The SMR farming system Is based on technology recently Introduced
from other semi arld regions of the world. It is essential that this



- 27 -
technology be fully adapted to Somali conditions and that crops, varieties
and techniques be selected to suit project areas. EarlIer trials have been
ad hoc, carried out by expatriate farm managers as an incidental part of
farm work (para. 3.10). Several topics would be of particular importance
in formulating this program. These include the need to minimize foreign
exchange and operating costs in the tecbnology, to Identify substitute
crops for maize in the rotation because of the latter's predominance in the
benefits and likely future variability of prices, and choice of the species
and bush management methods in the reforestation program. To accomplish
implementation of the program, the project would provide facilities for
adaptive research on about 60 hectares of land at Kurtun Waarey and 60
hectares at Sablaale. The land would be strip cropped, and maintenance and
development would form an integral part of the trials program. The program
would be carried out by CARS under the technical direction of a Research
Coordinator. CARS would also second two research agriculturalists and two
recorders. It would be essential that adaptive research staff lialse with
international research centers, especially ICRISAT and IITA. Funds would
be provided for farms to collect seed, to establish scientific links and to
encourage international research scientists to take an active role In the
adaptive research program. A summary of research and extension activities
in the project area is set out in Annex 4, Table 2. Finally in order to
ensure that research is directed to the needs of farmers, a Research and
Extension Committee would be formed and chaired by the Director, PIU, with
terms of reference as set out in Annex 5.   Assurances were obtained at
negotiations that this Committee would be formed under the chairmanship of
the Director PIU, and would have terms of reference, acceptable to IDA, as
set out in Annex 5, and it would formulate a long term researcb program and
submit such program to IDA by July 1, 1988.
Reforestation
4.17      To ensure maximum production, bush strips must be managed as an
integral and Important part of the SMR farming system. Management of the
bush strips would be important for two other reasons. The strips would be
aligned at right angles to the prevailing winds and provide Important
shelterbelts, which would improve the microclimate in the cropped strips,
reduce wind speed and therefore evaporation,-minimize wind erosion from
bare fallows and reduce wind damage to young seedlings. The bush strips
would also provide a natural environment for wildlife and minimise the
disruption of the ecological balance in the settled areas (see paras. 3.31
and 3.32). Details of bush strip management are set out in Annex 11. With
the improvements proposed, the annual yield of wood would be sufficient to
sustain the average family fuelwood needs.
Livestock
4.18      Early attempts to establish centralised cattle breeding and
intensive poultry schemes on settlement areas at Kurtun Waarey and Sablaale
failed because of disease and inadequate feed. Heavy investment by
Government In livestock enterprises or livestock support services has, at
best, produced low returns.  Meanwhile, although settlers were discouraged
from keeping livestock other than backyard chickens and a few sheep and
goats, the numbers of livestock have increased substantially without



- 28 -
support from Government. It is thus clear that settlers have the skills to
manage livestock in the project area despite tsetse and meagre feed and
water supplies. In the project, settlers would maintain their traditional
livestock system. Detalls of livestock management practices under the
project are set out in Annex 11.
Staff Development. Training and Extension
4.19      Staff Development and Training.  The training element of the
trials program has been successful in producing farm production managers,
based on recruiting Somalis already trained in agriculture, but with
limited practical training. Recruits were give one year's experience on
the project, then sent to an Australian agricultural college for one year's
training in practical aspects of dryland farming, Including the operation
and maintenance of machinery. After an additional one year's experience on
the project, they were regarded as ready to assume farm management
responsibilities. Following the mid term review, and a decision taken to
prepare the second phase project, the training program would resume to
provide Farm Managers for additional settlements (para. 3.06).
4.20      The scope of training would also be expanded to cover other
aspects of dryland farming development. Training programs would cover: (i)
senior management courses in administration for PIU executives; (ii)
management courses to prepare experienced FMU managers to fill more senior
management positions in PIU; (iii) a land clearing study tour to
familiarize the land clearing staff with methods of clearing to be used for
land development; (iv) workshops for the mechanics In PItt to study modern
methods of machinery maintenance and workshop management (this study tour
would involve assistance from the manufacturers of machinery used on the
project); (v) dryland farming research to enable the adaptive research team
to become familiar wit, research programs and farming development in other
countries and at the international agricultural research institutions
(para. 4.16); (vi) basic training for more farm managers if follow on
projects are envisaged (para. 4.19); and (vii) short courses in areas such
as farm economics, extension, and monitoring and evaluation. In addition
to these formal training components, training would be a major part of the
responsibilities of technical assistance personnel. A priority item in the
terms of reference of all expatriate technical assistants would be the
effective training of Somali staff through structured programs to take over
activities by the end of the project.
4.21      Extension.  Under the ongoing IDA assisted Agricultural Farm
Management and Extension Training Project (Credit 905-SO), Lower Shebelli,
Middle Shebelli and Bay regions are covered by the T and V system of
extension. APMET has so far been providing extension services to farmers
who have been practicing settled farming for many years, and the T and V
system of extension has proved to be effective in this situation. However,
in the project areas most settlers will be new to settled farming and the
system is more structured. The T and V. approach would therefore have to be
supplemented with institutional training to farmers. To carry this out, a
coordinator from APMET would be appointed to provide the technical
direction and coordination (para. 3.11) and to place two field extension
agents (PEAs) each in Kurtun Waarey and Sablaale. Details of extension



1                                   - 29 -
methods are set out in Annex 4, Table 2. Institutional training would
include classroom training and therefore assurances were obtained at
negotiations that existing classroom facilities at Kurtun Waarey and
Sablaale would be made available by the Ministry of Education. Further in
view of the expansion of AFMET's role, assurances were obtained from
Government at negotiations that the above institutional arrangements would
be put in place.
Monitoring and Reporting
4.22      Accounting systems, regular reporting and annual budgets and
financial statements would be established under the project (paras. 3.28
and 2.29) all of which would be used to compare results achieved with
planned targets and would provide the link between successive AWPS (para.
4.23). In addition, the PIU would also prepare a project completion
report no later than six months after the completion of the project.
Project components would be monitored by the PIU (para. 3.08) which would
provide SDA with information on the progress made in achieving project
objectives. The inform.tion would be made available as and when
necessary. During negotiations, assurances were obtained that quarterly
progress reports in a format acceptable to IDA would be prepared and
submitted to SDA and copied to IDA. Meanwhile the PIU would collect and
process data into a form usable by project management for assessing whether
schedules and targets are being met and for introducing changes in project
inte.'ventions when necessary.
Annual Work Programs (AWP)
4.23      An AWP would be required prior to the start of each fiscal year,
which would include the necessary details (Annex 9) to enable SDA and MOA
to monitor progress, scrutinize forthcoming programs and provide the
necessary budgetary and other support needed for the project. The AWP
would be prepared by the PIU, submitted to SDA by October 1 each year and
to IDA by November 1 each year, for acceptance to cover the ensuing fiscal
year beginning January 1. Assurances to this effect were obtained at
negotiations. Initial work programs would be prepared within two months of
Credit signing.
Evaluation and Mid Term Review
4.24      Overall project evaluation would be carried out by MOA's Planning
and Statistics Department (para. 3.08) The Department would initially carry
out a baseline study on the project's intended beneficiaries, and would
subsequently introduce a system to gather information on the variables
affecting farmers' incomes. Such variables include farming practices, crop
production, Input supplies, marketing channels available to the farmers,
yield levels, production constraints and indicators of performance of the
institutions serving farmers. The Department would also carry out studies
on alternative farming systems around the project area for comparison with
results obtained under the project. A further important evaluation
function would be the assessment of project results and viability which
would be carried out for the mid term review (para. 4.25) and used as a
basis for deciding the merits of follow on projects.



-30-
4.25      Mid Term Review.  A project mid term review would be conducted
jointly by Government and IDA no later than December 31, 1991, or such
other time as may be mutually og;eed between IDA and GOS. In addition to
the assessment of project results and viability (para. 4.24), and the
future organization structure including Its possible introduction in this
project (para. 4.08), the mid term review would include items set out in
Annex 10. Assurances to this effect were obtained from Government during
negotiations.
V. TECHNOLOGY, AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION. MARKETS AND PRICES
A. Technology
The Semi-Mechanized Rainfed Farming System
5.01      The combination of heavy clay soils and low uncertain rainfall
greatly restrict farming system opportunities in the Lower Shebelli region
of Somalia.  The clay soils when wet limit access by machines.   Similarly,
variability in the start of the rains and the extremely rapid subsequent
weed growth makes hand farming over any sizeable area difficult. If
planting is not precisely timed, season length is inadequate to produce a
worthwhile yield.  The SMR farming system, however, combines the attributes
of timely and efficient planting with the ability of settlers to hand weed
and harvest crops. The mechanization aspects of the project are dealt with
in Annex 11. An equally important component of the system is the use of
bare fallows to enable the soil profile to be saturated by rain showers
over wet periods as a reservoir of stored water.  In vegetation fallows
grass and bush roots rapidly deplete soil moisture, but where herbicide is
used to retain a bare fallow only the surface 20 cm of the vertisol dries
to a self mulched cap which virtually seals off the underlying moisture
reservoir to be tapped by the next crop.
5.02      The SMR farming system works in semi arid areas of the world
where rainfall and soils are similar to those found In the project area.
The system must be followed carefully so that bare fallows are maintaine4
and a balanced combination of mechanical and human power achieved. Timely
supply of herbicides, diesel fuel and spare parts, coupled with skilled
farm management and committed settlers can bring substantial rewards. A
breakdown in the system,will reduce benefits however. Extremely high
yields of maize, sunflower, cowpeas and safflower, as well as crop failures.
have been expei)lenced in the trials program.  To ensure the success of the
system, assurances were obtained at negotiations that cnly non saline soils
suitable for rainfed farming would be developed for crop production. In
addition the design and layout of the farms, and the proposed farming
system would be reviewed by IDA as part of the review of AWPs (para. 4.23).
Crop Rotations
5.03      Various combinations of crops and short and long bare fallows
have been tested under practical SMR farming conditions since the field
trials began in 1981. The system which has given the most consistent
results is Illustrated in Annex 4, Table 3, and involves four crops --



/                                   - 31 -
msize and cowpeas or sunflower grown in the gu  season, and cowpeas and
safflower grown in the der season. Each crop is preceded by' two bare
fallow seaeoms, which should be adequate even in poor rainfall years to
Oill the soll reservoir. The full rotation is 6 years, so pest build up is
minimized. Maize follows at least one and often two seasons of cowpeas and
thus benefits from nitrogen fixation by the legume. No fertilizers have
been used in the project area to date. However, the dependence of the
rotation on maize is an issue since in non-drought years, maize Is In
eurplus. Other crops will be Investigated (see para. 4.16).
Settlement Layout
5.04      On the new FMUs each settler would hold tenure to a farm
measuring 300 metres by 396 metres (11.9 ha),, consisting of 6 farm strips,
each 300 metres by 40 metres (1.2 ha), and alternating with bush strips,
each 300 metres by 26 metres (0.78 ha). The farm layout is illustrated in
Annex 4 Table 4. The cropped area would be 60 percent of the farm area but
In any one season (guu or der), only one third of the cleared area would be
cropped. Cropping intensity would therefore be 66.6 percent in any year.
This is a conservative system and may be improved upon as a result of the
adaptive research and trials program. The area cropped each season is 2.4
ha which can be managed by the settler and family labor provided that early
weed control has been efficiently undertaken by the PMU.
B. Agricultural and Livestock Production
Yields
5.05      Without the project, yields in the project area would be
determined largely by rainfall and would be highly variable. The SMR
farming system would reduce this variability significantly, but on
occasions, and particularly In the der season, crop failure can still be
exOecod. Yields recorded at Kurtun Waarey and Sablaale during the trials
eontin4e to show high variability, due in part to rainfall but also to lack
of bare fallow maintenance caused by irregular input supply and by poor
crop establishment due to poor seed. Where the planting system has been
setisfactorily implemented, good yields have been obtained from substantial
areas - see Annex 4 Table 5. Maize yields over 4,000 kg/ha, cowpe' yields
over 900 kg/ha, sunflower yields over 2,000 kg/ha, and safflower yields
over 800 kg/ha have been achieved, but lower yields have also been
experienced, and on at least one occasion each of these crops has failed
'completely. Average maize and cowpea yields have been about 400 kg/ha and
80 kg/ha respectively using traditIonal rainfed farming methods In the
pro.iect area.  To account for rainfall, crop and settler variation, yields
used in ItEe analysis of this project are based on the averages achieved
under the trials project (paras. 1.10 and 2.20). Yields would build up
gradually in future over a five year period as experience is gained with
the system, but before the applied research benefits are included. The
projected clop yield levels used for the economic analysis of this pilot
are shown In Annex 4, Table 6. Livestock yields are based on observed
production In the project area and consist annually of 100 eggs and 2.5
chi;kens per hbn, 40 litres of milk and I kid per goat, and 300 litres of
milk and I yearling per cow.



- 32 -
Production
5.06      At full development, 6 farm units would be operating with a total
area of about 7,200 ha. Of this area, 2,520 ha (35x) would be under bush
cover and a further 3,120 ha would be cropped each year; the remainder
would be under bare fallow. The cropping pattern would be a rotation of
maize, cowpeas, sunflower and safflower, and yields and production of these
crops as well as fuelwood and fodder would be as shown in Table 5 below.
Further details are in Annex 4 Table 6, and the phasing in of new project
areas is set out in Chart 3.
Table 5
Estimated Annual Incremental Crop Areas and Production at Full Development
Area Grown            Total Production
Crop                    (Ha)                    (Tons)
Maize                    780                    1,716
Cowpeas                1,170                      526
Sunflower                390                      351
Safflower                780                      371
Fuelwood/Fodder       2,880                     2,880 m3
In addition, annual livestock production at full development would total
240,000 eggs and 6,000 chickens from hens, 48,000 litres of milk and 1,200
kids from goats and 540,000 litres of milk and 1,200 yearlings from cows.
C. Markets
Local Demand
5.07      Maize, vegetable oil and pulses, the main crops in this project,
are important elements in the national and regional diet. Average
consumption of maize and vegetable oil per head of population has been
rising over recent years to around 60 kg and 8 kg respectively in 1985.
These consumption levels have been sustained by food aid and to a much
lesser extent commercial imports (100,000 tonnes of maize and 30,000 tonnes
of vegetable oil in 1985), major inflows of other cereals (mainly food aid)
and by rapidly increasing local production of maize. Estimates of recent
harvests indicate that Somalia may be approaching a situation where
readjustment in external and domestic cereals supplies is callet for
(paras. 5.09 and 5.10). Cereal consumption levels in Somalia are still
relatively low, and there is scope for increasing consumption as well as
substituting maize for imported (largely food aid) rice and wheat
products. The price of these fine grains has in the past been periodically
depressed because of untimely food aid shipments and this has led to
depressed prices for coarse grains in the local market. However, donors
are beginning to adjust the type, volume and timing of food aid shipments
with the result that the detrimental impact of food aid is being partially
avoided. Sesame provides the greater part of local vegetable oil



I                                   - 33 -
production, meeting somewhat less than half current demand; groundnut and
cottonseed oil supply the rest. Sunflower and safflower oil are new
products for Somali consumers, but are already consumed in small quantities
in the project area. Oilseed cake for livestock feed is in high demand
during the dry season. Government policy gives priority to intensifying
animal production and demand for oilseed cake is likely to be buoyant,
especially if obstacles to livestock exports are removed. The demand for
pulse crops is strong, but consumption fluctuates with the highly variable
annual production levels; there is virtually no trade. Additional
production is likely to be readily absorbed.
Market Outlets
5.08      Project production would account for less than 1% of national
maize and vegetable oil production and around 3% of national pulse output.
While project farmers would be expected to use their crop and livestock
produce for family consumption, substantial surpluses would result from the
project which they would sell in the local market towns and Mogadishu
(Table 6). Traders already visit the project area at harvest. Sunflower
oil is expected to be widely used because of newly installed crushing
facilities in Mogadishu. This crop is expected in time to become a cash
crop, while safflower will be used for home consumption. The fuel and
livestock feed produced in the bush strips will be used mainly by farm
families. Estimated production and marketable surpluses expected from the
project are shown in Table 6 below:
Table 6
Estimated Annual Project Crop Production, Consumption
and Marketable SurDluses
Domestic        Marketable
Production       Consumption 1/    Surplus
-- --- ---------- tons---- --- 
Maize                          1,716              252              1,464
Sunflower seed                   351              133                218 2/
Safflower seed                   371              148                223 2/
Sunflower oil                    119)
)             60                192
Safflower oil                    133)
Cowpea                           526               72                454
Fuelwood/Fodder                4,608 3/           4,608 3/
1/ Based on WFP estimates of average family constumption.
2/ Oilseed cake.
3/ Cubic meters.



- 34 -
Volumes produced in any one year will vary considerably, but marketable
surpluses are unlikely to exceed those estimated by more than 50%.
D. Prices
Maize and Cowpeas
5.09      Average prices recorded in the project area from April 1985 to
March 1986 were So.Sh. 22/kg for maize and So.Sh. 30/kg for cowpea (So.Sh.
29/kg and So.Sh. 40/kg respectively at mid 1986 prices). Similar price
levels were recorded for maize in Baidoa during a year long study from June
1984 to May 1985. Prices for maize tend to slump at harvest by as much as
30 to 50%. To counteract this ADC established a minimum price for maize,
set at So.Sh. 15/kg during 1985 and, as recently announced, again during
1986. It is apparent, however, that under good seasonal conditions,
Somalia is approaching self sufficiency in the production of maize and in
these circumstances, prices should move towards export parity. In poor
seasons, Somalia is likely to import maize and prices will tend towards
import parity.
5.10      The maize price is a critical factor in the project's success, in
its financial and economic analysis, and for wider aspects of Somalia's
agricultural development. The issues involved are being analyzed in the
Somalia Agricultural Sector Survey which is nearing completion. Until
1982, domestic maize and sorghum prices (the overwhelmingly dominant local
crops) were seriously depressed by Government procurement policy, and
private trade was prohibited. The result was declining domestic production
for over a decade, replaced by massive food aid Imports and destruction of
the local marketing system. With liberalized marketing, maize and sorghum
prices rose dramatically between 1982 and 1984/85 (at one point in 1984 to
twice import parity) generating a rapid and large production response. In
the recent good seasonal conditions, farm prices have settled at or near
import parity levels. Little has yet been done, however, to effectively
reduce the volume and timing of food aid inflows (except the removal of
maize from aid shipments), or to improve the efficiency of domestic
marketing. There is a danger that without adjustment, poor food aid
management and inefficient marketing could seriously undercut incentives to
local cereals production. IDA and other donors are actively working with
Government to deal with these issntes. The Agricultural Sector Adjustment
Program addresses the food aid management issue.
5.11      Meanwhile, in this project's economic and financial analysis it
has been recognized that maize prices will fluctuate somewhere between
export and import parity prices depending on the occurrence of a drought
(para. 5.09). Based on historical evidence, the latter is likely to occur
in three seasons out of eight, and this probability has been used in
arriving at expected maize prices.  Financia. price projections for maize
are given in Annex 12, Tables 3 and 4. Cowpea prices seem less volatile
and the financial price projection assumes a unit price continuing in real
terms at the level prevailing in mid 1986 (So.Sh. 40/kg).



- 35 -
Oilseeds
5.12      Markets for sunflower and safflower seed, oil and cake are
expanding, but are not yet fully developed because of limited processing
facilities. At appraisal, the prices of sunflower and safflower oil were
So.Sh. 120/litre as against So.Sh. 180/litre for sesame oil. Safflower
seed had been purchased in lo_al markets for So.Sh. 40/kg. Oilseed cake
was selling for between So.Sh. 7.5/kg and So.Sh. 15/kg in Brava, but prices
were reported to rise to So.Sh. 25/kg in the dry season in the project
area. Projected prices have been based on the value of Imported vegetable
oils (for which sunflower and safflower will substitute) and the Brava
price for cake of So.Sh. 15/kg. In time, safflower is expected to command
a 20% price premium over imported vegetable oils as it is already
considered an acceptable substitute for sesame oil (which commawds the same
premium) by those familiar with it in the project area. Financial price
projections for sunflower and safflower seed are given in Annex 12, Table
6.
Livestock
5.13      Markets for poultry, goat and cattle product exist in the local
town and larger village centers. Based on the most recent time series
of prices collected at appraisal the unit prices of the various products
were per unit unless otherwise stated - eggs So.Sh. 5, chickens So.Sh. 100,
milk So.Sh. 40/litre, kids So.Sh. 1,500 and yearlings So.Sh. 5,000.  It has
been assumed these prices would be obtained in real terms under the
project.
VI. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
A. Project's Financial Objectives
6.01      Of particular importance in Somalia's economic and financial
environment is the maintenance of financial sustainability of the main
project entity (the PIU) and the project beneficiaries during the proposed
pilot project period. The financial analysis below addresses this matter
within the context of the proposed project and in relation to the need of
farmers to generate incomes which would provide an inceitive to produce and
to maintain their interest in the land and the project's proposed farming
system.
B.  Farmers' Incomes
6.02      Incremental yields and production which would be obtained by all
project farmers are set out in paras. 5.05 and 5.06. A farmers' estimated
an nual income position at full development after applying prices to the
incremental production, deducting costs of production, and also deducting
cost recovery, is set out in Table 7 below. The details of projected farm
incomes is shown in Annex 12, Table 8.



- 36 -
Table 7
Farmers' Estimated Annual Income and Cost Recovery
Position Under the Project 1/
Cropping             Cropping and
Entererise Only    Livestock Enterprises
Full                   Full
Development            Development
---------(So.Sh .)  ---
Net Farmer Cash Income              345,200                591,800
Requ.ired PIU Cost Recovery        (161,000)              (161,000)
Residual Cash Income
after Cost Recovery                184,200                430,800
Minimum Cash Income Required        136,000                136,000
Residual Cash Income as
Percent of Minimum Cash
Income Required                      135                    317
1/ Current prices.
6.03      The table shows that, for the cropping enterprise alone, farmers
total residual cash income would increase from So.Sh. 136,000 to 184,200 or
by 35% annually with project at full development. Increased income will
come from higher crop yields (para. 5.05); one of the objectives of the
pilot project will be to ascertain the extent to which yields increases are
likely to be achieved. The table also shows the situition with livestock
enterprises. Clearly, livestock would benefit from grazing both bush
strips and crop residues and make an important contribution to farm income
and therefore increase the farmers capacity to meet cost recovery charges.
With livestock income included, farmers total residual cash income would
increase by more than 200% from So.Sh. 136,000 to 430,000. While Table 7
shows results for a representative situation, the impact of drought (para.
5.11) will be reflected In variations on the income for farmers. As a
result, a proportion of cost recovery charges may need to be deferred.
Nevertheless, it should be possible to collect it with interest in later
years. The analysis with assumed drought conditions is shown in Annex 12,
Table 9. The estimated incomes for former landless laborers, nomads and
civil servants are shown in Table 8 below.



- 37 -
Table 8
Comparison of Estimated Incomes for Three Groups of Potential Farmers
With and Without Project
Residual Cash
Income with Project      Without               Percent
at Full Development 1! Project Incremental Increase
------------------So.Sh.-----------------
Former Landless             431,000             165,000    266,000      269
Laborers
Former Settled Nomads       431,000             165,000    266,000      269
Former Civil Servants       431,000              47,000 2/ 384,000      915
1/ Current prices.
2/ On the assumption of no other paid employment, and based on the
existing salary structure.
C. Project Implementation Unit Finances
Introduction
6.04      Following its formation, as a condition of Board presentation
(para. 3.03), the PIU would commence operations in 1987 developing the land
for the new FMIUs and with two FMUs from the existing pilot project at
Kurtun Waarey and Sablaale. The full complement of six FMUs would be
developed by the end of project year 2 (1989). However, as the
Implementation Schedule (Chart 3) shows, full production from all PMUs
would not commence until 1990 since two fallow seasons would precede the
first crop harvested on each new FMU. The financing of the PIU would
reflect these events through allocations from GOS (para. 3.16) to cover
those operating costs of PIU incurred during the fallow periods prior to
crop harvesting. In addition, purchases of vehicles, agricultural
machinery and farm Implements for the FMUs would take place in project
years 1 and 2 (1988 and 1989 respectively), so that the required complement
of machinery and equipment would be available as new FMUs became
operational. This together with the operating costs of each FMU would be
financed by GOS through PIU and recovered from farmers through cost
recovery charges. The interest charged to farmers would be as set out in
para 3.16. Finally, in view of the pilot nature of the project, the
project's development costs as well as other activities undertaken by PIU
not directly related to production, would be covered by allocations from
Government.
PIU's Revenue Sources
6.05      PIU's revenue would come from several sources:  cost recovery,
allocations from Government and miscellaneous contract work:



- 38 -
(a)  Cost Recovery.  Cost recovery In local currency equivalent would
commence in 1988 following project start up, and the harvesting
of crops from the existing 2 FMUs. For these two FMU8 cost
recovery would consist of full operating costs and also their
capital cost bearing In mind that the latter would be recovered
over ten years with a two year period of grace and an interest
rate of not less than 15% (para. 3.16). For the new FMUs cost
recovery would commence at the end of the first year of harvest,
and would cover the same costs as the existing FMUs with the
exception that only 25X would be recovered initially, followed
by 50% by the next year, 75% at the end of the third year and
100% from the fourth year of harvest and thereafter. Cost
recovery of the new FMUs would commence in 1990 whilst 100% cost
recovery for all the FMUs would commence in 1994. Assurances as
to the cost recovery arrangements outlined above were obtained
from Government at negotiations;
(b)  Government Allocations.  Because of the pilot nature of the
project (para. 3.01), PIU's overhead costs incurred on the
Central Services and Financial Controllers Departments would be
financed by GOS as a budget allocation. In addition all
technical assistance working for the PIU, as well as expenditures
incurred on training and studies would be similarly provided.
Assurances were obtained on these points from the Government at
negotiations; and
(c)  Miscellaneous Income.  PIU would own a bulldozer, a grader and
miscellaneous items of equipment which would only be used for a
small part of the year on flood bund and road maintenance. When
not required under the project, this machinery and equipment
would also be rented out in surrounding areas in whatever
suitable jobs were available.
PIU's Financial Results
6.06      PIU's projected statements of revenues and expenditures (Annex
12, Table 10) show that following losses in the first five years reflecting
the graduating percentage of cost recovery on the new FMUs (para 6.05(a)),
revenues would exceed expenditures in 1993 by So.Sh. 14.1 million. This
would increase to So.Sh. 23.6 million in 1994 and thereafter when each
FMU's operating and capital costs would be 100% recovered. The cumulative
excess of revenues over expenditure which commence in 1995 would be
repayable to Government. The likely effects of drought have not been
included in a separate analysis since it is expected that cost recovery
charges would be fully collected from farmers (para. 6.03). Hence the
effect of this on PIU's revenues and expenditures would be in timing of
receipts rather than amounts.
PIU's Future Direction
6.07      PIU would develop under the project as an organization with
strong links to farmers through FMUs. At the same time, a strong Central
Services Department would be established with the potential to provide



- 39 -
services to a considerably expanded area under future projects. The FMus
would be self financing (para. 6.05 (a)), but because of the small number
of FMUs during the life of the project, the Central Services Department
would, during the project, be supported by Government (para. 6.05 (b)). In
the absence of additional projects, which would spread the overhead costs
of the PIU or its successor organization (para. 4.08), the FMUs would
become more dominant in providing services to farmers and a contraction of
the central services could be expected. It would also be likely, in any
case, that farmers would involve themselves more in the operation of the
FMU to which they belong (Annex 8, para. 1 (f)), and over time may acquire
directly agricultural machirery and equipment for operation within their
FMU. PIU's organizational and financial structure would have the
flexibility to adapt to this. Hence farmers would have continued
commitment to the existing organization and farming system.
D. Other Implementing Agencies
SDA. _OA, AFMET and CARS
6.08      Costs incurred by the four implementing agencies would be
financed from external sources and would not rely on any other sources
including cost recovery. Therefore no financial analysis is presented.
E. Government Cash Flow
6.09      The Government's cash flow is set out In Annex 12, Table 11.
This shows an initial deficit of inflows over outflows of So.Sh. 11.4
million followed by eight years of surpluses during the time that IDA
flnancing would be available. The inflow of IDA funds together with cost
recovery passed back from PIU and taxes and duties on maize and oilseed
imports would result in an average annual excess of inflows over outflows
of So.Sh. 62.7 million. Deficits reoccur in 1996 and 1997 when FMU assets
are replaced followed by an average annual deficit of So.Sh. 51.1 million
thereafter. This deficit reflects the pilot nature of the project and the
high fixed overhead costs associated with the 6 FMUs. If the pilot project
is successful and the number of FMUs is doubled to 12 as envisaged in that
case, then the annual deficit would disappear since inflows would at least
double whilst outflows would increase only marginally by the additional
amounts required for development of 6 additional FMUs.
VII. ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
A. Benefits
7.01      Direct benefits accruing from the project would include:
(a)  future medium and long term benefits as a result of the adaptive
research program. These benefits, unquantifiable at this stage,
are likely to Include improved productivity as a result of the
introduction of new crop rotations or higher yieldtng



- 40 -
varieties/cultivarsJ and increased efficiency or cost reduction
in machinery use and crop storage. The benefits from the
adaptive research programme would extend to areas well beyond the
project area;
(b) development of an environmentally sound agricultural system in an
area where, in the absence of the project and impending expansion
of the tsetse eradication project, considerable environmental
degradation caused by alternative forms of rainfed farming would
be likely to occur. Conservation and enhancement of bush strips
under the project would both assure fuelwood and fodder self
sufficiency to the settlers and minimize ecological disruption;
(c) increased production of maize, sunflower and safflower, animal
feed (oilseed cake), and livestock production (cattle, poultry,
goats). Although the increased production is not the main
justification for the project, it is nevertheless valued at about
So.Sh. 70 million in 1986 prices;
(d) provision of a settled livelihood and increased income for 400
landless families. All project farm families would also benefit
from easy access to water supplies; and
(e)  generation of incremental employment amounting to 135,000 man
days of family farm labor, and 32 man years of unskilled labor
for project services each year at full development.
Other indirect benefits would accrue to settlers from improved
infrastructure in the form of roads and water supply, and to the community
in the project area from increased commercial activity in the district
centres of Sablaale and Kurtun Waarey.
B. Economic Analysis
7.02      In view of the pilot nature of this project and the high fixed
costs associated with the development and operation of 4 incremental FMUs,
an economic analysis has not been undertaken. Instead, the economic
analysis assesses the viability of future expansion to full scale
production of 12 operating FMUs envisaged under this and the follow-on
project. In arriving at conclusions, assumptions have been conservatively
based on the actual system and results under the existing trials project.
7.03      Under the assumptions outlined in Annex 12, Table 7, rates of
return of 12 percent and 15 percent would be achieved if at full
development with all other benefits remaining unchanged (fuelwood, fodder
and livestock), the following yields were achieved:



- 41 -
Table 9
Required Yields to Achieve Assumed Economic Rates of Return
('000 k/ha)
Required                             Required
Yields to        Percentage          Yields to      Percentage
A-hieve Rate        Increase         Achieve Rate    Increase
of Return of      Over Yield         of Return of   Over Yield
_12 percent       Experience 1/        15 percent    Experience 1/
Maize         2.34               6.5                2.63             19.5
Sunflower     0.96               6.5                1.08             19.5
Cowpeas       0.43               6.5                0.48             19.5
Safflower     0.51               6.5                0.57             19.5
1/ Yields experience and projections based on that experience are set out
in Annex 4, Table 6. General assumptions for this analysis are found
in Annex 12, Table 7.
The increases required are modest in the context of achieved yields to date
(para. 5.05), and also given that yields used in analyses assume no benefit
from adaptive research which could result in increases in productivity of
20 percent or more. In addition, selection of non saline soils for the
project (para. 5.02) should result in improvements in production over the
levels achieved on the variable soils of existing units. Alternatively,
reductions in operating costs of 9 percent over those assumed would give a
rate of return of 12 percent. The reductions are likely since (i) the cost
of herbicides is likely to go down when the herbicide is no longer
protected by patent in 1987; and (ii) the priority to be given in adaptive
research to reductions in operating costs (para. 4.16).
C. Risks
7.04      The project's economic viability is sensitive to yield levels
which would be influenced by:
(a)  rainfall;
(b)  water conservation through bare fallow maintenance;
(c)  timeliness and efficiency of planting;
(d)  availability of foreign exchange to obtain necessary inputs; and
(e)  effective weeding and guarding of the crop from predators.
The SHR system is designed to minimize the effects of erratic and low
rainfall, but recognizes that major annual fluctuations will persist.
Nevertheless, a prolonged drought would seriously affect the returns from
the project, particularly during the early stages. Locating the project in
two locations mitigates the total risk.



- 42 -
7.05      A second risk is the efficiency of the PIU, which depends on Its
ability to provide timely and adequate services in the first place, and for
farmers to generate sufficier:t incomes. This will require good management
and provision of extension and farmer education services which the project
would provide.  In the event of drought, provision would be made for
reducing and deferring cost recovery charges until later years, which
existing yield projections would allow.  The other major risks have already
been encountered during the trials phase. Interruptions In supplies of
fuels and herbicides for logistical and financial reasons have prevented
effective farm operations. Under the project, fuel tankers, storage tanks,
stores and financial resources would be provided so that stocks of
essential inputs can be acquired in advance and a reserve maintained. The
risk of poor quality seed, resulting in patchy plant populations, should be
reduced by improved seed storage and the organization of seed
multiplication by selected farmers. In addition, Somali managers already
have experience of day to day farm management operations and under the
project they would again be supported by technical assistance in both crop
production and mechanization. The commitment of settlers to weeding their
crops under the trials project has been patchy. Two features of the
proposed project to overcome this would be the establishment of settlement
areas and water supply close to farmers' fields, and provision of training
and extension in crop husbandry and associated matters. A smaller size of
cultivated area per family (2.4 ha in any one season as against the present
3 ha) and improving market outlets for oilseed crops would also make for
Improved attention to crops. There are also risks related to the foreign
exchange dependence of the project. About 80 percent of project costs are
foreign exchange and that wwuld place a heavy burden on the balance of
payments were the project to be enlarged. There is also the significant
risk associated with the fluctuation of the exchange rate which would be
reflected in fluctuations in farming costs.
7.06      There are two risks related to policy issues:  (a) the
maintenance of adequate producer price incentives for the main project
crops (paras. 5.09 and 5.10); and (b) Government willingness to experiment
with more independent management of the project which will affect the
future of PIU and the FMUs. Close project supervision and the continued
policy dialogue of IDA with the Government, reinforced by other projects
(ASAP), can be expected means to stave off this risk.
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
8.01      During negotiations, assurances were obtained that:
(a) The financing arrangements would be as follows:
(i) US$0.2 million and USS2.1 million would be passed on as a
grant to AFMET and CARS respectively (para. 3.16);
(ii) US$0.2 million would be passed on to SDA as a grant for
farmer assistance (para. 3.16);



- 43 -
(ii)  Cost recovery would be Introduced in accordance with a
schedule agreed with IDA to recover full PMU operating costs
and the  MU's capital costs.  The capital costs would bear
an interest rate of not less than 15% and would be repayable
after 10 vears with two years period of grace. PIU's
overhead costs incurred on the Central Services and
Financial Controllers Departments as well as technical
assistance, studies and training would be financed by GOS
(paras. 3.16, 6.05 and 6.06).
(b) Items to be financed under the Credit would be procured in
accordance with IDA guidelines (para. 3.19);
(c) The qualifications, experience and terms and conditlons of
internationally recruited experts and consultants financed by
IDA, would be acceptable to the Association (para. 3.23);
(d) The accounting and auditing arrangements under the project would
be as follows:
(i)  accounting systems and project accounts would be maintained
in accordance with sound and generally recognized accounting
principles and practices acceptable to IDA (para. 3.28);
(ii) Initially PIU would submit audited financial statements
(including project accounts) within nine months of the close
of each fiscal year, which would be reduced to six months
from the fiscal year ending December 31, 1989 (para. 3.28);
(ii) SDA and MOA would submit audited project accounts together
with AFMKT and CARS who would submit audited project
accounts through PIU within nine months of the close of
their fiscal years which would be reduced to six months
from the fiscal year ending December 31, 1989 (para. 3.29);
and
(iv) independent auditors acceptable to IDA would be appointed to
audit the financial statements and project accounts
mentioned above (para. 3.28);
(e) A Settler Selection Committee to be chaired by the General
Manager, SDA would be formed with terms of reference and settler
selection criteria acceptable to IDA (para. 4.06);
(f) The PIU would form, with the Project Director as Chairman:
(1) a Future Organlzatlon Structure Committee with terms of
reference acceptable to IDA which would submit its findings
In time for consideration at the mid term review (para.
4.08); and



- 44 -
(ii) a Research and Extension Committee with terms of reference
acceptable to IDA, which would formulate a long term project
research program and submit such program to IDA by July 1,
1988 (para. 4.16);
(g) The recommendations of the environmental study would be submitted
to IDA for comment not later than December 31, 1990 (para. 3.07);
(h)  Project land would be passed on to SDA in the form of a standard
lease by January 1, 1988, and that land would then be passed on
to settler farmers as sub leases, the terms of which would be
acceptable to IDA (p4rae 4.13);
(i)  Regarding research and oxtension activitles:
(i) PIU would have overall responsibility over these activities
(para 4h'0);
(ii)  CARs would be responsible for the technical direction of the
adaptive research component, and a Research Coordinator and
an internationally recruited Senior Agronomist would be
appointed by January 1, 1988 (para. 3.10);
(iii)  APMET would be responsible for the technical direction of
extension activities in the project area (para. 4.21); and
(iv)  Existing classroom facilities would be made available by the
Ministry of Education at Kurtun Waarey and Sablaale for
extension training activities (para. 4.21);
(j)  AWPs for the ensuing fiscal year would be prepared by the PIU and
submitted to SDA by October 1 each year and to IDA by November 1
each year for acceptance.  In eddition, quarterly progress
reports would be submitted to SDA copied to IDA. Finally the PIU
would prepare a project completion report no later than six
months aftor project completion (paras. 4.22 and 4.23);
(k)  A mid term review would be held no later than December 31, 1991,
and in the review include items acceptable to IDA (para. 4.25);
and
(1)  Only non saline soils suitable for rainfed farming would be
developed for crop production (para. 5.02).
8.02      Conditions of Credit effectIveness would be that:
(a)  An initial payment of So.Shs. 5 million would have been made by
Government into the project's bank account (para. 3.27); and
(b) Identified project land would be de6,ignated by GOS as
specifically for development and use by the project (para. 4.13).
8.03      With the above assurances and conditions, the proposed project is
suitable for an IDA Credit on standard terms of US$13.4 million. The
Borrower would be the Government of Somalia.



i'  ,.                                  -45                               Annex 1
Table I
SOMALIA
SEMI-MECHANIZED RAINFED AGRICULTURE PILOT PROJECT
Estimated Price Contingencies
1987  1988  1989  1990  1991  1992  1993  1994  1995
I  ;.;           \    ,-------Percentage Rates of Inflation _/-  --
Iorlgn Excl.nge
Component                   6.8   6.8    7.0   7.1   4.0   4.0   4.0   4.0   4.0
Lo al Currjacy
-  Salaries                  10.0  10.0   10.0  10.0  10.0  10.0  10.0  10.0  10.0
-  Other                     25.0  20.0   20.0  20.0  20.0  20.0  20.0  20.0  20.0
1/   Per Calender Year.
.
a.



-46 -                            Annex I
Table 2
SOMALIA
SEMI-MECHANIZED RAINPID AGRICULTURE PILOT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
IDA                                     At Bud of        Disbursements
Fiscal Year         Quarter Ending          Quarter           Cumulative
U8$ '000-
1988           September  1987 I/         500                   500
December   1987 1/        30                    800
March      1988           300                 1,100
June       1988           300                 1,400
1989           September  1988            600                 2,000
December   1988           500                 2,500
March      1989           600                 3,100
June       1989           500                 3,600
1990           beptember  1989            700                 4,300
December   1989           700                 5,000
March      1990           600                 5,600
June       1990           600                 6,200
1991           September  1990            500                 6,700
December   1990           500                 7,200
March      1991           500                 7,700
June       1991           400                 8,100
1992           September  1991            300                 8,400
December   1991           300                 8,700
March      1992           300                 9,000
June       1992           300                 9,300
1993           September  1992            500                 9,800
December   1992           500                10,300
March      1993           400                10,700
June       1993           400                11,100
1994           September  1993            300                11,400
December   1993           300                11,700
March      1994           300                12,000
June       1994           200                12,200
1995           September  1994            200                12,400
December   1994           200                12,600
March      1995           200                12,800
June       1995           200                13,000
1996           September  1995            100                13,100
December   1995           100                13,200
March      1996           100                13,300
Jume       1996           100                13,400
1/ Financed under a PPF (para. 3.15)
Expected date of signing:         April    1987
Expected date ot effectlveness:  July       1987
Expected completion date:         June      1995
Expected closiqg date:            December 1995



_47 -                        Annex I
Table 3
SOMALIA
SEMI-NECHANIZED RAINFED AGRICULTURE PILOT PROJECT
Allocatlon of Credit Proceeds
% of Expenditures
Category              Amount Allocated          To be Financed
(US$ million)
1.   Civil works                         1.4
(a)  directly Imported                               1001 of foreign
expenditures and 901
of local expenditures
2.  Vehicles, machinery and              1.4             1001 of foreign
equipment                                            expenditures and 90%
of local expenditures
3.  Assistance to Farmers               0.2              100%
4.  Training and Studies                1.0              100Z
5.  Consultant Services                 2.5              1001
6. Operating costs
(a)  vehicle, machinery,           2.5              1001 of foreign
equipment, farm inputs                         expenditures and 901
and supplies                                   of local expenditures
(b)  salaries                      1.5              90%
7.  Goods and services under            0.3              100Z
Part J of the Project
8.   Refund of Project                   1.3             100% of principal
Preparation Advance                                 amount and charges
outstanding at
Effectiveness Date
9.   Unallocated                        1.3
13.4



-48 -                                 Annex 2
Table 1
SOMALIA
SEMI-MECHANIZED RAINFED AGRICULTURE PILOT PROJECT
Monthly Averages of Rainfall
IAINFALL - MONTHLY AVERAGE AT KURTUN WARREY
YEAR  J     F      k     A     M      J     J     A      S     0      N     D  TOTAL
1981  -     -      15   257   102    22    80    54       -     3    48    2    583
1982  -     -      -   143   117    72   177    31        8   188    64   32    832
1983  -     -       -    34   233    44    56    31       d    43   102    -    550
1984  -     -       -    24    63   137    76      3      2     -    48    4    357
1985  -     -       -   222   101    26    30    63    41    21   113    -    617
Ave   -     -       3   136   123    60    84    36    12    51    75   10    588
GUU   -     -       3   139   262   322   406   442       -     -     -    -    440
DER   -     -       -     -     -      -     -      -     -    51   126  136    136
RAINFALL - MONTHLY AVERAGE AT SABLAALE
YEAR  J     F      M     A     M      J     J     A      S     0     N      D  TOTAL
__ ____ _ ___ _---(mm)-- ~~~-~  ~ 
1981 -      -     72   149   181      -      -     -      -    40    81   22    544
1982  -     -       -   145    95   165    83      9      -   252    66   23    843
1983  -     -      -   122   177    31   130    18       -      3    84   20    582
1984  -     -      -   112   215   134    43       3      6     3   104    7    625
1985  -     -      -   129    95    18    24    34    80    43    44    -    467
Ave   -     -      14   131   153    70    56    16    43    68    76   19    612
WUU   -     -      14   145   298   368   424   440   483       -     -    -    483
DER   -     -       -     -     -      -     -     -      -    68   144    -    163



S8U-4EOWM    RUM       I0LMDE PILOT FFM
Air Tematur at IUbtu 1harw
J             F             NA                          N             J              J             A            $0                           n 
1hx    Win   1hx    Kin   max    Win   1hx    Win   1hx    Min   1hx   W4in   1hx    Win   1hx    Min   1hx    Pin   1hz    Win   1hz    "in   1hz*x               I
-                         -      -              .0          P.S            30.           2R.5          29.6-                 -      -      -      -      --
W2       33.1          33.6           34.0          33.           31.7          31.1          29.4          3D.3          P.S           P.4           3L4            31A6
22.3          23.2          23.1          24.2          23.3          22.4          20.9           19.9          20.6          22. I2.1                    3.2
IU3      M.5           332            33.4          34.1          P.-?          31.7          30.6          31.01         P.O           3.0           P.             3.2
232           V2.3          22.4          24.1          23.6          22.7          21.8           21.7          22.0          19.8          21.7          23.8
Wm4      3.            31.1           34.8          346.4         P.-9          302           29.2          30.5                        3L P4         P.             P.S
29.9          22.1          22.0           3.7          23.7          21.0           19.4          20.5          21.4          23.0          22.11         20.5
1W       33.           34.6           35.           35.5          30L8          30.           31.5          31.0          31.6
22.1          21.7          23.0          23.5          22.4          20LO          21.0           20.1          19.0
HERLY
1hx      3,.1           3.1I          34.0          3.6           P.1           31.5          30.0          30.5           W.            3.            36            3.0
Wlin             24.4          224           22.6          23.8          23.4          21.6           20.9          20.8          20.           21.0          224           25.8
NWs       28.8          2.8           3.            3.7           21.8          3.11          25.3          23.7           3.5           MA9           2.5           27.6



-50 -                         Annex 2
SOMALIA
SEMI-MECHANIZED RAINFED AGRICULTURE PILOT PROJECr
Relative Humidity at Kurtun Waarey
1982     1983     1984     1985    AVERAGE
January                        74        -       70        84       76
February                       77       84       79        86       81
March                          66        -        -        91       78
April                          74        -       77        91       81
May                            82        -       88        92       87
June                           86        -       96        89       90
July                           90        -       96        91       92
August                         78        -        -        90       84
September                      64        -       83        90       79
October                        76        -       85         -       80
November                       82        -       90         -       86
December                       77        -       90         -       83



-51 -                         Annex 2
Tab~le4
SOMALIA
SEMI-MECHANIZED RAINFED AGRICULTURE PILOT PROJECT
Evaporation Rates at Kurtun Waarey
MONTHLY     DAILY
1983     1984     1985    AVERAGE    AVERAGE
January                         -      281      323       302        9.7
February                        -      210      258       234        8.4
March                           -      186      335       261        8.4
April                           -      245      156       189        6.3
may                             5      194       50        83        2.7
June                           24.5     94      158.5      92        3.1
July                           56       92      171.5    106         3.4
August                         83      258      145.5    162         4.7
September                      -       269      190      230         7.7
October                       136      306        -       306        -
November                       76      161        -       161        -
December                      199      307        -       253        -
TOTAL                           -        -        -    2,679         -



SCOALIA
SENI-NECHANIZED hAINFED ARICULTURE PILOT PROWECT
Project Cn p.mts by TYar
Totals tnt1udwing Cmnti oncMi                           Total* lncludirq C7ot1ntig  tos
(Sa.Ss. NilIlio)                                         lSS  lion)
198? 1988  1989  198  199     92  1993  1994  t915 Total   1s87 1sss 1989 1890 191 192 1993 1994 1995 Total
=Xs u U.. Mass=s cans& a.=s w=: Mass. .== :a:c Mass=s wasus::   anus Sss: #24 Massa c::: Mass Mass :::: Mass M.auz
A. PROSECT INPLENENtATtON UNIT (PIU)
1. CENTR*L SERVICES                                         41.4  58.8 110.3  62.4  s58  37.3  31.6  37.9  50.8  48U.6  0.S 0.?  1.1  9.6  0.5  0.3  0.2  0.2  0.2  4.3
2.  EARN OEWLOOP'IT                                         51.7  80.5  37.8  4.3  5.1   6.2   .4  8.5  10.3  211.7  0.?  0.9  0.4  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  2.2
3. fAR  _AAGENT UNITS                                           - 52.3  70.6 40.2  48.3  63.6  76.3  S1.6 101.9  552.8       - 0.6  0.7  0.4  0.4  0.4  0.5  0.5  0.5  4.0
4. TRAININS                                                  0.9  3.4   6.6  3.5  4.2  24.8  29.6  1.9  2.3   77.3  0.0  0.0  0.1  0.0  0.0  0.2  0.2  0.0  0.0  0.6
5. POECT STUDIES ao
EJWIUONNENTaL NEtASUES                                      -    -  1s.t    -    - 99.9         -    -    - I18.9         -   - 0.2        -   - 0.7    -   -    -  09
Sub-Total 'OECT INPLENERTATON UNtt (PIU)                       93.9 194.9 244.2 110.4 1i.1  231.8 145.1 139.9 173.2 1.449.6   1.2  2.2  2.S  1.0  0.8  1.6  0.9  0.7 0.8  11.9
L. PIUISTRY OF AGRICULTURE
-   ---------- -- ----
1. NONITORING MND EVALUATION                                   -  1t.3  3.3  4.0  4.8  5.6  6.9  8.3  10.0    4.f6          - 0.1  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.4
-- -   - -- - - - -- -   - -- - - - -- -   - -- - - - -   - - - -- - - -  -   ---   ---   -- - - ---  -- -
Sd-Ttatsl 'SINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE                                 - 1L.3  3.3  4.0  4.8  5.8  6.9   83  10.0   54.6            - 0.1  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0 0.0  0.4
C. SETTIEHENT DEWLOPNENT AGENCY ISMA
1. FANNER ASSISTUNCE                                         1.4  1.7  tO.4 20.0  9. 0       -    -    -    -   42.6  0.0  0.0  0.1 0.2  0. t   -   -   -    -  0.4
----    -----    -- -    -- -    -- -  -- -    -- -    -----    ----   -- - -   ---   ---   ---   ---   --- - - - - - - - - - -
Sub-Total SETttENT DEVELOPMENT AGENCY  OA                        1.4   t.t  10.4  20.0  9.0     -    -      -          42.6  0.0  0.0  0.1  0.2  0.    -   -    -   -  0.4
Q. CENTRAL AGRICULTURL RESEAR   STATION (CARSI/
PROECT IIPLEETATION UNIT
1. ADAPTIVE RESEACN                                            - 61.4  20.?  24.8  29.?  35.7  42.8  19.8  23.7  258 6    - 0.?  0.2  0.2  0.2  0.2 0.3 0.1  0.1  2.1 t
Sub-Totsl CENTRAL AGRICUtTURAL RESEARCH STATION ICARSI/
PROECT INPEETATIN UNIT                                         - 81.4 20.7 24.8  29.?  35.7  42.8  t9.8 23.7  258.6         - 0. T  . 2 0. 2 0.2 0.2 0.3  0.1  0.1  2.1
E. AGRICULTURAL FAU NMANEET AND
EXTENSION TRAINING PRECT (AlmT)
1. EXTESION                                                    -  5.5  2.5  4.6  1.4   1.7  2.1  2.5  3.0   23.2            - 0.1  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.2
---     --- ---     -- -   --   --   --    - -   --    ---      --- -    ---- ---     ---    ---     ----     ----   - - -
6b-Total AGRICULTURL FAI NAUAGENENT AD
EXTEltSION TRINING PlWJECt IEFAET)                             -  S. 5  2.5  4.6  1.4  1.7  2. t  2.5  3.0   23.2            - 0.   0.0  0.0 0.0  0.0 0.0  0.0 0.0   0.2
otal POECT COSTS                                                 95.3 274.8 281.2 163.8 t61.2 275.0 t96.9 170.5 209.9 1.82A 6   t.3  3.2  2.9  1.5  1.3  1.9  1.2  0.9  0.9  15.0
br  19.  987  It 55
ISt
tD R
IoI



siwlttA 
Silt -CI*IEMUZE  31WE16 *OUtCSLTIsU  PILOT 15CWCT
Story Account by Proj.ct co066.wnt
*10S.5 I ON
116113w             AGRIC01,1URI.
11wsC; lIIPtEKuTATlOS muo  cPiw                     MwxsTRY Of    SETTtmiUT         STATION(C tuS        5*65 Ua3*Kt
--------  ----------------------------           AGRIlmtTUI    0(VEtOIIUJI          511089                  AND
lam             PNM50419     ------  *61E19  MM0*    ZIIOtMTAISGI lult   EITENStOM hAWING                             physcalI
91313*1      fam1      NA11*CEKEU             EMVIROIUINIAL       AID            F*311                *35 E ------------                    -        -------
SIIWICIS   AVEKIPVT   lUNITS    ltAINING    1118331             9?AIPATION     *SISTAUIE               IfuRCN                ESv.s;Om   Ttol          S     o%
I. CEIDUIt 5111191  - Civil MM                                2.310.0            --                     ------                                                                                         2.310.0  IS.0      346,.5
2. CENTRAL SiavIcts - VEHIMES. K*CIBE31 MM1 EouliPIT    12.93S. 0                --                    ------                                                                                         12. 3M6.0  10.0   1. 293. S
3. TAMl KWU05UCRT - VES1ICLES. OImCiE11f MD .U 90115111                   41, 13.0 a                                                                                                                  4?. 160.0  10.0   4. 116.0
4. SAUl 014615913  - gifts?                                                  Soo3. 0                                                                                                                      Soo ---  1.0  10.0 5
S. VAMP1 ASSISTASCI - rnO   i1ES                                    ---                                 ---                                    14.2--                                                     1". 1.2  110.0   Is,114.
Sub-ltoal P90819  PREPARAION PaCti??T                           15,246.0     41. 0. 0            -         ---                                     1". 62                      --    5L6I. 12  10.2   5.927.0
I. 91313*1 SIRvicIS - CIVIL iNM                              s498.ao--                                  -.  -                                                   -                                -    34,9"D0.0  IS. 0   S.247. 0
2. P*   0131160113  - CIVIL NORKS                                         33.5S56.0           -         -                             -S--                                                        -               14.9   6.012.?
3.    156526u  we E#*W*ti33 - Ctvlt MM$                                          --                                             2. 10.0                                                                 2   . 310.   15.0  346.5S
4. £6051146 RESE*3   - Cliit VM0S                                   -                         -         -                                            -176.0                                       -    11.60.0  15. 0   2. 6?.5S
S. E3133t1W  - CIVIL 1133                                                                     -         --                                                                  -              4.409.0      4. 400. 0  35.0    660.0
Sub-10tal tIvUt wafts11                                         390.         S& 33.56.           -                                2.310A                                17.60sk0              4.400.0    OX39.030  15. 0  IS. 243. 1
C. VE1119115  11*9311113  M   EQUIPHMET-
1. CENTRAL MIMEICS - V113191S S
fACNIhIP5 *1N0 CEUIPKNII                                   3,410.0            --                     -                             ----                                                              4. AID,0  10.0    441.0                      11
2. FAN1 DEVELOPMENT - VOHICLES
Oi*Nt11Rt MDEU £415311                                           -     IF. 154.9                                                                                                                        M       .-- I .1549  10.0   1. 7t.5S
3. SAUl MANGEMENTUNITl
- 46111911  3*9313137 MU 14015111                                -                 SO,0 744.4                                                                                                       SO    -- 5. 744. 4  10. 0   5. 074.4
4.H11031U6N  "D EVALUATION
- 611191153 "MINE"  M 0140153111                             20s.6                                     -                    2.425. 5              ---                                                2.631.3  10.0      263.1
S. 10651TI6 31tE136 - VOItICIS
3*c111331*11"D015311?                                            -            -       -                             --                                            it. 451.3                    -    It. 451.3  10. 2    . I,S I6.
S. cItEIS    An 46113111                                                                                                                                                                  t 2I. 322. 0  10.0              132 3
3*0*11111?   *30   141315333?                    -         ------ -- - -- --- ------    --------       ------- ------ ---             -------------           --- ---- -- --1.- -----12--3-----
5*b-ttoal VIRIC1I3, NM*E6115  MDo 1401511m11                     4.615.6      17. 154.3 9  0,744.4         --                      2.425.5                             t1. 451. S              1.323.0    oil1. t 9  10.0   S..12.
9. 135131
I.  AM  14605311  - lows31                                      -      2,660. 0           -         -                                                                   --                          2660.0  10.0       266.0
5*llINPUT5S                                                       -      2.610.0            -                         .----                                                                           2,5.AG.0  10.0     256. 0
1.  1*313                                                          --                          26.460.0               -                                                                                640        00 2.546 0
s.bs90tcw  suusIN    S-                                                                             28, 460. 0             -                                                   --                         1 . 400  10.0   2,646.0              ~ ~
F.     .uial SUIS anm
5*-Total 3567StUDiEs MU
11U 131KVMI  REAMS                                                               --                             42,350. 0             -                                     --                         42,350.0  tO.0   4,235. 0
G. 5853 *kSSIStNUC
I. P1311A*5916AIM5  -        HNillTIs                       -----    ------           ....  -----  -----------1- ---------36.1&  so. 0   1,5S. 6
kb-total 58*1113*66117*1111       -            -                      -              -              -       10,536.1~~~~~~---  -----------  ----------    13---36.1-  -0.0 -----



ilt.   tt s01 smW  CO1T                                       S4641.8    31.46.-   10.744.4  280460.0         42.2e.o       4.130.5      20MUSA.              23M. 3               S.2s. 0    22.34.2  11.4 31T1L4
II. 2E[CMo      costs
.  Qtt 7111ttO  fACIUlt
I.  1U* SEUVICES - s£1t16        *          s           -.                                    - - -     -                  -                -                                     - S. 126S toc           112.1
it WIM tmut    8  On -
C1TFALU  assis mcn -lC                               n2s.0                                     -          -              -                       -                   -                1L221.   to.,  1. 221.0
3. 03101   Me16 -WM.outo  O
at.camlt Smnttc  -
S. CEt3 SERVICES -
500  O16m61                         t.ete.e                             -          -        -              -            -             -                    -                   -       t..e0.  ta.e  * 2ae
am"215 a 131moc 1o  0.a.                                                                                                                                                                                 w
S. FM ftlt*31 -
toloam~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ OPUN cut                    S  - - - .- - - ---  ....   ........  ......  .. . .....   - -- -- -- - - - -- - -- - --  - - - o- - - - - *- - - - - **- - - - -         _... .
W*total MS"Wt tlOtlo F41ttiT                              I Itaa          *a             -                                    ---                                                           e.t.   to.   *.u 
t. smmut NOVtiES -SttES                                18.3  0                        -        -                                      - -                                               ItL 312.  I t .   I. "T3. 
2. t00 oVEtamE
IIESuLts                                                          2.91W.                   x.                           -                                                                      1.       206 4
aF^ll lltl_l Ptwit -
tS13                                                      -            -   42.060.         -       -                   -             -*                                       -     42.M. 0   L.0. 4266.0
4. I=tTUtion we 13t01t6*t   -
*"WIVE                                                                                                     -      6.6000              -                    - S.-1 . 0  10.0    S0.0
SutmtL svttts -
111065511 *15i561                                   80,2260            -           .        .              -            -             -                    -                   -    6L20..0  10.0  6.2.0
11116  *1100                                                . -  -    -  - ...0.  - ..                                                                                                  .O0   60~
3t   PhIN 311t *06. mt   o
IWtIUSIt 5SE1e4-                                                                   -        - -              -                                      4      -000.0              -     42.610  to0.0   4                        Lo
0. 914121tatt5 _ 611t11 -
a.ooM _    oTt  n  COST Sfnta           -g
TtOtU  P106110 651                                                      -          -06- -                               -             -                    -teZ                      22.064  It .   2.2.I
C eo NIat 6Mt0113 "1 ai".                                              0 -                   -             -  tS.                                                               - _36n.   1t. *156.0
3. 1806ts    11t Elo-
tntoT        rttsPN    eoIs 2ts
0. intpi   UStts -M66111
t31t 6  tlt43051 t.n-                                             .     - 42   .  -             -            -              -                -                                        t t1.0  2.1.   1.0  t26.t
""amBl P10113  6511s                                                        it. .lei. S0.2                                                                                      -      IIs.*1.   16.0  I. 113.1I
*  1 hsrU11 *  3111550W   2  _
EiPtT   t0t1061 tsn 65-5                                               -                -                  -      LaS.$                          -                         211..   tae                  M.t
1.  676216  061131111m11 CSSIWtW                                                                                                                                                                            A
t IItSOt10131136110l                               11220'                               -                             -              .                   -t§.                _     15t.23.1. t¢   .t20.2
Lt UttMttNt - tVEtMIL tWAtKI N
2.uNv 015111co3t-
LIIS41   tea 6031316  me....    ..........   ......... ................... ..........  ---------0.0----.
tAttt _plttt  ces                                      %S4        2.0.           3110Lst. siM.                                                                               STt.$    tK t*9  to.e  124t S                   t 
svXttsfL  U tSltia _0   _ :M
..1.5..._._.3.0...........0
a.  III3   I  NoWtt -
MU.      I Mattitt   FD E ttltOm -



SWUttP S Ue   1U?iEUUE                                         -                                                           G -  '  -  602.    -                     -                     -                t. e 0    69.3.
5.   t155 182*6  -
SPtlSs ure   ,tmEtum                                                                              -                                                          t-  -  uaoe                  -      1 206.6  10.0  l.12non
a  1zuuII   - S     IWtu s
m       uI4Eu---- -                                                         -          -         -         -        -             -                                                   U51.2         "S1.   t5.I o     2.7
Sub-Total iUnl AN MS 1TEMC                                    15.22.0       2s         to.oo.0          -              -         692.0              -               11.206e  -51-2                     4t.5ste    . -----.
F. 010U ilUIS
..... ......--  
t. 4`11  IUK     t wtITS -
r_10      6 S                                                                    2..                                                                                                             21.2e .   t0o.0   2121.0
lab-Total fan0 16P1                                                  -            -   21,209.?          -                            -              -                                           - 2.0. .... 10.0   .721.0
I. CE3TS4&   me 1308-
UITEO*Einml          tele .                                                 - 4.         2                       -                                                                                7 .e120.0  * 0. .0  412.9
SW-T       111   cc       T 4.120.0 -               -                                                    -  -  -  -                                                                                        20.      .     42.
total £101511 CostS                                              SW 3. .       3..oL21.3   1.450.1          -              -      IS.1M..0                             ?"L*                   X2.1        4a 4.0. .   -  --------
I.t.t OW4ua COSTS                                                221. 165.1    128.014.2   192,1M..1  26,480. 0      42.350.0      26-5230.2      20.6Oft.)IO 10600.23                         0.921,      "5.6M1.0  go. 5  01.525 4
Physuictl C.ttmpm.l..                                          22,01.0       14. 25SIL    1MIMS  2.6460            4.235.0      t. 68.5         2, 066.5 Sl.50.6                           SAKI.         61.5254   0.0        0.9
Ptica coottqmi.                                              246,$70.t    71.46MO  o40.210.1  40, 0. 6           t2.264.2      31164.. 1      I.tM. IS             14 2. 6                12.2152      Ut.168.5   0.s 2   .551t
total~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ V"t COT                                            ;;,       - - - -- S wW3  - - - -- S,'w - --...... -.    -- -- - - -*- - -- 2' -5 &- '" - ...........-------..   - -9  -- - - - - - - - --- 2s ,_,_  TS' ---  
totatZlEt tests1 C                                               4U0,816.2   211,st0.s   52.7....      .2.. ...66..3 .4.5.2.. .....             ..........             25..50.. .1   2.,224.e  t... .5. .              0. S5 113.6..1
Fnv lo b&                                                     SOp L6.M.S      7,51L I   5.5 S3  TT. 322  6        M11049.2      IL 3#42.       3 L164. S            200.4& 2               S. On. I   1. 40 e.3 . S  .4 122. "L S
fb1. IL. 11t S& IS
U'
La
hoIaI



SOMALIA
SENtt-NtECANIZED RAINFED AGRICULTURE PILOT POlECt
Table 100. PIU - CENTRAL SERVICES /a
Detailed Cost Table
(so. Stt. '000)
Sase Costs
Unit Cost   t987       t98S     1989     1990     t991      1992    1993    1994    1995    Total
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. BUILDING /b
HOUSE Q3 8ERO3 l   PPF                       2.310   2. 310. 0       -        -         -        -        -       -        -       -  2.3J0.0
HOUSE (2 BEDROOl)   PPF                       1.925   1. 925.0       -        -   -         -         -       -            -       -     925. 0
MACttINERY COMPOtUtD. OfFICE
ND STOREROOW  - PPF                        1. 680   1. 680.0      -                                                                 1.680.0
HOUSE (3 BEDROOM                             2.310          -        -  6.930.          -        -        .                -       -  6.930. 0
HOUSE Q2 BEDROOM                              1 925                  - 5.775.0                    -       -        -       -       -    .7S. 0
GUEST HOUSE                                  2. 310              -      2.310.0                  -        -       -        -       -  2.310. 0
OFFICE/STDREIOOF                             8.400          -        - S.400.0          -        -        -        -       -       -  8.d00.O
MACINERT COMPOUND. OFFICE
AND STOREROOM                             1.680          * t.6SO.O          -        -        -        -       -       -        -   t, 6B0.0
SEED AND CHEMICAL ftORE
INSU1ATEO. REFRIGERATED CONTAINERS          924          - 2.772.0         -        -         -        -       -       -       -   2.772.0
GENERATOR HOUSE                                400                        400. 0        -                                                400.0
Suib-Total BUILDING lb                                   5.9tS.O  4.52. 0 23. SI5. 0       -        -        -        -       -       - 34. 182.0
B. WATER suRptV
DRILLIN. CASIN5GS AND
SCREENS                                   1.260          -        -  t.260.0         -                 -       -       -        -   t.260.0
WINDMILL IERECTED)                            1.078         -        -  :.0-8.0         -                         -        -       -   t.078.0
JACAPUIP                                     205.8          -             205.8         -                                                   .-  -  -  -    25.8
NEADER TIAZ
150.000 t-ERECtrD)                          350         -         -   350.0         -             -        -           -       -    350.0
PIPING ANt  RETICULATION                        140         -             140.0         -        -        -       -        -       -     140.0
CONCRETE SLat AND
LIVESTOCtt TROUGH                           280          -             280.0         -        -        -       -       -        -    280. 0
Sub-Total WATER SUPPLY                                         -         - 3,33.8          -        -        -        -       -       -   3.313.8
C. VEHfICLES AND EQUIPMtNT /c
SEDW  - PPF                                    73S      735.0        *        -         -        -                -       -        -     735.0
STATION CM4t -
44  /0 - PPF                            t. 102. 5   1. tO2.5               -         -        -        -       -       -        -   . 102.5
PICtt-UP -
414 IUD - PPF                               735   2. 940.0        -        -        -         -        -       -       -        -   2. 940.0
MOTORCYCLE - Pr                                 147     294.0                 -         -        -        *       -        -       -     294.0
FUEt TANKER - PPF                           . U37.5   1. 837.             -        -             -        -       -       -        -   t. 837. S
WORKSHOP EQUIPtENT   PPF                   1. 102. S   1t t02. 5     -        -         -        -        -       -        -       -   t. 102. 5
OFFICE EQUIPMENT AND
FURNITURE - Pg 588                                  588.0                                                                             588.0
RADIO - PPF                                  220.5      220.5        -        -         -        -        -       -        -       -     220. 5
GENERATOR
(SO NVAI - Pp                            . 543. S   1. 543.S      - S-                       -         -       -       -       -   1. 543. S
FUEt TANK
(SO.000 L) - PPI                            735     735.0             -        -         -        -            -       -       -     73S.0
FUEt TANKER                                1. 837. 5        -  t,83t 5        -.827.5
tORSNOP EQUIPMENT                          l. 102. 5        -  1. 102.5        -        -        -        -       -        -       -   1. 102. S
OFFICE EQUIPMENT
APD FURMITURF                               SSS          -        -  t.764.0                  -        -       -       -        -   t. 764.0                               S 
RADIO                                        220.5                        220.-                                                    -     220.5
GENERATOR (20 EVAI                             8S2          -   882.0         -         -        -        -       -        -       -    882.0 0
FUEt TANKt(30.000 LI                           44I          -   441.0              -        -                             -              44t.0
Sub-Total VEHICLES AND EQUIPMtENT /c                    t1.098.5  4.263.0  t.984.5         -        -        -        .           -      17346.0
Total INVESTMENIT COStS                                    17.013.5  S.?7tS.O 29. 113.3       *        -        -                -       -   4.841.8
It. RECURRENT COSTS
A. SALARIES - PPr



PROJECT DIRECTOR                           600    300.0                   --        -       -                   -      -      00.0
DEPUTY PROJECT DIRECTOR                  7.000  7,000.0       -        -        -       -        -      -       -      -  t.00..0
FINANCIAL COUTROLLER                     7.000  3.500.0        -       -        -       -        -                         3 -  -       so0.o0
DEPUTY FNAMCIAL CONTROLLER/
accOaululf 450    225.0                                     -                                                             225.0
PROCUREIENT OFFICER(
PORT CLEARANCE OFFICER                  2S0    125.0        -                                                             125.0
LAND CLEARING SPELItlST/
SURVEYOR                                4S0    225.0        -                    -       -           -       -      -    221.0
CHRAINE                                    100     so.0        -                                                                .-  -  -  -  -  -  50.
AGRICULTURAL ENGINEER                    7.000  1. 750. 0      -       - -          -       -        -          -      -  1. 750.
* DRlSIOP NAAGER/
STORWN                                  250     62.s            -       -        -       -       -       -          -      62.1
GRADE a NECIANICS                         too      25.0        -       -        -       -               -       -      -      25. 0
TYPIST/CLERTS                              tOO    100.0                -                -        -                           100.0
HATCHNE/AASORIERS                           24     24.0                -                                        -      -      24.0
Sub-Tota1 sAtARtES - PRI                          13. 38$. S      -       -        -       -        -      .       -      -  13 386 s
S. SALIES
PRWECT DIRECTOR                            600        -   600.0   600.0   600.0   600.0   600.0  600 0  600.0  600.0  4800.0
DEPUTY PROJECT OIRECTOR                  7.000        - 7. 000.0 7.00.0 7. 000.0 7.D000          -      -       -      - 26.060.0
fINACItAL CONTROLtER                     7.000        - 7.000.0  7.000.0 7.000.0 7.000.0 3.,S00. 0      -       -      - Jl.S00.O
DEPUTY FINANCIAL CoteROttER/
ACCtNNTANT                              450        -   450.0   450.0   4500    450.0   460.0  450.0  450.0  450.0  3.600.0
PROCREENT OtFICFR/
POT CLEARUCE Of FICER                   250        -   25o.o   250.0   250.0   250.0   250.0  250.0  M20.0  250.0  2.000.0
tLD CLEARING SPECIALISTI
SURVEYOR                                450        -   4O. 0   450.o             -            -      -       -      -    900.0
CRAINE                                     too        -   200.0   200.0         -       -        -      -       -      -    400.0
tOCIUT1URAL ENGINEER                     1.00e           7.000.0  7.000.0  T.000.0      -        -      -       -         21.000.0
NORKsmnP  ANAER/
STORENA                                 250        -   250.o   250.0   25o00    5.0   250.0  250..   250.0  250.0  2. 00 .0
GRADE A NECANMICS                          100             200.0   200.0   200.0   200.0   200.0  200.0  200.0  200.0   t 100. 0
TYPIST/CtEilKS                             t00             200.0   200.0   200.0   200.0   200.0  200.0  200.0  200.0  1.600.0
GRADER DRIVER                              too        -   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0    S00.0
NATCINESLA    ts                            24             U4.0    46.0    96.0    96.0    96.0    960   9t.0   96.0    6M 0
Sub-Total SALARIES                                       - 23.748. 0 23.74 .0 23. 146.0 1S. t46.0 S.646. 2. 146.0 2.146,02.146.0   $"2.0
C. FINACIAL SERVICES                                                                                                                                                    .
EKTERNAL AUDIT                            980              980.0   980.0   980.0   980.0   980.0  98.   980.0 1. 9o.0    , ano.*
S44-Total FlNANCIAt SERVICES                             -   90. 0   980.0   980. 0   108.    980.0  980.0  98e.0 1.960.0  S. 20.0
D. VEhICLE me EOUIPHENt
OPRATItG COSTS - 9Wf
ftUEt AND LRICANTS                       0.02    525.0 o               -        -           -           -       -      -    525.0
T"RES AND SPUAE PARTS                 1. 639. Q   6ss.6                -   -            -        -      -       -      -       65.6
EOIIPNT  tAItENANE                      1s4. 35        6t. 7                                                           -       L6 7
Sub-total EICLE  ND EQUIPHEt
OPERt ING COSTS - W9F                            1.242.4       -       -          -                     -       -      -   t.22.4
E. VEHICLE AND
E4S1IPNET OPERATING COSTS
FtEL AN tLURICANTS                       0.02         -   945.0 o. 2O. 0  16. cso. o  1. 6Q o  S. 680. 0 t. 680.0 . CSO. O 1. 60. 0  tt2S5. 0
TYRES NO SPAE PARTS                   I. 6). OS       - 1.229.3  t.229.3  1.229.)3 t.2m.3  t.229.3 1.229.3 t. 2m.J l. 229.3  9.834.3
EQUIPNENT NAINITEANCE                  1S4.35         -   115.8   11S.S6   I tS.    1IS.6    t5.8   15s.68  t5.8 1a1s.       92. 1
Svb-lotai ttEMCL  M                                                                                                                                                    b 
EQUIPIENT OPERATING COSTS                                2.290. t 2.605. 1 3.02S. I 3.025. 1 3.025. t 3.025. 1 3.025. 1 3.025.1 23.045.4
F. SUtPPLIES AND UAINIEtANCE                                                             *                                                                         H
OFFlt^E SUJPPttES                                                                                 ,t
AND UTlItTIES - WPF                   1.030    515.0        -       -        -       -        -      -       -      -    515.0                                      W
OFFtCE SUPPLIES
A0  UTILITIES                         1.030        -   824.0   824.0   824.0   824.0   824.0  824.0  824.0  824.0  6L592.0
UlttDlN  AnD mAtER
SUPPLY NAINTENANCE                    1.500             150.0   300.0   750.0    500.   t SOO. 0 1.500. 01. 50.0 1 .SOO.0    a700. 0
Sub-Totst SUPPLIES AND rAINTENANCE                   5t5.0   974.0  t. 124.0  t.574.0 2.324.0 2.324.0 2.324.0 2.324.0 2. 324. 0  IS. 807. 0
C. ACCOODAT ION



INSE RENTAL
FOR TA - PPF                            2.5t5  l. 030.0        -        -        -        -        -       -       -        -   1.030.0
lOUSE RENTAL FOR Ta                        2.575          - 2.080.0  2,060.0                                                   -  4. 120.0
Sub-Total ACCOMMODTION                                1. 030. 0 2. 080. 0 2. 060. 0     -        -        -       -       -       -  S 150. 0
Total RECURRENT COSTS                                     16.173.9 30.052.1 30.517.1 28 725.1 22.475.1 11.975.1 8.475.1 8.4tS.1 9.455.1 I16.323.3
Tot.l                                                     33. 187. 4 38. 767. 1 519630.4 28.725- I 22.475.1 1 1. 975. I8.475. A1 8.475.  95455.51 221. 165.1
/a  ALL COSTS StN tIIUE YEAR V  IST AKE PROUECT YEAR 0 COSTS. MOST OF MICH ARE TO tE FINANUCES UISR A PROECT PREPARATIO;N FACILITY IPR!I
&b  ASSUPTI  IS PREFAUICAFEO HIOOSES AND BWILtNGS                                                    1
fc  PRICE INlCtDES INITIAL SP4RES
fdbrir y24. tISt It 42
00'
ILL
CO



-           ~~SOMLIA
SERi-MECNaNIZED RAINVED ASRiCULTURE PILOtr-pRJEiC
Table 200. tiOD CtEARANCE U4D EARTNIIOvIts !`
-Detailed Cost Table
(501.  000;
hso Costs
Unit Cost    1987      1988    1S8s    t990    1991    1992    t993    1994    1995    TotaT
I. ttvtESTNi* COSTS            *                                                        . r                      -           -''
A.  ILDIN( fb        ,.b
HltUSE (3 BEDRODM        - _   _      2.?s,          - 4.620 0         -        -       -       -       -       - -      -  4. 620.S
HOUSE (2 BEDROOI                      1            _2.  - - 3. 850. 0                                                    -  3.85.j-.
MACHINERY CODPOUND AND.
STORE OFFICE ANU IORKSftP          t,t55          - 2. 310. cr 2.3fO.  0    ,   ,            -   -  -                    4.620. 0
FUEt TNK ANOD alt rIOE   -        ,-   350           -    700.0    700.0-      -       .-   -   -       -                -   t,400.0
* ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  -     ---   -   -- -   -- - -  -  -- -   - - - - - - - - - -
Sub-Total BUILDING /b                                                                                                             40 4_.9 3o  .-  -  4.490.0
B. WATER SUPPLtY
DRILLING. CASI.NtGS AND
SCREENS                            1. 260         - 5. 040.0  2. 520Y. 0    -        -       -       -       -        -   7. 560. 0
WINDMILL /ERECTED)                    1. 078         - 4. 312. 0  2. 156.       -       -       -       *        -        -  6.468. 0
JACKPUFtP                             205.8          -   823 2    41t.6        -                -       -       -        -   1.234. 8
HEADER TANK
50. 000 L-ERECTEDI                   350          -  1. 400. 0    700.0      -       -       -       -       -        -  2. 500. 0
PIPING AND RETICUtAtIO)                 t40          -   560.0    280.0         -       -       -               -        -     840.0
CONCRETE SLAB ANO
LIVESTOCK TROUGH                     280          -  t,20. 0    560.0                 -      -       -       -       -      680. 0
Sub-Total WATER SUPPLI                                  - 13.255.2  6.627 6        -       -       -       -        -       -  19.82.8
C. VEHtCLES. MACHINERY
AND EQUIPMtENT - PPf /c
CRANtER DOZER t200 HP)             t2. 862.5  25. 72S. 0      -        -       -        -       -       -       -        - 25. 725.0
MlUTI-APPLICATION RAKE                1.470   2.940.0         -        -        -       -       -       -        -       -  2.940 0                                                  VI
ROOT PLOtUG                         1, 102.5   2.205 0        -        -        -       -       -       -       -        -  2.205. 0
TREE PUSHER                             441     882.0         -        -        -       -       -       -       -              8- 82.0
CLEARING CHAtN  (130 Ml               220 5      220.5                 -        -       -       -       -       -        -    220.5
TRACTOR 4100 NPI -
4X4 H/D                           . 637.5   1,837.5        -        -       -        -       -       -       -             .- ,837. S
FUEL TRAILER                          367.5      367.S        -        -        -       -       -       .        -       -    367.5
PlCK-UP 4X4 tUD                         735      735 0        -        -        -       -       -       -       -        -     735.0
tItSCELLANEOUS EQUIPMENT              367.5      367.5        -        -        -       -       -       -        -       -     38t.5
MOTOR GRADER            S.512.5   5.51t.5                     -        -        -       -       -       -        -       -   5.513.5
MATER TRAILER                         367.5      367 5                          -         -             -                      367.S
Sub-Total VEHICLES. MACHtNERY
AND EQUIPMENT - PPf fc                       41. 160.0        -        -        -       -       - *              -          41. 560.0
O. VEHICLES, MACHINERY
U4D EQUIPMENT
CRAWLER DOZER 4200 UP)             12.862.5          - 12,862.S        -        -       -       -       -        -            .- 1282. 5
HATER TRAILER                         367.5          - t    To2. S    735. 0    -       -       -       -        -                .- 3.S
LOW LOAER TRAILER                       735          *    735.0        -                                                       735.0
Sub-Total VIEIICtES. MACWINERY
AND EQUIPiSEUT                                       - 14, 700. 0    735.0      -       -          * -  -        -                 a- 435.0
E. REFORESTATION
N1RSERI ESTABLISHMENT                   560          -   560.0         -        -       -       -       -        -             SW-  .                SEI
PoROsASE Of SAPLINtS - PPi              560    S5O.0          -        -                                                      .1160. -
(20.000 L-ERECTEO)                   210         -    420.0   t-                                                           40.0
WAND PMifP SPRAYERS                    7.35          -     44.1        -        -       -       -       -        -       -  ,  44. 1
SUNDRY E"tIPMET                        73.5          -     73,5     73      73.5    73.5    73.5    73.5        -        -     44.0
Stb-Total REFORESTATION                             560.0  1. 097.6    73.5    73.5    73. 5    73. 5    73.5       -       -   2. 025. t
F. SEED ESTAStISIMIENT
INITIAL SfED PIRCUASE                  0.06          - 2. 100.0        -       -        -       -                        -   2.100.0
_- -- -    -- -- -   -- -- -   -- - -   -- - -   -- - -   -- - -   -- - -   -- - -   ---------.    . _ _     __ 



Su*-Total SEED ESTASLISHIENT                          - 2. 100.0           -       -           -           -       -       2. 100.0
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                            41. 720.0 42.632. 8 10.446. 1   73.5    73.5    73.5   73.5     -       - Ss 092.9
It. RECURRENT COSTS
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
A. VEHICLE, IACHhINERY AND
EWtIPHET OPERATING COSTS
FUEL AND LUBRICANTS                 0.02         - 4.200.0 4.200.0  945.0  945.0  945.0  945.0  945. 0  945.0  14.070.0
TYRES MND SPARE PARTS            3.307.5         - 3.307.5  3.307.5   661.5  661.5   661.5  661.5  661.5  661.5  t0,5U4.0
CONSUMLES                           73.5         -    73.5    73.5         -       -       -       -       -       -     .47.0
TRANSPORT OF FORESTRY
MATERIALS                         38.5        -    38. 5    38. 5   38.5   38. 5   38.5   38.5   38.5   38.5    308.0
TRNSPORT OF FORESTRY
MATERIALS - PPt                   38.5      38.5       -        -       -       -       -       -       -       -     38.S
Sub-Total VEHICLE. MACHINERY AND
EQUIPNENT OPERATING COSTS                     38.5  7. 619.5  7. 619.5 1. 645.0 1. 645.0 1.645.0 1. 645.0 1. 64.0. 645.0 25. t47.5
B. SALARIES
MACHINERY FOREMAN                    tS0          -    150.0   150.0       -       -       -       -       -       -    300.0
OPERATORS                            tOO          -   600.0   600.0  200.0  200.0  200.0  200.0  200.0  200.0  2.400.0
LAORERS MND  ATCHIMEN               26.4         -    52.8      52.8   26.4   26.4   26.4   26.4   26.4   26.4    264.0
Sub-Total SALARIES                                  -   802.8   802. 8  226.4  226.4  226.4  226.4  226. 4  226.4  2. 964.0
C. OTNER MAINTENANCE ANO SUPPLIES
BUILDION AND HATER
SUPPLY MAINTENANlCE              1.890         -   945.0  1.512.0       -       -       -       -       -       -  2.457.0
POLYAS                               14 '        -    147.0    29.4   29.4   29.4   29.4   29.4   29.4   29.4    352.8
Sub-Total OTHER MAINTENANCE AND SUPPLIES            -  1,092.0  1.541.4   29.4   29.4   29.4   29.4   29.4   29.4  2.809.8
Total RECURRENT COSTS                                385  9,514.3  9.963.? 1. 900.8 1900.68 1.900.8 1.900.8 1. 900.8 1.900.8  30.921.3
:::::::= =======  :2:::::: =s====: ::::=:: cnn::: 3:: .  ==:: :3::::=z ncc=    -
Total                                              4t.758.5 52. t47.t1 20. 409.8 t.974.3 1. 974.3 t.974.3 t.2974.3 t.8900.8 1.900.8 t26. 014.2                                       0%
P= =:  ==: ===- =             = : ===~sc=9zz==z======== =-==O
h ALL COSTS SNONN4 tINDER YEAR t987 ARE PROdECT YEAR 0 COSTS. NOST Of NIIICI ARE rO BE FINANtCED UNDtER A PRO,IECt PREPARATIONl FACILtTY IPPF1
ib ASSUMPtION IS PREFABRICATED HOUSES AND BUILDINGS
/e PRICE INCLUDES INITIAl SPARES
Februmry 24. 1987 18:42
hI:L
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-



/                                                  -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~61-                                   Annex 3
Table 5
SOIIAUA
SEIII-MECHANIZED RAINFED AGRICULTURE PILOT PRMECT
lablo 300. PIU - fARM MANAGEMENT UNITS
Oetailed Coot table
ISO. SH. I000)
gas Costs
Unit Cost  1987   1988         1989      1990      1991      1992      1993       1094      1995    total
1. INVESTMENT COSIS
-- &...........
A. VEHICLES. MACHINERY
AND EQUIPllENT /a
TRACtOR (100 HP) -
4X4 1/0                           t,837.5       -  1. 025. 0  1t, 025.0                  -         -              -              -  22.050.0
CHISEL PLOUGH                             882      -  1. 74, 0  1,1764.0                                        -          -         -   3. 5280
OFFSET DISC MARRON                        735      -  1,470.0  14.0                         -         -               -              -   2.940.0
FIELD CULTIVATOR                          a82      -  1,754.0  t.764.0                 -         -         -              -          -   3.528.0
PRECISION PLANTER                       1,470      -  2.940.0  2.940.0                                                                   S.-  -  -  -   5.IS0
8B011 SPRAY  (TRAILED)                    441      -    882.0    882.0                      -         -         -               -        1.6 4.0
MISCELLANEOUS EQUIPMENT                   73g      -  1. 470.0  1. 470.0               -         -         -                    -        2.940.0
TRAILER                                 367.5      -    735.0    735.0            -         -         -         -         -         -   1.470.0
PICKI-UP 14X4 N/O)                        735           1. 470.0  1.470.0              -              -                   -          -   2940.0
GENERATOR (12 IVA)                        441          1.764.0    U82.0                -         -         -         -          -        2 645.0
MORISHOP EQUIPMENT                        147      -    294.0    294.0                  -        -         -         -               -      88.0
RADIO  IC.8.)                            44.1      -      88.2      88.2               -         -         -                         -     176.4
OFFICE EQUIPNENT                         73.5      -    147.0    147.0            -         -         -         -          -         -     294.0
Sub-Total VEHICLES. NACHINERY
AND EQJIPNENT /a                                     25. 613.2 24.931.2                     -         -              -               -  50.744,4
.  ..........    . ......... ........ ....    ..... ---. --------    -- -- -   -- -- -   --- ---   ---.------ .. . ..
Total INVESIIEII COSTS                                    - 25.813.2 24,931.2            -         -         -         -         -         -  50.744.4
*Rut urn::.zs  :ten u::t.2?:: ususuts: tus::ssu us ::,w:. Stt!tttt ttnt:t t:wRu:32R:
It. RECURRENT COSTS
A. SALARIES
f ARM MANAGER                            400         2.400.0  2,400.0  2,400.0  2.400.0  2,400.0  2,400.0  2.400.0  2,400.0  19.200.0
lECHANIC                                 150      -    600.0    900.0    900.0    90. 0    900.0    900.0    900.0    900.0   6,900.0
TRACTOR DRIVER 13/RIIU)                  100         1,200.0  1, 800.0  1. 800. 0  1,800. 0  1. 800.0  1,800.0  1,800.0  1.800.0  13,800.0
LABORERS AND RATCHMEN
12/FIIU)                              24      -    144.0    288.0    288.0    288.0 ~ 86.0    288.0    288.0    288.0   2. 160.0
Sub-Total SALARIES                                        4,344.0  5.638.0  5,388.0  5,38. 0  5,388.0  5.388.0  5, 388. 0  1,388.0  42.060.0
S. VEHICLE. MACHINERY AND
EQUIPMENT OPERATING COSTS
FUEL AND LUBRICANTS                    0.02       -  1.470.0  2.940,0  4,410.0  4.410.0  4.410.0  4,410.0  4.410.0  4.410.0  30.870.0
tYRES AND SPARES PARIS                705.6       -  1.411.2  2.822.4  3.528.0  3.528.0  4.233.6  4.233.6  4,233.6  t4233.6  28,224.0
CONSUIABLES                             73.5      -    147.0    294.0    441.0    441.0    441.0    441.0    441.0    441.0   3,067.0
..... ...  ^...... ....... I- ...... .--------............... . . .... . .. .. -------- ... -------   --------     --- ---   -------   -- - - -
Sub-Total VENICLE. MACHINERY AND
EQUJIPMENT OPERATING COSTS                        -  3,028.2  6.056.4  8,379.0  8,3?7.0  9.084.6  9,084.8  9,084.6  9.084.6  62.181.0
C. OTHER  AINTlENANCE
................ .
i WILDING AS D tMATER
SUPPLY NAINTENANCE                 2,200                -             1, 100.0  1, 100.0  2,200.0  2,200.0  2,200.0  2,200.0  11,000.0
..... .. ....... ... ....... .... ............... .............. ....... . ........ ............. ........  ........... .........
Sub-Tot*l OTHER MAINTENANCE                          -         -          -  1,100.0  1,100.0  2.200.0  2,200.0  2.200.0  2.200.0  11,000.0
0. FARM INPUTS
SEED DRESSING AND
CHEMICALS                            147      -    147.0    147.0    147,0         147.0     147.0     147.0    147.0    147.0   1, 178.0
HERBICIDES                              0.74      -  1. 411. 2  2,572.5  3, 675. 0  3,675.0  3.675.0  3,675.0  3.675.0  3,675. 0  26,033.7
. .... ........... .  .............    . ..... ...    . ......... I-------     -----   -----     -----   .-----.----. .
Sub-Total FARN INPUTS                                -  1. 55. 2  2.719.5  3,822.0  3,822.0  3.822.0  3.822.0  3,822.0  3,822.0  27,209.7
.. ...  .. ..... .. .......  ....... ... ... ... ... ..... . .. ..........  ... ........ ........  ........ ---  -----
Totsl RECURRENt COSTS                                     -  8.930. 4 14. 163.9 18, 689, 0 16, 889.0 20,494.6 20,494.8 20,494.6 20, 494.5 142,450.7
?:: uasuttuR  2RSnu..     :1:::g::  2s42"":s 1u:.2:. '   :uut?n   2t"r:?2*  "t'"2tuu  su2 : ::",
totl                                                       - 34. 743. 6 39.095. 11. 889.0 18,689.0 20,494.6 20,494.6 20. 494. 6 20. 494. 6 193, 195. 1
Zn:w Stur::t  ?S:.2aSa  t2szt::: :::nns: tn2t:::.  :crnuu u nu:sa::: suzuECt  ::r,:ttt*
.,----------------  .___. .......... ______.. .. _.. .. _.............................._. .. .. .......................
Fs PRtCE INC2UDES IItIAl SPARES
februa.-y 24. 1987  18:42



SOHALIA
SEII1-lECWWIZED RAINFED AGRICULTURE PILOT PROJECT
Table 400. PIU - TRAINING /a
Detailed Cost Table
(SBOSH, '000)
Base Costs
Unit Cost 1987  1988   1"9       1w99    1       1992    193   1994  1995  Total
I. INYESThENT COSTS
A. TRAINING
FARM MANA6ERS -
BASIC TRAINNIN                2,380      -       -       -       -       - 7:140.0 7,140.0     -    - '428.0
FARM MANAGERS -
ADMINISTRATION                  420      -       -  840,0  840.0  840.0          -       -    -      -  2,520,0
GENERAL MANAGER -
CORPORATE ADMINISTRATION        560      -       -   560.0       -       -       -       -     -    -    560.0
SENIOR MANAGEMENT -
CORPORATE ADMINISTRATION      1s120      - 1,120.0 1Y120.0       -       -       -       -    -    - 2,240.0
WORKSHOP MANAGEMENT -
STUDY TOUR                      350      -   350,0  350.0        -       -       -       -    -    -    703.0
LAND CLEARING -
STUDY TOUR - PPF                700 700.0        -       -               -       -       -                ?Oa.50
D{RYLAND RESEARCH                  350      -   35O0.   350,0  350.0  350.0   350.0  350.0    -    -  2100.0
SHORT TERM COURSES                 420      -   420.0  420.0  420.0  420,0   420.0  420.0 420.0 420.0  3y360,0
Sub-Total TRAINING                         700.0 2,240*0 3+640.0 1'610,0 1,610.0 7Y910.0 7,910.0 420.0 420.0 26,460.0
-_ -- ------- ------- ------- ------- ---- ---- ---- ---- --------_____
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                        700.0 2,240.0 3,640.0 1,610.0 1s610.0 7t910.0 7,T10&0 420.0 420.0 261460,0
Total                                          700.0 29240.0 3p640.0 1,610.0 1,610.0 7t910,0 7,910.0 420.0 420,0 26,460.0
_ _ -_ __ ___ __ __                                                      _ ____                                                                 I!!
/J ALL COSTS SHORN UNDER YEAR 1987 ARE PROJCT YEAR 0 COSTS, MOST OF WHICH ARE TO BE FINANCED UNDER A PROJECT PREPUARATION FACILITY (PPF)
February 24: 1987 09:31



-63-                                ~~~~~~~Annex 3
SGI"LI:                              . ~~~~~Table 7
SEmI-tlECKANZED RAINED   RICULTME PILOT PRoJECT                                -7
Table 500. PIU - STUDIES
Detailed Cost Table
(SO.SH. '000)
BDs Costs
Unit Cost 19871988   1989   1990 1991  1992   1"93 1   1495  Total
:Z m=su -:_= :_-- sgganu u-.   -                                ==
1. INVESTMiENT COSTS
A. STUDIES
AERIAL PHOTOGRAPHY             2.100    -    -         -   -   - 2,100.0   -   -   -  2.100.0
SOIL STUDY                     3P500    -    -         -   -   - 3,500.0   -   -   -  3P500#0
LIVESTOCIK STUDY               1J750    -    -         -   -   - 1,750,0   -   -   -  10750.0
ENVIRONIENTAL STUDY           10.500     -   - 10.500.0   -   -          -   -   -   - 10,500.0
PROJEC  PREPARATION -
PHASE II                   10.500    -   -          -   -   - 10,500,0   -   -   - 10.500,0
Sub-Total STUDIES                           -   - 10500,0   -    -17#S50,0   -   -   - 28.350.0
Do MITIGATORY
ENUIRONNENTAL MEASUS          14400      -   -         -   -    - 14,000.0    -   -   - 14,000,0
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                         -   - COS1000     -   - 314850#0    -   -   - 42p350,0
~~~~~~~t324m: f                  -   -    M   2S=    - s _#S: s
Total                                           -   - 10,500.0    -   - 31t850,0   -   -   - 42,350.0
Februars:s s-a 24, 17    -:3 1- --
Februaris 24i 1987 09:11



,J  -      -eAnnx 3
Table 8
SOMALIA
SEMI-NECHANIlED RAINPfEO AGRICULTURE PILOT PRWECT
Table t00. "OA - MONITORING AND EVALUATION
Detailed Cost table
ISO. SN.  000)
6ose Costs
Unit Cost  198?  t988    19S9    1990    199t    1992    1993    1994    1995    Total
t.n.t...:  tnt: *ts:rai    tttt?: titan?  t::ns. tins.:s  *attn., ::::::s :::ts::: :tnn.t:
1. I!tVESTMENT COSTS
A. BUILDINGS Is
GUEST HOUSE                        2.310      - 2.3t0.0                             -           -        -       -  2.310.0
Sub-Total BUILDINGS /a                           - 2.310.0                             -            -                   2.310.0
8. VEHICLES AND EOUIPMENT /b
.... ..... ....  ... .
STAtION MAGON
4X4 H/D                        955.5      -   955.5             -       -                    -       -        -    955.5
MOTORCYCLE                           147     -   588.0         -       -       -        -       -        -       -    588.0
NICELLANEOUS EQUIPMENT
AND SUPPLIES                     882          882.0        -                                                       682.0
Sub-Total VEHICLES AND EQUIPMENT  b              -2,425.5                     -        -           -        -       -  2.425.5
Total INVESTNENT COSTS                              - 4.735.5        -       -        -       -       -        -        -  4. 735.5
55." *::estr   :titn  *sist:  ra:,. ass.:.a nsi:  sst rssiis nsa.,..
11. RECURRENT COSTS
A. SALARIES
TECHNICAL SPECIALIST              7.000        1. 750.0   700.0   700.0   700.0   700.0   700.0   700.0   700.0  6,650.0
ENUNERATORS                         150         600.0   800.0   600.0   600.0   600.0   600.0   600.0   600.0  4,800.0
PER DIEHS AND
ALLONANCES                       100          100.0  100.0   100.0   100.0  100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0    800.0
. _...... ....... ....... .... . .. .. ... .. ..... .. ......  .... .....
Sub-Total SALARIES                     *        - 2.450.0 1.400.0 1 400.0 1.400.0 1,400.0 1,400.0 1.400.0 1.400.0 12.250.0
S. VEHICLE AND EUIPNENT
OPERATING COSTS
FUEL AND LUBRICANIS               0.02      -    73.5   144.9   144.9   144.9   144.9   144.9   144.9   144.9  1.087.8
TYRES AND SPARE PARTS             191.1     -    95.6   191. 1   191.t   191. 1   191. 1   191.1   19t.    191. t  1. 433.3
EQUIPMENT MAINTENANCE             44.1      -    22.1    44.1  * 44. t    44.     44.1    44.1    44.1   44.1    330.8
Sub-Totsl VEHICLE AND EQUIPMENT
OPERATING COSTS                            -   191. 1   380.1   380.1   380. 1  380. t  360.1   380. 1  380.1  2.851.8
C. SUPPLtES AND lAINEN1ANCE
BUILDING MAINTENANCE               92.4     -    46.2    92.4    92.4    92.4    92.4    92.4    92.4    92.4    693.0
Sub-Total SUPPLIES AND MAINTENANCE             -    46.2    92.4    92.4    92.4    92.4    92.4    92.4    92.4    593.0
.. . . . . .     . . . .    ... ..   ... - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Total RECURRENT COSTS                               - 2.667.3 1.P72.5 1 872.5 1.,72.5 1.872.5 1,872.5 1,872.5 1 872.5 15.794.6
nsa: tat.,,. as::nti :sass...,:sst suit..  titit an:* t*i*tit t* t.aus 2t4*.80t
Total                                                -         7,422.8 1,872.5 1,872.5 1.872.5 1,872.5 1.872.5 1.872.5 1. 872.5 20.530.3
-- -S                                         tt               s .mas ....... ........... ............ .. t.s.a.
/a ASSUMPTION IS PREFABRICATED HOUSES AD BUILDINGS
/b PRICE INCLUDES INlTIAl SPARES
Fea.................... . . ..18. .4.3....
February 24. 1987  18: 43



S0AIA
SEMI-NElHANIZED RAINFED AGRICJLTURE PILOT PROJECT
Table 700. SDA - FARJER ASSISTANCE
Detailed Cost Table
(SO.SH. '000)
BSc.e Costs
Unit Cost  1987    1988    1989   1990   1991   1992 1993 1994 19"5  Total
I. INUESTNENT COSTS
A. COfIODITIES /a
MAIZE                 1lB41    745.6
OIL                   92.96    334.7       -       -       -       -    -    -    -    -    334.7
SUGAR                 38.29     68.9       -       -       -       -    -    -    -    -     68,9
MAIZE                 18.41        -   745.6 30728*0 5,964.8 2,236.8    -   -    -    - 12567543
OIL                   92.96        -   334.7 14673.3 2,677.2 1,004.0    -   -    -    - 5S689.2
SUGAR                 38.29        -    68.9  344.6  551.4  206.8    -   -   -    -  1,171s.7
Sub-Total COMNDITIES /a         1P149*2 1,149.2 5,745.9 9P193#5 3,447*5    -    -   -    - 20,685.3
Total INVESTMENT COSTS           1149.2 1,149.2 50745.9 9r193,5 3,447.5    -   -    -    - 20,685.3
Total                               17149.2 1l149,2 50745.9 9,193.5 3,447.5    -    -         - 20685.3
/a  COMODITIES ARE CORIBUT BY WORLD FOD PRGRME   MONETARY VALUES ARE THRFORE ONLY INDICATIVE OF THECONTRIBLTIONS  IN KINt
Februari 24, 1987 09:31



-66~~~~~ ~Annex 3
Table 10
SEUI-NECNANIEED 3*11063 AQUcULYSI PILOt  MOJECT
Table 800. CAS/Phil - AOAPIVE RESEOACN
DetailIed Cost fable
ISO. SP.'1000
Ba". Costa
Uni t cost  1387   19311    108      1990     1991      1332     1993    1094    1095    Tots I
xsa,sss.s  sat$ss a.e.g..  *%sess..                                        _X.ss32::   n::::*::   3;;?:n::stl
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. BUILDING /6
OFFICE/tABORATORY                   2.010      - . 3s.00- -0                                                               3.00. 0
HOU1SE (3 BEOhOOl)                  2.310        2.310.0                            .-                         -           2.3)0.0
HOUSE (2 BEDROM)                    I, 021        2.850.0                           .        .        -        .       -  3.850.0
SEED AND CHEMICAL
STORE (INSULATEO.
REFRIGERATOR CONTAINER)          808. 5       3.234,0         --- 3.234.0
Sk4b-Total BUILDING /*                              12.474,0        -         .                                   -       -    474.0
S. MATER SUPPLY
DRILLING. CASINGS
AND SCREENS                      1.230        2,520.0                            -                                      2.S20.0
NINOMIL (ERECTEOI                   1.013         2. 158.0                -         .                                      2. Is8.0
JACIIPUMP                           258        - 411.8                                                                       1  6
HEADER TANK
(20. 000 L-ERECTfDI               2)0      - 420.0                                                         -       -     420.0
PIPING AND RETtCULATION               140          280. 0                           -        -                               280.0
Sub-Total WATER SUPPLY                              S. 5787. 6               -         --87?
C. VEHICLES. MACHINERY
AND EQUIPMENT /b
PICK-UP 414 N/V                       735        2. 2-05.                                                                   ,0.
MOTORCYCLE                            (47      - 294.0           -                  --                                       294. 0
TRACTOR 4100 HIP)
4X4 MID                        1,857.5     -3,675.0           -                                                     -3,675.0
PLANTER (41(1                       1.470        2.040.0         -                                                     -2.940. 0
BOM  SPRAY                            441          on83.0                 -                                    -882.0
HETEOROLOGICAI. EWIIPRENT           220.5           W 8.0        -        .-                                           -     882.0
1(0T0111EV KNAPSACK
SPRAYERS                         22.05     -     132.3                 -                           -               -      132.3
FIELD SCALES                         7.35     -     29.4                  -        -         --                               29.4
Sub-Total VEHICLES, MAGIIINERY
AND EQUIPMENT /b                              - 11.039.?                                                                  I           t1,039. 7
Ttots  INVESTMOENT COSTS                             - 29.301.3                                    -- 29,301.3
II. RECURRENT 'ISTS
A. SALARIES
SENIOR AGROOMIST                   7.000        ? ,000.0  7,000.0  7,000.0  7,000.0  7,000.0  7,000.0            -      42,000.0
RESEARCH AGRICULTURALIST             500         1,000.0  1, 090. 0  1,000.0  1,000.0  1,000.0  1, 000. 0 1,000.0 1,000.0   8,000.0
RESEARCH COORDINATOR                 too           100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0   100.0   t00 0      800.0
RECORDERS                            (00          200.0    200.0    200.0    200.0    200.0    200.0   200.0   200.0   1,600.0
FIELD LABOR                           24     -     24.0     24.0      24.0     24. 0    24.0      24.0    24.0    24.0     102.0
TRACtOR DRIVERS                      100"         200.0    20. 0    200.0    200.0    200.0    200.0   200.0   200.0   1,600.0
Sub-Total SALARIES                                 8.524. 0  8.5$24,0  8.524,0  8.524. 0  8,524.0  8,524.0 1,524.0 1,5S24. 0  54. 192.0
B. ' VEHICLE. PACHINERY AND
EQUIPMENT OPERATING COSTS
FUEL AND LUIBRICANIS                0.02          318.0    756.0    758.0    756.0    756.0    758.0   756.    756.0   5.810,0
TIRES AND SPARE PARIS              630.3     09             6 30  5.3    630.0    630.3    680.9    690.9   69.0.   690.9   5, 527. 2
Sub-Totei VEHICLE. MACHIfNERY AND0
EQUIPNENI OPERATING COSTS-  1,008.3  1, 448.3  1.446.9  1. 446.3  1,443.    4.9  1                     ,4621446.9 1,446.3  11. 137.2
C. SUPPIES AO1 NAINIENANC
SMALL W SCL  E[Q,UI-MEN              154           154. 0    114. 0    154.0    154.0    154.0    154.0   154.0   154.0   1,232.0
CHEMICALS me SUPPIES               2)0.5.    -   215.8    215. 6    2)5.6    215.3    2)5.6I   21S.6O  215. 6   215.6   1,724.8
BUILDING AMO MAIER
SUPPLY MAINTENANICE             I.10 I55. 0  1. too. 0  1. 10. 0  I. 10. 0  1. 100.0  I. 100.0 1. 100.0 1, 100.0   8,25O0.
Sub-1aola SUPPLIES AND MAINTENANDE              -   910.6  1,469.8  1,483.6  1,460.6  1,469.6  1,469.6 1.469 61 ,4.69. 6  t11,206. 8
Total RECURRENT COSTS                                -10,512.5 11,440.5 11,440.5 11,440.5 11,440.5 11,440.5 4,440.5 4,440.5  76,596. 0
I...et::  tstt *-:tts:ss??:::s  ::::::::  st_!Z  !.-'. -f              -  ..7r.::e:,f
Total                                                 -33,813.6 11,.440. 5 11,440.5 11,440.5 11,440.5 11,440.5 4,440.S 4,440.5 105,607.3
sass  s::..: s,:ess 355:?:  5.:::::  tS?:g? :5::?; 5,,:: ....? .........
...... ....................
/a ASSUMPTION IS PREfASRICATED HOUSES MD0 8UILDINGS
lb PRICE INCLUDES INITIAL SPARES
....... ............................................................
February 24. 1967 t8, 43



-67-                                                Annex 3
Table 11
SOMALIA
SEMI-MECHANIZED RAINfED AGRICULTURE PItOT PROJECT
Table 900. AFNET/PIU - EXtENSION
Detailed Cost table
ISO. SH.  000
asne Cost$
Unit Cost  1987  19U8    1989    1990   1991  1992  1993  1994  1995  Total
snt:,nt,r, sc: :::    ::,,,: sit:,,= t::t. i.e.. 555*  *SXtCZ Xt 23 cSiut-t
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. BUILDINGS
CLASSROOM REHABILIlATION            500    1-000.0           -        -                 *       1.000.0
SETTLEMENT MEETING
CENTRE                           500      - 1.000 0 1, 000.0 1 0000            -     -     *      - 3.00.0
HOUSES (LOCAL DESIGN)                100         200.0       -   200.0      -                            400.0
Sub-Total BUILDINGS                             - 2.200.0 1,000.0 1,200. 0                        -     - 4.400.0
B. VEHICLES AND EQUIPMENt /a
IMOTOCYClE                           147     -   294.0       -  ?94.0       -           -      -     -       O88.0
CLASSROOM EQUIPMENT               367.5      -   735.0       -                          -                735.0
Sub-Total VEHICLES AND EQUIPMEN1 /a             -1.029.0             294.0          1- 323.0
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                             - 3.229.0 1 000.0 1.494. 0            -     -     -     - S.723.0
::t=t: :::::   e#t:tt*  aftfrea25 In  sr: tiES? tt tS   2*cting
11. RECURRENT COSTS
A. SALARIES
COORDINATOR (AFNETl                 25      -    25.0    25.0    25. 0  25.0  25.0  25.0  25.0  25. 0   200.0
FIELD EXtENSION
AGENT                           100      -   200.0   200,0   400.0 400.0 400.0 400.0 400.0 400.0 2,800. 0
Sub-Total SALARIES                             -  225.0   2215.0   425.0 425.0 425.0 425.0 425.0 425.0 3 000. 0
B. VEHICLE AND EQUIPMFNT
OPERATING COSTS
FUEL AND LUBRICANTS               0.02      -     8.3     9.2    18 5  18.5  18.5  18.5  18.5  18.5   128.4
TYRES AND SPARE PARTS             14. 7           7.4    14.7    22. 1 29.4  29.4  23.4  29.4  29.4   191. 1
Sub-Total VEHICLE AND EQUIPMENT
OPERATING COSTS                            -    13. 7    23.9    40.5  47.9  47.9  47.9  47.9  47.9   317.5
C. SUPPLIES AND MAINTENANCE
CLASSROOM SUPPLIES                73.5      -    36.8    73.5    73. 5  73.5  73.5  73.5  73.5  73.5   551.3
Sub-Total SUPPLIES AND RAINTEENANCE            -    35 8    73.5    73 5  73.5  73.5  73,5  73.5  73.5   551.3
Total RECURRENT COSTS                              -   275.4   322.4   539.0 546.4 546.4 546. 4 548.4 546. 4 3 868. 8
Total                                               - 3,504.4 1. 322.4 2,033.0 546.4 548.4 546.4 545.4 545.4 9,591.8
5::, Ct:?:::  :5?,::: :51::t5   23:%tt *222S ttttt its:  *tics ttrautt
/a PRICE INCLUDES INITIAL SPARES
tobw-uary 24. 1987  18 43



68                                          Annex 3
Table 12
Page 1
ri4lell ited hinted figIlI   hlot Prject
U1316To uvim~coum m  
Unit hu 19    Plydca         reip      Iro       1ty         tW '  r n           low       loul
colt            Coot.  glw            In      beount              E"hont   Currmnpt
Ito            (USS'IO0N')          It  b ta              Ib                           but                 Cost
(1., pitoh lnd N    i prie ot1iqwe)
fiP Central 1u.n oO
bl     3 hd3  )                1.00      1       0.15      0.91      0.0      P          40.1      A.n        0.0      3I
_o. ht  (tor I.l)              18.    0.S        0.10      8.00      0.00    PCM         10.14      0.00      0.00     10.4
ft pole                         2.10      2      0.10      O.11      0.00    PC"          q.5       4.70      0ID       0.21
Pio ik-p - 1.4 CI .10                    6        10       0.%       0.00    no          ".23      10.62      0.00     3I
Sn                             10.10      2      D.10      O.S       0.00    Pt          24.74     2.11       0.LO      1.24
adio                            3.15      I      0.10      01        0.00    Pt           3.71      3.53      0.00      0.19
rud tw                         21.25      I      0.10      L.S        D.00   P1          61.6      50.77      0.00       .09
SOetson Do   4*  D             1.75       3      L0.10     LO        0.       PM          6,61     52.39      0.00     82.7
Offtie  qud     tturn           L.0       1      0.Lo      0.        0I00    PM           9.        9.0       0.00      0.1
llkch    Eulpent               21.25      1      0.10      0.96     0a00    PC           30.1      29.11      0.0       1.SS
er lar                         26.21      2      0.10      0.98      0.00    PCt         61.1       0.77      0.L       3.0
tlu I Opan Parta                7.1      S 0.1   0.18      0.        0.00    nCo          4.4       4.41      0.00      0.23
rud  ltUiriwf                  0L0D    U         0.10      I.'       0.l0     PCO        11.67     11.08      0.00     01'
EipAmnt rfint                   1,OS    .i       0.10      0SS       0.00    PCo          0,62      0.69      0.00      0.03
DWtY Vimw1l  Ctolle             7.14   L.i       0.10      0.00      0.00     n           4.21      0.0       0.O       4.21
Sd Cleerq Spaculut              7.14   0.5       0.10      0.00      0.00    PMI          4.21      0.00      0.00      4.21
amn                             1.43  0.26       0.10      O.'s      0.00    PCi          02        0.D       0.01      0.42
bprmticlacIiu u                 0.71  0.25       0.10      0.00      0.00    PC           0.21      0,0 0      .0 0     0.21
t,mhlrbos                       0.3       1      0 0.10     0.00    PJ                    0.40      0.01 0.00           0.40
1yiu*t     e                    1.41     2       0.10      0.00      0.00    POc          LI?       0.00      0.0L      3.37
IWb*    _Nr                     4.29  0.8        0.10      0.00      000    PO            1.2       0.00      0.00      1.25
hActt                           4.29   O.1       0.10      0.0       0.00    P            2.12      0.00      0.0      2.52
Crmn                            1.43   0.S       0.10      0.00      0.00    PC           0.14      0.01      0.0       0.
Pruormt  Ottlo
het ClaU       Otloer         L67       1      0.10      0.0       0.00    P            4.21      0.00      0.00      4.21
lraI ORoi*f                     2.14  02        0.10      0.00      0.0     PCI          0.613     000       0.00     0L
rject IeMrter                  10.D      1       0.10      O.OQ      0,00    P           11.71      000       0.0      11.7N
Suw                             4.29   0.5       0,10     1000       0.00    PIC          2.12      0.00      0.00      2.S2
DuY Nojt DBro                IO00      1       0.10      1.00      0.00    PCt        117.03    117.83      0.00      0.00
Io,ltued Innur                10.000   0,1       0.10      1.00      0.0     PC          29.11     2.6        0.00      0.0
enot  Controller              100.00   0.5       0.10      1.00      0.00    PtCT        10.5      60.92       .00      0.0O
Office Swplu I UUtltin          7.11   0.S       0.10      0.40      0.00    PI           4.33      1.73      0.00      2.10



-69 -                                                Annex 3
Table 12
1NeaAht hinted RIlyultul hlot Project                                         Tage  2
tloI TO   flowC  an  PPF
Uwt gm    118?  Phyoul   fo?S1n    from           1Wt         ltelS   FrereO        let       ol
cuOt              ent.   tiohange       et       e Iubow                       wuet   Crrmn
U.              (USflOO'e)           let.      late Ui'e Idount                                               Cot
PIG Tee, hvWent                                                                          (1ol. pj1   cdl pic  enlu t1elee)
.... ..,.  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~.......
store,  th.aond Gorihop       11.,0      1       0.,1      I.3        0.0 T               44319     Nm          G.Ao      7.64
rhine of Seplno                  4.00      1       0.10      0.00       0.00    P1           4.71      0.00       0.00      441
1cellumow  ,qlPat                6.21      1       0,10      0.11       0.00    PM           6.19      5.91       0.00      1.11
Treato  (100 NP)  4 w  go       23.10      1      0.10       0.5s      0.ol     PM          27.22     25.06       0.00      1.35
ot Ploug                        12.1      2       0.10      01%       0.00    PM           29.11     28.1m       0.00      1.48
Iree Ph                          6.LD      2      i.lo       0.5         .00    P           14.05     14.10       0.O0      D."4
fuld IrgIer                      L.2S      1      0.10       0.95      O,00    Pl            6.1        .V        0.O0      0.31
Nwh  kradr                      t.75       1       0.10      0.15       0.00    PMN         9t.N      811.15      0.00      4.14
Sui-Wllplsimtln lk,#           1i.71       2       0.10      0.%        0.00    Pr"         1.12       5.26    .0.09        1.A
Clwing mhaIn ( 13 )              3.16      1      0.10       01         0.      PN           3.71      UL 0.00              0.19
Uw 1hop [qolt                   10.50      1       0.10      0.95       0.00    PIN         12.37     11.76       0.00      0.62
knwatr (20 KU)                  12.60      2       0L10      0.11       0.0     PMl         29.61     20.21       0.01      1.48
Pisk* -40 UD                    10.50      1       0.15                0.'s t.00  M11       12.3?     11.7        0.08      0.2
Crule   ur (200 HP)            103.7S      2      0.10       0.1         00    PM          i3.0      411.3        0.00     21.65
lt ls                           0.55      1       0D10      0.1        0.00    Po           0.65      0.s9       0.00      0.06
PIu Training
Stuo  lwl. 10.0                            I      0.10       1.00      0.00    pT           11.78     11.1       0.00       0.00
tOTLS                                                                                     l1,41    L ,2.           0.0a       LS



-70 -              Am
Table1
8!8181  1|W.     {ff*I ?j    tI~e       fl
H1                     II II if   f1  X            2,
gjij                      I t               I  it|E
} 0 t d iI 1111
uii I2                              >k§



-71 -                                    Amu 4
Table 2
Research ain Extension Activties a!d Methods ln the Project Area
1. hRearch ad Ktuuln Activit0  
Spesry
Activity              Field Staff           BPimibiity           Resoiblity
1. Onh station research                              Swlwa  /wist   Researci Ooordinstor
2. On fam trials       E      eld Fjtensicn Staff    Sitord  groimit   EKtension bordinstor
3. Work prcgrm -                                     Suio   rxaIt   RseCh ODordinator
Research & field trials
4. Evaluation of results     Ariculturalists         Seird  Aprmuist   Rearch (bordiOator
of adaptive resarch
anx field trials
5. Wbrk Pogran - Trsinng        S-ilor 4_ruxmiat   Etesion Oordonator
6. Fafror  trainirg at      Trainiig Off i           Seioer 4rnmist   Etension Coordinator
Fanrs trinixg scol
7. Field extension          Field Extenin Staf    Btslmn                Research Extension offi.r
O,drdItor          (LE.O.) Jannale
8.  kxthly wrkshop                                   Extension          L L 0. Jamnale
O,xwdbntw
9. Pre seasoa workshop           -LE    Jannule                         Research Coordinator
2. Fctewicn Methods
1,       Each FEA iuld be In dre of 150 fam fadlIIes, *Ach would be divided nlto four groups for
field etesion, each group aWrisiing 35 to 40 farmms. Por lattlal trihg, P3 muld work
with tin em  four groups. Every two weeks, each Pk wild VW 4 deps vsi   frs' fields, 4
days on institu ional training, and 2 days of EA traiin  at Jmnale.  s proposd  inetable for each
MA is set out in Ohart 2.
2.       Institutional trainin  mild incllue classram trait   ug  ristirg casrm  facilities at
Kurtm Waarey and Sablaale.
3.       Cortact fanrs muld not be selected initalIy, sie mst fa        mulid be nm to faruttg,
and PEAs mould tirefore haew to axtact -  my fmrs     possil   ing field visits. (Oly after
two or thre season s   d lt be possIbe to selecontact farm



-72 -                               hA    4
SOMM
S4IM-*AN DMI?DM    ICL1W  PM  PRMa
C:mp 'iDttir
'1m Strip tmber
Year    Suamn       1           2           3            4           5            6
1       Guu        MR        C4I/          F           F            P           F
Dar        P          F                       S E          F           F
2       G          F          F            F           F                        c CP1/
Der        Sf         0            F          F            F           F
3       GuQ        p          F            H           O Il         F           F
Der        F          F            F          F            SE 
4       Qzi        CpI/ lt                 F           F            F           F
Der        F          F            Sf         Fp           P           F
5       Guu        F          F            F           F            C41/        H
Der                   Sf           F          F            F           F
6       Guu        F          F            CP l/       i            F           F
Der        F          F            F          F                        S h
Guu Oxpea my be replaced Ath suLower.
ma - ?l=,, Cp - (bwxa, Sf - Wflo-r, F - Fallw.
Features of the rotation are:
(i)     T  different crops ae gum in each sean;
(iU    Che third of the land Is e4pped In    semaim and bw  thrds In ame yar;
(iii)   Each crop follow twD seasou of bare fallo,,
(iv)         rotation cyele Is 6 years; air
(v)     WiM fOUcS tW croPS Of groMdnut.



- 73 -                     Annex 4
Table 4
SOMALIA
SEMI-NECHANIZED RAINFED AGRICULTURE PILOT PROJECT
Farm Layout
(Distances in meters)
300
26                A       Bush          B
40                        Strip 1
26                        Bush
40                        Strip 2
26                        Bush
40                        Strip 3
26                        Bush
40                        Strip 4
26                        Bush
40                        Strip 5
26                        Bush
40               D        Strip 6      C
Prevailing Wind (NE/SW)
One settler holding (ABCD above) would be 300 m long by 396 m wide (11.9
ha), consisting of 6 farm strips, each 300 a long by 40 a wide (1.2 ha),
alternating with bush strips, each 300 m long by 26 m wide (0.78 ha).
Farming area - 60%; bush area - 40X.



SDMH9EAflM  RAMPD AWaRUE PED! PBBC
Proect Am  Modmto Omp  elds 1982-1985
(Welds in KW/l PbFUou  by Hetam  (kn
1982                       1983                        1984                        1985
Der          aG            Der     .      m           Der           Gm            Der
MaIze        3,340(20)        NA         2,900(20)        NA           0            NA          1,500(28)        NA
08eas          850(12)      970(30)      1,20D(1)       650(12)        0            0             350(42)        0
Stlnlwer    2,260(10)         NA I       1,30D(15)        NA         520(5)         NA             NO I/         NA
Safflower        NA         748(30)         NA          880(12)        NA          30(15)          NA_         180(5) 2/
Sablaale
Maie             N            KA         3,100(15)        NA       4,05D(7)         NA            '<5%(45)       NA              g
OuMpNas                     404(10)        60o(15)      450(7)         0            0             350(15)    1,(J00(15)
Sunflower    1,100(1()        NA           30D(7)         NA         432(7)         NA             OG 1/          NA
Safflowr         NA         513(8)          NA          160(7)         1LA        150(7)           NA        1,295(15)
NA '- Not Alicable to seaon
1 - Not grmn
I/   Settlevs decl$ted mt to grow smf1xwer in 1985 becs of, prevous season poor yields; decisim reversi In
1986.
21   lac of (Seal rrevented fallow producilon.
'lir



-75 -                         Annex 4
Table 6
SOMALIA
SEMI-HECHANIZED RAINFED AGRICULTURJ PILOT PROJECT
Projected Yields
Crop                    2         3         4        5         6        7
-----Years of Development at Each FMU----               --
Maize                1,800    l,90O    2,000    2,200    2,200    2,200
Sunflower              600       700      800.      900       900      900
Safflower              350       375      400       425       450      475
Cowpeas (Guu)          350       380      400       450       500      550
Cowpeas (Der)          250       280      300       340       380      400
Wood/Fodder 1/           -         0.3       0.6      1.0       1.0       1.0
1/ Incremental production due to tree planting (m3).
Motes on Table
(a)  Yields are likely to be extremely variable between areas, between
strips and especially between years. Tne yield projections shown
below reflect the likely moving average progressioa over time and
should not be taken as annual targets. They are based on the
average experienced under the earlier trials. Yleld improvement
is expected as the FMUs gain experience in timing operations and
as settlers gain confidence in, and therefore enthusiasm for, the
SIR system. Extension and training should also greatly improve
settlers understanding of farming practices.
(b)  In addition, fuelwood/fodder trees would be planted on
the bush area to increase tree cover. The bush strips would be
expected to produce a biomass for fuel and fodder of about 1.6 m3
per hectare per year from year 4 after planting. About
two-thirds of this (1.0 m3) would result from project activities
(tree planting and edge effects).
(c) Projected production per farm unit and from the project at full
development would therefore be as shown below:



-76-                            Annex 4
Table 6
Pae 2
Projected Annual Yields and Production at Full Development
Crop               Annual            Annual             Annual Project
(Season)             Yield             Production         Production at
per Farm Unit      Full Development
maize (Guu)          2,200 kg/ha         286 t                 1,716 t
Cowpeas (Guu) 1/       550 kg/na          71 t                   214 t
Cowpeas (Der)          400 kg/ha          52 t                  312 t
Sunflower (Guu) 2/    900 kg/ha          117 t                   351 t
Safflower (Der)        475 kg/ha          62 t                  371 t
Incremental Wood/
Fodder             1.0 m3           480 m3                2,880 m3
1/  On 3 FMUs at Sablaalee
2/ On 3 FMUs at Kurtun Waarey.



77                          Annex 5
SOMAIA
SEMI-MECHANIZED RAINFED AGRICULTURE PILOT PROJECT
Terms of Reference
A. Studies
General
1.        Work on the studies except the environmental study outlined below
will not be otarted until after the mid term review and the scope of work
will depend on the findings under the project to that date. In view of
this, terms of reference would be prepared following the mid term review
(para. 4.25).
Environmental Impact Study
2.        In 1986 an environmental reconnaisance survey was undertaken In
the interriverine area In the lower Shebelli Region between the Juba and
Lower Shebelli Rivers and the towns of Kurtun Waarey and Sablaale. This
study should be based on that survey and should address environmental
issues specific to the areas for phases I and II of the semi-mechanimed
rainfed agriculture pilot project. The study should, after consultation
with the National Range Agency, concentrate on the followin-:
(a) Assess whether there are any existing or proposed national parks,
forest reserves or similar protected areas within the project
area, in close proximity, or likely to be affected by the project
including its access roads;
(b) Assess whether any significant numbers of protected, vulnerable,
and/or endangered species or habitants depend on the general
area. Provide as much pertinent information as possible on the
location and status of these species and their critical habitats
or resource requirements. Compare the status of wildlife and
vegetation in the Phase I area with that in the proposed Phase II
area;
(c) Assess whether the area sustains any significant surviving areas
of natural forest, concentrations of wildlife, and wetlands
important for migratory species, and whether they are contained
in existing or proposed reserves. Provide as wuch information as
possible on the location, size, and status of tttese areas.
(d)  istimate the potential effects of each phase of the project on
pertinent flora and fauna, Including whether the first or second
phase will destroy, alter, or block access to critical habiLat or
resource requirements for sedentary and migratory species.
(e) Assess whether such natural areas and wildlife could survive in
harmony with the proposed agricultural scheme, and If not, what
sort of arrangements would be necessary in order for them to do
80.



- 78-                         Annex 5
Poge 2
The study should set forth recommendations for environmental
mitigatory and compensatory measures for Phase I and Phase II based on the
results of the study, as well as procedures for monitoring the efficacy of
these measures. These measures should take into account the adequacy of
the agencles entrusted with safeguarding wildlife and wildlands and any
training and institution strengthening needs. The recommendation should
also consider other studies concerning wildlands and wildlife in Somalia,
as well as internationally recognized guidelines, including the World
Bank's Operational Policy on Wildlands.
B. Project Personnel
1.        Project Director. ProJect Implementation Unit
The Project Director would be directly responsible to the General
Manager, SDA for the effective and efficient operation of the PIUo
Duties and Responsibilities
(a) Provide the overall leadership and direction necessary to make
the PIU effective and efficient in both the Initial physical
implementation and financial management of the project, and the
subsequent provision of services to farmers;
(b) Directly supervize the staff and operations of the PIU,
delegating responsibility as necessary;
(c) Form and chair those committees necessary for the successful
implementation of the project which would Include, inter alia,
the Settler Selection Committee, the Future Organization
Structure Committee, and the Research and Extension Committee;
and
(d) Provide the focal point for contact between the PIU, the farmers
and external (including financing) project agencies.
Qualifications
The Project Director should have the following minimum
qualifications:
(a) University degree or its equivalent in agriculture or
agricultural engineering; and
(b) Broad experience of at least five years in the management of
agricultural o-aganizations, Including preferably some experience
in the private sector.
2.        Deputy Financial Controller, Project Implementation Unit
The Deputy Financial Controller would report to PIU's Financial
Controller and assist the latter in the financial management of the Unit
and In the operation of Its Finance Department.



_ 79 _                       Annex 5
Eago 3
Duties and Resonseibilities
(a)  Assist in developing appropriate accounting and internal control
systems;
(b)  Assist in ensuring the timely preparation of montaly and annual
project accounts and detailed budgets;
(c)  Assist in devising and implementing a cost recovery scheme for
PIU;
(d) Assist in ensuring that financing is available on a timely basis
to fund the Unit's operations;
(e)  Assiat in the proper recording of all the Unit's assets,
liabilities, revenues and expenses;
(f)  Assist in controlling all accounting matters of the PIU; and
(g)  Assist in preparing annual written reports on the progress of the
work of the project.
Qualifications
The Deputy Financial Controller should nave the following minimum
qualifications:
(a) University degree in accounting; and
(b)  At least five years experience as a chief accountant or
controller preferably in an agricultural corporation.
3.        Research Coordinator, Central Agricultural Research Station
The Research Coordinator would be a part of the organization of
the Central Agricultural Research Station (CARS) at Afgoi responsible to
the Director, CARS. He would be a senior scientist at the level of bection
Chief or above. He would be primarily responsible for research and
adaptive trials in the project area. He would be advised and assisted by
the Senior Agronomist of the project organization.
Duties and Responsibilities
(a)  Select techniques evolved by Somali and International Research
Centers, which are relevant co che agro climatic conditions of
the project area, and guide the Senior Agronomist In utilizing
the relevant research findings in the latter's preparation of the
adaptive research program on the research farms to be set up
under the Project;
(b) Finalize the annual work program tor research and adaptive
trials;



-80-                           Annex 5
Page 4
(c) Supervize the adaptive research to be taken up in the project
area and review the evaluation of the research results prepared
by the Senior Agronomist;
(d) Review the recommendations proposed to be conveyed to the
extension staff for transmittal to farmers, prior to the pre
seasonal workshop; and
(e) Attend the meetings as a member of the Research and Extension
Committee under the-chairmanship of the Project Director, PIU.
Qualifications
Tthe Research Coordinator should have the following minimum
qualifications:
(a) Post graduate degree in agriculture; and
(b) At least five years experience in agricultural research.
4.        Extension Coordinator, Agricultural Farm Management and
Extension Training Project
The Extension Coordinator would be part of AFMET's organization
responsible to the Regional Extension Officer, Jannale. He would be
located in tne Regional Office of A"MET at Jannale.  he would be primarily
responsible for extension and training in the project area. He would be
assisted by the Senior Agronomist.
Duties and Responsib$iities
(a) Review the annual work program for adaptive trials to be carried
out on farmers' fields, prepared by the Senior Agronomist;
(b) Supervise the implementation of the program of adaptive trials by
the field extension staff;
(c) Review the training program for farmers, prepared by the Senior
Agronomist;
(d) Supervise the work of the extension staff, and the staff assigned
to tUe farmers' training centers;
(e) Attend the monthly as well as pre seasonal workshops under the
training and visit (T&V) extension system;
(f) Attend as a member the Research and Extension Committee under the
chairmanship of the Project Director, PIU; and
(g) Guide and assist the extension and training staff in the
preparation of training materials, Including audio visual aids,
for training tarmers as well as extension staff.



-81 -                        Annex 5
Page 5
Qualifications
The EKtension Coordinator should have the following minimum
qualifications:
(a) A degree in agriculture;
(b) At least five years field experience in organizing training, and
supervision of extension staff.
C.  Techaical Services
1.        Deputy Project Director, ProJect Implementation Unit
The Deputy Project Director would be directly responsible to the
Project Director for the physical implementation of the project.
Duties and Respnsiiilities
(a) Deputize for the Project Director at his request in his official
responsibilities with Government, including liaison work with all
connected ministries/agencies at national and regional level;
(b) Assist the Project Director with such of his duties as he may
delegate;
(c) Act as Project Director in the event of the latter's absence on
leave or for long periods of duty;
(d) Provide the technical direction and supervision necessary to
ensure timely and successful start up and implementation of each
project component for which the PIU is responsible. This will
specifically involve:
(1)  Responsibility tor the preparation of the procurement
documents issued under international competitive bidding
procedures for land clearing machinery, agricultural
machinery, buildings, water supply and vehicles,
(ii) Responsibility (as necessary) for the supervision of the
sale of the procurement doctments in (i) above, opening of
tenders, evaluation and award of contracts, opening of
letters of credit, and port clearance and local transport to
the project site,
(iii)  Responsibility (as necessary) for the negotiation and
supervision of contracts for works, goods and services
tendered under local competitive bidding procedures,
(iv) Assist in the compilation and supervision of the work
programs for the Agricultural Engineet, the Land Clearance
Specialist, and the Surveyor,



-82-                            Annex 5
Page 6
(v)  Responsibility for the location and layout of the Central
Services compound,
(vi)  Responsibility for the layout of the FMUs and the location
of the villages,
(vii)  Responsibility for the location, length and dimensions of
the flood protection bund,
(viii) Responsibility for the positioning of the roads within the
project area,
(ix)  Responsibility for the schedules of land clearance work,
(x) Formulating systems for the ordering, supply, storage and
distribution of fuel, lubricants, spare parts, crop
protection chemicals, fertilizers and other crop and project
supplies,
(xi)  Formulating systems for the recording of work, maintenance,
and repair of all project heavy machinery, agricultural
machinery, stationary engines, water supply systems,
agricultural machinery, and vehicles,
(xii) Instigation of a maintenance schedule for all project
houses, civil works and roads, and
(xiii) Responsibility for the communications network between the
Central Services, the FMUs and Mogadishu;
(e)  Following physical development of iFUs to provide the technical
direction and supervision necessary to ensure timely and
successful agricultural operations. This will specifically
involve:
(i) illanning of the rotations and agricultural operations for
each of the EMUs. This is to be carried out In coordination
with, and with the advice of, the Senior Agronomist and the
individual FMU farm managers;
(ii)  Responsibility for tne negotiation and supervision of
contracts for works, goods and services;
(iii) Fotrmulating systems for the ordering, supply, storage and.
distribution of fuel, lubricants, spare parts, crop
protection chemicals, fertilizers and other crop and project
supplies;
(iv) Pormulating systems for the recording of work, maintenance,
and repair of all project heavy machinery, agricultural
machinery, stationary engines, water supply systems,
agricultural machinery, and vehicles;



- 83 -                          Annex 5
Page 7
(v) Supervision of the maintenance schedule for all project
houses, civil works and roads;
(vi)  Supervision of the storage and supply of seed to the FMUs;
and
(vii)  Responsibility for the communnications network between the
Central Services, the FMUs and Mogadishu.
(f)  Ensure suitable structured training programs for local staff in
the PLU are prepared and carried out by technical assistance
personnel;
(g)  Oversee the work of monitoring and evaluation;
(h)  Ensure the timely presentation of annual work programs and all
other reporting requirements; and
(i) Ensure the timely preparation of documentation for the mid
term review.
Qualifications
The Deputy Project Director should have the tollowing minimum
qualifications:
(a)  A university degree or its equivalent in agriculture,
agricultural engineering, or a related science;
(b)  Additional qualifications and/or experience in land use planning;
(c)  Broad professional experience of at least ten years in
development agriculture and related activities, and especially in
project implementation and land use planning in countries with
similar ecological conditions to Somalia; and
(d)  A proven ability and experience in organization, management,
supervision and evaluation.
2.        Financial Controller, Project Implementation Unit
The Financial Controller would be directly responsible to the
Project Director for the financial management of PIL and the operation of
the Unit's Finance D^partment.
Duties and Responsibilities
(a) Develop appropriate accounting and internal control systems;
(b) Ensure the timely preparation of the Unit's monthly and annual
project accounts and detailed budgets;
(c) Devise and implement a cost recovery scheme for PIU;



-84                           Annex 5
Page 8
(d)  Ensure that financing is available on a timely basis to fund the
Unit's operations;
(e)  Ensure the proper recording of all the Unit's assets,
liabilities, revenues and expenses;
(f)  Control of accounting and administrative matters of the PIU;
(g)  Advise on the selection and recruitment of staff for the Finance
Department;
(h)  Devise and conduct in service structured training programs for
Somali finance and administrative staff; and
(i)  Prepare annual written reports on the progress of the work of the
project.
Qualifications
The Financial Controller should have the following minimum
qualifications:
(a)  Professional qualification in accounting;
(b)  At least five years experience as a chief accountant or
controller preterably in an agricultural corporation;
(c)  Experience in the legalities of corporate formation; and
(d)  Experience in developing countries.
3.        Agricultural Engineer, Project Implementation Unit
The Agricultural Engineer would work under the supervision of the
Deputy Project Director. The engineer would be responsible tor the land
clearing, the flood bund and road construction, the management and
operation of the workshops, the mechanized agricultural operations as well
as the general mechanical services of the project.
Duties and Responsibilities
(a)  Assist the Deputy Project Director witn such duties as he may
delegate;
(b) Assist the Deputy Project Director in determining the layout of
the project including the siting of tne PLU, the villages, the
roads, the flood protection bund, the water supplies and the
farming strips;
(c)  Supervize the land clearance ensuring tnat the work is carried
out to the correct standards and to the specified time schedules;



Annex 5
- 85 -                        Page 9
(d) Supervize the construction of the flood protection bund ensuring
conformity to dimensions, specifications, and time schedule;
(e) Supervize the construction, equipping, and organization and
management of all thie project workshops;
(f) Organize the spare parts operation for all project equipment
including the storage, distribution and ordering of parts; and
(g) organize and implement structured training programs for tractor
operators, spare parts personnel and mechanics.
Qualifications
The Agricultural Engineer should have the following minimum
qualifications:
(a) A university degree or its equivalent in agricultural
engineering;
(b) At least ten years practical experience of working on similar
projects in developing countries;
(c) Experience in land clearing and earth road construction;
(d) Experience in the operation and maintenance of agricultural
machinery;
(e) Experience in the organization and operation of agricultural
workshops and the setting up and administration of spare parts
stores.,
4.        Senior Agronomist, Central Agricultural Research Station
The Senior Agronomist would work under the supervision of the
Deputy Project Director. The Senior Agronomist would be in charge of.
research, adaptive trials and extension in the project area, and will
assist and advise the Research Coordinator in technical matters.
Duties and Responsibilities
(a) In consultation with the research coordinator, and the farm
managers, prepare a research program for review and approval of
PIU's Research and Extension Committee. The program would be
undertaken on the two research farms to be set up under the
project;
(b) Supervize the implementation of the research program, evaluate
the results and in the light of these results, tormulate a
program of on farm trials in the project area, for the approval
of the Research Coordinator;



-86-                           Ann" 5
Page 10
(c) Supervize the implementation of these trials, and evaluate the
results of these trials;
(d)  Formulate recomnendations regarding agronomic practices, to be
transmitted to the farmers through the extension system;
(e) Discuss the results of adaptive trials as well as farmers'
adoption patterns with the farm managers, with proposals
regarding land preparation, planting time, fallowing, varieties
to be planted and other activities to be carried out under the
mechanized part of the farming system;
(f) Participate in the monthly workshops of the T and V system of
extension, at both Kurtun Waarey and Sablaale districts and
discuss the recommendations with the subject matter specialists
and other extension staff;
(g) Formulate the training program tor farmers to be conducted in the
farmers' training schools;
(h) Formulate and implement a structured training program for
research and extension staff involved in the project; and
(i) Oversee the preparation of extension and training material for
farmers' training, and assist the extension organization in the
preparation of audio visual aids for training extension staff and
farmers.
Qualifications
The Senior Agronomist should nave tne following minimum
qualifications:
(a) A basic degree in agriculture with postgriduate specialisation in
agriculture and/or agronomy in semi arid areas;
(b) At least five years experience in research in countries with
similar agro climatic conditions to Somaia;
(c) At least two years experience in training extension staff and/or
farmers; and
(d) Familiarity with the T and V system of extension.
5.        Technical Specialist, Ministry of Agriculture
(Note: This post would become operational at start up of the project and
continue until the final year of the project but the Technical
Specialist's iniput would be limited to one to two months each
year).



-87 -                          Annex 5
Pag:e 11
The Technical Specialist would be responsible through the
Director, Planning and Statistics Department, to the Director-General,
Planning and Administration, MOA and would directly supervize the
monitoring and evaluation functions under the project.
Duties and Responsib:lities
(a)  Design and implement a baseline study prior to project
implementation;
(b)  Devize and implement a system in conjunction witt. staff of the
PIU for monitoring of project activities;
(c)  Assess whether or nct project inputs are being delivered, are
being used as intended, and are having the initial effects as
planned;
(d)  Devize and implement an evaluation system which assesses overall
project effects;
(e)  Supervize the enumerators and their work;
(f)  Organize and implement structured training programs for
enumerators; and
(g)  Assist staff in the P1U, as necessary, in evaluating project
results.
qualifications
The Technical specialist would have the following minimum
qualifications:
(a)  A university degree in agricultural economics;
(b)  Prior experience in organizing, implementing and analyzing rural
surveys; and
(c)  Prior experience in the use of micro computers and evaluation of
farm management systems.
D. Project Committees
1.        Research and Extension Committee, Project Implementation Unit
and Rainfed Farming Services Corporation
The Research and Extension Committee would be tormed and cnaired
by the Director, PIU, The Committee's composition would include the
Research Coordinator (CARS), the Senior Agronomist (CARS), the Extension
Coordinator (APUET), the Deputy Project Director, PIU, and a representative
of the Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation Department, MOA.



- 88 -                         Annex 5
8pae 12
Duties and Responsibilities
(a) Finalize the program of adaptive research and on farm trials by
July 1, 1988;
(b) Review at least twice a year the training program conducted at
the farmers' training centers to be set up under the project;
(c) Prior to every crop season, finalize the details regarding the
mechanical component of th- farming system, with particular
emphasis on land preparation, planting time, varieties to be sown
and fallowing; and
(d) review at least twice a year, the extension recommendations and
generally oversee the functioning of extension in the project
area.
2.        Settler Selection Committee,,-Project Implementation Unit
The Settler Selection Committee would be formed and chaired by
the General Manager, SDA and its composition would include ttie Director,
PIU and a representative each from SDA, H1OA, the District Commissioners'
Offices in Kurtun Waarey and Sablaale, and the Mayors' Offices in Kurtun
Waarey and Sablaale.
Duties and Responsibilities
(a) Select settlers from landless laborers, tormer nomads
and redundant civil servants according to the criteria in Annex
6;
(b) Organize and monitor implementation of an orientation program for
selected settlers;
(c) Allocate farm plots to selected settlers;
(d) Promote formation of a Settlers' Committee at each FMU; and
(e) Monitor family settlement at village sites.
3.        The Future Organization Structure Committee, Project
Implementation Unit
The Future Organization Structure Committee would be formed and
chaired by the Director, PIU, and its composition would include the Deputy
Director, PIU, the Financial Controller, PIU, a legal advisor, one Farm
Manager from the existing trials project, and a representative each from
MOA and SDB. Its work would be completed by the mid term review.
Duties and Responsibilities
(a) Investigate and formulate alternative proposals for the future
organization structure of project management;



-89 -                          Annex 5
Page 13
(b) Consider the relatlve merits of each proposal which would be
summarized for consideration during the mid term review;
(c)  Within the context of (b), make proposals as to when the future
organizational structure ot project management should be
introduced, namely during the life of the existing project or in
the second phase project; and
(d) Set out the steps necessary and a timetable for implementation of
the decisions agreed upon at the mid term review.



90-                         Annex 6
SOMALIA
SEMI-MECHANIZED RAINFED AGRICULTURE PILOT PROJECT
Settler Selection Criteria
In order to qualify as settlers under the above project settlers
must:
(a) be Somali citizens;
(b) be capable of working the land;
(c) not be a landholder occupying the project land; and
(d) have no otner permanent paid employment.



91 -                           Annex  7
SOMALIA
SEMI-MECHANIZED RAINFED AGRICULTURE PILOT PROJECT
Conditions of the Sub Lease 9etween SDA and the Settlers 1/
Obligations of Sub Lessor
1.        Thie sub lessor (SDA) shall provide timely machinery and other
services to the lessee to a standard as determined by PIU
management and Settlers Committees.
2.        Provided the sub lessee is not in default of the lease agreement
the sub lessor shall allow the sub lessee to manage his farm in
accordance with the rules de,termined by PIU management and
Settlers Committees.
Obligations of Sub Lessee
1.        The sub lessee (settler) shall manage his farm in accordance with
rules determined by PIU management and Settlers Committees.
2.        The sub lessee will pay to PIU the charges for direct production
costs and such other charges as may be decided by PIU management.
3.        The sub lessee shall not erect any physical barriers or cause any
obstruction to the orderly performance of the mechanized services
on the farm.
4.        The sub lessee shall not interfere with his designated fallow
land except utilizing it for purposes as directed by PIU
management.
5.        If it is judged by PIU management and Settlers Committees that a
sub lessee is in default of any of the sub lease's provisions
then the sub lessee's land will be forfeited without
compensation.
1/ In addition to the standard sub lease conditions.



-92 -                           Annex 8
Page 1
SOMALIA
SEMI-MECHANIZED RAINFED AGRICULTURE PILOT PROJECT
Project Sustainability
1.        The main danger areas to project sustainability and the methods
adopted to overcome them are as follows:
(a) Staff Skills - Projects frequently rely heavily on technical
assistance and, if training of local staff is inadequate,
management deteriorates after the departure of technical
assistance. Training in SMR farming technology commenced on the
trials project in 1982 and the farms under the existing project
are now managed by Somalis. By the end of the project
implementation period the longest serving Somali farm managers
would have had 11 years experience in this type of work.
Training in other skills required for project management would
also be provided for in the project. Experience and skills in
sub professional staff categories such as mechanics and tractor
drivers would also be increased progressively and this would make
the management task easier. Most importantly, salaries must be
high enough to prevent skilled staff leaving the project.
Salaries proposed tor project staff would be in line with private
sector rates for skilled staff and it is expected that they would
be enough to retain skilled Somalis;
(b) Budgetary Allocations - Projects dependent on Government funds
frequently suffer from inadequate funding when they have to rely
entirely on domestic funds after the implementation period. The
project has been planned so that farming operations would be
partly financed by charges collected from settlers, independently
of Government. Cost recovery would be initiated during the
implementation period. In addition, in view of the experimental
nature of the project, continued Bank involvement in a follow up
project (if justified) is envisaged to expand and refine the
farming system. Tnerefore if the project is successful,
continued Government/financing agency involvement is envisaged;
(c)  Access to Foreign Exchange - Projects require toreign exchange
for both imported capital equipment and inputs. During the
implementation phase toreign exchange is provided by financing
agencies and this project would be no exception. However the
recently negotiated Agricultural sector Adjustment Program
provides for toreign exchange rhrough an auction system. hence
foreign exchange would be available to PIU through this auction
system. Furthler, unavailability of imported inputs has been a
recurring problem in the past in Somalia. However, at a national
level the position nas improved significantly as a result of



-93 -                          Annex 8
Page 2
liberalization of foreign currency dealings at market determined
exchange rates. The Agricultural Inputs Program (Credit 1612-SO)
and similar programmes supported by the World Bank and bilateral
donors have also made a major contribution to the availability of
foreign exchange for purchasing traded inputs. The establishment
of a local tractor assembly plant and privately owned tractor
repair facilities in the Lower Shebelli will also improve the
availability of parts. Nevertheless, a conservative approach has
been adopted in project planning, and key inputs (fuel, parts and
herbicide) would be stockpiled to ease the effects of temporary
interruptions in supply;
(d) Seasonal Variations in Production - There is always a risk of low
production due to low rainfall with rainfed farming in the
project area. The objective of the moisture conservation farming
methods proposed would be to minimize the effects of dry
seasons. A particularly conservative rotation has been proposed
so as to minimize climatic risks. At the farm level, settlers
would be able to withstand better the effects of below average
years since they will own livestock and forest products which
could be sold in extreme circumstances. It is also envisaged
that cost recovery charges would be varied to offset the effects
of poor seasons;
(e) Machinery Specifications - Difficulties have been encountered on
some projects with agricultural machinery not being of
sufficiently durable construction under difficult operating
conditions. This has resulted in high levels of down time, high
repair costs and short working lives. Tne machinery
specifications for the project would emphasize robustness.
Equipment of similar specifications has performed satisfactorily
on the existing trials project and would tnerefore be able to
cope with conditions in the newly cleared areas; and
(f) Security and Incentives - Institutional arrangements do not
always provide adequate securitv and incentives for individuals
to perform their functions efficiently. This has proved to be a
serious problem with the state karm structure in Somalia.
Settlers on the project would have secure tenure of their land
and would own the crop, net of the cost of services received.
They would therefore have incentives to maintain their holdings
to a high standard of crop husbandry. It is also envisaged that
farmers would, over time, participate in the running at the FMU
level, tor example as tractor drivers. The PIU would theretore
encourage them to maintain the viability of the farming system
and their livelihood. More specific incentives could be provided
to FMU Managers, through private sector salary levels (see (a)
above) with bonuses based on operating costs and crop
productivity.



94 -                         Annex 9
Page I
SOMALIA
SEMI-MECHANIZED RAINFED AGRICULTURE PILOT PROJECT
Annual Work Programs
1.        The Annual Work Programs (AWP) prepared by the PIU woul.d cover
all project components.  The documentation would cover the following:
(a) the effectiveness of the design and layout of existing farms, and
the farming system used;
(b)  a detailed description of the work to be performed, including the
objectives of the work plan for the ensuing fiscal year
commencing each January 1 - the design and layout of farms and
the farming system proposed to be used, the schedule of
activities, equipment requirements, statting arrangements and
training plans, and the distribution of responsibilities for each
item included in the AWP;
(c) a budget for the period covered setting forth:
(i) the proposed capital expenditure;
(ii) all proposed recurrent expenditures such as salaries,
materials, fuel, repairs and maintenance directly attributed
to activities under the project;
(iii) a comparison of the proposed investment and recurrent
budgets with the proposed budget and actual expenditures for
the previous year;
(iv) a list of full time staff positions to be filled; and
(v)  a list of proposed expenditures for technical services,
studies and training.
(d) a financing plan and detailed quarterly cash flow projeciions,
including Government contributions to the project account.
2.        Each AWP would be supported by the following information as may
be relevant:
(a) a detailed assessment of the previous year's pertormance;
(b) a detailed staffing analysis, including proposals for filling
vacant posts;



-95 -                       AneX 9
Poge 2
(c) the proposed training program for PIU staff and farmers; and
(d) 008 budgetary provisions.
3.        A detailed review of the following items which impinge on project
implementation:
(a) the effectiveness of the design and layout of existing farms, and
the farming system used;-
(b!  the adaptive research program and trial results, and future
programs and development of technical packages for introduction
through the extension service;
(c) the extension work program together with measurement of results
against previous year's program;
(d) detailed report on progress on implementation of the cost
recovery system; and
(e) reports from each of the three committees set up under the Unit
(Settler Selection, Future Organizational Structure, and Research
and Extension).
4.        Tne criteria upon which the Association's approval of a proposed
AWP would be based on:
(a) The adequacy of such programs for implementing basic project
objectives consistent with the requirements of che Development
Credit Agreement; and
(b)  The adequacy of such programs in prov.ding physical and
financial targets set for the ensuing project year.



-96-                        Annex 10
SOMLIA
SEMI-MECHANIZED RAINFED AGRICULTURE PILOT PROJECT
Items for Inclusion in the Project Mid Term Review
The following items would be included in the project mid term
review:
(a) progress to date under the project;
(b) evaluation of project results and viability;
(c) future direction of the project;
(d) merits or otherwise of a second phase project and, if agreed to
go ahead, then finalization of terms of reference of such a
project;
(e) proposals for the future organizational structure of project
management Including whether or not such proposals should be
introduced under this project or deferred to the second phase
project;
(f) implementation of mitigating measures for environmental problems;
(g) implementation of cost recovery measures; and
(h) any other matters mutually agreed upon by GOS and IDA.



-97 -                            Annex 11
Page 1
SOMALIA
SEMI-MECHANIZED RAINFED AGRICULTURE PILOT PROJECT
Management Practices Under the Project
1. Summary of Proposed Agricultural Mechanization Practices
Site Clearance, Road and Flood Bund Construction
1.        The land clearance machinery would arrive during the second half
of project year 1 and would initially be used for site clearance of
PIU land, and road and flood bund construction. All of the roads in the
project area (total length approximately 35 km) would be uncapped banked
earth roads apart from the small stretch (approximately 3 km) of all
weather road connecting the PIU to the main Sablaale road. All roads would
be constructed using buildozers and the motor grader.
2.        The soil survey identifies all the project area as being
susceptible to flooding. No generalized flooding has, however, been
reported in the project area for several years and the risk of this
occurring is considered to be very low. The areas of land selected for the
four new settlement units were, at the time of appraisal, free from
flooding. 'Lhe immediate requirement would be, therefore, to improve the
maintenance of the existing flood bund on the Shebbeli river and this will
be carried out on arrival of the bulldozers on site.
Land Clearing
3.        The bush cover in the project area varies from very dense scrub
up to 3 metres high, to open savanna type country. The scrub is
interspersed with small trees with up to 30 cm bole diameters. The trees
and scrub have tap roots. The proposed method of clearing would be by
chaining combined with the use of front mounted clearing rakes to minimize
soil disturbance. The felled bush would be pushed into the remaining bush
strips and would be available later to tne settlers for firewood. If the
volume of material is too great to fit into the bush strips which are only
26 metres wide, judicious burning would have to be carried out. After
raking, the land would be root ploughed to sever remaining roots. The
settlers would remove the largest roots. Three 200 HP Bulldozers fitted
with clearing rakes would be required to complete the clearing of one FMU
(960 ha net area) in a six months period, and the four units will be
cleared by the beginning of project year 3.



-98 -                            Annex 11
Page 2
Agricultural Mechanization
4.        Tractorized operations are used for planting and fallow
maintenance, the two operations which are critical for the success of the
SMR farming system. In order to achieve the best chance of a successful
crop planting both in the Guu and the Der seasons planting must take place
within about 6 to 8 days of the onset of the rains.  Planting could not
take place in such a timely and accurate manner using either manual or
animal draft means. Similarly, if the fallow strips are to be maintained
in a weed free state, so essential for the success of the system, then weed
control must be absolute and timely. This has been carried out up until
the present time by the use of chisel ploughs and sweep cultivators.   Crop
residues and heavy infestations of weeds have been cultivated using heavy
disc harrows. The use of these implements has not been entirely successful
due to the non scouring nature of the vertisol soils and the consequent
inability of sweeps to cut roots cleanly just below the surface.
Preliminary trials using Glyphosphate herbicides have shown extremely
promising results achieving an almost 100Z weed kill using 1 litre of
herbicide per hectare applied just after weed emergence. It is considered
that a minimum tillage approach to fallow maintenance would otfer a real
alternative to cultivations in the self mulching soil types prevailing in
the project area, particularly if the price of Glyphosphate herbicides
falls, as is expected. Initial machinery costs have been based on a system
of fallow maintenance using both cultivations and enemical weed control
methods but as initial weed infestations are gradually reduced it is
expected that chemical weed control methods would predominate.
5.        The existing tarms use two 130 HP four wheel drive tractors per
farm unit for tillage and planting and one 80 HP tractor for general
transport duties.  The four new units would, however, use a system based on
three 100 HP four wheel drive tractors and slightly smaller implements.
This would give farm management, for a marginally higher cost, greater
machine flexibility in the case of a breakdown of one of the tractors at a
critical time, as well as reducing the quantity of spare parts needed to be
stocked by the project. All other operations such as weeding, harvesting
and threshing would be carried out by the farmers and their families.
6.        There would be two workshops run by the Central Services, one at
Sablaale and one at Kurtun Waarey. The use of only one workshop serving
both locations has been rejected because of the physical distance between
them. These workshops would carry out major services and limited repair
work to the machinery. Major overhaul of engines, fuel systems,
transmissions and hydraulics would be contracted out to existing and
emerging private sector companies in the area. Each farm unit would have a
small machinery compound where fuel and lubricants would be stored, and
where frequent services would be carried out. In order to involve the
settlers in the dey to day running of the machinery it is recommended that
drivers and mecnar.ics to be trained aader the project would be selected
from the villages which will tarm the respective units.



Annex 11
Page 3
2. bush Management Practices
1.        Settlers would be carefully instrucced in the importance of
managing their bush strips. The project would provide tree seedlings for
settlers to rehabilitate open bush land and would provide water from
tankers tu assist in tree establishmant. Settlers would provide labor for
planting and maintenance, including the provision of thorn fencing around
seedlings. Settlers would be expected to guard the seedlings strips from
depredation by browsing livestock and would have an incentive to do so
through the provision of commodity aid (para. 3.09).
2.        The project would establ-sh and maintain tree seedling nurseries
at Sablacle and Kurtun Waarey. Adivice and supervision would be provided by
staff of the FMU and the adaptive rdsearch program.
3.        The choice of tree species and the most effective method of bush
management would be a high priority item for adaptive research (para.
4.16).
3. Livestock Management Practices
1.        Project support would consist principally of providing settlement
areas with adequate water and providing holding areas to prevent land
degradation.
2.        Stock would be herded out of the tsetse belt during the rains,
but nomadlc herds and settler stock would reenter the area in the tsetse
free, dry season.
3.        The project area contains large tracts of bush and grazing land,
and settlers could be expected to guard tree seedlings on the snelter belt
bush strips from browsing animals (see 2. above). Acacia thorn bushes
cleared from the cropped strips would be used to fence the seedlings.
Later, as settlers become more aware of the value of their windbreaks, they
would be encouraged to cut and carry fodder rather tnan allow
indiscriminate browsing.
4.        Settlers would buy stock trom their earnings or would bring their
own stock to the scheme.



-100 -                         Aum=  12
;          ~~Table 1
*SOUALIA
Sel-Mechsnized Rainfed AgriLultur P1lot Project
Projection of Economic Imoort Perity and Formasto Prices
Ilaiz                               1986                g980              1999
constant 1986 US S/tonne
International price of
US No 2 yellow maize fob Gulf        98                 120                120
Freight and insurance                70                  70                 70
Value of yellow maize
cit Mogadishu                        168                190               10
* US$1 - So. Sh          120          constant 1986 So. Sh/tonne
Valus of yellow maize
cit Mogadishu                    20,160              22,800             22,808
Port clearance, handling
and transport to store            1,00                1,200              1 ,20
Premium for white maize 25%       5,340               6,000              6,000
Volue of maize
in store Mogadishu               2S,100             30,000
Less transport from
project area                     (1,500)             (1,500)            (1,500).
FarMgate value of maize
in project area                  25,200             28,500              28,500



101-            ,               m12
SOMALIA
Semi-Mechanized Rainfed Aoriculture Pilot Project
Prolection of Economic F-xqort Parity and Farm3are Prices
Maize (Export Parity)               ISsE                1990               1995
-_--------------------                   constant 1986 US S/tonne
International price of US
No 2 white m'aize Africa             123                 150                150
destination
Freight and insurance                (40)               (40)                (40)
Value of white maize
cif Mogadishu                         83                 110                110
S USS$  - So. Sh         120           constant 1986 So. Sh/tonne
Value of white maize
cif Mogadishu                      9,900             13,200              13 20
Port clearance, handling
and transport to store            (1,200)            1 .200)             (1,230)
Value of maize
in store Mogadishu                8,700              12,00 to
Less transport from
project area                      (1,500)            (1,500)             (1,S00)
Farmgate value of maize
in project area (export
parity)                            7,200             10,500              10,500
Farmgate value of maize
in project area (import
parity)                          '5, 00                 ,500              8
WEIGHTED AVERAGE
FarMgate value of maize
in project area (weighted         13,S50             10,790             1f.50
average)



-102 -                       Annex 12
Table 3
SOMALIA
Semi-Mechanized Rainfed Agriculture Pilot Project
Projection of Financial Import Parity and Farmgate Prices
---------------------------------------------------------
Maize                           1986              1990              1993
current  1986 US $/tonne
International price of
US No 2 yellow maize fob Gulf     se               157               179
Freigtit and insurance            70                92               105
Value of yellow maize
cif Mogadishu                    168               249               284
---------------------------------------------------------------------__---
Exchange rate: US$1 - So Sh     82               118               179
current 1986 So. Sh/tonne
Value of yellow naize
cif Mogadishu                  13,776           29,3S2            50.808
Customs/Import Taxes @ 35%      4822             10273             17783
Port clearance, handling
and transport to store          1,800            2,705             3,568
Premium for white maize 25%    5,099            10,583            18,039
Price of maize
An store Mogadishu             25,497            52,913            90,197
Transport to Mogadishu        (1,500)           (2,2S4)           (2,973)
Farmgate price of maize
in project area               23,997            50,659            87,224
Note: Importer's and wholesaler's margins and local tax liability assumed
to be equivalent.
1986 exchange rate taken to represent that applied to food aid imports.



-103 -                       Annex 12
Table 4
SOMALIA
Semi-Mechanized Rainfed Agriculture Pilot Project
-..-----------------------------------------------
Projection of Financial Export Parity and Farrgate
Prices
--------------------------------------------------
Maize (Export Parity)          1986             1990              1993
---------------------              current  1986 US $/tonne
International price of
white maize fob Africa          123              196               224
destination
Freight and insurance           (40)             (52)              (60)
Value of white maize
cif Mogadiahu                   83               144               164
Exchange rate: US$1 - So      82               118               179
current 1986 So. Sh/tonne
Value of white maize
cif Mogadishu                6,806            16,993            29,41S
Port clearance, handling
and tranaport to store       (1,900)          (2,705)           (3,568)
Price of maize
in store Mogadishu           5,006            14,288            25,847
Transport to Mogadishu      (1,500)           (2,254)           (2,973)
Farmgate price of maize
in project area (export      3,S06            12,034            22,874
parity)
Farmgate price of maize
in project area (import     23,997            S0,659            87,224
parity) - Annex 1I
Table 1
WEIGHTED AVERAGE
FarMgate price of maize
in project area (weighted    11,190           26,519            47,305
average)



-104-                           Annex 12
Table 5
SOMALIA
Semi-Mechanized Rainfed Agriculture Pilot Project
Projection of Economic Import Parity and Farmgate Prices
Oliseeds                             1986,              1990                199
--------                                  constant 1986 US 8/tonne
International price of
crude soyabean oil fob Europe        45.                 600                586
Add preaium for refined
vegetab1e oil (20  X)                  90                120                 1.17
Freight and insurance                 100                100                 100
Value of vegetable oil
cit Mogadishu                        640                 820                803
I USSI a So. Sh           ;20           constant 1986 So. Sh/tonno
Value of vegetable oil
cit Mogadishu                     76,800              98,400             96,384
Port clearance, handling
and transport to store _1/          I 500              1 ,500             1 500
Value of.vegetable oil
in sto.e Mogadishu                78,300              99,900             37,884
Value of cake                     15,000              15,000             153000
Value of sunflower seed
(34% oil, 62X cake)               35,922              43,266             42,581
Less milling and
refining costs                    (8,000)             (8,000)            (8,000)
Less transport costs
from project area                 (2 000)             (2,000)            (2C000)
Value of sunflower seed
at farm gate                      25,922              33.266             32,581
Value of safflower seed
(36X oil, 60% cake, t202)_J/   42,826                 5, 157             51 286
Less milling costs                (6,000)             (6,000)            (6,300)
Less transport from
project area                      (2,000)             (2,000)            (2,00)
Value of safflower seed
at farm gate                      34,026              44,157             47,386
_1/  Excludes transfer payments
_:/  223  premium ovir imported 3sl prtce to reft!ct consumer preference.



105                  ~~~~~Annex 12
- 105 -                         Thble 6
Se"I-Neohenized Rinted Airioulture Pilot Project
Projection ot Financial lowt Psrity end Feragate Pricos
----------------------------------
Oilseod                              16 Iu              11                 1993
--------                           ..    current IN  US WStoene
International price of
crude soyaboon oil fob Europ         4St                 783                88
Add proeluM for rotined
veogtable oil (261)                    U                 167                177
Froight end insurance                 10                 131                196
Veluo of voegtoblo oil
cit Nogadiahu                        640               1.074              1,211
Exchange Ratot  USa1 * So. Sh.      110 _2/            116                179
Valuo of vogotoble oil
cif Mogadishu                     7,460              126,756           216,733
Oustons/lnport duties              7,OOt              12,596            21 548
Port clearanco handling
and tronsport to store            S000               7,514              9,916
Wholoeler'as Margin
* 19X                              8,246              14.687            24,819
Price of oil
in store Mogadishu                98,640            161,552            273,016
Price of coke, Kogodishu          1500               34,155             59,021
Value of sunflower soed
(34S oil. 62X coko)               46,116             768164            129,417
Lose milling and
rotining costs                    (8,000)           (12,022)           (15,898)
Less transport tron
project area                      (2.066)            (3,866)            (3,964)
Price of ounflower seed
at forn gate                      30,1!8             61,876            109,597
Valuo of safflower seed
(36% oil, 60X coke, +20X)1/      48,156             90,204            153,353
Less milling costs                (6,060)            (9,017)           (11,892)
Loss transport fron
projoct area                      (2,668)            (3,66)            (3,964)
Price of safflowor seed
at ferm Gate                      46,1S6             78,261            137,497
_1/ 20X premium to reflect consuner preference.
_2/ 1986 exchange rate taken to ropresent *verage of privato
and public sector inports



- 106 -                          Annex 12
Table -r
SOMALIA
SEMI-MECHANIZED RAINFED AGRICULTURE PILOT PROJECT
Assumptions Incorporated in Economic Analysis
The following assumptions were incorporated in the economic
analysis shown in Table 9 of the main text:
(a)  Project Life.  The economic life of the project has been taken as
25 years. Replacement costs for vehicles, machinery and
equipment with a shorter life span, and appropriate residual
values, have been included;
(b) Prices. Traded items were valued at import parity, except for
maize where a weighted average price between import and export
parity was taken (see para. 5.11) using a shadow exchange rate
appraisal of US$1 - So.Sh. 120 (equivalent to 0.58 of the
official exchange rate at appraisal of US$1 - So.Sh. 70). Non
traded items were valued at local prices. Duties and taxes were
deducted. Output prices were based on World Bank international
commodity price projections for 1990 and 1995, and are set out in
Annex 12, Tables 1, 2 and 5. The cost of imported fuel has been
projected to rise 25X in line with these projections;
(c) Labor. Farm labor was priced at 75% of market value in the guu
season and 33% in the der season. These rates are equivalent to
73X of estimated returns per man day from cereals production in
the surrounding (traditional rainfed system);
(d) Without Project Production. No deduction is made from benefits
for production foregone since land developed under the project is
unexploited. This would be true of areas of likely future
expansion as well; and
(e) Costs. All costs associated with the establishment of farm units
and tneir operation were included, with the exception of the
water supply installation from which benefits to the settlers are
likely to exceed costs, In addition, the costs of establishing
and operating PIU's Central Services Department were included.



- 107 -                                          Annex 12
IULII                                             Table 8
$W**tAmd idted    eltur Pilot Prjet
few low StotwA
(wroet F¢iclo-4
Y _)-        1       2       3       4     5      6      7      8       3
@ ~. ..  ..    .                      *                     S       - 
tI   rm   PS                                                     So.  I.
llie (GIln)                             57.      760           124.1  124.1  124.1  124.1  124.1  124.1
(Stowr)                           3.0    3.0       3.0  350    36.0  3.    36.0   360   3.0
SuMlomer                                ".0    64.9    5.?  18t   118.  118.4  118.4  118.4 118.4
Ct h                                    55.?    42.8    St.6  70.6   70 ?      .9 34.9    4.9  84.9
sifn                                    3I.9    4.1    55.S  70.1   74.3  7.4   78.4   78.4  78.4
tON                                 22L.   263.    33L2    0.2   43.  41         41.8   4.84 ".8
btle comsmstim                     kg
ltit  (fe)                       420    11.1    14.0    16.9  1i.?   197.? 19. ? 1 9.7        1 9.7 19,?
(stowe)                           18.0    18.0    18.0  1.0   18.0  18.5   18.0   18.0  18.0
oil_11                          MI    17.4    21.8    26.2  306   30.6  30.6   30.6   30.6  30.6
C*.                              120    18.6    13.0    15.6  19   17.9  17.9   1 7.9       17.9   17.9
T0oR                                65.1    .7       76.6  86.2   852  86.2   86.2   85.2  86.2
C     nm  fri Drv$ (befre                10.8' 197.1   256.6 330   ;15.2 355.6  355.6  355.6 355.6
cost recovew)
Tools and nrketing tods                  6.0     7.2      8.6  10.4   10.4  10.4   10.4   10.4  10.4
Net coo b ef rw  crop  (befor            154.8   189.9   248.0 322.6  334.8 345.2  545.2  315231.2
cot recory)
1NC rIM T#tNIM
kmunce                                     0.0     2.2      2.9   3.8    3.L O   L     3.8    3.8   3.L
Ohestic C_Uwtiu                            0.0     2.2     2.9   3.8    3.8   3.8    3.8    3.8   3. 
1h      llOIRI UIWOU0a
6rois I1.5    21.0    57.9  125.3  197.3 236.?  312.4  312.  312.1
astic cousptoo                            11.3    13.6      .?  St.9   6       65.8 6S5. 6S.8  65.8
ls cattle pc          costs                -        10.0    10.0  10.0
kt cash inum  fro livwsto                  6.2    *2.6     2.2  60.4  131.S 170.9  246.6  246.6 246.6
Th   .S3TA...2
hite  ate Kg                            34.3    10.5
011     72 kg                           12.5    It.3
Sugr   36 kg                             5.5     6.6
1.25 rations fr one vow                   6S.3
0.75 ratIons t  follfign  yea'                     16.2
rNT  if     K   (before                    302.7   313.    372.5 524.1  618.3 668.1  741.9  743.874L81
:ost reecov)



- 108 -
SfIftIR                                                 Annex  12
--                                                            1
Sldlchmndhinted Agricultre ilot Protejt                                  Page  2
rrae  imou  Statuent
(current pric)_4/
IY CRCSIIc IMC  (before                     151.8   189.9   249.0 322.6  334.8 315.2  345.2  345.2 352
cost reow)
Rtdried PIU Cst Recoewy                    26.0   6M.O   109.0 161.0  161.0 161.0  161.0  161.0 161.0
sidl lCub Ic   (after                     129.8   129.9   140.0 161.6  173.8 184.2  181.2  18.2  184.2
cost recov)
uliniaut C    Iwo Re nld3/                 78.7    91.1   113.  136.0  136.0 13.0  136.0  136.0 136.0
Pl; cost recoe as t of                       17      32              o 50   N     4?      17     47    4?
Net arer Cs Inoe
Reidel Csh lce  as  of                      164     13?      124   119    128   135    1355         13   135
r1inits Cuh Inie Requirtents
IIEL0 CIIOP      LIVESTOlC EItERRISES:
NET rD    CAO  INCI  (before                226.3   233.5   250.2 383.0  466.3 516.1  591.8  591.8  591.8
cost recry)
Required PI Cuost Rece                     26.0    60.0   108.0 161.0  161.0 161.0  161.0  161.0 161.0
kesidl Cub Inoe (after                    200.3   173.5   142.2 222.0  305.3 355.1  430.0  4138  130.8
cot recovery)
IIom  Cash  i        equred3/              79.?    91.1   113.3 136.0  136.0 136.0  t76.0  136.0 136.0
PIU cost recovery as   of                    11      26      43    12       35    31      27     2?    27
et rawr   sh  e
Reld  Cub lom  as I d                       254     184      125   163    224   261    31?    317   317
inrim  Cub Incite Reqdrents
1  Udue of equalent safflover seed
_2  Cas assistancersed by sale of raizand oil in oishu
and prosion of sup
3/ cse  on alttie  rainfed faming oworttmties
in project area
,4/ Renues and costs he been inflated until 1993. thereafter
no Iinflation h  been aswe



-         109-                                      Annex 12
Table 9
Pare 1
mum
amt*ciMnlW biudW IricAultre Pilst Project
remi I*e Statue
(kajwu grow ConItions)
(tayt prtics).s/
Y_--)   1           2       3      I     5       6     7      8      9
DM  ram  Ms                                                    So. Sh. 'I
hbie (Inw)                             57.3   7110   126.1  60.   124.1 121.1  161.2   60.4 121.1
(Stou)                           3L0    36.0    2.2    0    36.0  60    25.2  3LO  3L0
Sua11                                  43.9    64.7   90.2 111.3  1113 111.6  111.3  118.8 11i
Ct_                                    11.1    85.5  109.2  254   21.3 169.   314,  3650.  313I
Sofflwa                                11.  81.1   113.3     2      26.  1562  152   211  23.1
isitS                             160.1   351.6   46.0 26.8  3339 684.9  661.8  60.1  667.1
blic uesoton                      kg
thin (6td)                      0      11.1    14.0   31.5   9.6   19.? 19.1   36.6    9.6  19?
(St..)                           18.     1I3    18.   18.0   18.0  18.0   1.0.   18.0  1L
01 .1/                         100    31.2    21.8   26.2  54.3   64.3  314   30.4   54.0  5N.8
C_.                             120    18.6    13.0   15.6  32.2   32.2  17.9   21.1   38.0   .0
toIl                               139    66.    91.3 111.6  121.7   I.1  1L2  12.4 130.5
ubh iaum fron es (beae                  81.2   281.9   372.6 151.2  209.1  18.9  655.6  46L7 537.3
cos recut)
lTos and fketo  csts                    6.0    7.2    8.6  I I  1I.4          10.4 114   18.4 10.4
t       im   fto cVW  (befrt            75.?   M.7   364.0 110   198.7 588.5  545.2  473  526.9
cs recuv)
Inc"                                    0.0     2.2    2.9   3.0    3.0   3.8    38    3.8   3.6
b bte Comytim                            0.0    2.2    2.9   3.8    3.8   3.8    3.0    3.8   3.8
LIcE ru luliStOtl
s incus                                 17.5    21.0    S?.9 125.3  197.3 236.?  312.4  312.4 312.4
ODiet  c A N11tl                        11.3    136    IL?  54.9   65.9  65.8   65.3   65.0  65.8
Les cattle pai . p os                    -     I10.0    1                        -        -
et cb ina  fro liotock                   6.2   *2.6    2.2  60.1  131.5 179  216.6  2166 21M6
fUl lt SIStUZ .2/
WIn   810 Kg                           3.3    40.0
O       72 kg                          12.5   14.3
SWp    A kg                             5.5    L6
1.25 "tiuis fwe rM                      65.3
0.75 rsfto  for folimlo VW                       462
lI fUll TCK  (kafwl                      237.0  401.6   503.2 310.7  52.? 031.3   63.1   M.0 99.1
cost remc )



AL"  o M     _ol "UR"  P n"
_"|m q "p gouq w
awmaqt ofi mw  uw s noq ss =rt nu
pmj~uqs.~SlSSJWUPI 11d pl
611  6*  la  At Ul     2     a   ss1         01t m"p        Ii
_am. w   J VI
-    -t FA q Li Rwin
1t la   '  1 low 5     91 l1   fll U    ?1       Am P wononIV
Ill    1131           £6       1    1'             PZU4SUJI tl 
3l1 6l31 631 61 III fit otl '11s 'IL          IPM aIt -   I!t - m
*% tilt $lot 1'ile f 1910 8'I9  lit 5Xn  PM25             ni P O11JJI
St 13 fU9 I  11 1w  1911  VS  IlU 151            *P) SW  N am I_s
O"n -i -A"iP
rrn em  n   sw  vsa  it  al a1  I253~iSqi~U
li3t M  *1 156 66   t 3l  1tit P1  'W £11         5l PNI O 1W1M
M1l lXtl Lin  ftI oil out 'l  I-at 1'             a mm       VW
I'm 5I'  I   Mt I's  lit ll 2      1X1  I'       P      _aim"a1U
63B1 @31l 631  3163   631 111  116  41         4Sh* Un PUI
fla I'm  911  636 lml tl51 91 .'MR  It'         )"I   INSqaWI
(iJmmJ5rn
amqU   S4pml
CT Zemy                   o~~~pmil -q  m
_               _is~A  F    'W
1t x|V                            -OTT -



- 1'4 '
VAqq aWr
A""  .ini mu Pm ..M .w on  t awi .r
215i" WI LW.I 0'S) (tWig) (1s'0  W)  (iIIwI') (tI'eS awl)  USI I iA
'   a  hm SU
si s ai  uWu :Ws Wmi   s Ws ongat sirs        '.      umm
sI  sri lire WuS' ?m   WIs Wet'e  sl OWN Me.l        flm msium
*   in  witsema liwa W wit w's    wi gs o uzs        futu qpaa
I   amI its  WI iti'  3*!l US'S meth WI' It'        mor       u
5F 5b 15   5X 5'g' 45    'U 5We Si                     U p
a   wat   sr  egret Wut ar    6 srI I set   0        wU
aft   gf  I   Ia firs 'w  iii', iaiit   9   qasae'sqmu
.3 -
6in  ar  an  ar  6   W S?9it I                            Ul
S1ri SI  i Vtt VZ jitit (3) () WI W   arlt    mm mi 
0   0   0   m   m   a   w   0   a   m  nowopok~~mma  s
WI WI WI WI WI WI  art a                 *                 tol
ful Wit Wit Us twit'S    riS  rWI Il t   WI          PAlES  1 533o
SlWtmt    041  an  Wi X  t 1£1' W'l Ws1 t*            $P    WJ
Wu ors *s  W    mu two Wl own            *'t &w         s '1
an   WI WII'II Wiwi sres s       'r  ;   ItS'S       J I  g"
S          e   e WuiW Wsi swe wiURIIfIwt              l<O *  AMs" l
eVi Wi Sri Vt Sri W~~~ Sill J U J #11
Sri Sri Srg  lo  sit W i sir: ml ' *   at
Si Sr. sri sr's m is 3   V                      as~ U           P
#11 f11 $f11 *<11 SU'5131513315311123
#1 1f1    5 151           51 5111  1111SII11" 
-                                            Iw sq'  pqm m



Seu*chanized &mfed fgriculture Pilt Project
6oumut Cash noe
1987 19  1989  1990  I"  1992 1993  91 1995  61996                                     7 1"?     19    2 AM    20 2   2                              2 M    MS 
llflm                                                                               -                                .D"Dr ob
lw  from IlftarProjmt            8t,ff6  29,         m,m 2 S2 ,2   12,12    3.9  174,   13,   157265              I        0                0       0        8       0        0       0        8       0
trtm       u   _il/               3,4n    5,775   9,15   1sM     21,360  257   29,12  295              ,7   29,72   29,572   29,7   29,sn   29,57   29,572  29,5s7  n92  2957    29,5n   29,
issad fnrm                            I       I        I       0        D       0        0       0  19,077  23,    Z3,55023,                 23,ss z, ss 3,5            23,ss   3,5    23,BA      3.5s
JIL fILM                        2,913  2192  M2,33  160,93 164,183  29,48   21,2  180,3  3,94   93,t22  53,122  ,l122   53.122  9,122  U.122   3,122  9,922   93.122  93,122  53.12
Pas    ato Prect Eftiti          95,30 211,290   ,200  11 , 11  01,13  191,600 113,790  65,190  77,190  13,726 126,92   77,1M   77,13   77,13   77,100  77,13   77,10   77,1U   77.10   77.10
Rid t 1m                          3,6     5,11     6.41   7?,620   8.89     9,122     9,813  10,125  11,643  11,693  2?16   27.168  27,1168  2?,8  27,118   27,168  27,1    27,11   2?,16   2?.168
Jla   IuIJtR                   99,28? 216,3n  19,614 127,220 116,99  204,0ZO 123.513  75,525  00,743140,39  154,130 INN,2 631,26810 1,268 109,26811,2610t,26 1194,266 111,263  111,2U                8
ECE£S (OfMII) Or I11          (11,374) 3299   1,769  33.683  47,189  55,462  80,5t3  92,735 112,17)  (87,2M)O181,B) (1.146) (S,t146) (S,l146) (51,146) (S,146) (51,14) (1,146) (51,146) 51.116)
Io.w
t        dalclat   s ame    i,hrt sitaticn in 3 5_
AoftI



- 113 -                      Annex 13
Page 1
SOMALIA
SEMI-MECHANIZED RAINFED AGRICULTURE PILOT PROJECT
Documents Available in Project File
1.        Somalia Agricultural Sector Review.  Documents of the World Bank,
Report No. 2881a-SO, June 29, 1981.
2.        Somalia Agricultural Sector Survey.  Draft Report of the World
Bank, January 24, 1986.
3.        Somalia Drought Rehabilitation Project (Credit 623-SO).  Mid Term
Review Report by World Bank, August 1980.
4.        Rainfed 4gricultural Trials Project at Kurtun Waarey and
Sablaale. Reports by John Bingle Pty. Limited.
Volume 1 - Technical Reports Nos. 1-4.
Volume 2 - Technical Reports Nos. 5-7.
Volume 3 - Technical Report No. 8.
Volume 4 - Technical Report No. 9.
Volume 5 - Technical Report No. 10.
Volume 6 - Technical Report No. 11.
Volume 7 - Technical Report No. 12.
Volume 8 - Technical Report No. 13.
5.        Somalia Drought Rehabilitation Project (Credit 623-SO).  Project
Completion Report by World Bank, September 20, 1985.
6.        Somalia Drought Rehabilitation Project (Credit 623-SO).  Project
Performance Audit Report Mo.6011 by World Bank, December 26, 1985.
7.        A Semi-Mechanized System for Rainfed Agriculture in Semi-Arid
Areas of East Africa. Report by John Bingle Pty. Limited, August 1983.
8.        Somalia Mechanized Rainfed Agriculture.  Draft Report of the
World Bank, January 31, 1984.
9.        Somalia Semi-Mechanized Rainfed Farming Project.  Project
Preparation Report by John Bingle Pty. Limited, March 1986.
Volume 1 - Main Report, Annexes 1-3.
Volume 2 - Annexes 4-13.
Volume 3 - Detailed Soils and Land Evaluation of the Kurtun
Waarey and Sablaale Areas.
10.       Working Papers for this Staff Appraisal Report:



- 114 -                     Annex 13
Page 2
1.  4 ricultural Mechanisation.  Report by 4grisystems, July
1986.
2. Machinery and Equipment Specifications. Report by
Agrisystems, July 1986.
3. 4gronomy, Agricultural Engineering and Economic Analysis.
Report by Appraisal Mission Members, July 1986.
4. An Environmental Reconnaissance of the Interriverine Area in
the Lower Shebelli Region, Southern Somalia. Report by K.
Proud, dated September 1986.
11.       A Report on the Legislation, Organization and Program
Opportunities for the Department of Wildlife, Somalia Democratic Republic.
Report by E. Toth, March 1984.
12.       Land Use in Tsetse Affected Areas of Southern Sudan.



)S       \ p
I                             ~~~~~- 115 -
ChartI
suiw       mu -  -= mr -
A~~~~~~~~~~~~M
Ptoj ct  tor          bmteo             ft let*imie
. ~~~~~~~~~~~~0 , onoeto
4F                               __        I
~~~I .
,~~2                                   ,               1 wf/I 
*1a,     0tO~U  twpT .I
.. / '' '''asE13 - I 



SOMALIA
SEMI-MECHANIZED RAINFED AGRICULTURE PILOT PROJECT
Proposed fEA TimetabLe
Week           Saturday        Sunday          Monday       Tuesday       Wednesday    Thursday        Friday
1st              Field         FieLd          FieLd          Visit               Training at
Vi%it         Visit          Visit                              Jannale ETC
Groip 1       Group 2        Group 3
to 
2nd              FieLd                 Institutional                              Institutional
visit                Training              Research             Training
Group 4               Group 1                                   Group 2
Farms
3rd              FieLd         FieLd          Field
Visit         Visit          Visit                              Training at
Group I       Group 2        Group 3         and                Jannale, ETC
4th              Field                 InstitutionaL          Field               InstitutionaL
Visit                Training                                   Training
Group 4               Group 3                                   Group 4
Training
Group 4                          Group 4



SOMALIA
Senmi-M.ohanized Aa5nfbd Aprkloutu Pilot Proiec
WNp4erentallon Sohedule
. t4                                                     2            92                                     93
_w _    T       4f 2 g  3  4       34                                 | 224 3 4  4  | 2 3  4   4  2  344   2 4 4 2 3  4 |2    4
A. PROW=                                                                                     .F[
03Uf R4w                c                                                    F    3      WIc.    fiIv  
b) OM* .Aki10 aid Sw   CW. ME.
3 O4 Owc l             CW                  mm1
b    8~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
a  evkoi.pan d DcE
(a)   S 2.                                                                                                       a L  D dw 1  D   G    c
IE OUC.o _ks W 1m      CW.                                        0 | G |  D |
ECa Owl S                                                 r T CWI M Me.
H.    d A9lbJ  t 4Ci*P    |                                    0R Li r  8                                  
.. I V_oW-  1Agla11111  M;XI
L F9J8CT DVBflPk4W
SC CWo.-anCb V.-    aid CI
Road b3igdOwdiuca                            s.-
UIw -  aRd C 9J 3                                                                                                 Gr.v- ri vo. 
Liaia CWM*V FM 4          &P.
Laid Cataa  F   ,J 4                          SP.                                                                           I
s.xd Or*a F,I 2. FJW 2
Fl- h_                               FlOwCF                                      0            0                   a
JFh* PAU 2                Pi. P
cmppkv Eft" Kw  PL     G,                              i      I    EDC           0      C      0     0 
C. 3C#,rAL ASASM04         V.m                                i u E              m         mm           m      ****           m     m
D. TROS"~~m                                                    m     .mm m            m     . mu            m      m
E.w $                                                               .     U=       =U=      =U=SD=.= 
F. MONR4B& EVAWiATON
G. AMAASciANCE            CA.                                             UUmmm-m                             
M.ADAPWN RSE*a4           A Rm                                                   mmm          mm        m               mmmmm
J. FUOACTU,.WIaeIAlIc
Pioigct Mngnw                                  V.             m  .  .  *  * mM= mo"  C  m cmmoc  M   m                               
Cadat Ch~~~~~ - Owl ~~~b           V~. -nria  wa MiAMUa                  C - k*Klft  Aid V
L,- LFloggFl k,goco                          p606 "clowm paratid
BRiaidaV p*salv *On MP.



MAP SECTION



Mogocishu' 9 
AKwtun Woarey    120'                                   -       ' Old Sabloal. \\
Sablaale                        .                    /p
__                                   /                 /
N.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
ETHOI        -...l.
'p+¢.   2                                               4E
_-sS-zf  50                                     R S~~~~~~~~~4350
{ ' ths atsp ha teet _e> W~~~~tlf*% * ~ d r
I   *           tt_orSucxd Mor b fl uwd ~~~~~~~~~~~ WIaSb* bfd~~~~~h_C !L
b-' I i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LAU>0*
eels s~~~~~~~~~~~~~AM|wf* r l g  ~8 d~tr    
'\  r w*f*_ ocezx  
;-  /  .                    4t50'                  ___~~~~~~~or



IBRD 20001
\ \\          ~~~~~43.55,
ioale
SOMALIA                                     11'
~~SEMI-MECHANIZED RAINFED AGRICULTURE PROJECT
3                  ~~~~DETAILED SURVEY OF PROPOSED FARM STRIPS
-                               ~~~~~~~~~Sablaole Area
LAND SUITABILITY FOR
RAINFED AGRICULTURE
Moderately Su:itable:                          Existing:
E     Flooding hazard                             Permanent settlements
F-    -rSalinity and flooding hazard            IRainfed form
I ISoil texture, erosion, and                     Irrigation canals
surface conditions                          River course
Marginally Suitoble                     --- Abandoned river channel
l;> Flooding hazard                               Motorable tracks
Salinity and flooding hazard           --Survey boundary
1:,.*1 Flooding and soil texture
E  .a    Soil texture, erosion, and       ---International boundaries
'I~~~~V5
surfaceA condtion
|l   2     ndvdalfrstisadnme
4~~~~~~o fam¶e ti
3" mdenWidthSoMALIAp
SEIMCHNZDRANE  GRCLUE RJC
DETAILED SURVEY OF PROPOSED FARM STRIPS          198



(6AlPOUTI                                                               SEMI-MECHAN i
DETAILEC
ETHIOPIA      '.      
ETHIO_IA  ;                                       LAND SUITABILITY FOR RAINFED AG
//   Y;                           Moderately Suitable:
Flooding hozord
--^ 7~         5              Salinity and flooding hazard
.   !   Mogadishu                       Marginally Suitable:
KENYA               M                                I        Flooding hazard
(   .-  'm:. lSoil texture
, ;                                           1      Salinity and flooding hazord
Salinity, flooding, and soil drainage
Mogadishu,  L-llili  Salinity, erosion, and surface conditions
.lKurtun Waurey
X           ~ ~~~O 100 
M              I ____l IO
/Xiwwato             KILOMIT!RS
Brava Yore           °/
0      1       2       3       4
KILOMETERS
l <.eiJ    *          v   I   i~                     ~~1 {-  t" /K
ToMerinGuba,
_. \ BS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o hwi



IBRD 20002
SOMALIA
kNIZED RAINFED AGRICULTURE PROJECT
kILED SURVEY OF PROPOSED FARM STRIPS
Kurtun Waarey Area
D AGRICULTURE
Permanently Not Suitable:                            Existin:
Soil texture                                       Permanent settlements
Soil texture, surface conditions,          L l  Rainfed form
and non-uniform                                  River course
Motorable tracks
| 6    Individual farm strips and number                   - Walking track
of farms per strip                           -    Survey boundary
396 meters Width of strips
International boundaries
, / v~~~~ -s -- 
Arbowoheerow
prevailing wind direction
--. t -  rb _%..- '\
3~~~~~~~~~~1
9                                                                            0'7
'9                 5
-3
5                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~American Villag
=~~-'vM      1  3r          .B             .            .-. 
3~~~~~
Ti"on tas beowee prepared by
I                  ~~~~~~~~~~fOrUeCow " 2saenoeodA)
uoosed nd ~ boladene- 500
~                                                                  on woS O  miap do not .w, on go
pad Of The Ktd# av* -, VW,
-.   y -7  A  f I,..ys"/fr/~~~~~~~~f/~-,/.?7j ~~kve,ne,one FVpnce Cmpo,al.on
~~" '77/    /1i///A          I              an~~~~~~~~~~~~Y pigmntd on fte bee Osont
of aNW tmiens or any
I          O~~~~w)d&Q0s1IO -optance of
AUGUST 1986



,140        4i%,S                                                lob00
140'                              SOMALIA
SEMI-MECHANIZED RAINFED AGRICULTURE PROJECT
RELATIVE POSITIONS OF THE PROJECT AREAS
Kurtun Waarey and Sabloole
PROPOSED:
---  Areas surveyed for project forms management
6     Farm unit boundaries gnd numbers
[I    New villages in project and existing forms
Roads
Project Implementation Unit / Rainfed Farming Services Corporation                            )
EXISTING:
_    Rainfed farms
-        -   Main tar road
Motoroble tracks
--- Walking track
-I3'   *       Machinery compound and houses                           - < ,
Flooding in Guu season                   r-   .   .    trava Yare
-   Flood protection bund                   a9           a 7   - *
(requires maintenance)
Irrigation canals ^
450 mm. isohyet (approx. position) t    4
%    Towns                           §                     ^
Swamp                                              *"*
River                                      ^* 'umarto                                     7
International boundaries,   -                                                    7
Old Sabloale
43~~~~5O ~
43,50o'                   \prx 27 km                 AU



_420'                                        IBRD 20003
4.4'101                                               4 
1`40t
Kurtun Woorey                    ToM  is
oppfO.(. 1 !km.
Arbowoheerow
00~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~10
Merin Guboi 
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i~                           _~   _CJO4 .r 9*
rho* mod hes Hbftdpw*wb
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MP                                      VSW#e to  avk N   IN/
-     o Me  uF I   /
o_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S 's,                                   twraln FO 
Cps  The 93unhum*e
K~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ead! bo*¶93*. 3o
\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~n 'w On /1AS1ff MernO
an 9* E0 dO root Mg* mO
e, ~ ~~                                  ~ \
kow* Iww /  Oey
\   _K               ,,                                e~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~f tW WAVY or VWo
mIdOr.m.V 'or oepO.me Of
\  cr b/ sde.
Mogadishu* 
\  /  ,.                          1°20t    . Kurtun Waa'eye
Sablaoleai
/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ,n~- '.
,'  I t7  ;           u n  Cy e              Kismayo
,  D)IBOUTI
/                           o             5             10                       ETHIOPIA      -.
/                                           ..KiLOMEtS
Lz                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~-.'.  C°    .0 
110' !  I   , 'Mogadishu
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~100    u 9 
40,20'                 ___________________
AUGsUSr 1986



