OFF ICI AL
DOCUMENTS
CREDIT NUMBER 1774 SO
Development Credit Agreement
(Semi-Mechanized Rainfed Agriculture Pilot Project)
between
SOMALI DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated        Qp rLL       13         , 1987


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1774 SO
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated        4   rc  /3          , 1987, between
SOMALI DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC (the Borrower) and the INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPKENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1,
1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a) "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
(b) "Project Preparation Advance" means the project prepa-
ration advance granted by the Association to the Borrower
pursuant to an exchange of letters dated June 5, 1986, and
August 4, 1986, between the Borrower and the Association;
(c) "AFMET"    means   the   Agricultural   Farm  Management
Extension   and   Training   Agency,   established   pursuant   to
Presidential Decree No. 8;
(d) "CARS" means the Central Agricultural Research Station;


﻿- 2 -
(e) "MOA" means the Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture;
(f)  "SDA"   means   the   Settlement   Development   Agency
established under Decree Number 14 of 1976;
(g) "Fiscal Year" means the period from January 1 to
December 31;
(h) "Project Area" means the area in the lower Shebelli
Region between Kurtun Waarey and Sablaale; and
(i) "PIU" means the Project Implementation Unit co be
established within SDA pursuant to Section 3.03 of this
Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to
in this Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent
to   ten million six hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 10,600,000).
Section 2.C . (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of this
Section and of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made
(or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the
Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special account in its central
bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this
Agreement.
(c) Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
Account and pay to itself the amount required to repay the
principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and


﻿-3-
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges
thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the
Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1995,
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue
from a date sixty days after the date of this Agreement to the
respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid:. (i) at such
places as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on May 15 and November 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each May 15
and November 15 commencing May 15, 1997, and ending November 15,
2036. Each installment to and including the installment payable
on November 15, 2006, shall be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of
1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter
shall be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal
amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.


﻿ARTICLE III
Execution of the Ptoject
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out Parts A, B, C, E, H,
I and J of the Project through SDA; Part D of the Project through
MOA; Part F of the Project through CARS; and Part G of the
Project through AFMET with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate administrative and agricultural
practices, and shall provide, or cause the provision of, promptly
as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the Project.
(b) Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Borrower and the Association
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project
in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Sched-
ule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3
to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall maintain, until the com-
pletion of the Project, PIU established within SDA with the
following functions: (i) preparing reports on the Project;
(ii) organizing the Project budget; (iii) carrying out Project
procurement and hiring; (iv) acquiring land required for the
Project;  (v)   selecting  settlers  and  supervising   settlement
in Farm Management Units; (vi) making arrangements for land
clearing; (vii) coordinating other agencies of the Borrower
responsible for implementing the various parts of the Project;
and (viii) providing mechanization and other services to settler
farmers.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall cause PIU to take all
appropriate measures to operate on the basis of cost recovery of
its operations as provided in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.


﻿-5-
Section 3.05. In order to assist SDA in carrying out Part E
of the Project, the Borrower shall make available to SDA a grant
out of the proceeds of the Credit in an amount not exceeding the
equivalent of $200,000.
Section 3.06. In order to assist CARS in carrying out
Part F of the Project, the Borrower shall make available to
CARS a grant out of the proceeds of the Credit in an amount not
exceeding $2,100,000.
Section 3.07. In order to assist AFMET in carrying out
Part G of the Project the Borrower shall make available to AFMET
a grant out of the proceeds of the Credit in an amount not
exceeding $200,000.
Section 3.08. (a) The Borrower shall, not later than
January 1, 1988, take appropriate measures to allocate land, for
farmer settlement purposes, to SDA on a fifty-year renewable
lease basis; and (b) the Borrower shall cause SDA to sublease the
land so acquired to the farmers under terms and conditions
acceptable to the Association and in accordance with Schedule 4
to this Agreement.
Section 3.09. (a) The Borrower shall cause PIU to prepare
and submit to the Association: (i) not later than November 1 of
each year, an Annual Work Program for each following Fiscal Year;
and (ii) quarterly progress reports in a format acceptable to the
Association.
(b) The Annual Work Program referred to in paragraph (a) of
this Section shall include the necessary details to enable SDA
and MOA to monitor the progress of the Project, scrutinize future
programs and provide the necessary budgetary and other support
for the Project.
Section   3.10.  The   Borrower   shall,   not  later   than
December 31, 1991, or such other date as may be agreed by the
Association, carry out a mid-term review of the progress of the
Project in accordance with Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.11. Without limitation upon its obligations under
Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall: (a) establish
and maintain in the Central Bank of Somalia under arrangements
satisfactory to the Association, a Project Advance Account to be


﻿-6-
used for the purpose of meeting recurrent expenditures associated
with the Project; and (b) deposit in the said Project Advance
Account, at the beginning of each quarter, the funds required to
meet recurrent expenditures for such quarter.
Section 3.12. In order to assist CARS in carrying out Part F
of the Project, the Borrower shall take all the necessary mea-
sures to ensure that the Research Coordinator and the Senior
Agronomist have been appointed by not later than January 1, 1988.
Section 3.13. The Borrower shall: (a) not later than
December 31, 1990, submit to the Association for comments the
recommendations of the study on the impact of the Project on the
environment; and (b) soon thereafter implement such recommenda-
tions taking into account the Association's comments.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
(b) The Borrower shall:
(i) have the records and accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) of this Section including those for
the Special Account for each fiscal year audited,
in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
but in any case not later than nine months for
fiscal years 1987 and 1988 and six months after
the end of each year thereafter, a certified copy
of the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall have reasonably requested; and


﻿-7-
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said records, accounts and the audit
thereof as the Association shall from time to time
reasonably request.
(c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i) maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii) retain, until     at  least  one   year  after  the
completion of the audit for the fiscal year in
which the last withdrawal from the Credit Account
was   made,   all   records   (contracts,  orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
evidencing such expenditures;
(iii) enable    the   Association's  representatives   to
examine such records; and
(iv) ensure that such records and accounts are included
in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b)
of this Section and that the report of such audit
contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to
whether    the     statements    ok    expenditure
submitted during such fiscal year, together with
the procedures and internal controls involved in
their preparation, can be relied upon to support
the related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall cause AFMET, CARS and SDA
to maintain separate accounts for expenditures under the Project
and to: (i) have these accounts and financial statements (balance
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements)
for each financial year audited, in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish to the Association as
soon as available, but in any case not later than nine months
after the end of each such year for fiscal years 1987 and 1988
and not later than nine months after the end of each such year
thereafter: (A) certified copies of financial statements for such


﻿-8 -
year as so audited; and (B) the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the
Association such other information concerning the accounts and
financial statements of AFMET, CARS and SDA and the audit thereof
as the Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Other Covenants
Section 5.01. The Borrower shall cause AFMET, CARS and SDA:
(a) to take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or
t   make other provision satisfactory to the Association for
insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be
consistent with appropriate practice;
(b) to carry on their operations and conduct their affairs
in accordance with sound administrative, financial, and agricul-
tural   practices  under   the  supervision   of   qualified  and
experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate
numbers; and
(c) at all times to operate and maintain their plants,
machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to time,
promptly as needed, to make all necessary repairs and renewals
thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, financial and
agricultural practices.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the
General Conditions:
(a) the Borrower shall have opened a Project Advance
Account in the manner specified in Section 3.11 of this Agreement
and has deposited therein a sum of Somali Shillings five million;
and


﻿-9-
(b)  the Borrower shall have submitted documentary evidence
satisfactory to the Association showing that suitable land has
been identified and designated for the Project.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The minister of the Borrower at the time
responsible for finance is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Mogadishu
Somalia
Cable address:
MINFIN
Mogadishu
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 10 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the Dis'-rict of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
SOMALI DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
By/S                  q 0&X 4d   )
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By       /   4W      kJ y4')
Regional Vice President
Eastern and Southern Africa


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1) Civil works              1,110,000           100% of foreign
expenditures and
90% of local ex-
penditures
(2) Vehicles,                1,110,000           100% of foreign
machinery                                   expenditures and
and equip-                                  90% of local
ment                                        expenditures
(3) Assistance                 160,000           100%
to farmers
under Part E
of the Project
(4) Training                   790,000           100%
and studies
(5) Consultants'             1,980,000           100%
services
(6) Operating
costs:
(a) Vehicles,
machinery,          1,980,000          100% of foreign
equipment,                            expenditures and
farm inputs                           90% of local
and supplies                          expenditures
(b)  Salaries           1,190,000          90%


﻿- 12 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(7) Goods and                   240,000         100%
Services under
Part J of the
Project
(8) Refunding of              1,040,000         Amount due pur-
Project Prep-                              suant to Section
aration                                    2.02 (c) of this
Advance                                    Agreement
(9) Unallocated               1,000,000
TOTAL               10,600,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)  the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.     Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for:
(a) expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and
(b) expenditures under Category (7) unless the Association
has approved mitigatory measures for environmental problems.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower
in: (i) further developing the appropriate technology in semi-
mechanized farming through on-site adaptive research and trials;
(ii) devising a permanent institution to manage these activities;
(iii) transferring farm management skills to Somali nationals;
and (iv) increasing the production of crops and smallholder
farmers' incomes through the expansion of semi-mechanized rainfed
farming activites.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to
such modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association
may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Central Services
Maintenance and operation of a Project Implementation Unit
to coordinate implementation of the Project through the provision
of houses, stores, offices, water supply facilities, vehicles and
equipment, staff and operating costs and technical assistance.
Part B:   Farm Development
1.   Development of farms through the provision of land clearing
equipment and inputs for reforestation.
2.    Construction of flood protection bunds, roads for internal
accessibility and establishment of nurseries for bush strips.
3.   Provision of houses, machinery components, stores, offices,
workshops and fuel tanks.
4.   Provision of staff and other operating costs.
Part C:   Farm Management Units
Establishment of about four new Farm Management Units of
1,200 hectares each with each Farm Management Unit consisting of
about 100 farm families and strengthening of two existing Farm
Management Units through the provision of: (i) farm machinery,


﻿- 14 -
other agricultural equipment, vehicles, and other farm-inputs;
and (ii) staff, equipment, and other miscellaneous operating
costs to be incurred by Farm Management Units.
Part D:   Monitoring and Evaluation
Carrying out a coordinated and systematic monitoring and
evaluation of the agricultural sector through the provision of:
(i) accommodation for enumerators; (ii) vehicles, equipment,
staff and operating costs to the Planning and Statistics Depart-
ment of MOA; and (iii) technical assistance.
Part E:   Assistance to Farmers
Provision of food or its cash equivalent to the newly-
established farmers as an incentive to farmers to establish bush
strips.
Part F:   Adaptive Research
Carrying out adaptive research in semi-mechanized rainfed
farming through the provision of laboratory offices, houses,
seed and chemical stores, water supply facilities, vehicles,
machinery, equipment, staff and other operating costs, and
technical assistance.
Part G:   Extension
Carrying out agricultural extension services to farmers
through the provision of: (i) houses for extension staff, low
cost, local design settlement meeting centers, and the rehabili-
tation of classrooms at Kurtun Waarey and Sablaale; (ii) vehicles
and equipment; and (iii) staff and other operating costs.
Part H:   Training
Provision of local and overseas training for farm managers
and other local staff in farm management, workshop management,
land clearing and dryland farming research, farm economics,
extension, monitoring and evaluation systems.
Part I:   Studies
(a) Carrying out studies on: (i) soils; (ii) livestock
development;  and   (iii)  the  impact  of  the  Project   on  the
environment.


﻿- 15 -
(b) Carrying out aerial photography in areas adjacent to
the Project Area.
(c) Carrying   out   studies  on   project  preparation  for
additional projects.
Part J:   The Environment
The implementation of mitigatory measures for environmental
problems through the provision of goods, services and training.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1995.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.     Bidders for works and goods shall be prequalified as
described in paragraph 2.10 of the Guidelines.
3.   To the extent practicable, contracts for civil works shall
be grouped in bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of
$100,000 or more each.
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Contractors
In the procurement of works in accordance with the proce-
dures described in Part A.1 hereof, the Borrower may grant a
margin of preference to domestic contractors in accordance with,
and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for the rehabilitation of classrooms, construction
of settlement meeting centers and water supply facilities
estimated to cost the equivalent of $300,000 may be procured
under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding,
advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to
the Association.
2.   Contracts for the supply of fuel, lubricants and farm inputs
not exceeding in the aggregate the equivalent of $2.0 million may
be procured under contracts awarded through limited international
bidding procedures on the basis of evaluation and comparison of
bids invited from a list of at least three qualified suppliers
eligible under the Guidelines and in accordance with the proce-
dures set forth in Sections I and II of the Guidelines (excluding
paragraphs 2.8, 2.9, 2.55 and 2.56 thereof).


﻿- 17 -
3.   Goods estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $20,000
per contract up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equi-
valent of $200,000 may be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of price quotations solicited from a list of at least three
suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with pro-
cedures acceptable to the Association.
4.    Spare parts not exceeding in the aggregate the equivalent
of $1.1 million may be procured on the basis of quotations from
manufacturers or dealers as appropriate.
5.   Civil works for land clearing and road construction may be
carried out by building staff of SDA as appropriate.
Part D:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of prequalification:
With respect to the prequalification of bidders as provided
in Part A.2 hereof, the procedures set forth in paragraph 1 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
2.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
(a) With respect to each contract for goods and works
estimated to cost the equivalent of $250,000 or more, the
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to
be made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be
modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to Section
(d) of said paragraph 2 shall be furnished to the Association
prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special
Account in respect of such contract.
(b) With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed
copies of the contract together with the other information
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said
paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to
this Agreement.


﻿- 18 -
(c) The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts on account of which the Associa-
tion has authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account on the
basis of statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall be
retained in accordance with Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of this Agree-
ment.
3.   The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project.
the Borrower shall employ or cause the employment of agricul-
tural, financial and management consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satis-
factory to the Association. Such consultants shall be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Con-
sultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Execut-
ing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
A.   In carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall:
(1)   take appropriate measures to organize farmers in Farm
Management Units (FMU) as follows:
(a) each FMU will have about 1,200 hectares of land
and 100 settlers;
(b) each settler will be allocated about 7 hectares of
arable land and 5 hectares of bush strips; and
(c) each FMU will also be provided with experienced
staff to run the agricultural machinery and to
provide social and commercial services;
(2) adopt the following criteria in choosing sites for
FMUs:
(a) easy access for settlers;
(b) availability of water;
(c) avoiding excessively clayey soils which provide
poor foundation for local buildings; and
(d) using only land with non-saline soils for rainfed
farming;
(3) establish a:
(a) Settler Selection Committee in PIU whose members
shall be the General Manager of SDA as Chairman,
the Project Director of PIU, and one representa-
tive each from SDA, MOA, the District Commis-
sioners' Offices and the Mayors' Offices of Kurtun
Waaray and Sablaale;
(b) Research and Extension Committee with terms of
reference acceptable to the Association, the


﻿-20 -
function of which shall be to formulate a long-
term research program and to submit such Program
to the Association not later than July 1, 1988;
and
(c) Future   Organization   Structure  Committee  whose
functions and terms of reference shall be accept-
able  to  the Association; The    Committee   shall
submit its report to MOA in time for the mid-term
review to be carried out pursuant to Section 3.10
of this Agreement;
(4) adopt the following criteria in selecting settlers:
(a) Somali citizenship; and
(b) the prospective settler should (i) be capable
of working the land, (ii) not be a landholder
occupying the Project land, and (iii) have no
other permanent paid employment;
(5) take appropriate measures to ensure that the following
conditions of the sub-lease between the SDA and the settlers are
observed:
Obligations of Sublessor
(a) The sublessor (SDA) shall provide timely machinery
and other services to the lessee to a standard
as determined by PIU management and Settlers'
Committees.
(b) Provided the sublessee is not in default of the
lease agreement the sublessor shall allow the sub-
lessee to manage his farm in accordance with the
rules determined by PIU's management and Settlers'
Committees.
Obligations of Sublessee
(c) The sublessee (settler) shall manage his farm in
accordance with rules determined by PIU's manage-
ment and Settlers' Committees.


﻿- 21 -
(d) The sublessee will pay to PIU the charges for
direct production costs and such other charges as
may be decided by the PIU management.
(e) The   sublessee   shall  not   erect  any  physical
barriers or cause any obstruction to the orderly
performance of the mechanized services on the
farm.
(f)  The  sublessee   shall  not  interfere   with  his
designated   fallow  land   except   utilizing  it
for purposes as directed by the rules of the
PIU management.
(g) If   it  is judged    by  the  PIU  management  and
Settlers' Committees that a sublessee is in
default of any of the sublease's provisio-s, then
the sublessee's land will be forfeited without
compensation.
B.   In carrying out Section 3.04 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall or shall cause PIU to implement cost recovery measures as
follows:
(1) For the two existing FMUs, cost recovery measures
shall be implemented as follows:
(a)  full operating costs shall be recovered beginning
calendar year 1988; and
(b) capital costs shall be recovered annually over ten
years, beginning calendar year 1988 with two years
of grace, at interest rates not less than fifteen
percent (15%) per annum.
(2)  For the four newly established FMUs, as yields and
production improve, and with consequent increase in farmers'
incomes, the amount of cost to be recovered would correspondingly
increase so that by the end of the first year of harvests cost
recovery would begin covering operating and annual capital costs
for each of the newly established FMUs.
(3) Farmers in    the  four newly established FMUs shall
repay annually the capital costs over ten years, including two
years of grace, at interest rates not less than fifteen percent
(15%) per annum.


﻿- 22 -
(4) Notwithstanding the provision of sub-paragraph (3)
above, cost recovery from the new FMUs shall achieve the follow-
ing targets:
25% of operating and annual capital cost by end of the
first year of harvest,
50% of operating and annual capital cost by end of the
second year of harvest,
75% of operating and annual capital cost by end of the
third year of harvest, and
100% of operating and annual capital cost by end of the
fourth year of harvest and thereafter;
(5)   for the purpose of sub-paragraphs (1) (2) and (3)
above:
(a)  the term "operating costs" means all costs related
to operations, including administration, adequate
maintenance, taxes or payments in lieu of taxes,
but excluding interest and other charges on debt.
(b)  the term "capital costs" means all costs incurred
on account of fixed assets, including interest.
C.   In carrying out Section 3.09 of this Agreement the Borrower
shall cause PIU to prepare Annual Work Programs for all Project
components. The Annual Work Programs shall include the following
information:
(1) the effectiveness of the design and layout of exist-
ing farms and the farming system used;
(2) a detailed description of the work to be performed;
(3) a budget for the period covered;
(4)   a financing plan and detailed quarterly cash flow
projections, including the Borrower's contribution to the Project
Advance Account;
(5) a detailed assessment of the previous year's perfor-
mance;


﻿- 23 -
(6) a detailed staffing analysis, including proposals for
filling vacant posts;
(7) the   proposed  training  program   for  PIU  staff  and
farmers; and
(8) the Borrower's budgetary allocations for the Project.
D.   In carrying out Section 3.10 of this Agreement the Borrower
shall include the following items in its mid-term review:
(1) progress of the Project;
(2) evaluation of Project results and viability;
(3) future direction of the Project;
(4) the mertis or otherwise of a follow-on project and the
finalization of terms of reference of such a Project;
(5) the future organization structure of Project management
including whether or not such proposals should be introduced
under this Project or deferred to the follow-on project, if any;
(6) the implementation of mitigatory measures for environ-
mental problems; and
(7) the implementation of cost recovery measures.
E.   In carrying out Parts F and G of the Project the Borrower
shall take appropriate measures to ensure that:
(1) PIU shall excercise line management control over
research and extension activities;
(2) CARS shall be responsible for the technical direction
of the adaptive research component;
(3) AFMET shall be responsible for the technical direction
of extension activities; and
(4) the Ministry of Education of the Borrower shall make-
available to MOA classroom facilities at Kurtun Waarey and
Sablaale for extension training activities.


﻿- 24 -
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "eligible Categories" means Categories 1 to 7
set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;
(b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accor-
dance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c) the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $400,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account
and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3
(a) of this Schedule.
2.    Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments
out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account may be made as follows:
(a) On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation, the Association shall, on behalf of
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into
the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall
have requested.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
for replenishment of the Special Account at such intervals as the
Association shall specify. On the basis of such requests, the
Association shall withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit
into the Special Account such amounts as shall be required to
replenish the Special Account with amounts not exceeding the


﻿- 25 -
amount of payments made out of the Special Account for eligible
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the
Association from the Credit Account under the respective eligible
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall
have been justified by the evidence supporting the request for
such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account for which the Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, prior to or at the time of such request, such
documents and other evidence as the Association shall reasonably
request, showing that such payment was made for eligible expen-
ditures.
5.   (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, no further deposit into the Special Account shall be
made by the Association when either of the following situations
first arises:
(i) the Association shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower
directly from the Credit Account in accordance
with the provisions of Article V of the General
Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
(ii) the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allo-
cated to the eligible Categories, minus the amount
of any outstanding special commitment entered into
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the
General Conditions with respect to the Project,
shall be equal to the equiva'ent of twice the
amount of the Authorized Allocation.
(b) Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of
the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to
the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the
Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of
such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.


﻿- 26 -
6.   (a)  If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for any
expenditure or in any amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association deposit into the
Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment
or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. No further
deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made
until the Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
(b) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount for crediting to the
Credit Account.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


