*M(?NTREAL  /'4-'S "-'
PROTOCOL
.*  _  .-.    , '
TURKEY -.
OZONE PROJECTS TRUST FUND GRANT
PHASEOUT OF OZONE-DEPLETING SUBSTANCES
(ODS PHASEOUT 2)
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT
NOVEMBER 1995
THE WORLD BANK
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT COORDINATION DIVISION
ENVIRONMENT DEPARTMENT



14455-TU
TURKEY
OZONE PROJECTS TRUST FUND GRANT
PHASEOUT OF OZONE-DEPLETING SUBSTANCES
(ODS PHASEOUT 2)
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT
NOVEMBER 1995



1
TURKEY
SECOND PHASEOUT OF OZONE DEPLETING SUBSTANCES PROJECT
Grant and Project Summary
Recipient:                Republic of Turkey
Beneficiaries:            Private Sector Enterprises
Amount:                   US$14 million
Financial Intermediary:   Technology Development Foundation (TIF
Terms:                    (a) Grant to Republic of Turkey, which will pass it on to TDF on grant
basis; and
(b) TDF will provide funds to beneficiary enterprises as follows:
Refrigeration Sector Funding would be provided on a loan basis
except for technical assistance, prototype and testing and safety related
investments which would be provided on grant basis. Other Sectors:
Funding up to a maximum of US$05 million equivalent would be
provided on grant basis and the balance on loan basis. The loan would
be denominated in US Dollars with zero interest and payable in four to
six equal semi-annual installments, commencing after a grace period
not extending beyond sub-project completion.
Project Costs and Fiancing Plan: (1995-1998; US$ Million)
Description             Project Cost                  Financing                l
OTF        Enterprises     Total
A. Prepared Projects                  10.10          540           4.70         10.10
of which: investment                5.90          2.90          3.00          5.90
recurring                  4.20          2.50          1.70          4.20
B. New Projects                       14.00(         8.20          5.80         14.00
C. Financial Agency Fee                0.40          0.40             -          0.40
Total                     24.50         14.0          10.50         24.50
Project ID:         TR-MT-38404
EIRR:               N/A
Map:                N/A



2
OZONE PROJECTS TRUST FUNDS GRANT
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
SECOND PHASEOUT OF OZONE DEPLETING SUBSTANCES PROJECT
Country/Sector Background
1.    Al ODSs utilized in Turkey are imported, with cdnsumption of about 6286 tons (equivalent to
about 5030 ODP tons1) in 1993. The primary uses of ODSs were for refrigerants (22 percent), refrigerator
and polyurethane feams (48 percent), and solvents (22 percent). There are five large domestic and
comrnercial refrigerator manufactrers who account for over one-half of ODS consumption in Turkey.
There are an estimated 1500 workshops for servicing refrigerators, about 1200 of which are manufacurer-
authorized workshops and the remainder independently owned. In addition to the refiigerator manufacturers
who produce tlheir own requirement of rigid foams, there are four large and over ffty snall to medium
producers of rigid foams used in building insulation. Flexible foamns for seating and furnishing applications
are produced by ten large and a number of small to mnedium firms. A variety of solvents are used for diverse
applications across the industry. The highest ODP is associated with the ODSs used in the refrigeration and
foam sectors. Turk-ey's consumption of ODSs for the period 1986 to 1993 and a list of large enterprises in
the various sectors are provided in Annex 1.
2.    The use of aerosols has been almost completely phased out, largely due to industry initiatives tak-en
im response to market forces. ODS usage in other sectors, particularly refrigeration and foams, has
contmued to increase due to expanding domestic markets. The exports of refrigerators and building
insulation foams has also increased over the past few years. In the short- to medimn-tmn, most western
European nations will ban imports of products containing ODSs, as well as impors and exports of ODSs
themselves. If measures to encourage adoption of non-ODS technologies are not implemented soon,
Turish industies in the refrigeration, foams and solvents sectors will not be able to continue wit
production due to shortages or lack of supply of ODSs, and the country will lose export markets and
earnings.
3.    The Goverment of Turkey (GOT) has already taken significant steps toward the phaseout of
ODSs. Prior to ratifying the Montreal Protocol on September 20, 1991, Turkey passed the entire text of the
Protocol as law. Although it qualifies under paragraph 1 of Article 5 of the Protoeol for a ten year period to
phaseout the use of ODSs, GOT has opted for an accelerated program aimed at phasing out usage of these
substances, except for recharging, by 1998. ODSs used for recharging refrigerators and other appliances are
to be phased out by 2007. GOT is taking steps to develop a regulatory framework which identifies specific
policy and regulatory measures needed to achieve ODS phaseoul
Strategy for ODS Phaseout
4.     GOT developed a straegy for the phaseout of ODSs as part of the Country Program in 1992, with
the assistance of fte Wodd Banlt The strategy, which is outlined in Annex 2, calls for policy actions and
investments, including a public awareness campaign, to achieve the effective phaseout of ODSs.
I ODP tons are weighted according to the Ozone Depleting Potential (ODP) of each substance.



3
Policy Actions
5.    The ODS phaseout strategy calls for the establishment of a policy and regulatory framework to
support the phaseout of ODSs in Turkey. Specific regulatory measures contemplated under the stmtegy
include, inter alia:
*     establishing ODS import monitoring procedures to account for all ODS usage and track
ODS consumption;
*     developing a licensing program to control ODS imports, encourage environmentally
responsible handling practices, and restrict distribution of ODSs to qualified users; and
*     introducing levies on ODSs to encourage the adoption of non-ODS technologies and
developing a timetabie for the implementation of bans on certain ODSs.
6.    The development of policy actions under the ODS phaseout strategy is the responsibility of the
Ministry of Environment (MOE), whose jurisdiction includes legislation, policy development, and ensuring
the enforcement of environmental protection activities. Responsibility for the day-to-day implementation
and enforcement of environmental regulations lies at the regional level, under the supervision of the
provincial governors. The MOEs specific duties related to the Ozone Issue are to supervise and coordinate
international and national activities related to the Montreal Protocol and to enforce the Governments action
plan for the Phaseout of ODSs. The identification and implementation of certain policy measures required to
achieve ODS phaseout, including bans, levies, and licensing, requires coordination between the MOE and
other Govemrment agencies, such as the Ministry of Fnance and the Customs Department in the Ministry of
Foreign Trade. The institutions in the Govemment and in the private sector that have an interest in the
Ozone Issue are described in Annex 3.
7.    MOE has established an Ozone Panel to advise on ozone-related matters, including the policy
measures needed to facilitate the accelerated phaseout of ODSs. The panel comprises representatives from
the Goverment, the private sector, the scientific community and international experts in ODS phaseout.
The Ozone Panel will meet twice a year for 2-3 years, a preliminary meeting of which was held in August
1994, and the first formal meeting was held on March 31, 1995. The Government has also set up a sub-
comnittee of the Ozone Panel consisfing of representatives from the Ministries of Fmance, Environment,
Industry & Trade and Customs Department to review policy and regulatory options and  ilitate
implementation by early 1996.
Investments for non-ODS Technologies
8.    The adoption of non-ODS technologies by enterpnses involves converting and/or replacing existing
production equipment and processes. Investments would also be needed for converting service facilities to
handle non-ODS substances, especially for refrigerator and freezer servicing, and recovery and recycling of
ODSs. Commercialy provei alterative non-ODS technologies are available for enterprises in the
refrigeration, foarn, solvents and aerosoi sectors. In view of the large consumption of ODSs and their high
ODP. the refrigeration wnd foam sectors would be targeted for priority phaseout under the strategy.
Phaseout ot J3DSb in the refrigeration sector is already underway, with four of the principal manufactuers
at advanced stges of conversion, with assistance from the Bank. Conversion in the foam sector has been
initiated under a project financed by the IFC. Some enterprises in the solvents sector (e.g. Netas, the
Turlksh partner of Northern Telecom) have converted to non-ODS technologies, thereby setting a trend. The
use of aerosols h4s been completely phased out largely due to the favorable cost benefits of conversion to
non-ODS technologies. Since the incremental costs of conversion in the other sectors are considerable,
financial incentives would be necessary to support accelerated phaseout. GOT intends to provide grants
and/or similar financing to enterprises proposing to convert to non-ODS technologies.



4
9.    The Technology Development Foundation (TDF) will be responsible for identifying eligible
investments; it has hired a consulting firm to assist in identifying ODS users in each sector. TDF will work
directly with large enterprises in each sector to identify investments needed to achieve ODS phaseout, and
will work closely with KOSGEB, the Ministry of Industry's development organization for small and
medium industries, to identify investments in srmall and medium enterprises. KOSGEB, which was
established in 1990 to provide technical and management support to srall and nedium enterprises, has 30
extension service centers located in cities and townships where such enterprises are concentrated. TDF
proposes to develop demonstration projects and disseminate information through seminars and workshops,
especially for small and mcdium enterprises.
Ozone Awareness Campaign
10.   MOE will undertake a promotional campaign to support the implementation of Country Program
for ODS phaseout. The campaign will communicate the importance of ODS phaseout to industry and the
general public and the Govemrnent's programs for achieving this objective. Methods for public outreach
will include a spot film for broadcast on television, brochures, posters, billboards, and newspaper
advertisements. MOE is in the process of recruiting consultants to assist in the development and
managennt of the awareness campaign. which is expected to be launched by the end of 1995.
Assessment of Government's Strategy
11.   The GovernmenCs strategy for ODS phaseout, which has been reviewed and approved by the
Montreal Protocol Executive Conmittee (MPEC), is satisfactory. Concerted actions, including the
development of an ozone awareness campaign, the implementation of monitoring and regulatory measures,
institutional and management strengthening of MOE and TDF, and the provision of soft financing to
industry for investments in ODS phaseout activities, will synergistically support imnplementation of the
strategy. In particular, the approach to developing industry-government and intra-govemrnment consensus
through the Ozone Panel will facilitate snooth implementation of specific policy and regulatory measures.
Turkey is expected to be a fore-runner among the Article 5 countries of the Montreal Protocol in the
adoption of policy and regulatory measures to support ODS phaseout. Such measures have been
succesfully adopted by westem European and other advanced countries. The progress nude by MOE is
satisfactory and the development and implementation of a monitoring and regulatory framework by early
1996 is feasible.
12.   The priority phaseout of ODSs in refrigeration, to be followed by foams, solvents and other sectors,
is consistent with the sectal consumption of such substances, and the approach to target large users in each
sector is cost effective and would also help set the trend in each sector. The progress already made in
conversion to non-ODS technologies by Lhe four large enterprises in the refrigeration sector, initiation of
phaseout activities in large entexprises in the foams and solvents sectors and the phaseout achieved in the
aerosol sector indicate the momentum already gained for ODS phaseouL The proposed plan to involve
KOSGEB to taget small and medium enterprises will help u2ilize established networks and will enable
adoption of selected cost-efficient technologies by groups of enterprises using similar substances in their
productionlprocessing. The involvement of TDF would provide the necessary admuinistrative framework to
facilitate identification and implementation of investments for technology conversion. Therefore, the
targetd phaseout of ODSs by 1998, except for recharging is feasible under the government's strategy.
Project Setting
13.   The implementation of the strategy has already started and is being supported through an OTF grant
of US$6.165 million approved in January 1994 for the first Phaseout of Ozone Depleting Substances
(PODSI) Project (OTF Grant No. 021934). The PODS-I project supports institutional and management
strengthening of the MOE including setting up the Ozone Pane, implementing an ODS monitoring
framework, promnoting ozone awareness, and preparing a framework for the regulation of ODSs in the



5
future; conversion to nonl-ODS technologies at Turkey's largest domestic refrigerator manufactuwir, Arcelik
A.S.; and idrntificauion and preparation of additional projects for ODS phase-out, The MOE, Arcelik A.S.
and the 'rDF are, respectively, responsible for implermntation of the three components. Overall project
implemrentation of PODS-I has been satisfactory and Arcelik is expected to complete its project ahead of
schedule.
14.   Following the successful launching of the PODS-I projec4 and ih light of the progress made by
Arcelik in conversion to non-ODS technologies, three other refrigerator manufacturers-PEG Profilo,
Kliniasani, and Pekel Teknik--submitted their proposals to the Bank for financial assistance. The propusals.
which were appmised by TDF, have been reviewed by the Bank and the MPEC. The proposals of Peg
Profilo and Kliumasan have been approved by the MPEC; Pekel's revised proposal has been submitted to
MPEC for formal apprwal at its July 1995 meeting. Summanes of these project proposals are included in
Annex 4. It is expected that, with TDFs support and active sulicitation, other private sector enterprises
wouki prepare proposals for funding over the next 2-3 years.
15.   The proposed project is consistent with Turkey's strategy for the Phaseout of ODSs, would build on
the progress made under PODS-L and would extend coverage by supporlting additional private sector
enterprises in phasing out their use of ODSs.
Project Objectives
16.   The objective of this Project is to assist GOT in ensuring that ODS-using industries in Turkey
effectively and efficiently phaseout ODS usage through the adoption of non-ODS technologies. The policy
and regulatory measures will also be monitored as agred under the PODS-I project The phaseout is to be
effected in conql)iance with the Protocol, as ratified by the Republic of Turkey, and in accordance with the
recommended ODS phaseout strategy and action plan outlined in the Country Program.
Project Description
17. The proposed Project would provide financial assistance to enterprises in all sectors for adoption of
non-ODS technologies. Eligible investment costs and recurring costs would be financed in accordance with
prevailing MEC guidelines. Investment costs include manufactuning and processing equipments,
prototyping & tesdng, safety equipments for handling hazardous substances such as cyclopentane, and
technology transfer and safety training. Recuning costs cover incremertal operating costs arising from the
technology conversion; the amount of recurring costs eligible for financing depends on the sector and would
be determined in each case at the time of sub-project agreemenL Sub-projects in the refrigeration sector
involve both investment and recurring costs, while those in the other sectors prinarily involve investment
costs.
18.   Funding assistance would be proportional to the Turkish ownership in the sponsoring enterprise and
would also be adjusted downward corresponding to the enterprise's exports to non-Article 5 countries, if
any, as per MPEC guidelines. The strategy identifies priority sectors; in addition, the cost effectiveness of
ODS phaseout (eligible amount of OTF assistance divided by amount of ODSs phased out per annum)
would be used to rank sub-projects for financing in each sector.
19. TDF is currently developing sub-projects for assistance to large enterprises in each sector. Based
on the number of large enterprises in each sector and their ODS consurnption, the mission estimates
US$12.0 million would be needed to finance about four large enterpises in the refrigeration sector and six
to eight in the foams and solvents sectors; and some US$1.5 million would be required to finance
investments for small and medium enterprises. A Trust Fund Grant of US$14 million from the Multilateral
Fund of the MP, including a financial agent fee of 3 percent to be retained by TDF, is thus proposed. Funds
will be used to finance all eligible incremental project costs for conversion to non-ODS technologies,
including recurrent costs.



6
Project Costs and Financine
20.   Project costs consist of the incremental investment and recunring costs incurred in ODS phaseout
activities. Detailed costs for new sub-projects would be determined as proposals are deve-loped. Cost
estimates of most of the equipment will be assessed against quotations from major suppliers and/or against
costs of similar equipment in other sub-projects and countries. Allowance of about 15 percent would be
made for physical and price contingencies. Cost estirmates for consultancy services would be based on
average costs, including consultant fees, transportation, living expenses, etc. Incremental recurring costs
would be reviewed one year after commencing production. Estimated project costs and proposed financing
plan are summarized in Schedule A.
The Implementing Agency - TDF
21.   The TDF was established in 1991 as part of Turkey's Technology Development Project (Ln. 3296-
TU), cofinanced by GOT, private sector investors, the World Bank and other Development Banks. The
foundation has an executive conunittee consisting of private sector representatives and has the mandate to
fund activities on the basis of grants, income notes, and conditional loans that match private sector
contributions. TDF has established an institutional framework for soliciting, selecting and monitoring the
implementation of technology projects. It has helped promote public and private sector cooperation in
applied research and development and has been able to develop a network of outside experts and consultants
for carrying out its work
22.   TDFs institutional background, role and responsibilities in ODS phaseout are provided in Annex 5.
TDF currently has eight professional and three support staff, including two computer analysts. TDF has
established a small PODS Group in its Secretariat, comprising a Project Coordinator (an environmental
engineer with five yearst experience in the mranagement and coordination of research projects) and a
computer analyst to administer the PODS-I project. The TDF would assist enterprises in the preparation of
funding proposals and the Bank will review the proposals after appraisal and evaluation by TDF in
accordance with Montreal Protocol guidelines. TDFs main responsibilities include:
* reviewing each sub-project's eligibility under the MP, its conformity with the priority set in the
Country Program in terms both of the quantity of ODS it helps to phaseout and cost
effectiveness; and
*  carrying out a detailed environmental analysis and technical and financial appraisals of each
sub-project for approval by the Bank and/or the MPECG
A schematic plan of how these tasks will be caried out by TDF is given in Annex 5. TDF wiil cruit
consultants to provide sector-specific assistance in conducting workshops, develop demonstration projects,
and appraise sub-projects for ODS phase-out. The terms of reference for these consultancies Munl be
reviewed by the Bank. Grant assistance of US$0.5 million has been provided under the PODS-I project to
enable TDF to carry out these tasks. As TDFs responsibilities will expand to include monitoring and
supervision of sub-project implementation under the proposed Project, TDF proposes to add up to two more
professionals and two support staff to the PODS Group gradually in line with the increasing workload. TDF
will also recruit consultants to assist in supervision of sub-projects TDF will finance these activities from
the finacial agency fee to be provided under the proposed Project TDFs operating budget for the 1994-98
period (Annex 5) is based on its experience gained under the PODS-I and Technology Development
Projects and is adequate to carry out the required tasks under PODS-IL TDF would appraise sub-projects in
accordance with MPEC guidelines, recommend sub-projects to the Bank for financing in accordance with
Country Prugram priority and cost effectiveness, and ensure sub-project implementation in a manner
satisfactory to the Bank. TDFs work program will be reviewed by the Bank by June 3,1996.



7
Project Implementation
23.   The private sector enterprises proposing to convert to non-ODS technologies would be responsible
for implementation of the respective investments (sub-projects). TDF will serve as the financial
intermediary and will be responsible for preparation, appraisal and supervision of sub-projects. The MOE
will develop the policy and regulatory measures for ODS phaseout and will ensure the enforcemnent of other
relevant regulations. The implementation arrangements, issues and actions to be agreed are described
below:
Terms of Financing to Beneficiary Enterprises
24.   The grant funds to be made available to TDF will be provided to enterprises on the following terms:
(a) for enterprises in the refrigeration sector, funds will be provided on a soft loan basis except for safety
equipments. prototyping and testing and technical assistance; and (b) enterprises in other sectors, financing
of up to US$0.5 million would be on grant basis and the balance would be on soft-loan basis. The soft-loan
terms would be a zero percent dollar denominated loan with repayment over 2-3 years, commencing after a
grace period not extending beyond sub-project completion. The three enterprises in the refrigeration sector
have agreed with the above terms and other enterprises in contact with the TDF are aware of the terms of
financial supporL These terms would facilitate the financing for additional ODS projects through a
revolving fund while at the same time providing grant financing to small and medium scale industries to
ensure that they undertake the needed adjustments at minimal cost to them. The enterprises will repay the
loans into d'e revolving fund set up by the TDF under PODS-I to support ftimre ODS phaseout activides.
Cost Sharing by Enterprises
25.   Funding support for each sub-project is determined based on foreign ownership of the enterprise
and its exports to non-article 5 countries in accordance with prevailing NIP guidelines (twpra 19).
Sub-projects would, therefore, have different proportions of incremental project costs supported from the
TIF and the balance of expenditures would be financed by the beneficiary enterprises. In order to ensure
counterpart funding and implementation of all components of the sub-project, funding from OTF and from
the enterprise for each contract would be agreed between TDF and the enterprise based on project costs and
amount of OTF financing for each sub-project and would be set in the respective Sub-project Ageement
between the TDF and the beneficiary enterprise which would be reviewed and approved by the Bank
Further, TDF would ensure in each case that the balance of expenditures, including any cost overruns, will
be financed out of the respective enterprise's own resources.
Procurement Arrangements
26.   Procurement of goods under the sub-projects would be in accordance with Bank Guidelines
(January 1995) for intermediation loans which permiit the use of standard and acceptable commercial
practices. Due to their specialized nature and new technologies, most items would be purchased from
foreign sources. Enterprises with foreign licensing and/or partners are likely to procure from sources or
suppliers reconmmended by them which is considered as sole soure procurement In view of the significant
technical and other support that could be obtained from the foreign partner, this is acceptable. International
Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures would be followed for procurement of items exceeding US$0.7
rrillion equivalent. For ICB procurement, the enterprises would use the Bank's Standard Bidding
Documents. All procurement involving sole source and those exceeding UTS$0.7 million equivalent would
be subject to prior review and approval by the Bank. Also. selective post review of awarded contracts
would be made during project supervision. As regards consultancy services, only those approved by the
MPEC as part of the subprojects would be financed under the Project. Consultancy services would be
needed for technology tansfer, supervision and training under subprojects which are expected to be
procured both as part of the related goods/works contract and as separate contracts when necessary.
Consultancy services will be procured in accordance with Bank Guidelines for Use of Consultants (August



8
1981). All terms of reference would be reviewed by the Bank and consultancy services above US$50,000
would be subject to prior review procedures of the Bank.
Retroactive Financing
27.   PEG Profilo and Pekel Teknik have nearly completed conversion to non-ODS technologies and
Klimasan has only to complete the cyclopentane handling system. In accordance with Montreal Protocol
guidelines, retroactive financing is available to cover eligible incremental costs. The three enterprises have
procured goods and services under their respective subprojects valtued at about US$5.5 million through a
total of 41 contracts, the tctal eligible OTF financing for which is estimated to be about US$2.5 million
equivalent. Therefore, retroactive financing of up to US$2.5 million equivalent would be provided for
procurement of goods and services which has occurred before October 15, 1995, the expected signing of the
proposed Grant. Contract sizes va;y from US$25,000 for small items to US$900,000 for foam insulation
system. The enterprises obtained muitiple quotations from intemational suppliers for most items aid from
local suppliers where available. Certain proprietary items have been procured on sole source basis. The
mission has reviewed the procurement documents (invoices, internal evaluation and contracts). Justification
for sole source. and iinal contracts would be reviewed and payments to contractors would be verified before
disbursement.
Disbursenents, Accounts and Audit
28.   The OTF funds would be disbursed through the TDF. Funds would be disbursed against 100percent
of cif costs of imported goods, of ex-factory costs of domestically mnufactured goods, and of the cost of
technical assistance, and 85 percent locally procured items, subject to a maximum of the approved amount
for each contract (para 26). Allocation of funds to different disbursement categories and an estimated
schedule are provided in Schedule B. A special account with an initial deposit of US$0.5 million would be
established at the Central/Commercial Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, and would be
increased lip to US$1.0 mnillion when disbursements reach US$4.0 million. Request for replenishment of
the special accoumt would be submitted on a quarterly basis, or when the balance of the special account is
one half of the special account deposit, whichever occurs first. In addition to the evidence of paynments, each
replenishment application would be supported by monthly bank statements of the special account which
have been reconciled by TDF. All other applications for direct payments or special commitments would be
for an amount not less than 20 percent of the special account deposit. The use of statement of expenditures
would also be permnitted on contracts valued at US$50,0C0 or less to facilitate timely payments to
contractors. The TDF would retain the supporting documents and make them available for inspetion by
Bank supervision mission and by external auditors. The Grant closing date would be June 30, 1999. The
Govemment would submit audit reports of the Special Account, including statement of expenditures, within
six months after the end of the financial year. TDF would submnit audit reports of its financial accounts
within six months after the end of its financial year.
Legal and Administrative Framework
29.   In order to encourage sector-wide operation and to ensure implementation without delay, a Grant
Agreement between the Bank and GOT will provide an 'umbrella' fiework for the Project GOT would
makre available OTF grant funds to TDF which would in tun provide the fumding and other support to
beneficiary enterprises for ODS phaseout activities on agreed terms (para 25). All sub-project proposals for
funding support under the Project would be reviewed and approved by the Bank. Further, proposals
exceeding US$0-5 million in financial support would be submitted to MPEC for review and approval.
TDFs role and responsibilities would be set forth in the Project Agreement between the Bank and the TDF,
while sub-project implementation arrangements would be set forth in the Sub-project Agreements between
2In accordacLce with BP 10.21 (Annex F) dated April 25, 1995.



9
the TDF and each beneficiary enterprise. The Government and TDF have agreed to the proposed legal and
administrative framework. The agreement between the Government and TDF spelling out, inter alia, the
respective roles and obligations satisfactory to the Bank, is a condition of effectiveness of the proposed
Grant.
ODS Policy and Regulatory Framework
30.   Government actions concerning development and implementation of an appropriate ODS policy
and regulatory framework consistent with the strategy for ODS phaseout has been agreed under the PODS-]
project. Also, US$0.3 million are provided under PODS-I for technical assistance to the Ministry of
Environment for institutional and management strengthening, ozone awareness campaign and ODS
monitoring and regulatory framnework development. The MOE has developed a monitoring program to track
ODS imports and has made satisfactory progress as agreed. The MOE will rely on the ozone panel and its
sub-committee (para 8) for developing stakeholder consensus on policy and regulatory measures. MOE has
recruited consultants to assist in preparing a policy and regulatory action program which is expected to
include, inter alia, measures for monitoring ODS usage, licensing ODS users, and other policy measures to
support ODS phaseout. The Government wiDl develop a detailed proposal describing this action program for
discussion with the Bank by December 31, 1995 and has agreed to implement an agreed action program by
June 30, 1996.
Project Monitoring and Supervision
31.   The primary responsibility for monitoring and supervision would lie with the TDF, which will
closely monitor the implementation of the sub-projects. TDFs activities would be supervised by the Bank
and TDF would furnish quarterly progress reports with format and contents satisfactory to the Bank.
Govemment actions regarding policy and regulatory framework will be monitored by the Bank as agreed
under the PODS-I project. The Project closing date would be December 31, 1998. The success of the
Project will be judged by the extent to which it fuifills, efficiently and effectively, the strategy outlined in
the Country Program, the amounts of ODSs phased out, and the cost effectiveness of such phaseout.
Project Sustainability
32.   The primary purpose of the OTE is to provide a financial incentive to facilitate ODS phaseout by
compensating beneficiaries for incremental costs incurred as a result of converdng to non-ODS
technologies. In addition, the Fund aims to ensure that beneficiary nations achieve phase-out without
impairing their industrial development processes. The assistance provided to Turkish industry through the
project would help to ensure that the accelerated scenario of phaseout is achieved, and would permit the
sector to remain competitive on the international market as demand for non-ODS products increases and the
market for ODS-based technologies contracts.
Lessons From Bank Projects
33.   Turkey's first ODS Phaseout Project is currently under implementation, and the institutional
arrangements established for this project provide a framework within which the proposed umbrella project
will be implemented. Implementation has been satisfactory, although the MOE encountered some initial
delays in executing its component- The Technology Development Project (In.3296-TU) currently under
implementation has also provided lessons relevant to the design of ODS Phaseout Projects in Turky. The
fTDF is fully functional and has successfully promoted public-private cooperation in applied research and
development. Under thre project, TDF has successfully established an institutional framework for
developing and implementing projects.



10
Ratlonale for Fuunding from the Montreal Protocol MultIlateral Fund
34.   In the short term, conversion of munufacturing processes to non-ODS technologies does not provide
a competitive advantage to participaling industries, nor does It lend to Increased production quantities. As a
result, witliout the grant and coneqsslonal funding prosided by the 07F. there is little incentive for
industries to convert to non-ODS technologies. Provision of funding through the OTP will encourage
effective and efficient conversion to non-ODS technologies in Turkey's industrial sector.
Project Benerl1s
35.   1'he major benefit of this project is the accelerated phaseout of ODS usage in mfanufacturing
processes, and the elimination of ODS leakage during maini'mance procedures. In addition, the project will
ensure that Turkey maintains Lhe capacity to export iroducts as the ban on ODS-based technologies comes
into effect.
Rik
36.   There are no signiricant technical risks, since only technologies which have already been proven
through application in the industry would be supported. Expanding the project to cover all sectors would
eliminate any economic risks faced by the portion of the sector not covered in the initial investment. TDF
would have to rely on consultants as it does not have in-house expertise to cary out full scale appraisal of
sub-projects which poses a riskl to timely implementation; however, the on-going assistance and institutional
strengthening which the Bank is providing to the TDF through the Technology Developnent Project should
mitigate such risks.
Environmental Aspects
37.   The elimination of ODS consumption is the primary objective of this project, and as such the
project provides significant environmental benefits. There are no major environmnental concerns associated
with the installation or operation of the non-ODS technologies, but the flammability of cyclopentane
requires that adequate safeguards be in place for this phase of manufacturing. Installation of safety
equipment and establishment of procedures to ensure the proper handling of cyclopentane will be required
for sub-projects using this substance. Every sub-project proposal will be subject to an environmental
analysis, conducted by experts approved by the Bank, which will be fully integrated into sub-project
preparation and appraisal. Enterprise obligations to implement recommended environrental and safety
measures will be set out in the sub-project agreement, compliance with which would be monitored by the
TDF. Also, regulations are in place for the control of hazardous substances and for occupational safety and
health, and GOT has agreed to inspect sub-project enterprises on a yearly basis to ensure compliance with
applicable regulations. The Project is classified as a Category B in accordance with OD 4.01.
Agreed Actions
38.   The following agreements were reached with the Government. The Government to: (a) develop a
detailed proposal describing policy and regulatory alternatives and providing recommendations for acdon by
December 31, 1995 and implement the agreed recommendations by June 30, 1996; (b) ensure inspection of
sub-project enterprises on a yearly basis for compliance with applicable environmental and safety
regulations; and (c) have the special account and statement of expenditures audited by independent auditors
and submit the audit report to the Bank within six mnonths after the end of the financial year. The following
agreements were reached with TDF. TDF to (a) ensure that sub-projects would be (i) appraised in
accordance with MPkC guidelines, including a detailed environmental, technical and financial appraisal in a
manner satisfactory to the Bank, (ii) recomimended for financing in accordance with Country Program
priority and cost effectiveness; and (iii) supervised and monitored during implementation in a manner
satisfactory to the Bank; (b) rewmit consultants with tenns of references satisfactory to the Bank; (c) review



11
its work program with the Bank by June 30, 1996 and make agreed adjustrents; and (d) provide stab-grants
and sub-loans in accordance wit'i criteria agreed with the Bank, and ensure that the balance of expenditmes,
including any cost overruns, will be financed out of the respective enterprise's own resources; and (e) have
its accounts audited by independent auditors and submit the audit report to the Bank within six mnonths after
the end of its financial year. An agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, between the Government and TDF
spelling out their respective roles and obligations is set as a condition of effectiveness of the proposed
Grant.



12                               Schedule A
TURKEY
SECOND PHASEOUT OF OZONE DEPLETING SUBSTANCES PROJECT
Project Costs and Financing Plan (1995-98)
(US Dollars million)
Financing
Description            Project Cost
OTF       Enterprises     Total
A. Prepared Projects a              10.10         5.40          4.70         10.10
of which: investment              5.90         2.90          3.00         5.90
recurring bJ              4.20         2.50          1.70         4.20
B. New Projects c/                  14.00         8.20          5.80         14.00
C. Financial Agency Fee dl           0.40         0.40             -         0.40
Total                    24.50         14.0         10.60        24.50
a/ PEG Profilo, Klimasan and Pekel Teknik.
b/ To be reviewed after the first year of production. Mission's estimates using current MPEC guidelines.
c/ OTF financing assumed to be 60% of project costs.
d/ 3% of OTF financing.
A:WIEDULEA



13                            Schedule B
TURKEY
SECOND PHASEOUT OF OZONE DEPLETING SUBSTANCES PRO
Disbursement Cate0ories
Category              Amount              Percent
1. Goods and Related Services    13,600,000  100% of foreign expenditures
and 100% of local
expenditures (ex-factory
costs) and 85% of local
expenditures for other items
l _______________________     ___________   procured   lo aly
2. Financial Agent Fees            400,000            100%
Total                         14,000,000
Estimated Disbursement Schedule
(IJS$ million)
FY96         FY97          FY98          FY99
Fiscal Year        4.0           5.0           3.0           2.0
Cumulative         4.0           9.0           12.0          14.0



14                             Schedule C
TURKEY
SECOND PHASEOUT OF OZONE DEPLETING SUBSTANCES PROJECT
Processing and Review Arrangements
A. Prepared by:                   PEG Prorilo, Klimasan, Pekel Teknik, TDF with IBRD
assistance
B. Engineering Consultants:       Mr. Karim Amrane and Mr. Charles Caranach, Refrigeration
Specialists
C. Bank StaffConsultants:         MessrsiMmes. Varadan Atur, Task Manager (EC IITI);
Jennifer AMlen, Environmental Specialist (Consultant);
Fumzan Batumlu (Resident Mission Turkey);
Viren Sirohi, Environmental Engineer (EMTEN) is the Regional
Technical Reviewer,
Bill Rahill, Environmental Specialist (ENVGC) is the
Bank technical reviewer and Dr. Anil Markandya,
Environmental Economist is the external reviewer.
Messrs. Sherif Arif (EMTEN) and Tom Waltz (ENVGC)
are peer reviewers.
D. First IBRD Mission:            June 1994
E. Pre-appraisal/Appraisal:       March 1995
F. Negofations:                   July - September 1995 (by correspondence)
G. RVP Approval:                  October 1995
H. Planned Date of Effectiveness:    October 30, 1995



15                                   Annex 1
TU3RKEY
Second Phaseout of Ozone Depleting Substances ProJect
ODS Consumption in Turkey
1986    1987      1988     1989     1990     1991     1992     1993
Refrigeranis
CFC 11                      7       10       13       50       53       75      102     t1O
CFC 12                    593      700      77a      509      590      804     1124     1225
CFC 115                     0        0        0        0       14       20       26       29
HCFC-22                                                       500      540      583      480
Total tonnes              600      710      791      560     1157     1475     1835     1412
Total ODP tonnes          600      710      791      560      678      921     1274     1378
Foam
CFC 11                   1430     1840     1900     1246     1454    2081    2786    3038
Total and ODP tonnes     1430    1840      1900     1246     1454    2081      2786    3038
Aerosols
CFC 11                    200      260      165       91       46        0        0        0
CFC 12                    660      950      865     1000      937      200       10       10
CFC 114                    40       50       20       26       16        0        0        a
Total and ODP tonnes      900     1260     1050     1117      999      200       10       10
Solvents
CFC 113 tonnes            100      125      160      360      327       11       96       50
Carbon tetrachloride                                          200       28      148      276
1,1,1-trichloroethane                                        1248     1373     1511     1036
Total tonnes              100      125      160      360     1775     1412     1755     1362
Total ODP tonnes           80      100      128      280      607      176      532      448
Halons
Halon 1211                 15       17       20        0       23       27       18       22
Halon 1301                  8        8        9        0        2                11       10
Total tonnes               23       25       29        0       25       27       29       32
Total ODP tonnes          125      131      150        0       89      115      120      126
Total
CFCI1                    1637    2110    2078       1387    1553      1814    2458    2564
CFC 12                   1253     1650     1643    1509      1527     1398     1574     1842
CFC 113                   100      125      160      360      327       11       96       50
CFC 114                    40       50       20       26       16                          4
CFC 115                     0        0        0        0       14        4       16        2
HCFC-22                                                       500      540      583      480
Carbon tetachloride                                           200       28      148      276
1,1, 1-trichloroedtane                                       1248     1373     1511     1036
Halon 1211                 15       17       20        0       23       27       18       22
Halon 1301                  8        8        9        0.       2                11       10
Total tonnes             3053    3960    3930    3282    5410    5195          6400     6286
Total ODP tonnes         3135    4041    4019       3203    3827    3493    4722    5000
Sources
1986-88 World Bank Mission Report
1989-90 Total from Govemment of Turkey figures as repoted to Nairobi; sector brealkdown from discussions
with industry
1991-1993 Totals from Ministry of Environment; sector breakdown estimated based on 1990 usage.



SECOND PIIASEOUT OF OZONR DEPLEilNG SUBSTNCES PROJECr
_Am  Euternruua Congumin, OD9e On ordet of enreipfise lize)
Sector                              Enterpdi                                          Prduction                      No. of
Solvent            WPER ELECMRDC SAN.VE TIC                                Clrcuk Board                                       120
Sotveri           MUCI-SMUCODAWLA ELEIRONIK 5IST1MLER                      Equlpment fot Army Planes                          195
Solvent           TURK HENKEL KIMYEVI MADO 8AN.V  TIC                      Cleaning Matbralb for Metal Surface                346
Solvent           KARACA ORME SAN.VE TIC                                   Dqy Cleaning                                      4SS
Solvent           VESTEL ELEIIRONHK SAN.VE Trc                             Ciruit Board                                      1587
Solvent           BEKOYIEKNDK SAN                                          Circuit Board                                     1743
Solveiw           ASELSAN ASKERI ELEKIRON0C SAN.VR TIC                     Clecult Board                                     2003
Solvent           SIMXO TIC.VE SAN                                         Different TR* Electrnic Equiprnet                3747
Foam              IZOCAM TIC.VE SAN                                        Poyadyren rbf Building Insulation                  104
Foam              PWSA POLIUREIAN1ALAT SAN.VB TIC                          Flexible Foam for Veh. Seat Cudhionu               117
Foam              UROSAN KIMYA SAN                                         Flexible Shbdock Foam                              125
Foam              MARMARA SUNEP SAN.VE TIC                                 Flexible Foam (edding)                             140.
Foam              TIK.IZ IZOLASYVN VEYAPt ELEIANLARE SAN                   Myucethanm RIgSd Fomsm                             149
Foam              SUNTAS SUNGaER VB YATAK SAN.IC                           Flexible Foina                                     163
Foam              MEIAN YATAI KAPTFONE SANVE TIC                           Flexible Foam (Bedding)                            186
Foam              FORMFLEKS YALW    URUNLERI SAN.V TIC                     Polyurethane Rigid Feania tof bnsulat.             18
Foam              GRAMMEt KOLTUK Sl5TEMLERI SANVE TIC                      Flexible Foam for Veh. Seat Cusbiona               282
Foam              PILSA PLASTIK SAN                                        Flexible Foam rior Veh. Seat Cuailons              298
Foam              TEKNIK MAALZEME TICN  SAN                                Flexible Foam for Veh. Seat Cushkon                299
Fo4m              DAS-ISTANBUL DOSEDE SAN                                  Flexible Foam (Bedding)                            330
Foam              MARTUR SUNGER VE KOLTUK TESISLEI                         Flexible Foam for Veh. Seat Cudhicoa               491
Fo4m              TURKIYE GElMI SAN                                        Flotadot  Devices                                  871
Foam              PETXIM PEROKIMYA HOLDING                                 Ctlyalyren                                        2418
Re.t -Ar Cond.    ETIL ENDUSRI YATIRIMLARI VIl TIC                         Cen,preuon for Refwieraeon                         100
Reftr.-Ar Cond.    KLIMASAN KLIMA SAN.VS TIC                               Reftgertion Undtr                                  106
Refr.-Air Cond.    MELTEPA SOGUTMA I1ffMA SAN.VB nC                        Air Conditioning Systems                           122
Refr.-AMr Cord.    DIRLESiK OKSUEN SAN                                     Mixing of Special Game.                            124
Reft.-Air Cond.    HABAS ENDUSTi TESISLERI                                 Water Cooling Sydermn                              147
Reftr-Air Cond.    ENrE ENDUSMi VE TESISAT                                 Air%Cooled Syalams                                i8
Reft.-Air Cond.    SELNIKEL ISfTMA VS KLUAA CiHAZLAIU SAN                  Equipnent or fleating and Air Coei.                227
Rerft-Air Cond.    ALARCO SAN YE TIC                                       Air Conditiodng Systan                             280
Refr.-Air Cond.    KUMTEL DAYANIllU TUXE1M  MALLARI PLASIM                 Mini Air Conditioning Systens                      307
Refr.-Air Cond.    SIMBAY.SMTL VB BAYILERI ELEXTIKU                        Refidprton Unit                                    323
Refr.-Alr Cend.    TOKAR YAPI ve ENDUSMRi TESISLERI                        Water Coollng Sysem                                400
Refr.-Air Cnno.    PEKEL TENIIK SANVI TIC                                  Refigeatdon Unibt                                  460                     flX
Rlte.-Air Cond,    P.T.T. lMOCSAN MUESSESEII                               Air Candidoning Sytem                              520                     " -
Refr.-Air Cond.    PEG PROFILO ELEICIRR1LI (ARECLER SAN                    Reftgsere(on Units                                 t30
Raft.-Air Cond,    ARCELIK            ,                                    Refigeratlion Units                               114S
Fire xting.       PEKCENS YEDEX PARCA VE MAKINA                            Fir ExAbylgle. for Vehicles                       123
Fir Ex ling.      EULEE GAZ ARMATURLERi SAN.VS TIC                         Fire Ixalngulihing EquIpments                      232
Fir Exting.       P.T.T. BLOOSAN MUESSES6SI                                Fire Exingulaher                                  520
Fire Bxiing,      VALPSEL ARMATUR SAN                                      fire Exlinguishing Syctems                         657



17                            Annex 2
Page 1 of 4
TURKEY
Second Phaseout of Ozone Depleting Substances Project
Strategy for ODS Phaseout
I. Background
In 1992, the Government of Turkey (GOT), with the assistance of the World Bank, developed a
strategy for the Phaseout of Ozone Depleting Substances (ODSs) as part of the Country Program.
Although Turkey is an Article 5 country, the GOT has decided to phase out ODS usage under an
accelerated scenario. Consistent with this scenario, the objective of the ODS phaseout strategy is to
elimiinate the use of ODSs, except for those required for recharging, by 1998.
The strategy calls for policy actions and investments to achieve the efective phaseout of
ODSs. The development of policy actions under the ODS Phaseout Strategy is the responsibility of
the Ministry of Environment (MOE), whose jurisdiction includes legislation, policy development,
and enforcement of environmental protection activities. Specific duties related to the Ozone Issue
are to supervise and coordinate international and national activities related to the Montreal Protocol
and to enforce the Government's Action Plan for the Phaseout of ODSs. The Technology
Development Foundation (TDF) has been given the responsibility for identifying and preparing
investment projects for ODS phaseout in all of the ODS sectors.
The strategy calls for the development of a framework for policy actions to ensure the
achievement of ODS phaseout A consultant will be chosen to develop a detailed proposal for such
a regulatory framework, which will be discussed at the Second Ozone Panel Meeting scheduled for
September 1995. Specific regulatory activities under the policy framework are expected to include:
*     establishing ODS import monitoring procedures to account for all O)S usage and
track ODS consumption;
*     developing a licensing program to control ODS imports, encourage environmentally
responsible handling practices, and restrict distribution of ODSs to qualified users;
*     intrducing levies on ODSs to encourage the adoption of non-ODS technologies;
*     intoducing bans on ODS substances as conversion to non-ODS technologies takes
place.



18                                   Annex 2
Page 2 of 4
Investment activities under the strategy will support conversion to non-ODS technologies at
enterprises in each of the ODS sectors. The Technology Development Foundation (TDF) is
responsible for identification and appraisal of investment projects. Actions to support identification
and implementation of investment activities include
e     targeting specific sectors on a priority basis, specifically refrigeration and foams;
*     the development of action plans to achieve ODS phaseout in each sector.
II. Strategy
A. Policy Actions
The government has made significant progress in implementing policy measures to support
ODS phaseouL The MOE has been given the authority to issue licenses for ODS importation and
use, and has established a system of control certificates for ODS imports. The Customs Department
has also established a system for monitoring ODS imports.
The development of a regulatory framework for ODS phaseout will support the
Government's efforts toward this objective. The framework will establish the regulatory instruments
to be used to achieve ODS phaseout, taking into account the future demand for ODS by different
sectors, Turkeys tading treaty obligations, and the political and technical feasibility of different
instruments in the country.
The specific regulatory actions which the Government is expected to incorporate into the
regulatory framework are summarized below:
Licensing
A licensing system will be established to enable the government to control and monitor
ODS imports, encourage environmentally respon;ible handling practices, and restict
distibution of ODS to qualified users. The licen;ing program will include mandatory
registration of all ODS users.
In addition, the govenment will develop a licensing program for individuals and companies
involved in the repair and maintenance of refngerators and other products which require
ODS for their continued functioning. This program will ensure that the recovery, recycling,
and recharge of ODSs will be consistent with the overall goal of ODS phaseout.



19                                   Annex 2
Page 3 of 4
Monitoring
The MOE will utilize the registration system established under the licensing program to
gather information on ODS usage and to track the progress of ODS pbaseout in each
sub-sector.
Levy on ODSs
A system of levies on ODSs will be established to support technology conversion dand
encourage the adoption of ODS altematives. The government will develop a timetable
specifying when levies will be imposed on each type of ODS, and will implement a
program to enforce the collection of these levies.
Bans
The government will develop a detailed timetable indicating when bans will go into effect
for each type of ODS. Bans will be introduced on ODS usage in each sector as conversion
to non-ODS technologies progresses.
B. Investment Activities
Investment aclions under the strategy involve the identification and implementation of
specific projects directed at reduction of ODS use and adoption of substitute chemicals and
technologies. The TDF has been given the responsibility for identifying and preparing investment
projects for ODS phaseout in all of the ODS sectors, and four investment projects for ODS
phaseout in the refrigeration sector are under implementation.
Specific actions will be taken to support the identification, preparation, and implementation
of these investment projects:
Development of Sector-Specific Action Plans: Action plans will be developed for each
sector, identifying the policy measures needed to support ODS phaseout and establishing a
time-frame for eliminating ODS usage in each case. The policy measures under each action
plan will incorporate both market-based instruments and regulatory measures required to
support conversion to non-ODS technologies.
Establishing Priorities for Phaseout: Due to the level of ODS usage in the refrigeration and
foam sectors, phaseout of these uses will be taretd on a priority basis through the
development of policies and investment projects.



20                               Annex 2
Page 4 of 4
Extending Coverage to Small and Medium Finns: Policies and investment activities needed
to support conversion in small and medium enterprises in all sectors will be developed and
implemented.
C. Public and Industry Awareness Campaign
The ODS phaseout strategy calls for the MOE to develop a public awareness campaign
targeting both industry and the general public to support the implementation of policy measures and
investment activities. The campaign, which is expected to be under implementation by June 1995,
will communicate the importance of ODS phase-out to these target groups and will inform both
industry and the public about the govemment's programs for achieving this objective. Methods for
public outreach will include a spot film for broadcast on television, brochures directed at both
industry and the general public, posters, billboard advertisements, and newspaper advertisemnts.
D. Ozone Panel
The specific policy measures and investment activities under the ODS phaseout strategy,
which are summarized in Attachment L require ongoing review and guidance from the Ozone
Panel. The Ozone Panel has been established to guide the fornnulation and promulgation of specific
policies and to develop voluntary agreements within industry to establish specific end-use bans
consistent with the ODS phaseout program. The Panel comprises representatives from the
Govenment, the private sector, the scientific community, and international experts in ODS
phaseouL
A preliminary meeting of the Ozone Panel meeting was held in August 1994, and the first
formal Ozone Panel meetng was held on March 31, 1995. The next meeting is scheduled for
October 1995.



21                                Annex 2
Attachment 1
Page 1 of 2
TURKEY
Second Phaseout of Ozone Depleting Substances Project
Action Plan
Item         i Actions Proposed                Status
A. Policy Actions
Monitoring     Develop a monitoring system for    Monitoring system for ODS imports
ODS imports to track progress of    established in Customs Department
ODS phaseout and support levy
collection                      Permitting program for ODS
imports established within MOE
Develop mandatory registration and
reporting program for ODS users
Licensing     Conduct workshops for refrigeration  Permitting system established at
personnel and other personnel   MOE, including system for
involved in repair and maintenance  imposing fines
of ODS-using equipment
Institute licensing program for ODS
importers and users
Levy on CFCs  Establish levies on imported ODS    To be discussed at Ozone Panel
to discourage ODS usage and     Meeting
encourage adoption of n3n-ODS
technologies
Bans          Recommend bans as required to    To be discussed at Ozone Panel
achieve ODS phaseout under agreed  Meeting
timetable



22                                    Annex 2
Attachment I
Page 2 of 2
Action Plan (continued)
Item           Actions Proposed              |Status
B. Investment Activities
Project        Develop action plans for ODS    Four phaseout projects under
Identification    phaseout for each sector, giving  implementation in refrigeration
and            priority to refrigeration and foams   sector
Implementation
Identify, evaluate, and arrange for   Preliminary information collected
implementation of demonstration    on sectoral distnbution of ODS
projects in the key sectors,   usage
especially refrigeration and foams
C. Public and    Direct media attention to     Government commitment to phase-
Industry       importance of ODS phaseout      out formally announced
Awareness
Campaign       Inform industry and the public  Industry notified about government
about government programs to   commitment to phaseout
achieve this objective
D. Ozone Panel  Establish joint industry-government  Ozone Panel established
panel to encourage dialogue on key
issues and broker agreements on  Preliniinary meeting held in 1994;
conservation, bans, and other  industry proposals for phaseout
policies                       solicited
First meeting held on March 31,
1995
Second meeting scheduled for
October 1995
A detailed timetable for implementation of the Action Plan will be developed as part of the
regulatory framework strategy study. The Ozone Panel will review and recommend actions,
which are expected to be implemented beginning mid-1996.
ataction.pln



23                               Ane3
Page 1 of 3
TURKEY
SECOND PHASEOUT OF OZONE DEPLETING SUBSTANCES PROJECT
Institutions Involved
A. Govemment Agencies
Undersecretariat of Treasury (The Treasury)
1.          This organization is authorized to issue Regulations and Communiques in relation
to matters in Import Regime Decree, to grant permissions and instructions, to make amendments or
to take measures that are deemed necessary at each stage of importation, to control or have
controlled the import prices, to examine, to conclude the special and compulsory cases. Concerning
the Ozone Issue, the specific interest of the General Directorate of Importation will be to control
imports of ODSs and products containing ODSs and to introduce custom duties and levies on the
ODSs. In addition, the General Directorate of Foreign Economic Relations (Department of World
Bank Projects Transport, Infiastructure and Environment Section) will also act as the focal point for
deciding whether grants, soft loans, subsidies or other forms of assistance will be given for project
financing during the implementation of the Action Plan.
State Planning Organization (SPO)
2.          The duties of this organization are to plan, fund, and direct the economic, social as
well as the cultural life of the country and to take the appropriate corrective measures if necessary.
The specific role of the State Planning Organization in the Ozone Issue will be to establish the
measures which have to be taken by industry and govemment agencies in order to enforce the
Action Plan with minimal upset to the economy during the phaseout of ODS.
State Institute of Statistics (SIS)
3.          The present duty of the State Institute of Statistics (SIS) with respect to the Ozone
Issue is to compile, classify and publish data on the import of chemicals that are controlled by the
Montreal Protocol. The specific responsibility of the Departrmnt of Environmental Statistics of
SIS on the ozone issue will be to record and assess the import and export of ODS in chemical forrm,
andlor as part of a product, and to inform the relevant institutions of these figures as required by the
Montreal Protocol.
Turldsh Scientific and Technological Research Oganization (TUBiTAK)
4.          The main responsibility of this organization is to organize and finance research. The
possible involvement of this organization regarding the Ozone Issue is to find alternative
chemicalstcompounds and new technologies suited to Turkeys industrial structure.



24                                Annex 3
Page 2 of 3
Ministra of Environment
5.          Prior to the establishment of the Ministry of Environment (in August 1991) as a
separate ministry, there was an undersecretaiat under the Prime Minister that dealt with
environmental issues. The short term duties of this new ministry are: legislation, policy
development and enforcement of the environmental protection activities. The specific duties
related to the Ozone Issue are to supervise and coordinate international and national activities
related to the Montreal Protocol. This ministry would be responsible for the enforcement of the
Action Plan.
Ministry of Finance and Customj
6.          Responsibilities for the Ozone Issue fall upon three departnents of the Ministry of
Finance and Customs: the General Directorate of Revenue, General Directorate of Customs, and
Foreign Relations Department. The General Directorate of Revenue deals with taxes. The General
Directorate of Customs is responsible for setting up the statistical positions in the Custom Tariffs,
and the Foreign Relations Department is responsible for making the necessary preparations for
adopting the International Instruments to the national legislation.
Ministry of Foreign Affairs
7.          The duties of the General Directorate of Multilateral Economic Relations within this
ministry is to act as a link between intemational and Turkish organizations. The specific role of the
department of International Social and Technical Affairs with regard to the ozone issue is the
transfer of information from the international institutions to national associations and institutions.
The Ministry of Foreign Affairs will ensure that the commitments made by Turkey in its Country
ProgramE are followed by govemment and other organizations within Turkey.
Ministy of Idustry and Trade
8.          One of the responsibilities of the Generl Directorate of Industrial Research and
Development are to study policies regarding Turkish trade in view of existing industry and
determine how to apply the policies decided by the govemment. The specific involvement of the
Department of Science and Technology regarding the ozone issue is to collect the information from
intemational organizations through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs as well as other organizations
and to set up policies for technology transfer. This department will study ways to handle the cost of
new alternative technologies and processes and encourage technological transformation leading to
ODS phaseout.



25                               Annex 3
Page 3 of 3
B. Industy Associations and Non 'Jovemment Organizations
9.          The General Union of Chambers of Commerce and Commodity Exchange of
Turkey provides guidance to industrialists in the introduction of new technologies to Turkey. It
also collects the views and complaints of industrialists regarding environmental issues. On the
Ozone Issue, the General Union of Chambers of Commerce is concemed by the cost of technology
transfer and alternative chemicals. It is especially concerned about the small and medium size
manufacturers using ODSs. In the transition period towards total ODS phase-out, the Union will
provide assistance and advice to its members.
10.         The White Appliances Association is an association of industrialists that
manufacture and sell white appliances (washers and dryers, refrigerator, etc.) in Turkey. The
industrialists meet to discuss problems common to their particular industries. Common actions
may be recommended by the association and representations made to the authorities.
11.         KOSGEB, the development organization for small and medium industries, was
established in 1990 by the Ministry of Industry to provide technical and management support to
small- and medium-sized enterprises. KOSGEB has 30 extension service centers located in cities
and townships where small and medium enterprises are concentrated.
12.         The Environmental Problems Foundation and the Society for the Protection of the
Environment and Greening of Turkey are two of five organizations in Turkey that have an interest
in the environment issue. These two groups are the only ones that have an interest in the Ozone
Issue. The others deal with biodiversity issues. The Environmental Problems Foundation makes
research on environmental problems and publicizes the findings to increase public awareness. The
specific interest of the foundation in the Ozone Issue is to research literature, issue bulletins and
books, as well as anrange meetings to inform interested parties of policies and trends.



TURKEY
Phasqeout of ozone nenleciner Substances Proiect
Governmental Oroanization Chart of Republic of Turkev on the zone Issue
IPrime Hiniaterj-T-4    State Planning organization       j- I  General Directorate of                H         Department of Planning j
I                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~Social Planning  
H      State Institute of statistics       H            Department of
I    Environmental Statistics
|HTurkish Scientific and Technological l              Marine Sciences and          |    | Transport, Infrastructure and
Research Organization                     Environmental Research Group                Environment Office
H  Undersecretariat of Treasury         |as -H  dGeneral Directorate of                         Department of World
and Foreign TradeEconomic Rlations                                                       Bank Projects
l   l                                     < ~~~~~~~~~~~F-Ganeral Directorate of Economic
R. search and Assessment                       Department of Statistic
I ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ II   
General Directorate of           -   Department of International        |
1         s~~~mportation                     Reain  and Asesmn
IMinisters  I    H          General Directorate of           -         Department of Research
Meteorolcgy                              and Data Processing
Ministrinist                         iist   o                        Ministry of         1                Ministry of
Environment                    Finnce and Custons                  Foreign Affairs                    Industry and Trade
I  ~       ~~~                                                                 I ,   I  .-     
ileneral Directorate of           I  General Directorata   I    I General Directorate of  I          I   General Directorate of
IEnvironmental Pollution   I      I        of Revenue              j I Multilateral Economic   I     I Industrial Researches and
Relations          I                Development
Department of Air            I  General Directorate   I    IDepartment of International  I  I              Department of
Management                           f Customs              Social and Technical Affairs j        Science and Technology
Foreign Relations      |
Department
010 
a: \chart                                                                                                                                                             rt
1-I



27                                Annex 4.1
Page 1 of 3
TURKEY
SECOND PHASEOUT OF OZONE DEPLETING SUBSTANCES PROJECT
Klimasan A.S. Subproject Sumry
Enterprise Background
1.    Klimasan (Klima Sanayi ve Ticaret, A.S.) is a private company manufacturing commercial
refrigeration products. Klimasan is 75% Turkish owned, with the balance of ownership held by
Derby A.S. and the Industrialization Fund for Developing Countries of Denmark. From May 1993
to May 1994, Klimasan manufactured 27,217 coolers and freezers c,Mprising eleven different
models that can be categorized as follows: one model of water dispenser/cooler, four models of
beverage and soft drink coolers, three models of display cabinets, two models of ice cream
conservatories and two models of chest freezers. Klimasan buys its compressors from a number of
manufactrers including TEE, Danfos, Electrolux and Aspera; these companies have provided
Klimasan with a number of trial units to test BFC-134a and are ready to supply larger quantities of
compressors when Klimasan requests iL About 10% of Klimasan's production is exported, mainly
to East European countries including Romania, Bulgaria and Russia. The rst is sold domestically
and represents a market share of about 40 percent. The plant has two production lines with a total
capacity of 50,000 sets a year, and expects to reach its maximum capacity by 1997.
2.    In 1993, Klimasan consumed 5.9 MT of CFC-12 and 20.5 MT of CFC-1 1. The average
CFC-12 charge size in its freezers and cooleis is 0.2 kg. Klimasan is still using full CFC-1
formulation for its foam and uses about 0.75 kg of CFC-l 1 per set.
Project Description
3.    Klimasan, which plans to eliminate the use of CFCs by the beginning of 1996, has
requested assistance to convert its production systems and materials to enable substitution of non-
ODSs for CFC-12 and CFC-l 1. Specifically, Klimasan proposes to eliminate the use of CFC-12
and CFC-ll in freezers and coolers by converting its manufacuring facility to one that is
compatible with HFC-134a, the new refrigerant, and HCFC-141b and cyclopentane, the new foam
blowing agents. The first phase of the proposed two-phase conversion will provide for the
acquisition of the new technology, the procurement and installation of the necessary machiney and
equipment, and engineenng assistance and training, while the second phase will provide for the
progressive elimination of CFC- 12 and CFC-l 1 through actual production of CFC-free freezers and
coolers.



28                               Annex 4.1
Page 2 of 3
4.   In order to minimize the risks associated with the conversion process, Klimasan will request
technical assistance during Phase I from its joint venture partner Derby A/S of Denmark. The
emphasis in Phase I is to provide Klimasan with the technology developed by the joint venture
partner in Denmark, modifying it where necessary to account for differences in Turkish
manufacturing conditih ns and refrigerator models. As part of the technical agreement, Derby S/A
of Denmark will assist Klimasan with the redesign of the different freezers and coolers; the
construction, protoype manufacturing; short- and long-term testing of the different freezers and
coolers; and training on manufacturing, maintenance and quality control.
5.    During Phase L Klimasan plans to invest in an explosion-proof high pressure (HP)
polyurethane foam injection machine that will allow the use of flammable and explosive foam
blowing agents such as cyclopentane. The LP injection machine will be selected and configured at
the start such that there will be no redundant parts at the changeover to cyclopentane. This period
of transition will allow for the reconfiguration of the production layout at the factory if need arises.
6.    The second phase of the project will complete the transition to CFC-free technology for
mass production; during this transition time, both CFC and non-CFC freezers and coolers will be
produced. Klimasan will install, in Phase IL all the necessary equipment for the use of
cyclopentane; to ensure a safe and effective transfer to cyclopentane technology, the company will
seek technical assistance from Polyfa Trading A/S, a company which specializes in the design and
installation of cyclopentane systems. As part of the agreement with Klimasan, Polyfa Trading A/S
wfll design the complete cyclopentane system including storage tank, piping, safety and alam
systems; supervise the installation of the entire cyclopentane system; and provide extensive training
on safety issues.
7.    As part of the conversion process to non-CFC technology, certain equipment used in the
refrigeration system will need to be replaced, purchased, or modified; this equipment includes
charging boards, leak detectors, vacuum pumps, a data acquisition system, a regulation system for
temperature, humiditv and voltage, and an air drying system. Equipment used in th-e foaming
system, including injection machines, pre-mixing stations, safety equipment, a cyclopentane storage
tank, and foaming jigs, will also be replaced, purchased, or modified. In addition, the floor area in
the foaming departnent and the neighboring areas will be coated with an anti-static material and all
the machinery and the equipment in the foaming area will be grounded to prevent potential fires.
8.    The investment costs under this would be financed with OTF funds amounting to US$
690,903 and contributions from Klimasan totaling about US$700,705. Incremental operating costs
will be reimbursed on an annual basis, as incurred and according to the percentage of Turkish
ownership of the enterprise. The time fame for implementation is about 20 months.



29                               Annex 4.1
Page 3 of 3
Klimasan A.S.
Summary of Project Costs and Financina
(in US Dollars)
Foreign      Local        Total
A. Investment Cost
Phase I
Refrigeration System                      149,603        1,150      150,753
Foam Insulation System                    199,700       24,900      224,600
Prototypes & Testing                                    69,120       69,120
Transportation and Insurance                            37,498       37,498
Technical Assistance and Training                      170,897      170,897
Phase II
Cyclopentane System                       322,450      170,360      492,810
Testing                                                 73,440       73,440
Transportation and Insurance                            39,425       39,425
Technical Assistance & Training                         21,500       21,500
Total Investment Costs                671,753      608,290     1X280,043
Contingency                            48,000       46,000       94,000
Financial Agency Fee                                 17,565       17,565
Total                                 719,753      671,855     1,391,608
Investment Cost Financing
OTF                                   357,342      333,561      690,903
Klimasan                              362,411      338,294      700,705
|  Total                              719,753      671,855     1,391,608
|B. Incremental Recurrng Costs (I st year) al
269,201
Financing for Recurrng Costs
IOTF
Klimasan                                                        201,900
Total                                                            67,301
._ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __   .__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  2 6 9 ,2 0 1
Project Impact
ODS Weighted Savings             36.9 MT
@ Unit Abatement Cost ($/kg) b/        12.56
a/ Net present value of first year's operating coststsavings. These will be fmnanced retroactively; the
amount eligible for OTF financing is reflective of the percentage of Turkish ownership in the
enteprise and the percentage of exports to non-Article 5 counties.
b/    Based on allowable costs.



30                               Annex 4.1
Attachment 1
TURKEY
SECOND PHASEOUT OF OZONE DEPLETING SUBSTANCES PROJECT
Klimasan. A.S.
Procurement Arrangements
(in US Dollars)
Procurement Method
Investment Component
ICB        Other a/       Total
A. Refrigeration System                                    167,753       167,753
B. Foam Insulation System                                  245,098       245,098
C. Technical Assistance and Training b/                    192,397       192,397
D. Cyclopentane System                                     582,810       582,810
E. Prototyping and Testing                                 185,985       185,985
Total                                       -          1,374,043      1,374,043
a/ Standard Industry Commercial Practice as per Bank Guidelines (January 1995)
bi In accordance with Bank Guidelines for Consultants (August 1981)
Note: Technical assistance and training includes consultancy for refrigeration, compressor and
foam technology adoption, and training.



31                                 Annex 4.2
Page 1 of 3
TURKEY
SECOND PHASEOUT OF OZONE DEPLETING SUBSTANCES PROJECT
Summary of PEG Profilo Subproject
Enterprise Background
1.    PEG (Peg Profilo Elektrikli Gerecler Sanayi A.S) is 80% Turkish owned, with the balance
of ownership held by AEG of Germany. In 1993, PEG produced approximately 400,000
refngerators comprsing twenty-ree different models that can be categorized as follows: twelve
single-door models, five two-doors models, five no-frost models and one deep freezer model.
About 20 percent of PEG's refngerator production is exported to several countries, including
Canada, Spain, France and the U.S. The rest is sold domestically and represents a market share of
about 40 percent. The Cerkezkoy plant has five production lines with a total capacity of 750,000
sets a year. PEG exuects to reach maximum capacity by 1996.
2.    PEG produces its own compressors based on a design provided by AEG of Germany. In
1993 the production reached 400,000 units comprising three different size models: 1/8, 116 and 115
horsepower. During the same year PEG imported about 80,000 compressors from a number of
manufacturers, including Necchi, Sumsung and Embraco. The majority of these compressors were
mounted on refrigerators intended for the export market.
3.   In 1993, the company consumed 90 MT of CFC-12 and 200 MT of CFC-11. The average
CFC-12 charge size in PEGs refrigerators is 0.2 kg. PEG has been using 50 percent CFC-1 1
reduction formulation in its foam since 1992 and uses about 0.5 kg of CFC-11 per set The
company plans to eliminate the use of CFCs by the beginning of 1996.
Project Summary
4.    PEG has requested assistance for a two-phase conversion process. The first phase of the
project will provide for the acquisition of the new technology, the procurement and installation of
the necessary machinery and equipment, and engineering assistance and taining. The second phase
will allow for the progressive elimination of CFC-12 and CFC-11 through actual production of
CFC-free refngerators. PEG will eliminate the use of CFC-12 and CFC-l1 in houszhold
refrigerators by converting its manufacturing facility to one that is compatible with HFC-134a and
cyclopentane-the new refrigerant and foam blowing agent, respectively-and will modify its
compressor production facility to account for the differences in the design of the new ECF-] 34a
compressors.
5.    With technical assistance from a number of companies, including its joint venture partner
AEG of Germany, PEG has been successful in developing a new line of refrigerators and
compressors suitable for the alternative refrigerant. This technical assistance involved the redesign



32                                 Annex 4.2
Page 2 of 3
of the different refrigerator and compressor models, the construction, prototype manufacturing,
short- and long-term testing of the refrigerators and compressors, and training on manufacturing,
maintenance and quality control. Having started production of non-CFC refrigerators in early 1995,
PEG has already made a large investment in maclhinery and equipment; for example, most of the
foaming equipment has already been purchased and installed at the factory. The compressor facility
is being retooled to accommodate the design changes made in BFC-134a compressors, and new
piston dies have already been manufactured.
6.   During the first phase of the project,  all the necessary equipment for the use of
cyclopentane will be installed. To ensure a safe and effective transfer to cyclopentane technology,
PEG will seek technical assistance from AEG Impianti of Italy, a company which specializes in the
design and installation of cyclopentane systems. As part of the agreement with PEG, AEG Impianti
will design the complete cyclopentane system including storage tank, piping, safety and alarm
systems; supervise the installation of the entire cyclopentane system; and provide extensive
tmining on safety issues.
7.    The second phase of the project will complete the transition to CFC-free technology for
mass production. During this transition time, both CFC and non-CFC refrigerators will be
produced. Phase II will enable PEG's personnel to become more acquainted with the new
equipment and will fine-tune the production lines, resulting in better quality products.
8.    As part of the conversion process to non-CFC technology, certain refrigeration equipment,
including evacuation and charging boards, leak detectors, vacuum pumps, and testing equipment,
have been or will be replaced, purchased or modified. Equipment related to the foaming system
also requires replacement, purchase, or modification; this includes safety equipment, door foaming
units, injection machines, the heating system for the cabinet foaming jig, and a storage tank for
cyclopentane. In addition, all the machiney and the equipment in the foaming area have been
grounded to prevent potential fires. Equipment related to the compressor system, including pistons,
gauges and length measuring instruments, and an oil charging unit with a dryer will also be
replaced, purchased or modified.
9.   Investment costs under this project will be financed with OTF funds amounting to
US$1,578,000 and contributions from the enterprise totaling about US$793,655. Incremental
operating costs will be reimbursed on an annual basis, as incurred and according to the percentage
of Turkish ownership of the enterprise. According to MN guidelines, eligible incremental costs
which have already been incurred by the enterprise may qualify for retroactive financing. The time
frame for implementation is about 10 months.



33                                Annex 4.2
Page 3 of 3
PEG Profilo
Summary of Project Costs and Financing
(in US Dollars)
I _____________________________            Foreign      Local       Total
A. Investment Cost
Refrigeration System                     778,944                  778,944
Foam Insulation System                   927,200                  927,200
Safety Equipment for Cyclopentane        211,787      70,300      282,087
Compressor System                        228,952       8,065      237,017
Prototyping and Testing                               23,000       23,000
Technical Assistance and Training                     78,830       78,830
Total Investment Costs              2,146,883     180,195    2.327,078
Financial Agency Fee                               44,577      44,577
Total                               2,146,883     224,772    2,371,655
Fmancing for Investment Costs
Financing from OTF                  1,353,228     224,772    1,578,000
Financing from PEG Profilo           793,655            -      793,655
Total Investmnent Financing         2,146,883     224,772    2,371,655
B. Incremental Recurring Costs
Estimated Incremental Recurring Costs
(lst year) a/
2,763,636
Financing for Recurring Costs
Financing from OTF
Financing from PEG Profilo                                   1,989,817
Total                                                         773,819
_________ .   .   _._ .    2,763,636
Project Impact
ODP Weighted Savings               290 MT
@ Unit A-batement Cost ($Ikg) b/   12.75
al Net present value of first year operating costs/savings. These will be financed after one year
of conversion to new technology, the amount eligible for OTF financing is reflective of the
percentage of Turkish ownership in the enterprise and the percentage of exports to non-Article 5
countries.
b/ Based on allowable costs.



34                              Annex 4.2
Attachment 1
TURKEY
SECOND PHASEOUT OF OZONE DEPLETING SUBSTANCES
PEG Profilo
Procurement Arran2ements
(in US Dollars)
Procurement Method
Investment Component
ICB        Other a/      Total
A. Refrigeration System                                  778,944       778,944
B. Foam Insulation System                                927,200       927,200
C. Safety Equipment for Cyclopentane                     282,087       282,087
D. Compressor System                                     237,017       237,017
E. Prototyping and Testing                                23,000        23,000
F. Technical Assistance and Training h/                   78,830        78,830
Total                                                 2,327,078    2,327,078
a/ Standard Industry Commercial Practice as per Bank Guidelines (January 1995)
hi In accordance with Bank Guidelines for Consultants (August 1981)
Note: Technical assistance and training includes consultancy for refrigeration, compressor and
foam technology adoption, and training.



35                              Annex 4.3
Page I of 3
TURKEY
SECOND PHASEOUT OF OZONE DEPLETING SUBSTANCES PROJECT
Sum     of Pekel Teknik Proposal
Enterprise Background
I.    Pekel (Pekel Tcknik Sanayi) is 54% owned by the Merloni group, an Italian conglomerate.
In 1994, PEKEL produced approximately 200,000 refrigerators comprising ten different models
that can be categorized as follows: three single-door modcls, four double-doors models, and three
table-top models. About 50 percent of PEKEL's refrigerator production is exported to several
countries, including France, Italy, Holland and Portugal. The rest is sold domestically and represent
a market share of about 12 percent. The Manisa plant has one production line with a total capacity
of 300,000 sets a year. PEKEL expects to reach its maximum capacity by 1996.
2.   In 1993, the company consumed 40 MT of CFC-12 and 55 MT of CFC-l 1. The average
CFC-12 charge size in PEKSELs refrigerators is 0.2 kg. PEKEL has been using 50 percent CFC- 11
reduction formulation in its foam since 1992 and uses about 0.3 kg of CFC- 11 per set. PEKEL buys
its compressors from a number of manufacturers including TEE, Embraco, Unitad Hermetica and
Necchi. These companies have provided PEKEL with a number of trial units to test HFC- 34a and
are ready to supply larger quantities of compressors when PEKEL requests it.
3.    PEKEL started to eliminate the use of CFCs at the beginning of 1995. The company has
requested assistance to eliminate the use of CFC-12 and CFC-1 1 in household refrigerators through
converting its manufacturing facility to one that is compatible with HFC-134a and cyclopentane,
the new refrigerant and foam blowing agent, respectively. The project will provide for the
acquisition of the new technology, the procurement and installation of the necessary machinery and
equipment, engineering assistance, and training. At the completion of the project, PEKEL will
have completely converted its production lines to the altemative technology and will start full
production of CFC-free refrigerators.
4.    With technical assistance from a number of companies including its joint venture partner
Merloni Elettrodomestici of Italy, PEKEL has been successful in developing a new line of
refrigerators suitable for the alternative refrigerant. PEKEL has received technical assistance in the
redesign of the different refrigerator models, construction, prototype manufacturing, short- and
long-term testing of the refrigerators, and taining on manufactring, maintenance and quality
control. Having commenced pilot production of non-CFC refrigerators in early 1995, PEKEL has
aleady made a large investment in machinery and equipment; for example, most of the foaming
equipment has already been purchased and installed at the factory.



36                              Annex 4.3
Page 2 of 3
5.    PEKEL has agreed to install all the necessary equipment for the use of cyclopentane. To
ensure a safe and effective transfer to cyclopentane technology, PEKEL will seek technical
assistance from Impianti OMS of Italy, a company which specializes in the design and installation
of cyclopentane systems. As part of the agreemcnt with PEKEL, Impianti OMS will design the
complete cyclopentane system including storage tank, piping, safety and alarm systems, supervise
the installation of the entire cyclopentane system, and provide extensive training on safety issues.
6.    The last stage of the project will complete the transition to CFC-free technology for mass
production. During this time, production trials of non-CFC refrigerators will be conducted to
enable PEKELs personnel to become better acquainted with the new equipment and to fine-tune
the production lines, resulting in better quality products. As part of the conversion process to noni-
CFC technology, refrigeration system equipment, including a charging board, leak detectors,
vacuum pumps, environmental testing chambers, need to be replaced, purchased or modified.
Equipment for the foaming system, including a cabinet foaming plant, a door foaming plant suitable
for cyclapentane, a cyclopentane safety system, and an underground storage tank for cyclopentane
will also be replaced, purchased or modified. In addition, all the machinery and the equipment in
the foaming area will be grounded to prevent potential fires.
Status of Pekel Project
7.    PEKEL has already substantially completed the conversion to non-ODS technologies in its
manufacturing processes; as a result, most of the eligible costs will be financed retroactively.
PEKEL's revised proposal for funding has been submitted for funding consideration at the July
1995 meeting of the MPEC. The financing plan presented below is subject to revision based on the
final decision of the MPEC.



37                                    Annex 4.3
Page 3 of 3
PEKEL TK
Summary of Project Costs and Financing at
(in US Dollars)
_________________________                            Foreign        Local          Total
A. Investment Cost
Refrigeration System                              211,079               -       211,079
Foam Insulation System                           1,863,218        55,700      1.918,918
Prototyping and Testing                                           10,000          10,000
Technical Assistance and Training                                 37,650         37,650
Total Investment Costs                      2,074,297        103,350      2,177,647
Financial Agency Fee                                          32,880         32,880
Total                                       2,074,297        136,230      2,210,527
Financing for Investment Component
OTF                                           489,170        136,230        625,400
PEKEL                                       1,585,127               -     1,585,127
Total                                       2,074,297        136,230      2,210,527
B. Incremental Recurring Costs (1st year)b/                                       1,136,000
Fir,ancing for Incittmental Recurring Costs
OTF                                                                            313,536
Pekel 'reknit                                                               822,464
Totai                                                                     1,136,000
Protect Impact
ODP Weighted Savings               95 MT
@ Unit Abatement Cost ($/kg) c/   18.36
at A revised proposal submitted for consideration at the July 1995 MIPEC meeting requests funding for 6 months of
incremental recurring costs in advance. The figures in this table will be revised to reflect the final decision of the
MPEC regarding this request.
bJ Net present value of first year operating costs/savings. These will be financed retmactively; the amount eligible
for O(TF financing is reflective of the percentage of Turidsh ownership in the enterprise and the percentage of
exports to non-Article 5 countries.
c/ Based on allowable costs.



38                               Anne 43
Attachment I
TURK1;Y
SE3COND EPHAS13OUT OF OZONE! 91PZa=GI SUBSTANCE;S PROJEiCT
Procur-ment Amngements
(in US Dollars)
Procurement Method
Investmenl Component
ICB        Other a/       Total
A. Refrigeration System                       -           211,079       211,079
B. Foam Insulation System                     -          1,918,918     1,918,918
C. Technical Assistance and Training bJ                    10,000         10,000
L. Cyclopentane System                 _ _ _              37,650        37,650
Total                                       -          2,177,647     2,177,647
a/ Standard Industry Commercial Practice as per Bank Guidelines (January 1995)
b/ In accordance with Bank Guidelines for (Ccnsultants (August 1981)
Note: Technical assistance and training includes consultancy for refrigeration, compressor and
foam technology adoption, and training.



39                                Annex 5
Page 1 of 4
TURKEY
SECOND PHASEOUT OF OZONE DEPLETING SUBSTANCES PROJECT
The Technology Development Foundation of Turkey
Background & Omanization
1.    The Technology Development Foundation of Turkey (r`DF) was established in 1991 as part
of Turkes Technology Development Project C(DP), cofinanced by the Government of Turkey,
private sector investors, the World Bank and other development banks, to facilitate the
commercialization of tech-nology, preferably through collaboration between the private sector and
the research establishment. TDF is structured as a "Vakif"' or Foundation, that under Turkish law is
equivalent to a non-profit organization. It is exempt from income tax, though like other entities it is
subject to payment of VAT on all purchases of goods and services.
2.    At the top of TDFs organization structure is the 'Tounders' Assembly," which is made up of
representatives of contributors to the Foundation and acts as a Board of Trustees. At the operational
level, decision-making authority is vested in a nine-member "Board of Executives." Three of its
members arm appointed, under TDFs Articles of Incorporation, by the Treasury, the Turkish
Scientific and Technological Research Organization (or TUBITAK, which is the main Goverment
organization for organizing and funding research) and the Small and Medium Industry
Development Organization (or KOSGEB, which is administratively under the Ministry of Trade
and Industry). The remaining six members are elected by the Founders' Assembly. The Board, in
turn, appoints the Secretary General, who is responsible for the day to day working of TDF. He is
assisted by a small secretariat made up of five professionals and four support personnel
(Attachment 1).
3.    The TDF Secretariat essentially initiates, coordinates and monitors the activities of the
Foundation and leverages its role by making widespread use of part-time advisors, technical experts
and consultants. Under the Technology Development Project, for example, the Secretariat solicits
proposals, which are then evaluated in detail by a committee of experts ("Area Committee"
constituted for each project by the Board of Executives from a roster of outside technical experts
maintained by the Secretariat), and a financial consultant, btfore being taken back to the Board for
approval. Technical and financial auditing and supervision of the proJect is also performed by
outside consultants/auditors (Attachment 2).
4.    TDF draws primarily on Govermment contributions, bi- and multi-lateral grants and income
obtained from the development and support fund to support projects. Its own resources are limited,
although internally generated revenues are expected to grow in importance over tine.



40                                Annex 5
Page 2 of 4
Existing Operations
5.    TDF has been able to establish an institutional framework for soliciting, selecting and
monitoring the implementation of technology projects. It has helped promote public and private
sector cooperation in applied research and development and it has been able to develop a network
of outside experts and consultants for carrying out its work. While the Foundation's operations are
not large in dollar terms, they have been growing each year. The World Bank has on-going projects
with TDF under TDP and PODS-I.
TDP Onerations: Under the Technology Development Program, TDF provides matching funds for
research and development projects that help commercialize technology alnd develop Turkey's
technology infrastructure. In the three years up to the end of 1994, it has approved assistance
totaling about US$ 13 million to 37 projects and has disbursed about US$ 5 million. Most of this
has been in the form of conditional loans, whose terms are tied to the financial success of the
project. So far a total of six projects have been successfully completed.
PODS Activities: Under the First PODS Project (PODS-I), TDF's main responsibilities are to:
*     act as the financial intermediary for the disbursement of funds to the single private
sector investment project;
*     administer the rollover of the loan component of the assistance being provided to
the sub-project according to agreed criteria, and more importantly to:
identify all ODS users;
=     inform such users, specially small and medium enterprises, of the requirement to
phase-out ODS use and the technology options and assistance available to them to switch to
alternatives;
*     prepare demonstration projects to further assist in providing information on phase-
out possibilities in each sector, and
*     help enterprises prepare investment project proposals for assistance from the OTF
under the Montreal Protocol.
6.    To execute the Project, TDF has carried over essentially the same organizational structure
and procedures used in  TDP operations. Following the execution of the Grant Agreement for
PODS-I in 1994, TDF has established a small PODS Group in its Secretariat, comprising of a
Project Coordinator (an environmental engineer with five years' experience in the management and
coordination of research projects) and a computer analyst. It has retained a market research firm to
help survey ODS users and identified a ffew academicians to provide sector-specific assistance in
conducting workshops, develop demonstration projects and technically evaluate firther projects for
ODS phase-out.
7.    TDF is presently actively engaged in the task of idenifying and surveying ODS users and
plans to complete this activity by May 1995. ft has also assisted in the preparation of three
proposals for funding under PODS-IL Despite a slippage of five or six months in the overall work
plan, the revised plan is broadly consistent with the progress in other areas and there is now a need



41                                Annex 5
Page 3 of 4
to maintain the proposed schedule in future and expedite the preparadon of fiuther proposals,
especially in the refrigeration and foams sectors, for possible funding under PODS-Il. There is also
a need to strengthen the task of identifying and reaching small and medium enterprises (SMEs).
Role Under the ProRosed PODS-fl Project
8.    Under the proposed PODS-D TDFs main responsibility will be the detailed evaluation,
appraisal and supervision of each investment sub-project to be assisted under PODS-K, the majority
of which are expected to flow from TDFs own efforts to identify and develop proposals under
PODS-L TDFs main responsibilities will include:
*     reviewing each sub-project's eligibility under the MP, its conformity with the
Country Action Plan and priority in tears both of the quantity of ODS phase out and its cost
effectivcness;
*     carrying out a detailed environmental analysis and technical and financial appraisals
of each sub-project for approval by the Bank and, where the project cost exceeds US$
500,000, the MPEC as well;
*     to supervising and monitoring the sub-projects, and
*     administering that portion of the assistance being extended to sub-projects as loans
and which would be subsequently rolled over.
9.    A schematic plan of how these tasks will be carried out by TDF, is given in Atachment 3.
Since there will be several individual investment sub-projects under PODS-IL there will be a
greater workload and responsibility on TDF in terms both of the functions to be performed by it and
in the number of cases to be processed. For this, TDF proposes to add up to two more professionals
and an equal number of support staff (Attachment 4). Simultaneously it plans to identify a broader
list of foreign and local environmental, technical and financial consultants to effectively evaluate,
appraise and monitor sub-projects. TDFs revised work plan for implementing the project is given
in Attachment 5.
Key Issues and Actions
10.   Unlike DFEIs or commercial banks, TDF does not mobilize significant resources or provide
credit and make investments primarily on its own account, nor does it have staff with appraisal and
supervision skills. Through extensive use of consultants its institutional capacity is to a large extent
externalized.
11.   TDFs organization and use of consultants offer both advantages and disadvantages. Its flat
structure and small size provide greater flexibility and responsiveness. At the same time, overheads
can be kept low and the Foundation has flexibility in being able to use consultants and experts with
the most appropriate skldls and expertise. However, TDFs operations are susceptible to
considerable disruption if a key person leaves or is not available for some reason and the use of
consultants can make it difficult to achieve consistent quality and to deliver training for meeting
specific skldls and expertise. This makes the appropnate selection of consultants by TDF
particularly important to the entire process. Greater reliance would also have to be placed on a



42                                Annex 5
Page 4 of 4
continuing basis on foreign consultants acceptable to the Bank where adequate skills are not
available locally.
*     There is a need for relatively greater World Bank supervision throughout the life of
the project in the selection and constant evaluation of experts and consultants used by TDF,
and in ensuring consistency and quality of appraisal. The Bank will review and approve the
terms of reference for all consultancies. The procedures and conditions of appointment of
consultants should also follow appropriate Bank Guidelines. As a practical matter, rather
dtan approve each appointment, which could be rather time-consuming, a system of
empanelment would be followed and each consultant approved before being added to the
pool. Standard terms of reference would also be developed for each major activity.
Consultant performance would be monitored by the Bank at the time of approval of each
proposal;
*     Appropriate agreements would be executed to ensure that sub-project processing is
done in accordance with MPEC and Bank requirements and that in each case the Bank (and
where appropriate the MPEC) approves sub-projects submitted for financing,
*     Local capacity would be built up primarily by teaming local consultants with
experienced external consultants during the appraisal process. TDF would develop a set of
detailed guidelines (for each activity and sector) for use by the consultants, with the
assistance of the World Bank,
*     Local industry associations and the Government-owned Small & Medium Industry
Development Organization (KOSGEB), which have established links with SMEs, would be
involved to strengthen coverage of and contact with small and medium enterprises
X     While the organizational, staffing and funding arrangements and the work plan are
satisfactory, it will be necessary to review the situation in the light of actual experience once
the expanded work program commences. A detailed review would be carried out twelve
months from the commencement of the Project and specific actions taken up with TDF.
12.   TDF is eligible for US$ 0.5 million as a grant under PODS-I and will receive financial
agenes fees (currently 2%-3% of the funding) as per MPEC guidelines, under PODS-IL In addition,
it could get a further US$ 50,000-60,000 as processing fees against roll-over of loans. The funding
available to TDF is adequate to meet TDF's requirements.



43                               Annex 5
t-taElWent 1
Page 1 of 6
The Technology Development Foundation of Turkey
QrgQiatiW hart
Founderss Assembly
EXTERNAL                Board of Executives
AUDITING                     -                                        ND L
* IBRD
. Treasury                                                         IW Auditors
. recerat                 General Secretariat
of Foundations
. Ministry of
Finance                 GENERAL SECRETARY(GS)
ADVISORS
-Financial (1 
ACCOUNTING               TDP GROUP                     G
SERIVICE               - t * Proj ect          -Project
-Staff Includes           Coordlnator             Coordinator
2 Accountants           -Staff Includes          -Staff Includes
I Engineer              I Computer Analyst
1 Computer
Analyst
SS's OFFICE
-Staff Includes
a Secretary
and an Office Boy



The Technology Devel  ant Foundation of Turkey
PropQsed Ognisation chart
GENERAL SECRETARY(GS)
ADVISORS
_________    ___                         I  -Legal   (1)
-Financial (2)
ACCOUNTING                     TOP GROUP                  PODS GROUP
SERVICE                                                  -Project
-Staff Includes                Coordino tor                 Coordinator
3 Accountants                -Staff Includes              -Staff Includes
I Engineer                     C pEngineer
1 Computer                   1 Computr Analyst
L    GS'S OFFICE
-Staff Includes
2 Secretaries
.nd an Office Boy                                Ii,
--~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I,



The Technology Development Foundation of Turkey
Assessment. ApprmisaL & Monitoring of ODS Sub-Projecg9
I            PPROPOSALS
l(It Needed,Assistance is Made
Available to Prepare the Proposals) 
-                                   ........... _ .  AMOE   -
-..._--w >- 9 F O    RIIAT C       HECK]4F AT      T TREASURY
LAPPROVAL            -   ,                                                 * _.
__.- ... I                       FoUNDATIoNs               -   < (Chanoes will be ;_
Implnmentod
,-... .lI   is Buggosatedl
REJECTED j        -4    11ECI5I(tl:*
-- ._   . -.             |     GENERAL 
.                           __             APPRAISAL
______          (lTechnical,
I                                         Financial,
Environmental
I~. ---.-  _ ..........                                                      I4.  
SUPERVISION                 AUDITING
I   .     ." ... . .... .. ....... .....   * *..  ......  . .   .     .          I | a; k
....  ,. g a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0



46               Page 4 cf 6
I .  _  _
e+ in
v- 1-4  1- r                                       R I   |  I     n e/
C,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a
a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C i  .  S
cc , f Siffi   $.I
0  CL.      rz~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
0  a    a  M ~   ~    ~ ~ a 
v-  I*  to  qo       'm  a~~~~~~~~~~~~ 8
L2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



r    .                                      ..    ..           ...  .... -I                           . .........
iljuppo TX I                                                                                       p I                                       i. 8
g    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~........ ...            .. .... ..  . ......  ........... ..... ..  *. ..    ..  ..   ....... ......  ........... . . ..........  .....    .....
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
1                        1.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
_~~                                    .. .                                                                                                                    _
g~~ go S                                                                                                       R
_    ___S_                                                ta~~~~~~I 



Annex 5
48                                      Attachment 1
Page 6 of 6
PrQected Opemting Budget (994-98)
(U.S. Dollus)
TASKS                    VDSI                    RODU                     TOTAL
AJDENTInVAON
FS .                    41,s0                                             4,S5
D    _mmd                                        SAO                       S,OOO
_  M06                    SIM                     616
IL WORMOPS
C     _mibab           X7,50W                                             75,S0
Fa-m                    3SiO0                                             25S00
_       _ii                                      5,00                      5.006
___s100l0 .OOO                                    10550
C. DEMONSTATION
C     _h                30,000                                             33.000
F~M                     72,5                                               72,0
1~~mIp.~~~        urno                                             iszo
r71_                     7,50
_umiM                                            15000                     15,000
_____0_1.100              22.00                   1
D. COUNlTY
SI
C _               I~~~~4300                                         14J_00
S_~~~~~~~~~~ll UOJOO                                                             MW4W
Supmiiu                                120,00            W       2000
L ADMNaNIRAIO0N
Ca _iEaor               3710                                               37,00
SW                                               M.=                      129,010
Off0F 41i_                                        2200I                     n,0
B _pind~I.                                        104600                  s10.
__________ __    37,000                _161,60                     19
TUTAL                                   590,0UU                   mi3.50
SUMMARY
TS A5b                                                    *O'U&I|                   TOTAL
Cinhmis                 ~~~~~271,506                                       271,50
Svim P.thm                       139,006                                            139,M00
Equpgmw                           53,500                                             R506o
Dmuzfi=                                                     17,500                   17,540
S-                                                        120_0                     120.000
Coor&_                            37,0                                               37,000
Saff                                                       19,000                   12900
Offi Euipm                                                  22,000                   22,000
FaWooui                                                     25,000                   25,00
TUTAL                            506 jOg                   5im                         _500



49                               Annex 6
TURKEY
SECOND PHASEOUT OF OZONE DEPLETING SUBSTANCES PROJECT
List of Items in Project File
1.   Country Program for Phaseout of ODSs.
2.    PEG Profilo, Klimasan A.S. and Pekel Teknik Project Proposals
(including revisions and 1994 Annual Reports).
3.    MOD for PODS-I Project.



I



