Report No. PIC2228
Project Name                   Turkey-Second Phaseout of Ozone...
Depleting Substances Project
Region                         Europe and Central Asia
Sector                         Industry
Project ID                     TRPA38404
Recipient                      Republic of Turkey
Implementing Agency            Beneficiary Private Enterprises
Financial Intermediary         Technology Development Foundation
Financing Plan                 OTF Grant:                US$14.0 million
Private Enterprises:      US$10.5 million
Project Cost:             US$24.5 Million
Appraisal                      March 1995
Expected Signing               June/July 1995
Country/Sector Background
1.   All ozone depleting substances (ODSs) utilized in Turkey are
imported, with consumption of about 6286 tonnes (equivalent to about
5000 ODP tonnes)(see 1/) in 1993. The primary uses of ODSs were for
refrigerants (22%), refrigerator and polyurethane foams    (48%), and
solvents (229). There are five large domestic and commercial
refrigerator manufacturers who account for over one-half of ODS
consumption in Turkey. There are an estimated 1500 workshops for
servicing refrigerators, about 1200 of which are manufacturer-authorized
workshops and the remainder independently owned. In addition to the
refrigerator manufacturers who produce their own requirement of rigid
foams, there are four large and over fifty small to medium producers of
rigid foams used in building insulation. Flexible foams for seating and
furnishing applications are produced by ten large and a number of small
to medium firms. A variety of solvents are used for diverse
applications across the industry. The use of aerosols has been aost
completely phased out, largely due to industry initiatives taken in
response to market forces. ODS usage, particularly refrigeration and
foams, has continued to increase due to expanding domestic markets. The
exports of refrigerators and building insulation foams has also
increased over the past few years. In the short- to medium-term, most
western European nations will ban imports of products containing ODSs,
as well as imports and exports of ODSs themselves. If measures to
encourage adoption of non-ODS technologies are not implemented soon,
Turkish industries in the refrigeration, foams and solvents sectors will
not be able to continue with production due to shortages or lack of
supply of ODSs, and the country will lose export markets and earnings.
2.   The Government of Turkey (GOT) has already taken significant steps
toward the phaseout of ODSs. Prior to ratifying the Montreal Protocol
on September 20, 1991, Turkey passed the entire text of the Protocol as
law. Although it qualifies under paragraph 1 of Article 5 of the



Protocol for a ten year period to phaseout the use of ODSs, GOT has
opted for an accelerated program aimed at phasing out usage of these
substances, except for recharging, by 1998. ODSs used for recharging
refrigerators and other appliances are to be phased out by 2007. GOT is
taking steps to implement its strategy which calls for policy actions
and investments, including the implementation of a public awareness
campaign, to achieve the effective phaseout of ODSs.
3.   The implementation of the strategy has already started and is being
supported through an OTF grant of US$6.165 million approved in January
1994 for the first Phaseout of Ozone Depleting Substances (PODS-I)
Project (OTF Grant No. 021934). The PODS-I project supports
institutional and management strengthening of the Ministry of
Environment (MOE) including setting up the advisory Ozone Panel,
implementing an ODS monitoring framework, promoting ozone awareness, and
preparing a framework for the regulation of ODSs in the future;
conversion to non-ODS technologies at Turkey's largest domestic
refrigerator manufacturer, Arcelik A.S.; and identification and
preparation of additional projects for ODS phase-out. The MOE, Arcelik
A.S. and the Technology Development Foundation (TDF) are, respectively,
responsible for implementation of the three components. Overall project
implementation of PODS-I has been satisfactory and Arcelik is expected
to complete its project ahead of schedule. The proposed project would
build on the progress made under PODS-I, and would extend coverage by
supporting additional private sector enterprises in phasing out their
use of ODSs.
Project Objectives
4.   The objective of this Project is to assist GOT in ensuring that
ODS-using industries in Turkey effectively and efficiently phase out ODS
usage through the adoption of non-ODS technologies. The policy and
regulatory measures will also be monitored as agreed under the PODS-I
project. The phaseout is to be effected in compliance with the Protocol,
as ratified by the Republic of Turkey, and in accordance with the
recommended ODS phaseout strategy and action plan outlined in the
Country Program.
Project Description
5.   The proposed Project would provide financial assistance to
enterprises in all sectors for adoption of non-ODS technologies.
Eligible investment costs and recurring costs would be financed in
accordance with prevailing MPEC guidelines. Investment costs include
manufacturing and processing equipments, prototyping & testing, safety
equipments for handling hazardous substances such as cyclopentane, and
technology transfer and safety training. Recurring costs cover
incremental operating costs arising from the technology conversion.
Sub-projects in the refrigeration sector involve both investment and
recurring costs, while those in the other sectors primarily involve
investment costs.
Project Costs and Financing
6.   Project costs consist of the incremental investment and recurring
- 2 -



costs incurred in ODS phaseout activities. Detailed costs for new sub-
projects would be determined as proposals are developed. Cost estimates
of most of the equipment will be assessed against quotations from major
suppliers and/or against costs of similar equipment in other
sub-projects and countries.   Allowance of about 15t would be made for
physical and price contingencies. Cost estimates for consultancy
services would be based on average costs, including consultant fees,
transportation, living expenses, etc. Incremental recurring costs would
be reviewed one year after commencing production.
7.   TDF is currently developing sub-projects for assistance to large
enterprises in each sector. Based on the number of large enterprises in
each sector and their ODS consumption, the mission estimates US$12.0
million would be needed to finance about four large enterprises in the
refrigeration sector and six to eight in the foams and solvents sectors;
and some US$1.5 million would be required to finance investments for
small and medium enterprises. A Trust Fund Grant of US$14 million from
the Multilateral Fund of the MP, including a financial agent fee of 3t
to be retained by TDF, is thus proposed. Funds will be used to finance
all eligible incremental project costs for conversion to non-ODS
technologies, including recurrent costs.
Implementation Arrangements
8.   The private sector enterprises proposing to convert to non-ODS
technologies would be responsible for implementation of the respective
investments (sub-projects). TDF will serve as the financial
intermediary and will be responsible for preparation, appraisal and
supervision of sub-projects. The MOE will develop the policy and
regulatory measures for ODS phaseout and will ensure the enforcement of
other relevant regulations. The implementation arrangements, issues and
actions proposed are described below:
Sub-project Selection. The strategy identifies priority sectors; in
addition, the cost effectiveness of ODS phaseout (eligible amount
of OTF assistance divided by amount of ODSs phased out per annum)
would be used to sub-projects for financing in each sector. The
TDF would assist enterprises in the preparation of funding
proposals and the Bank will review the proposals after appraisal
and evaluation by TDF in accordance with Montreal Protocol
guidelines before sub-projects are approved for financing. All
sub-project proposals for funding support under the Project would
be reviewed and approved by the Bank. Further, proposals exceeding
US$0.5 million in financial support would be submitted to MPEC for
review and approval.
Terms of Financing. The grant funds to be made available to TDF
will be provided to enterprises on the following terms: (a) for
enterprises in the refrigeration sector, funds will be provided on
a soft loan basis except for safety equipments, prototyping and
testing and technical assistance; and (b) enterprises in other
sectors, financing of up to US$0.5 million would be on grant basis
and the balance would be on soft-loan basis. The soft-loan terms
would be a zero percent dollar denominated loan with repayment over
2-3 years, commencing after a grace period not extending beyond
- 3 -



sub-project completion. The proposed terms were designed to support
the Government's desire to establish a revolving fund that could
support the financing of additional ODS projects while at the same
time providing grant financing to small and medium scale industries
to ensure that they undertake the needed adjustments at minimal
cost to them. The enterprises would repay the loans into a
revolving fund set up by the TDF under PODS-I to support future ODS
phaseout activities.
Cost Sharing by Enterprises. Funding support for each sub-project
is determined based on foreign ownership of the enterprise and its
exports to non-article 5 countries in accordance with prevailing MP
guidelines. Sub-projects would have different proportions of
incremental project costs supported from the OTF and the balance of
expenditures would be financed by the beneficiary enterprises.
Project Sustainability
9.   The primary purpose of the OTF is to provide a financial incentive
to facilitate ODS phaseout by compensating beneficiaries for incremental
costs incurred as a result of converting to non-ODS technologies. In
addition, the Fund aims to ensure that beneficiary nations achieve
phase-out without impairing their industrial development processes. The
assistance provided to Turkish industry through the project would help
to ensure that the accelerated scenario of phase-out is achieved, and
would permit the sector to remain competitive on the international
market as demand for non-ODS products increases and the market for ODS-
based technologies contracts.
Lessons From Bank Projects
10. Turkey±s first ODS Phaseout Project is currently under
implementation, and the institutional arrangements established for this
project provide a framework within which the proposed umbrella project
will be implemented. Implementation has been satisfactory, although the
MOE has encountered some delays in executing its component. The
Technology Development Project (Ln.3296-TU) currently under
implementation has also provided lessons relevant to the design of ODS
Phaseout Projects in Turkey. The TDF is fully functional and has
successfully promoted public-private cooperation in applied research and
development. Under the project, TDF has successfully established an
institutional framework for developing and implementing projects. TDF's
activities also include the administration and supervision of PODS-I,
and the preparation of additional proposals for ODS Phaseout activities.
Rationale for Funding from the Montreal Protocol Multilateral Fund
11. In the short term, conversion of manufacturing processes to non-ODS
technologies does not provide a competitive advantage to participating
industries, nor does it lead to increased production quantities. As a
result, without the grant and concessional funding provided by the OTF,
there is little incentive for industries to convert to non-ODS
technologies. Provision of funding through the OTF will encourage
effective and efficient conversion to non-ODS technologies in Turkey±s
industrial sector.
-4-



Project Benefits and Risks
12. The environmental benefit of this project is the accelerated
phaseout of ODS usage in manufacturing processes, and the elimination of
ODS leakage during maintenance procedures. In addition, the project
will ensure that Turkey maintains the capacity to export products as the
ban on ODS-based technologies comes into effect.
13. There are no significant technical risks, since only technologies
which have already been proven through application in the industry would
be supported. Expanding the project to cover all sectors would eliminate
any economic risks faced by the portion of the sector not covered in the
initial investment. TDF is still relatively new and does not have
in-house expertise to carry out full scale appraisal of sub-projects
which poses a risk to timely implementation; however, the on-going
assistance and institutional strengthening which the Bank is providing
to the TDF through the Technology Development Project should mitigate
such risks, and funds are also available for TDF under PODS-I to hire
consultants to assist in project preparation and appraisal and under the
proposed Project to hire consultants to assist in implementation
supervision and administration.
Environmental Aspects
14. The elimination of ODS consumption is the primary objective of this
project, and as such the project provides significant environmental
benefits. There are no major environmental concerns associated with the
installation or operation of the non-ODS technologies, but the
flammability of cyclopentane requires that adequate safeguards be in
place for this phase of manufacturing. Installation of safety equipment
and establishment of procedures to ensure the proper handling of
cyclopentane will be required for sub-projects using this substance.
Every sub-project proposal will be subject to an environmental analysis,
conducted by experts approved by the Bank, which will be fully
integrated into sub-project preparation and appraisal. Enterprise
obligations to implement recommended environmental and safety measures
will be set out in the sub-project agreement, compliance with which
would be monitored by the TDF. Also, regulations are in place for the
control of hazardous substances and for occupational safety and health,
and GOT would inspect sub-project enterprises on a yearly basis to
ensure compliance with applicable regulations. The Project is classified
as a Category B in accordance with OD 4.01.
1/   ODP tonnes are weighted according to the Ozone Depleting Potential
(ODP) of each substance.
Review Arrangements
Country Director                    Ms. Rachel Lomax (EClDR)
Division Chief                      Mr. Franco Batzella (EClIT)
Task Manager                        Varadan Atur (EClIT)
Peer Reviewers                      Sherif Arif (EMTEN), Tom Waltz
(ENVGC)
- 5-



External Reviewers (technical)       Dr. Lambert Kuipers, Dr. Mike Jeffs
Bank Technical Reviewer              Bilal Rahill (ENVGC)
Contact Point:                       Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202)458-5454
Fax No.: (202)522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components
may not necessarily be included in the final project.
- 6 -



