                                  Document of
                               The World Bank




                                                    Report No: ICR0000847




           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                                  (TF-21942)




                                     ON A

                                    GRANT

                     IN THE AMOUNT OF US$20.0 MILLION


                                    TO THE

                             REPUBLIC OF TURKEY

                                    FOR A

    SECOND PHASE-OUT OF OZONE DEPLETING SUBSTANCES PROJECT




                                  June 24, 2008




Sustainable Development Department
Turkey Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region

                        CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                    (Exchange Rate Effective June 5, 2008)

                              Currency Unit = YTL
                               1.00 = US$ 0.805
                               US$ 1.00 = 1.242

                                FISCAL YEAR
                          [ January 1 to December 31 ]

                    ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


CFC              Chlorofluorocarbons
GoT              Government of Turkey
HCFC             Hydro chlorofluorocarbons
KOSGEB           Small and Medium Industries Association
MARA             Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Affairs
MeBr             Methyl Bromide
MoNE             Ministry of National Education
MoEF             Ministry of Environment and Forestry
MP               Montreal Protocol
MP ExCom         MP Executive Committee
MPMF             Montreal Protocol Multilateral Fund
NEAP             National Environment Action Plan
ODP              Ozone Depleting Potential
ODS              Ozone Depleting Substances
PODS             Phase out of Ozone Depleting Substances
RSP              Refrigeration Sector Project
TTGV             Turkish Technology Development Foundation




     Vice President: Shigeo Katsu
   Country Director: Ulrich Zachau
    Sector Manager: Charles Feinstein
Project Team Leader: Varadarajan Atur
   ICR Team Leader Varadarajan Atur

                                               TURKEY
  SECOND PHASE-OUT OF OZONE DEPLETING SUBSTANCES PROJECT




                                             CONTENTS




Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph

 1. Project Context, Global Environment Objectives and Design ................................... 1
 2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 4
 3. Assessment of Outcomes............................................................................................ 6
 4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 11
 5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 12
 6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 15
 7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 16
 Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 17
 Annex 2. Outputs by Component (includes those monitored under PODS-I).............. 18
 Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis................................................................. 21
 Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 22
 Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results........................................................................... 23
 Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 24
 Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR..................... 25
 Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders....................... 27
 Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 28
 Annex 10. Additional Pertinent Data............................................................................ 29
 MAP

A. Basic Information

                                                                    ODS Phaseout 2 Project
Country:               Turkey                 Project Name:         under Montreal
                                                                    Protocol
Project ID:            P038404                L/C/TF Number(s):     TF-21942
ICR Date:              06/26/2008             ICR Type:             Core ICR
                                                                    REPUBLIC OF
Lending Instrument:    SIL                    Borrower:
                                                                    TURKEY
Original Total
                       USD 20.0M              Disbursed Amount:     USD 18.7M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: C                     Global Focal Area: O
Implementing Agencies:
Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Affairs
Turkish Technology Development Foundation
Ministry of Environment and Forestry
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

     Process             Date              Process        Original Date  Revised / Actual
                                                                              Date(s)
Concept Review:        02/22/1995    Effectiveness:        12/11/1995       12/11/1995
Appraisal:             05/15/1995    Restructuring(s):
Approval:              10/05/1995    Mid-term Review:
                                     Closing:              06/30/1999       12/31/2007


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                     Satisfactory
Risk to Global Environment Outcome            Low or Negligible
Bank Performance:                             Highly Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                         Highly Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
         Bank                  Ratings               Borrower              Ratings
Quality at Entry:            Satisfactory     Government:              Highly Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision:   Highly Satisfactory Implementing
                                              Agency/Agencies:         Highly Satisfactory

Overall Bank                                  Overall Borrower
Performance:              Highly Satisfactory Performance:             Highly Satisfactory




                                              i

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                             QAG Assessments
      Performance               Indicators          (if any)                  Rating

Potential Problem Project No                  Quality at Entry
                                                                    None
at any time (Yes/No):                         (QEA):
Problem Project at any                        Quality of
                          No                                        Highly Satisfactory
time (Yes/No):                                Supervision (QSA):
GEO rating before
                          Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                             Original            Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
General industry and trade sector                              97                  97
Other social services                                           3                   3


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Pollution management and environmental health                 Primary            Primary
Small and medium enterprise support                          Secondary         Secondary


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                     At ICR                         At Approval
Vice President:           Shigeo Katsu                     Wilfried Thalwitz
Country Director:         Ulrich Zachau                    Christiaan J. Poortman
Sector Manager:          Charles M. Feinstein              Franco Batzella
Project Team Leader:      Varadarajan Atur                 Varadarajan Atur
ICR Team Leader:          Varadarajan Atur
ICR Primary Author:       Elliott Hurwitz




                                             ii

F. Results Framework Analysis
Global Environment Objectives (GEO) and Key Indicators(as approved)
The objective was to assist ODS-using industries in Turkey to effectively and efficiently
phase-out ODS use through the adoption of appropriate non-ODS technologies and
related measures. The phase-out was to be implemented in compliance with the Montreal
Protocol, as ratified by the Republic of Turkey, and in accordance with the recommended
ODS phase-out strategy and Action Plan outlined in the Country Program. The Project
consisted of one main component, namely, finance ODS phase-out investment projects.
In order to support it, the project also aimed at: (i) developing and implementing policy
and regulatory frameworks for ODS phase-out, and (ii) developing public and industry
awareness of ODS phase-out, both of which were agreed under the PODS-1 project
implemented concurrently.

  It should be noted that the Government's strategy for ODS phase-out was reviewed and
approved by the MP Executive Committee (ExCom).

  While the GEO was not changed, the scope of the project expanded over time, as the
MP adopted four amendments since the project began. The most recent amendment was
that concerned with Methyl Bromide (MeBr), adopted in Beijing in 1999. Turkey
accepted, and implemented, all the amendments and their requirements. The use of GEO
indicators was not required as part of design when the project was initiated; but in 1998,
Ozone Depleting Potential measured in metric tons of ODS was adopted as an indicator,
in line with other ODS projects.

Revised Global Environment Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
and Key Indicators and reasons/justifications
The GEO was not revised.

(a) GEO Indicator(s)

                                          Original Target      Formally     Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value         Values (from        Revised     Achieved at
                                              approval           Target    Completion or
                                             documents)          Values     Target Years
Indicator 1 :    Adoption of National Ozone Policy (NOP)
Value
(quantitative or No ozone policy in place                                Ozone policy put in

Qualitative)                                                             place

Date achieved 06/30/1996                                                 07/15/1999
Comments
(incl. %         MoEF developed and adopted the National Ozone Policy (100% achieved)
achievement)
Indicator 2 :    Promulgation of Regulations for imports and use of ODS
Value
(quantitative or No regulations aimed at                                 ODS regulatory

Qualitative)     phase out                                               framework




                                              iii

Date achieved 06/30/1996                                                    07/01/1998
Comments
(incl. %        MoEF instituted import quotas, restrictions and bans, removal of subsidies,

achievement)    etc.(100% achieved).



(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                          Original Target       Formally       Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value         Values (from                        Achieved at
                                              approval           Revised       Completion or
                                            documents)        Target Values    Target Years
Indicator 1 :   Total ODP Phased out
Value                                                                       3687 Metric Tons
(quantitative orEstimated use was about                                     phased out by end-
Qualitative)    3700 Metric Tons (1998)                                     2007
Date achieved 12/31/1998                                                    12/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %        100% target phase out achieved.
achievement)
Indicator 2 :   ODS Imports
Value                                                                       About 200 Metric
(quantitative or6405 Metric Tons eq. in                                     Tons eq. by end-
Qualitative)    1998                                                        2007.
Date achieved 12/31/1998                                                    12/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %        Imports for 6 out of 10 ODS chemicals were eliminated 100% by end of project.
achievement)



G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                  Actual
 No.     Date ISR
         Archived              GEO                          IP               Disbursements
                                                                              (USD millions)
  1     06/22/2000           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                     6.28
  2     12/22/2000           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                     6.93
  3     06/27/2001           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                     7.47
  4     06/29/2001           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                     7.47
  5     12/26/2001           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                     8.04
  6     06/18/2002           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                     8.04
  7     11/27/2002           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                     8.54
  8     03/25/2003           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                     9.24
  9     12/04/2003           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                    12.54
  10    04/21/2004           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                    13.25
  11    10/20/2004           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                    14.49
  12    05/23/2005           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                    15.37



                                              iv

  13  09/19/2005        Satisfactory    Highly Satisfactory    15.71
  14  04/28/2006        Satisfactory    Highly Satisfactory    15.88
  15  11/01/2006        Satisfactory    Highly Satisfactory    16.25
  16  08/13/2007        Satisfactory    Highly Satisfactory    16.75
  17  12/21/2007        Satisfactory    Highly Satisfactory    16.90



H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




I. Disbursement Profile




                                      v

1. Project Context, Global Environment Objectives and Design
(this section is descriptive, taken from other documents, e.g., PAD/ISR, not evaluative)

1.1 Context at Appraisal
(brief summary of country and sector background, rationale for Bank assistance)

Background

The Vienna Convention for the Protection of the Ozone Layer (1985) and the Montreal
Protocol (MP) on Substances that Deplete the Ozone Layer (approved in 1987) are
international treaties, with the MP coming into effect in 1989, to eliminate consumption
and production of ozone depleting substances (ODS). The MP was amended in 1990 to
establish the Montreal Protocol Multilateral Fund (MPMF), through the contributions of
developed countries,1 to provide the technical and financial cooperation necessary to
enhance the ability of developing countries, including Turkey, to eliminate use of ODSs.2
This consisted of funds to finance firms and farms to utilize alternative substances,
promulgation of information to ODS users, technical support for the Ministries involved
in this process, and establishment and operation of centers of instruction to transmit
information on pertinent options. Within the MP framework, the use of ODSs was to be
phased out completely, earlier in developed countries, and later in developing countries
(which applied to Turkey).3

In 1987, Turkey was one of the earliest countries to sign the MP. Under the MP, Turkey
assumed restrictions on its consumption and eventual phase out of ODSs; treaty
restrictions on production of ODSs did not apply since none was produced in the country.
The ODSs covered were chlorofluorocarbons (CFC), halons, carbon tetrachloride (CTC),
and methyl chloroform (TCA). Methyl Bromide (MeBr) was added to the list of
chemicals in 1999. These materials were being used extensively in Turkey's
refrigeration/air conditioning, foam, aerosol, solvent, fire suppression, and agricultural
fumigant sectors. By switching to alternative substances and technologies within the
phase-out period designated by the government, companies in these sectors could
continue their activities without suffering economic loss from this restriction, while
renewing their technologies and maintaining their ability to compete internationally.

Turkey's Phase-out Program

In 1992, the Government of Turkey (GoT), with the assistance of the World Bank,
developed a strategy and Action Plan for the Phase-out of ODSs as part of the Country
Program, which was also reviewed and approved by the MP Executive Committee.


1Annex 10 contains a list of the 11 leading donors--developed countries--and the amount contributed by
each in 2007, which totaled US$133.5 million. The 11 leading donors provided around 90% of total 2007
donations.
2Additional detail on the activities supported by project components is presented below in section 1.5
3The MP permitted certain exceptions to "complete" elimination in Turkey's case, e.g., MeBr, which
achieved 96% elimination, with remaining use very tightly controlled by government.


                                                      1

Although Turkey is an Article 5 country (countries under the MP eligible for financial
support from the MPMF), the government decided to phase out ODS usage under an
accelerated schedule. In many cases, Turkey achieved phase-out of individual ODS
chemicals before any other Article 5 nation. Specifically, Turkey was the first nation to:
(i) convert a refrigeration plant from CFCs to HFC-134a; (ii) cease all MeBr and CFC
imports4; and (iii) implement a sector-wide project (Refrigeration Sector Project). The
phase-out of CFCs and MeBr was achieved by end-2006, earlier than required under the
MP. Further, Turkey was the first to establish a Revolving Fund to ensure sustainable
actions on phase out of ODSs.

Principal ODS phase-out actions - mostly supported by PODS-I (predecessor project, TF-
219340) and this project (PODS-II) - included development of an ozone awareness
campaign, implementation of monitoring and regulatory measures, institutional and
management strengthening of key ministries and financing of investments in ODS phase-
out activities.

1.2 Original Global Environment Objectives (GEO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

The Original Global Environmental Objectives (GEO) were to assist ODS-using
industries in Turkey to effectively and efficiently phase-out ODS use through the
adoption of appropriate non-ODS technologies and related measures. The phase-out was
to be implemented in compliance with the Montreal Protocol, as ratified by the Republic
of Turkey, and in accordance with the recommended ODS phase-out strategy and Action
Plan that has been outlined in the Country Program and National Ozone Policy. The
Project consisted of one component: Investment Projects. It was also intended that policy
and regulatory measures be monitored as agreed under the then ongoing PODS-I project.

As described in section F, the key GEO Indicator is Total Ozone Depleting Potential
Phased Out (All ODS Chemicals). An additional Indicator, ODS Imports, is also
described in that section.

1.3 Revised GEO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

The original objectives were not changed. The Key Indicator was added in 1998, as
described earlier, and a second Indicator, ODS Imports, was also added that year.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries
(original and revised, briefly describe the "primary target group" identified in the PAD
and as captured in the GEO, as well as any other individuals and organizations expected
to benefit from the project)




4Imports of MeBr declined by 96.5% and were 20MT in 2006. This is used in food product fumigation;
the tightly-controlled import and usage process is described in section 3.2.




                                                     2

Private sector enterprises were the principal beneficiaries of PODS-II. The Turkish
Technology Development Foundation (TTGV), the financial intermediary and
implementing agency, provided technical support and funds to large companies and
SMEs on a loan and grant basis, under the terms specified in the next section. In addition,
technical assistance, prototypes, and testing were provided on a grant basis.5 Firms were
assisted by the provision of means by which they could switch to alternative substances
and technologies within the phase-out period designated by regulations, and thereby
continue business activity without suffering economic loss from this restriction.

Government also benefited. Training was provided to the staff of the Ministry of
Environment and Forestry (MoEF), Undersecretariat of the Customs (mainly to Customs
Officials) and the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Affairs (MARA) as well as the
teaching staff at the Ministry of National Education (MoNE). PODS-II enhanced their
ozone awareness through campaigns, as well as their development of a monitoring and
regulatory framework. For example, 4500 technicians were trained in recovery and
recycling by KOSGEB and MoNE in courses initiated under PODS-II. For the
technicians in the refrigeration sector, ODS training has been included in their curricula
by the MoNE. About 200 Customs officers were trained in the use of refrigerant
identifier equipment. The MoEF designed a monitoring system to track ODS imports, and
relied on the Ozone Panel to enhance development of stakeholder consensus.

Finally, PODS-II provided significant environmental benefits, which conveyed to some
extent to citizens of the Republic of Turkey, and also contributed to the MP effort to
reduce worldwide ozone depletion.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)

As stated earlier, the project consisted of one component: Investment Projects. This also
subsumed actions to develop regulatory frameworks and increase public and industry
awareness of ODS as agreed under the PODS-I project (additional detail in Annex 2).

Structure of the ODS-using Industry: All ODSs utilized in Turkey were imported, with
1993 consumption of about 6286 tons (equivalent to about 5030 ODP tons). Primary uses
of ODSs were for refrigerator and polyurethane foams (48 percent), refrigerants (22
percent), and solvents (22 percent). Five large home and commercial refrigerator
manufacturers accounted for over fifty percent of Turkish ODS consumption. In addition,
there were approximately 1500 workshops for servicing refrigerators, of which over 1000
were manufacturer-authorized and the remainder independently-owned (this is the largest
group of SMEs that use ODSs). In addition to refrigerator manufacturers, who produce
their own rigid foams, there are four large and over fifty small to medium producers of



5Beneficiary enterprises provided internal funding for each sub-project for the share of costs that were not
covered by the loan/grant. TTGV monitored the progress of sub-projects and the provision of counterpart
funds by the enterprise, and ensured that any cost overrun was financed from enterprise resources.




                                                     3

rigid foams used in building insulation. Flexible foams for seating and furnishing use are
produced by ten large firms and additional SMEs. A variety of solvents is used for
diverse applications across numerous segments of industry. An additional chemical,
Methyl Bromide (MeBr) was added to the list of ODS products in 1999.

The use of ODSs in aerosol products was largely phased out by 1994, in response to
market forces. However, ODS usage in other sectors--principally refrigerators and foam
building products--increased as a result of larger domestic sales. While exports to the
EU of products containing ODSs were expected to decline due to new regulations, the
GoT expected exports to other nations to continue to rise.

Support for conversion to non-ODS technologies: The TTGV was responsible for
identifying and preparing ODS phase-out investment projects. It worked directly with
large enterprises in each sector to identify investments needed to achieve ODS phase-out,
and worked closely with the Chambers of Industry and KOSGEB, the Ministry of
Industry's development organization for small and medium industries, to identify
investments in small and medium enterprises. Financial arrangements for ODS projects
included grants and loans at 0% interest rate, denominated in US$ and repayable in 4
equal semiannual payments starting at project completion.

Develop public and industry awareness of ODS phase-out: Technical assistance was
directed toward training of enterprise staff, especially SME workers, and teacher training
at 24 training centers operated by the MoNE. These were widely distributed
geographically, and were aimed at small businessmen and farmers. The TTGV and the
MARA collaborated on numerous information activities with respect to MeBr phase-out.

1.6 Revised Components

The original component was not revised.

1.7 Other significant changes
(in design, scope and scale, implementation arrangements and schedule, and funding
allocations)

Following the inclusion of MeBr in 1999 to the list of ODSs to be phased out, and the
Montreal Protocol Executive Committee decision in 2000 to support sector-side phase-
out for refrigeration service sector, the funding allocation was increased from US$14
million to US$20 million and the implementation time table was extended to end-2007
accordingly. The MARA and MoNE were also added to the list of implementing agencies
to support TTGV's efforts.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
(including whether lessons of earlier operations were taken into account, risks and their
mitigations identified, and adequacy of participatory processes, as applicable)




                                                4

Quality at Entry was satisfactory. The project design was very simple, and benefited
from the experience of the PODS-I project which was ongoing at that time. The coverage
of PODS-II expanded over time, consistent with the four amendments made to the
Montreal Protocol (MP) during the project period. One of the changes, (Beijing
amendment) for instance, comprised the incorporation of methyl bromide (MeBr), an
agricultural fumigant.

Although formal GEO indicators were not identified at project inception, these were
established in 1998 and incorporated into the project design. These consisted, in most
cases, of quantitative measures of the degree to which utilization of specific, identified
chemical products was reduced, or eliminated, and the date at which complete
elimination (in most cases) was achieved. These comprised key indicators in the project
results framework, and were precise and relevant measures of the achievement of project
progress. They were utilized by the Borrower, implementing agency, and Bank Team in
management of the project. These measures were also used to formulate country
reporting requirements under the MP, thus comprising a strong linkage from project-level
results to Borrower monitoring systems.

2.2 Implementation
(including any project changes/restructuring, mid-term review, Project at Risk status, and actions
taken, as applicable)

The project was not at risk at any time and was not restructured.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

As stated in section F.(a) of the Data Sheet, the use of GEO indicators was not required
as part of the project design when PODS-II was initiated. However in 1998, in support of
project implementation, an indicator was adopted that reflected the potential of each ODS
chemical to deplete tropospheric ozone, and utilized to monitor project progress. This
indicator is termed Ozone Depletion Potential, or ODP - as shown below in Table 1
(section 3.2). A second Indicator, ODS Imports, was also added that year. Data on
imports and use were obtained from MARA and from the Undersecretariat of Customs
and the ODP was calculated by the MoEF every six months. In addition, technical
support was provided to the MoEF to assist with developing semiannual ODP data, and
MoEF began calculating this measure, in parallel with the implementing agency, during
1998-99.

Additionally, the annual quantity of ODS imports was also developed in 1998 as a means
of monitoring project progress. Table 2 shows the quantity of imports from 1996 to 2006
for the 10 ODS chemicals that were the subject of the project. These quantities were
monitored carefully by PODS staff, and after training, by MoEF and the Customs Service.
After development of this series, the quantity of imports was calculated on an annual
basis, and provided a basis for guiding project activity toward focusing on the use of
those chemicals on which the least progress had been made. Since Turkey did not
produce any ODS chemicals, this indicator was an effective means by which to measure



                                               5

project progress and determine the extent to which goals had been achieved for each
chemical.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
(focusing on issues and their resolution, as applicable)

There were no safeguard or fiduciary issues that arose during the project.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
(including transition arrangement to post-completion operation of investments financed by
present operation, Operation & Maintenance arrangements, sustaining reforms and institutional
capacity, and next phase/follow-up operation, if applicable)

Some PODS-II activities are expected to continue for around two years after project
completion. During the last supervision mission in December, 2007, the Bank confirmed
that support for appropriate MeBr and other ODS activities will continue to be provided
by TTGV supported by funds from the Revolving Fund, and that the Bank would
continue to monitor and consider "no objection" requests for the duration of the Turkey's
Refrigeration Sector Project Agreement with MPMF until 2010. Turkey can use the
Revolving Fund to continue ODS phase-out needs, with TTGV continuing sub-project
implementation under existing framework parameters. The MP is now aiming to support
phase out of HCFCs, another ODS, and Turkey has indicated interest. This phase-out
plan is expected to go beyond 2010 and MP's specific policies and plans are still
underway.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
(to current country and global priorities, and Bank assistance strategy)

Relevance: The objectives are overall highly relevant to the country's strategy and global
priorities. As noted earlier, Turkey signed the Montreal Protocol in 1987, and under that
treaty formally agreed to control and eliminate import and use of ODSs. In accord with
the treaty, Turkey reached agreement with the MP ExCom on the phase-out dates by
which each ODS used in the country would be reduced in import or use, to zero in most
instances.

The project objectives are clearly relevant and important to Turkey's obligation under the
MP and its national goal of phasing out ODS usage. They are also consistent with the
Bank's Country Partnership Strategy for Turkey, as well as the Bank's overall goal of
fostering environmentally-sustainable development. The objectives are also a critical
element in facilitating manufacture of suitable exports to key destinations, as many
trading partners required ODS-free imports. The project goals are also a critical means
by which Turkey can increase its integration with the European Union (which heavily
restricts imports of ODS-using equipment). These have been major goals of the
government, which was highly interested in becoming a candidate for membership
(which it successfully did in 2002).



                                                 6

In addition, the project was challenging for the MoEF, as it required the Ministry to:
substantially increase its knowledge of ODS and the means by which they could be
phased out; develop a National Ozone Policy (in close consultation with industry); and
coordinate with other components of government in regulating trade in ODS
(Undersecretariat of Customs, Undersecretariat of Foreign Trade, and the Customs
Service). The Turkish National Ozone Policy (NOP) was published in the official gazette
in July, 1999.

Project Design-- The project design was very well-aligned with the objectives. The
design was clear-cut and directly related to assisting Turkish companies across several
ODS sectors and applications6 to phase out ODS use. The project included activities
aimed at facilitating ODS phase-out by large companies, as well as those aimed at
identifying and assisting small and medium enterprises and companies (SMEs), which
found it more difficult to gain suitable knowledge of the legal requirements and methods
by which they could comply. Finally, the project aimed to strengthen the MoEF,
Undersecretariat of Customs, as well as the MARA, and assist them in reaching a policy
consensus with industry.

The project required TTGV to undertake measures to identify large and small firms who
were ODS users. These measures were conducted in conjunction with government and
representative private organizations: seminars; pamphlets and books; national ozone
panel meetings; TV programs that provided information on relevant ODS regulatory
requirements. This was highly effective, as nearly all active firms were reached. For
example, 4500 technicians in the refrigeration sector, representing nearly the entire
universe in this area, were trained in recovery and recycling by KOSGEB and MoNE.

3.2 Achievement of Global Environmental Objectives
(including brief discussion of causal linkages between outputs and outcomes, with details on
outputs in Annex 2)

Overall efficacy was high, considering that PODS-II was highly effective in achieving all
of its objectives.

PODS-II was highly effective in achieving its objectives, as measured by the major
Indicators developed during the first several years of project implementation. The ODP
Indicator specifies the reduction in ozone depletion potential (Table 1 below). Over the
12 year period during which these data were calculated, PODS-II fully met its goal of
phasing out 3,687MT of ODP. Of the total quantity of the total amount of ODP phased
out by Turkey during this period (which was 4,552MT), the staff estimated that
approximately 81 percent was accounted for by both PODS-I and PODS-II.

It should be noted that Turkey achieved the MP ODS goals by the deadline specified by
the Treaty or by the MP ExCom, or well before the deadline. During the entire PODS-II



6For example, refrigeration, insulation, aerosols, fire extinguishing, and fumigation of agricultural products.


                                                       7

        project, Turkey was in full compliance with the Action Plan that had been designated in
        the National Ozone Policy, and which had been approved by the MP ExCom.

                     Table 1: Phase-out of ODS - ODP Phased Out in MT by Calendar years 1996-2006


                                                                                                              Total        Grant-
                                                                                                                         effective-
CY     CY       CY        CY      CY      CY       CY       CY      CY      CY       CY     CY                 MP
96      97       98       99      00       01       02       03      04     05       06     07    Total      Grant          ness

                                                                                                           (USD M)       (USD/kg
                                                                                                                           ODP)
1044     77       170      287      33     785      219      383      220    176     176    118    3687       18.65         5.06
    Note: These data reflect 52 projects that were undertaken in PODS-II. The Ozone Depletion Potential, ODP, of each ODS is
    calculated relative to the ODP multiplier for that substance. For example, the ODP of CFC-11 and CFC-12 is 1.0. The
    multiplier is highest for Halon 1301 at 10, and lowest for Methyl chloroform, at 0.12.
                     
        As a second Indicator, ODS Import Indicator, reflects the annual quantity of ODS
        imports. This was also developed and utilized as a project Indicator and means of
        monitoring project progress. Table 2 below shows the quantity of imports from 1996 to
        2006 for the 10 ODS chemicals that were the subject of the project. The GoT (MoEF and
        Customs Service after training) was responsible for verifying and certifying annual ODS
        imports, and reporting these data to the MP Ozone Secretariat. These quantities were
        also monitored by PODS staff. After development of this series, the quantity of imports
        was calculated on an annual basis, and provided a basis for guiding project activity
        toward focusing on the use of those chemicals on which the least progress had been made.

        As shown in the Table 2 below, for six of the ten chemicals, 2006 imports were zero.
        Imports were virtually zero for R-113 and carbon tetrachloride, while for Halon 1301,
        2006 imports were 30% of the 1996 level, and for MeBr imports were 3.5% of 1996 - a
        decline of 96.5%.7 Thus, the average decline for imports of all chemicals was 96.6%.
        Since Turkey produced no ODS chemicals, this indicator was an effective means by
        which to measure project progress and determine the extent to which goals had been
        achieved for each chemical.




        7 The means by which MeBr is used is described later in this section. The halon banking facility,
        established under PODS-II, enhances the ability to recover, store and/or recycle Halon 1301, principally for
        use by the military on ships and aircraft until suitable retrofits or replacements are found.


                                                                     8

                            Table 2: Imports of ODSs in MT, 1996-2006


                    1996  1997  1998  1999          2000  2001       2002  2003  2004  2005        2006 
R11*                2494  2442  2210  1049            268     109       62    131      164      91     0 
R12                 1371  1419  1796           738    520     621      635    324      164      91     0 
R113                     0      6      13        1       0       0       0       0       0       1   0.3 
R114                     0      1        0       0       0       1       0       0       1       0     0 
R115                     8      8        3       9       9       3       3       0       0       0     0 
Halon 1211             42      23      41        0       0      49       1     0.3       4      10     0 
Halon 1301             10       4        8       0       1       0       1       4       1       0     3 
Carbon 
tetrachlroide/CCL4    180      65     153       82      52      15      12      12      10       2   0.8 

Methyl chloroform  1722      224      527      440    225     114      108    108       40      59     0 
Methyl Bromide        578  504  415           343     343    43.8     281     185  90.6  28.8       20.4
 Source: Customs Service (Undersecretariat of Customs); *R-11 is Freon 11, R-12 is Freon 12, etc

 An additional measure of project achievement is the data from the UN Data Base. These
 data indicate that by 2006, ODS chemicals reached the following levels of the UN
 baseline:

         CFCs                    0%                Halons                     21%
         Carbon Tetrachloride 1%                   Methyl Chloroform          0%
         HBFCs                   0%                Bromochloromethane 0%
         Methyl Bromide          4%

 The consumption of HCFCs increased substantially during this period, rising from
 19.8MT in 1989 to 850MT in 2006. HCFCs satisfy the health, safety, and performance
 standards of CFCs, consistent with environmental goals. They are also cost-effective,
 requiring smaller quantities than alternative fluorochemicals, thus lowering direct costs.

 The implementation agency, TTGV, did an outstanding job of identifying ODS users--
 large and small firms, farmers, sales agents, and others--providing technical support to
 the government agencies involved, publicizing ODS requirements to the general
 population (in part by assisting MoNE in its vocational and other courses), and
 developing materials to distribute to the general population (see also section 3.1).

 The system employed for Methyl Bromide provides an excellent example of Turkey's
 procedures used for ODS restriction. MeBr imports were 578MT in 1996, and 20 in
 2006, a decline of 96.5%. The small quantity of remaining imports is used for quarantine
 and pre-shipment uses. Following the addition of MeBr in 1999, the Ministry of
 Agriculture and Rural Affairs published a regulation which tightly regulated Fumigation
 for Agricultural Quarantine. MeBr can only be used by licensed fumigation operators,
 who prepare an application form on behalf of their agencies and submit them to the
 selected Quarantine Directorate to allow their 4 month-MeBr requirements. The
 Directorate checks the quantities requested based on their established knowledge of the
 parameters of this sector, and estimates the required quantity of MeBr based on their



                                                   9

calculations. Furthermore, the staff of the Directorate supervise the applications on site.
The form is signed by the director of the Quarantine Directorate as well as a top local
official. The stated quantity of MeBr can be delivered only to the fumigation operators
who prepared the application.


                         Total Ozone Depleting Potential of All ODS
                               Chemicals Imported in Turkey


                   6000
                   5000
           PDOla   4000
                   3000

                Tot2000
                   1000
                     0
                        1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006



3.3 Efficiency
(Net Present Value/Economic Rate of Return, cost effectiveness, e.g., unit rate norms, least cost,
and comparisons; and Financial Rate of Return)

PODS-II achieved significant "value for money" considering the costs it incurred and the
benefits it achieved. The project was funded by MPMF, which provided a grant to the
World Bank, which acted as a financial intermediary. The Bank then provided a grant to
the Republic of Turkey, which provided the funds to TTGV as a grant. Neither the Bank
nor the government placed any fee on the funds received. TTGV's project fee was 3% of
the grant amount, same for all MP projects.

The total project costs, including MP grant support and cofinancing by beneficiaries, are
$27.32 million. Based on ODP achieved at 3,687MT, the cost effectiveness of phase-out
is US$7.41 per kilogram.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
(combining relevance, achievement of GEOs, and efficiency)

Rating: The overall outcome rating is thus highly satisfactory.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(if any, where not previously covered or to amplify discussion above)
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

PODS-II had no direct impact on Poverty or gender.




                                               10

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
(particularly with reference to impacts on longer-term capacity and institutional development)

PODS-II supported the capacity and institutional development of both private firms and
government (see also Section 1.5). Capacity building was provided to the Ministry of
Environment and Forestry, Ministry of National Education, Ministry of Agriculture and
Rural Affairs, and Undersecretariat of Customs - principally to Customs Service staff.
As an example of strengthening government institutions, TTGV provided a training
program for over 200 custom officers and ODS identifiers in use of refrigerant identifier
equipment for ODS chemicals. Customs authorities were provided with support for the
enforcement of import control regulation by enhancing their work in the process of
inspecting imports of shipments that could include ODS chemicals.

Additional expenditure was directed toward training of enterprise staff, especially SME
workers. In the latter category, PODS-II supported teacher training for MoNE teachers at
24 training centers operated by the Ministry. These were widely distributed
geographically, and were aimed at small businessmen and farmers. As part of the
program for firms, 4500 technicians were trained in recovery and recycling by KOSGEB
and MoNE in projects initiated under PODS. Training programs conducted by MARA
and agricultural faculties (project counterparts) were designed to target farmers,
agricultural extension staff, fumigation operators, pesticide dealers and fruit processors.
About 2500 technical people and 2000 producers and processors were directly trained on
MeBr alternatives. Wider audience was reached indirectly through TV and radio
programs, and audio-visual material distributed to stakeholders.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative, if any)

One notable unintended, but favorable, outcome relates to replacement of chillers. The
sponsors found that high gains in energy efficiency also accrued (e.g. 26% in one
instance), which enabled TTGV to promote nearly 40 chiller replacements across the
country, compared with only 4 contemplated in the original business plan. Energy
efficiency would also contribute to reducing greenhouse gas (CO2), mainly through
lower energy consumption.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
(optional for Core ICR, required for ILI, details in annexes)

Not applicable.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: The risk is negligible to low that the project outcome will not be maintained.
Contributing to this determination are the following:

     Strong government commitment contributed to the complete achievement of
        project objectives. Most were achieved earlier than required. The government



                                                11

         regards this achievement as a major accomplishment, and is thus unlikely to
         change its policy or tolerate private actors who do so.
      A high level of technical competence regarding ODS on the part of MoEF,
         MARA, and other pertinent agencies was achieved during PODS-II, and will
         contribute to their continued support
      The transmission of information on ODS requirements and alternative
         technologies is firmly embedded in courses provided by MoNE to technicians in
         ODS-related fields
      Plans to continue project progress after completion will reduce the probability of
         any reversal.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
(relating to design, implementation and outcome issues)

5.1 Bank
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
(i.e., performance through lending phase)

Rating: Satisfactory

As stated earlier, Quality at Entry was satisfactory. The project design was very good,
and benefited from the experience of PODS-I. The coverage of PODS-II expanded over
time, consistent with the four amendments made to the Montreal Protocol (MP) during
the project period.

Although formal GEO indicators were not identified at project inception, these were
established in 1998 and incorporated into the project design. These consisted, in most
cases, of quantitative measures of the degree to which utilization of specific, identified
chemical products was reduced, or eliminated, and the date at which complete
elimination (in most cases) was achieved. These comprised key indicators in the project
results framework, and were precise and relevant measures of the achievement of project
progress. They were utilized by the Borrower, implementing agency, and Bank Task
Manager in management of the project. These measures were also used to formulate
country reporting requirements under the MP, thus comprising a strong linkage from
project-level results to Borrower monitoring systems.

(b) Quality of Supervision
(including of fiduciary and safeguards policies)

Rating: Highly Satisfactory

Project supervision was greatly enhanced by the strong technical background of project
staff, and by overall staff stability. Also, technical consultants working on the project had
a long tenure and brought global experience in technologies and implementation. PODS-
II also benefited from the continuation of PODS-I, managed by the same individuals in
the Bank. The Bank team effectively coordinated with internal and external stakeholders
to develop understanding of the project and share key results.


                                                12

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Highly Satisfactory.

In addition to the above rationale, the QAG views and observations form the basis for the
rating assigned. The QAG, in its Seventh Quality of Supervision Assessment conducted
in September 2007, rated the Bank's supervision quality as highly satisfactory overall and
in three dimensions: Focus on Development Effectiveness, Adequacy of Supervision
Inputs and Processes, and Candor and Quality of reporting.

The Bank team proactively worked with counterparts in Turkey to address issues and find
innovative solutions, for example in setting up a revolving fund, promoting consensus
understanding with ODS-users through ozone panel meetings, finding institutional
sponsors for halon banking and refrigeration recovery & recycling, encouraging farmers
for demonstration projects in MeBr phase-out, ensuring close contact during the project
duration and actively participating in nation-wide dissemination efforts, etc. The Bank's
MP Unit (ENVGC) also provided high quality support and assistance to the task team and
supported familiarization of TTGV and MoEF officials to global experience in ODS
phase-out aspects through annual workshops, etc.

5.2 Borrower
(a) Government Performance

Rating: Highly Satisfactory.

As described earlier, the Government of Turkey (GoT) was highly committed to project
success. Prior to project initiation, initial progress was made in this area under PODS-I.
Before ratifying the Montreal Protocol in September, 1991, Turkey passed the entire text
of the Protocol as law. Although it qualified under Article 5 for a ten year period to
phase-out the use of ODSs, GoT elected to implement a more rapid program to phase-out
usage earlier. With the assistance of the World Bank, the GOT developed a phase-out
strategy as part of the Country Program in 1992. The strategy outlines investments, a
public awareness campaign, and policy measures to achieve the country's obligations
under the Treaty.

The agencies of the GoT involved were the Undersecretariat of Customs, Ministry of
Environment and Forestry, and Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Affairs (MARA). The
legal authority of the MoEF includes legislation, policy development, and enforcement of
environmental protection activities. Under the ODS Phase-out Strategy, it was
responsible for development of policy actions, as well as supervision and coordination of
international and national activities related to the MP, and enforcement of the
Government's Action Plan for the Phase-out of ODSs. MoEF was also the certifying
body for the ODS importer. At the start of the project, MoEF encountered difficulties in
coordinating the various activities involving other ministries, industry, etc., especially on
securing a consensus on ODS phase out timing and regulations and resulted in delays in
adoption of ODS regulatory framework. MoEF's continuing efforts and participation of


                                               13

Arcelik, a large refrigeration equipment manufacturer, in the Ozone Panel meetings
contributed to confidence building and consensus views eventually.

MoEF worked closely with TTGV in the development of seminars to disseminate
information on ODS regulations and technical alternatives, publication of books and
pamphlets to spread this information, and collaborated with MoNE to introduce
information on these subjects to their vocational courses for pertinent students, and
special courses for refrigeration techncians. For example, MoEF and TTGV collaborated
in the design of a course provided by MoNE and KOSGEB to 4,500 technicians trained
in refrigeration recover and recycling. MoEF and TTGV also collaborated in the
development of a course given to 200 Customs officers in the use of refrigeration and
MeBr identifier equipment.

MARA contributed to project progress through its excellent relationships with farmers,
pesticide dealers that had sold MeBr, cooperatives that had fumigated products, service
companies for fumigation, dried fruit processors and other individuals in the field. This
facilitated dissemination of information on ODS regulations, and alternative
technologies. The MARA Extension Service, with support from agricultural research
institutes and faculty was an excellent instrument in reaching farmers in rural areas.

The capacity of MoEF was substantially enhanced during PODS-II. A National Ozone
Officer was appointed, with the individual holding the position required to have
substantial training and experience in chemical and environmental science.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Highly Satisfactory.

The performance of MoEF, MoNE and MARA was noted above. The main agency,
TTGV, performed extremely well and ensured liaison with a large number of diverse
clientele  industry, farmers, government agencies, associations, universities, etc.
TTGV's performance excelled in its main following functions:

        Act as a financial intermediary for disbursement of funds to the private sector.
        Inform private firms, particularly SME's, about the requirement to phase-out ODS
        in use, implementation of alternative technologies, and the availability of financial
        assistance in this regard (funds made available by the MPMF).
        Assist public and private agencies in preparing demonstration projects by
        providing information on phase-out possibilities.
        Help enterprises prepare an investment project for funding from the OTF, and
        review each sub-project's eligibility under the MP.
        Carry out environmental, technical and financial appraisals of each sub-project.
        This information was then reviewed by the World Bank, which submitted
        approved applications to the MPMF.
        Supervise and monitor sub-projects as they were implemented.




                                             14

        Actively identify stakeholders and promote collaborative efforts, such as for halon
        banking facility and refrigeration recovery and recycling.
        Develop and carryout awareness campaign in cooperation with MoEF and MARA.
        Administer the rollover of the fund provided for some sub-projects.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Highly Satisfactory.

The government's support and commitment was consistent and positive throughout the
implementation, as was from the implementing agencies. The main driver of success for
the project was the market itself, which demanded ODS-free products for exports and
when the industry actively pursued solutions, the authorities were able to show
immediate help through the project. The government also encouraged coordination
among various agencies, which was crucial at certain times (e.g. at start of project,
training of customs officials in detection of ODSs, MeBr phase-out through farmers,
training of trainers for refrigerant recovery, etc.,) and provided policy and regulatory
support for the phase out efforts in a timely manner.

6. Lessons Learned
(both project-specific and of wide general application)

        Staff continuity contributed to success: From project approval in 1995 until
        completion in 2007, the World Bank Task Manager and the TTGV Project
        Manager remained on the project. This resulted in substantial continuity of project
        knowledge, helped consensus building with officials of pertinent government
        agencies, and an enhanced ability to streamline project procedures.

        A non-profit intermediary was very effective: TTGV, an NGO, possessed the
        technical and administrative knowledge to manage PODS-II very effectively. The
        agency's contacts with SMEs facilitated their promulgation of PODS
        requirements and identification of potential grant/loan applicants. Their
        experience in PODS-I was very helpful in understanding project requirements and
        facilitating contact with relevant GoT agencies.

        Inter-Agency cooperation takes time: Although MoEF, MARA, and the
        Undersecretariat of Customs had collaborated during PODS-I, at the start of
        PODS-II their efforts to coordinate and reach a policy consensus with business on
        development of regulations and implementation of the National Ozone Plan was
        time-consuming. Through many interactions and meetings during PODS-II, their
        contacts improved greatly and became much more efficient.

        Project approval process was viewed as cumbersome by private sector:
        During PODS II, TTGV tried to speed up review and approval of project
        submission and approval by both TTGV and the World Bank. Nonetheless, after
        approval by these 2 agencies, applications were sent to the MP ExCom for



                                              15

       approval as per MP procedures, which process took many months. Overall, the
       process required from 6 to 12 months, which was viewed as a very long delay by
       applicants, especially from the private sector.


7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

TTGV noted the following issues: (a) MP approval process is long; (b) funds approved
were insufficient and inflexible in some cases; (c) working with SMEs was a challenge.

The MP process is rigorous and attempts to incorporate global experience from similar
projects, thereby benefiting clients such as TTGV and final beneficiaries. Since Turkey
proposed several first time projects (e.g. RSP, MeBr, etc.,) the process took longer than
normal time. Funds approved are based on norms and actual data from other countries
and hence could be higher or lower than estimates by enterprises. Within the overall
subproject budget, some flexibility was allowed to respond to unexpected changes in
costs. MP ExCom was cognizant of TTGV's access to revolving fund to handle
contingencies. The RSP recognized the difficulties of dealing with a large number of
SMEs and included funds for support to TTGV for this purpose (management fee).

(b) Cofinanciers

Not applicable.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)

Private sector clients generally noted the longer processing time, but recognized the
support provided by TTGV for implementing their ODS-conversion projects.




                                             16

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)


                               Appraisal Estimate    Actual/Latest
          Components                                                    Percentage of
                                  (USD millions)    Estimate (USD
                                                       millions)         Appraisal

INVESTMENT PROJECTS
AND T/A                                24.10              27.01           112.1%

Financial Agency Fee                    0.40                0.31           77.5%
            Total Project Costs        24.50               27.32          111.5%

Front-end fee IBRD                      0.00                0.00           0.0%
     Total Financing Required          24.50               27.32          111.5%




(b) Financing
                                                 Appraisal Actual/Latest

          Source of Funds            Type of      Estimate      Estimate  Percentage of
                                   Cofinancing     (USD          (USD       Appraisal
                                                  millions)     millions)
Enterprises and TTGV                   Self        10.50          8.67        82.6%
Montreal Protocol Investment Fund     Grant        14.00         18.65       133.2%




                                          17

Annex 2. Outputs by Component            (includes those monitored under PODS-I)

Investment Projects

TTGV was given responsibility for identifying and preparing investment projects for
ODS phase-out in all ODS sectors. TTGV was responsible for identifying eligible
investments; it hired a consulting firm to assist in identifying ODS users in each sector.
TTGV worked directly with large enterprises in each sector to identify investments
needed to achieve ODS phase-out, and worked closely with KOSGEB, the Ministry of
Industry's development organization for small and medium industries, to identify
investments in small and medium enterprises.

The financial arrangements of TTGV-directed ODS projects were as described in the
Table below. The terms were: interest rate of 0%; currency, $US; repayment, 5 equal
semiannual payments over a 2 year interval starting at project completion.

               Table A2-1--Terms of Grants and Loans to Reduce ODS
              Sector                            Grant                      Loan
   Refrigeration / Air            Safety, prototype, testing,      Other costs
   Conditioning                   training costs. For projects
                                  < US$100,000, grants can
                                  equal 100%
   Foam, solvent, aerosols,       Up to US$500,000 in              Remaining amount
   fire suppression               project costs                    above US$500,000

TTGV administered disbursement under the project. It maintained a Special Account at
the Central Bank with an initial deposit of US$0.5 million on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank, which could be increased to US$1.0 million if required. Request
for replenishment of the Special Account were submitted to the World Bank on a
quarterly basis, or when the account balance declined to one half of the Special Account
deposit, whichever occurred first.

Table A2-2, below, shows the project sectors, with the amount of funding that had been
disbursed by project completion. The data show that substantial funding was expended on
the refrigeration sector (e.g., commercial and private refrigerators, air conditioners, and
chillers--of which 38 were replaced).8 More than $350,000 was spent under the project
on strengthening the institutions involved in this area, including MoEF, Customs Service
(Undersecretariat of Customs), and the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Affairs
(MARA). As an example of strengthening institutions, TTGF provided training for over
200 custom officers and ODS identifiers for ODS chemicals. Customs authorities have




8One segment of the RSP was devoted entirely to SME assistance.




                                                 18

been provided with support for the enforcement of import control regulation by
enhancing their work in the process of inspecting imports of shipments that could include
ODS chemicals.

                     Table A2-2: Total Disbursement, by
                                   Sector (US$)
                  PODS-II Total                   18,650,556

                     Sector / Activities
                     Refrigeration ODS
                   Phase-Out Sector Plan

           1              (RSP) a/                   8,565,903
                   Additional Refrigeration
                 Work (Other Refrigeration
                          Projects)                  3,574,954

           2           Strengthening
                    Institutional Capacity             432,759
           3               Solvent                     926,895
           4               Aeresol                     136,392
           5           Halon Banking                  432,258
           6                 Foam                    3,280,038
           7                 MeBr                      843,498
           8         Project Preparation               150,116
           9              TTGV Fee                     307,744
       a/: Includes $349,700 towards TTGV fee

Policy and regulatory frameworks

As stated earlier, the project monitored activities concerning policy, regulatory
frameworks and increased public and industry awareness of ODS as agreed under the
PODS-I. The legal authority of the MoEF includes legislation, policy development, and
enforcement of environmental protection activities. Under the ODS Phase-out Strategy, it
was responsible for development of policy actions, as well as supervision and
coordination of international and national activities related to the MP, and enforcement of
the Government's Action Plan for the Phase-out of ODSs. MOEF was also the certifying
body for the ODS importer.

The government promulgated the ODS Regulotory Framework in July 1998, which
conformed with MP and obtained support from the industry through prior discussions and
debates (via the Ozone Panel meetings). The regulations provided for control of ODS
imports through quotas and a licensing system, time table for bans on certain substances
and levies on ODSs, monitoring and reporting of use and stocks, etc. In July 1999, the
government adopted the National Ozone Policy, confirming accelerated phase-out goals
and strategy actions.




                                             19

Regarding MeBr, MARA in cooperation with various stakeholders prepared the
"National MeBr Strategy and Action Plan" in 1999 and issued a regulation on" Reducing
the MeBr Use in Agricultural Sector" in 2000.

Public and industry awareness

Additional expenditure was directed toward training of enterprise staff, especially SME
workers. In the latter category, PODS-II supported teacher training for Ministry of
Education teachers at 24 training centers operated by the Ministry. These were widely
distributed geographically, and were aimed at small businessmen and farmers. As an
example TTGV and MARA undertook the following activities with respect to MeBr:

     MARA closely monitored MeBr use for quarantine/pre-shipment (QPS) and the
        use of non-MeBr alternatives
     The agencies collaborated on further dissemination of non-MeBr alternatives and
        their cost-effectiveness
     TTGV utilized funds from Institutional Strengthening projects to extend
        dissemination of information on use of MeBr alternatives
     Information dissemination was undertaken in 11 provinces
     Both agencies completed a MeBr brochure, with 1000 copies printed prior to the
        final MeBr Workshop

As another example, to overcome problems of scattered MeBr knowledge, in 2005 the
government established, with assistance provided by TTGV, the Methyl Bromide
Resource Group, a steering and oversight committee. Comprised of representatives from
MARA, MoEF, TTGV, UNIDO, WB, and independent experts, the Group reviews
projects, approves action plans, assigns agency responsibilities for farmer and extension
staff training, and reviews quotas for quarantine and critical uses.




                                            20

Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
(including assumptions in the analysis)

Economic and financial analysis was not carried out for the project.

However, as stated in Section 3.3, PODS-II achieved significant "value for money"
considering the costs it incurred and the benefits it achieved. The project was funded by
MPMF, which provided a grant to the World Bank, which acted as a financial
intermediary. The Bank then provided a grant to the Republic of Turkey, which provided
the funds to TTGV as a grant. Neither the Bank nor the government placed any fee on
the funds received. TTGV's project fee was 3% of the grant amount, same for all MP
projects.

The total project costs, including MP grant support and cofinancing by beneficiaries, are
$27.32 million. Based on ODP achieved at 3,687MT, the cost effectiveness of phase-out
is US$7.41 per kilogram.




                                            21

Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members

           Names                          Title                Unit     Responsibility/
                                                                          Specialty
Lending
Varadarajan Atur                  Sr. Financial Analyst       EC1EG      Team Leader
Jennifer Allen                         Consultant             EC1EG      Environment
Anil Markandya                         Consultant             EC1EG       Economist
Viren Sirohi                              Staff               ENV     ODS Technologies
Ravi Nangia                            Consultant             EC1EG      Institutional
Supervision/ICR
Varadarajan Atur                  Sr. Financial Analyst       ECSSD      Team Leader
S. Nedret Durutan-Okan                 Consultant             ECSSD      Agriculturist
Thomas William Waltz                   Consultant             ECSSD ODS Technologies
Zeynep Lalik Mete            Financial Management Specialist  ECSPS         FMS
Salih Kemal Kalyoncu              Procurement Specialist      ECSPS      Procurement



(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                         Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
      Stage of Project Cycle
                                       No. of staff weeks    USD Thousands (including
                                                             travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY95                                                                   82.81
  FY96                                                                    6.24
                            Total:                                       89.05
Supervision/ICR
  FY96                                                                   44.15
  FY97                                                                   35.62
  FY98                                                                   82.98
  FY99                                                                   62.72
  FY00                                                                  124.85
  FY01                                                                  118.52
  FY02                                                                  105.72
  FY03                                                                  101.66
  FY04                                                                   77.92
  FY05                                                                   88.84
  FY06                                                                   64.25
  FY07                                                                   86.68
  FY08                                                                   63.04
                            Total:                                    1056.95

Note: Staff weeks are no longer supported by Bank Information.



                                           22

Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
(if any)

During the ICR process, both TTGV and a consultant discussed the project aspects with
select clients and beneficiaries. Details are included in a note in the project file (Annex 9).
A summary of the discussions is provided below.

Overall, 22 interviews were conducted in Turkey from March 2 to March 10, 2008. The
interviews consisted of: 4 with GOT agencies; 4 with farmers; 4 with implementing/
supervisory agencies; 2 with management of large buildings; 3 with varied additional
firms; 2 with vocational schools; 2 with agricultural processors; and 1 with Halon
Bank/Recycling/Recovery Center.

All beneficiaries indicated general satisfaction with the results from their respective
projects. Firms exporting their products, mostly in refrigeration and dried fruits, indicated
that the project helped them meet importing country regulations in a timely manner and
thus sustain their business activities. Farmers reconfirmed the earlier results from MeBr
strategy discussions that alternatives had yielded good results and that there is general
satisfaction in using them. The manual prepared by TTGV and MARA on MeBr
alternatives in local language and disseminated through various agricultural service
centers was viewed as a helpful reference to farmers as well as other experts.

Industry associations, chemicals dealers, ODS-users, etc., appreciated the ozone panel
meetings as a proper forum for debating the issues and reaching stakeholder consensus on
role of government (e.g. regulations), availability of funds (the PODS-2 project grant)
and technical know how for conversion to non-ODS technologies.

Some refrigeration service station technicians expressed frustration at the new methods
and regulations. Overall, the training that was provided to them, the certification in the
use of new equipment, as well as distribution of the equipment free of charge was viewed
as proper support from the government.

The government officials noted the timely support from the MP and expressed pride in
Turkey's noteworthy achievements under the project and also expressed appreciation of
the Bank's role and support.




                                              23

Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
(if any)

Not applicable.




                                  24

Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

The following comments were provided by TTGV.

PODS-II Project, has become one of the most successful national programs implemented
in the environmental area. Although it was a very long term project, a sustainable and a
stable project implementation has been achieved. A successful coordination has been
maintained among the wide range of parties including governmental institutions, private
sector (industry, hotels, etc.) and the World Bank. TTGV, being a public-private-
partnership with NGO status and acting as a local intermediary, has played a critical role
in these aspects.

According to TTGV, the key factors in the successful implementation of the project were;
expert evaluation by TTGV, detailed evaluation of the project by external technical
experts as well as the detailed financial audit of the company by external financial experts.

For all the sub-projects, endorsement of MoEF and no-objection of the World Bank (and
approval of MP ExCom) have been obtained. A close supervision has been achieved by
TTGV project experts, external technical experts and the World Bank team. Moreover,
all the expenditures and disbursements have been evaluated monthly while progress
reports and final report have been required from the beneficiaries.

TTGV, as the local executing agency and the financial intermediary, has also experienced
certain difficulties during the project implementation:
       Approval of the fund by MP has taken a long evaluation period and process.
       For some of the sub-projects, funds approved by the MP have been insufficient.
       Project budgets have been inflexible, sometimes affecting the project
        implementation negatively.
       Co-financing from the companies has sometimes been insufficient.
       There has been lack of qualified personnel and management capacity at SME's.

During the project implementation, the following lessons, which are also consistent with
World Bank's findings, have been learned:
       Private sector, particularly SMEs, is highly interested in a fund implemented by a
        non-governmental organization.
       Fund implementation through local executing agency is important for success.
       NGO type local executing agencies can give quick response to the needs of
        industry.
       Very lean organizational structure supported by a large pool of consultants
        reduces office cost and service expenditures.
       Effective and productive cooperation among MoEF, TTGV and the World Bank
        has been the key factor in success.
       Clearly defined role and mechanisms for a local executing agency is important for
        success.




                                             25

 Tailor-made products and services (project design, support, guidelines, for
  procurement, monitoring, reporting and certification) are important while working
  with different sectors.
 Legislative support of government is very beneficial for the successful
  implementation of a project.




                                     26

Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

Not applicable.




                                    27

Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

  1.     Turkey Country Program for Phase-out of ODSs, January 1992
  2.     PODS-I ICR, Report No. 20499, June 5, 2000
  3.     PODS-II MOD, Report No. 14455-TU, October 10, 1995
  4.     ODS Phase-out in Turkey: A Strategy Document, October 1996
  5.     Turkey ODS Regulatory Framework, July 1998
  6.     National Ozone Policy, July 25, 1999
  7.     ODS Awareness Campaign Strategy, December 1999
  8.     Methyl Bromide Phase-out Strategy, 1999
  9.     Stakeholder Interviews, March 2008




                                        28

Annex 10. Additional Pertinent Data


2007 Contributions to the MP Multilateral Fund

    Trust Fund for the Multilateral Fund for the 
     Implementation of the Montreal Protocol 
   Agreed Contributions2007         $m       %    
   Australia                          2.7    2.0%  
   Canada                             4.7    3.5%  
   France                            10.1    7.6%  
   Germany                           14.5  10.9%  
   Italy                              8.2    6.1%  
   Japan                             29.4  22.0%  
   Netherlands                        2.8    2.1%  
   Spain                              4.2    3.1%  
   Switzerland                          2    1.5%  
   United Kingdom                    10.2    7.6%  
   United States                     29.4  22.0%  
   others                            15.3  11.5%  
   Total                            133.5          




                                          29

