Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16345
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
(LOAN 3040-IND)
FEBRUARY 20, 1997
Indonesia Policy & Operations Division
Country Department III
East Asia and Pacific Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit             =         Indonesian Rupiah (Rp)
US$1.00                   =         Rp 2,331
Rp 1,000                  =         US$0.43
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
Government of Indonesia -- April I - Marchi 31
Participating Financial Institutionis -- Januarv I - December 3 1
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BAPINDO                      Bank Pembangunan Indoniesia
B3APPENAS                    National Development Plannilug Agency
BBD                          Bank Bumi Daya
BDN                          Bank Dagang Negara
BETI                         Bank Ekspor Impor Indonesia
BI                           Bank Indoniesia
BNI                          Bank Negara Indonlesia 1946
BPPI                         Agency for Industrial and Trade Research
& D)evelopment, MOIT
BRI                          Bank Rakvat Indonesia
BUN                          Bank Umnum Nasional
GOI                          Government of Indonesia
IRP                          Industrial Restructurinig Project
LPPI                         Indonesia Banking Development Institute
MOF                          Ministry of Finance
MOIT                         Ministry of Industry and Trade
NBFI                         Non-bank Finanlcial Institutions
PCB                          Private Commercial Bank
PDFCI                        Private Development Finance Company of
Indoniesia
PFI                          Participating Financial Institutions
PTSI                         Public Technology Support Institutiolis
R&D                          Research aiid Development
SAR                          Staff Appraisal Report
SCB                          State-owned Commercial Bank
TA                           Techinical Assistance
TSG                          Technical Services Group
UPPINDO                      Indoniesian Development Finance
Company
Vice President:   Mr. Jean-Michel Severino
Department Director:   Ms. Marianne Haug, EA3
Division Chief:   Mr. Peter R. Scherer, EA31P
Responsible Staff:  Mr. Darius Mans, Sr. Industrial Economist; Mr. Yulilin Zhou, Operations Officer. EA31P



FOR OFECIAL USE ONLY
Table of Contents
Preface ..............i
Evaluation Summary .............                                       ii
PART I. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A.   Statement/Evaluation of Objectives. 
B. Achievement of Objectives                    .2
C.   Major Factors Affecting the Project            .8
D. Project Sustainability                     .9
E. Bank Performance                         .9
F. Borrower Performance                       .0
G. Assessment of Outcome .                                        II
H. Future Operations .11
I. Key Lessons Learned                       .12
PART II. STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1:  Summary of Assessments .14
Table 2:    Related Bank Loans/Credits             .15
Table 3:  Project Timetable .16
Table 4:  Loan Disbursements .16
Table 5:    Key Indicators for Project Implementation .17
Table 6:    Key Indicators for Project Operation .17
Table 7:    Studies Included in the Project         .8
Table 8A: Project Costs .19
Table 8B: Project Financing .19
Table 9:  Economic Costs & Benefits .20
Table 10:   Status of Legal Covenants .21
Table 11:   Compliance with Operational Manual Statements .22
Table 12:   Bank Resources: Staff Inputs .22
Table 13:  Bank Resources: Missions .23
Table 14:   Credit Allocation and Utilization by PFIs .24
Table 15:   Subsector Distribution of Subloans .25
Table 16:   Regional Distribution of Subloans .25
Table 17:   Loan Collection Ratios by PFIs .26
APPENDIX A: Mission's Aide Memoire .27
APPENDIX B:  Borrower's Evaluation Report .31
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






i
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
(Loan 3040-IND)
PREFACE
1.    This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Industrial
Restructuring Project in Indonesia, for which Loan 3040-IND in the amount of US$284
million was approved in April 1989, and became effective in September 1989.
2.    The Loan closed on June 30, 1996, two years later than originally foreseen.
Cancellations of partial loan proceeds were made in 1993, 1994 and 1995 in an aggregate
amount of US$47 million upon requests from the Borrower. Final disbursements were
made on November 15, 1996, bringing cumulative total disbursements to US$
234,880,223.94, and cancellation of the undisbursed amount of US$2,083,661.55.
3.    This ICR was prepared by Darius Mans, Senior Industrial Economist, and Yuling
Zhou, Operations Officer, EA3IP Division of the East Asia and Pacific Region, and was
reviewed by Messrs. Peter R. Scherer, Division Chief (EA3IP), and Ben Fisher, Acting
Operations Advisor (EA3DR). Preparation of this ICR was begun in July 1996 prior to
the Bank's ICR mission which visited Indonesia from August 19 to 31, 1996. It is based
on material in the project files as well as on findings in the field of the ICR mission. The
Borrower contributed to the preparation of the ICR by providing project related data, as
well as comments and contributing views, which are reflected in the mission's aide-
memoire (Appendix A). It also has prepared a separate evaluation report, which is
attached as Appendix B.






ii
INDONESIA
INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
(Loan 3040-IND)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.    The Industrial Restructuring Project (IRP) was one of the last of a series of
financial intermediary loans to Indonesia that had been conceived largely as a
continuation of the structural adjustment lending which began in the mid 1980s in
support of Indonesia's overall economic deregulation program. In addition to this
project, this broad strategy was supported by a combination of two earlier Bank-financed
trade policy adjustment loans (Nos. 2780-4ND and 2937-IND), two earlier export
development projects (Loans 2702-IND and 2979-IND), a parallel Small and Medium
Industrial Enterprise Project (Loan 3041-IND), a subsequent Private Sector Development
Project (Loan 3080-IND), and ultimately the Financial Sector Development Project (Loan
3526-IND). The IRP was aimed specifically at fostering a conducive policy and
regulatory environment for efficient growth of the industrial sector, and strengthening the
sector's supply response through targeted financial and technical assistance.
Project Objectives
2.    The project's main objective was to promote deregulation of three targeted
subsectors of industry--textiles, pulp and paper, and engineering--through support for
subsector policy reforms, including the provision of credit and technical assistance to
enterprises in those subsectors, with the objective of helping them become more efficient
competitors in an increasingly market-oriented economy. It was envisaged as the first of
a series of similar operations which would eventually reach all of manufacturing industry.
A secondary objective of the project was to improve the capability of the participating
financial institutions to evaluate the technical, environmental, financial and economic
aspects of restructuring proposals.
3.    The project consisted of an investment credit component, a technical assistance
(TA) component, and a studies component. About 94 percent of the Bank loan for the
project was to be onlent through 12 participating financial institutions (PFIs) to finance
restructuring projects in the three subsectors at current Indonesian market rates. The TA
component involved: (a) the planned--but never executed--provision of training to
improve the PFIs' project appraisal capabilities; (b) financing equipment modernization
of the public technology support institutions in the three subsectors and equipment
imports for a regional testing and calibration network; and, (c) the provision of firm-level
TA in the three subsectors by international and local consultants through a cost-sharing
program, which was co-financed by a grant from the Belgian government. The studies



component financed several sectoral studies which were intended to prepare a second
industrial restructuring project.
4.    Overall, the project objectives were responsive to the restructuring needs of the
three subsectors, including plant modernization and rehabilitation, rationalization of
product mix, improvements to product quality and technology upgrading.  Those
subsectors were under increasing competitive pressure because of continuing deregulation
of the economy. However, the project design was overly ambitious given its multiple
secondary objectives (including improved provision of technical services and
strengthening of the PFIs' subproject appraisal capability) and the intention to link those
components with implementation of the line of credit under the project. Arrangements
for implementation of these technical assistance components of the project proved to be
inadequate.
Implementation Experience and Results
5.    Overall, the principal project objectives were achieved.  The Government
implemented the trade reform and deregulatio.^ program set out in the policy letter which
underpinned the project. The line of credit under the project played a useful role in
facilitating the restructuring of a number of firms in three important subsectors of
industry.  However, the technical assistance components of the project were not
implemented as planned. Nevertheless, the Government (and the Bank) learned some
valuable lessons in the process which were drawn upon in later policy initiatives to
improve technology service provision and in a subsequent Bank-supported project.
Implementation of the project took longer than expected because of delays in project
start-up in several areas and the need for additional time to complete some key activities.
After two extensions, the project closed two years later than expected at appraisal.
6.    The credit line for restructuring investments responded effectively to a shortage of
term finance in the banking system. Much of it was committed quickly because of strong
demand initially, and also partly because adjustments in the onlending rate of Bank funds
lagged developments in market rates. It also was committed by and large on projects
with good rates of return that were implemented successfully by established, well-
performing companies. Most of the subprojects were for the purpose of modernization,
technology upgrading and product quality improvement, combined with some capacity
expansions. While all subprojects were expected to generate financial and economic rates
of return of more than 15 percent, it is difficult to assess to what extent these rates of
return actually have been achieved due to very limited data since the PFIs were not
required to calculate ex-post rates of return. Nevertheless, based on the ex-post rates of
return that were calculated and the ICR mission's visits to a representative sample of
subprojects, it seems that the ex-ante rates of return were achieved in most cases. About
80 percent of the line of credit went into the restructuring projects in the textiles sector,
which was booming in Indonesia because of the rapid growth of export and domestic
demand. The line of credit also helped to improve the supply of term credit for the
engineering industry, which has been a subsector dominated by small and medium scale



iv
firms that were little known or lent to by the PFIs before the project. For pulp and paper,
on the other hand, the impact of the credit line was limited since many enterprises in that
sector are parts of joint ventures and conglomerates that were able to borrow offshore at
more attractive terms.
7.    Commitments under the line of credit slowed down after the Government's
tightening of domestic credit in May 1990 as steep increases in interest rates led to cash
flow problems in many industries. In response to a request from the client, Bank
management extended the deadline for subloan submissions by one year. The extensions
were granted in the context of a reallocation of funds among the PFIs based on their track
record of disbursements. Repayment rates on the credit line generally were acceptable,
except for four of the State-owned PFIs. Those four PFIs accounted for about 30 percent
of total disbursements under the line of credit. By the end of 1995 they had an estimated
$32 million in arrears of principal, accounting for over 90 percent of the total arrears of
all the PFIs. During project implementation the Bank recommended a number of actions
to be taken to improve collections, and some of the PFIs--particularly BRI--became more
proactive in trying to improve their performance. Given the high interest rate climate
prevailing in Indonesia, the Bank became concerned about the deteriorating portfolios of
those PFIs that did not improve their collection efforts and the slow growth in
commitments of the credit line. Consequently, the Bank requested GOI to consider
cancellation of the uncommitted funds allocated for the line of credit and government
agreed.
8.    The collections problems of these banks partly reflected generic issues in the
banking system. By the early 1990s the Bank had become increasingly concerned about
the financial health of the state banks and their capacity to respond effectively to the
financial sector deregulation measures that had begun in 1983, and had substantially
increased competition and the role of private banks in the banking system. Bank
management came to the conclusion that a project--like the IRP--with lines of credit and
technical assistance to improve the appraisal capacity of the state banks was not the
appropriate instrument to address these generic issues.  Consequently, during the
implementation period for the project, Bank management took several actions:
*  Analytical work was undertaken to take stock of the issues in the financial
sector, resulting in the Financial Sector Study that was completed in 1990;
*  Asset quality reviews of the state-owned banks were carried out in 1991 and
1992, financed under a Project Preparation Facility for the Financial Sector
Development Project (FSDP);
*  The Bank changed its strategy in the sector by deciding to discontinue the
practice of providing traditional lines of credits to the banks as had been
planned earlier;
*  The Bank adopted a new sector-wide approach through the FSDP (Loan
3526-IND) which was approved in early 1993 and was designed to:
strengthen prudential banking regulation and central bank supervision of all
banks; promote the state commercial banks (SCBs) competitiveness and



v
efficiency through the implementation of agreed Action Plans and
performance standards; and recapitalize the SCBs so that they would meet the
tougher new prudential regulations;'
In line with the above, the Bank did not approve GOI's request for a further extension of
the closing date for the line of credit under the project and canceled the underutilized
portion of the loan allocated for it ($45 million of the original allocation of $265 million).
9.    Performance of the technical assistance program supported under the project,
which accounted for less than 6 percent of the total loan amount, was unsatisfactory.
Bank management canceled the entire allocation from the loan for the training program
for the PFIs ($400,000) because of a lack of ownership of the program. The institutional
strengthening program, aimed at improving the capabilities of the public technology
support institutions (PTSIs) in the three subsectors, had mixed results. Some equipment
modernization took place at the PTSIs with support under the project after substantial
delay. But until the 1996 change in government regulations to grant those institutions
greater autonomy, they had limited incentives to proactively provide technology support
services to industry, nor did the PTSIs have the management systems to operate more
commercially and be more demand driven. The regional calibration and testing network
established under the project has not been effective for similar reasons. It also does not
operate effectively as a network and capacity utilization is low. The Bank did not
approve Government's request to extend this subcomponent of the project because it was
unlikely to meet its developmental objectives. Initially some of the subsector studies
carried out under the project suffered from lack of ownership by government, weak
government and Bank supervision and little follow up in terms of implementation of
recommendations. However, several subsequent studies and the start-up activities of the
Policy Analysis Unit which were financed under the project, provided GOI with support
for carrying out the trade reform and deregulation measures outlined in the policy letter
which underpinned the loan.
10.   The matching grant program to improve the provision of technical services to
industry had mixed results. Bank funds were used to finance the provision of technical
support services by government-selected consultants under the scheme and those services
were provided only to a few firms and at a substantial subsidy. Cost recovery under the
program was also substantially below expectations. Moreover, implementation of the
program was substantially delayed. As a result, technical services under the program
became available only after the line of credit had been substantially committed, although
the original project design was to have those services available up front so as to help
generate good subprojects for the line of credit and assist the PFIs in appraising
subprojects. Nevertheless, the program focused attention on the need to improve the
overall incentive framework for the provision of technical support services and provided
BAPINDO, a state-owned development finance institution that participated in the IRP, was excluded
from the FSDP because it had too many issues to be addressed and there was no indication of a
satisfactory restructuring plan being in place.



vi
valuable lessons which were drawn upon in a subsequent Industrial Technology
Development Project (Loan 3972-IND).
11.   Overall, Bank performance during project preparation was satisfactory. However,
project implementation would have benefited from: (a) having indicators and targets for
project performance at the outset and (b) addressing upfront the incentive framework
facing the public technology support institutions.  Bank supervision of the project
initially was weak, including inadequate record keeping and delays in subloan approvals.
But task management of the project was changed and project supervision was intensified
midway during project implementation.  For example, on the technical assistance
program the decision was taken to write off those components beyond repair and
restructure the remaining ones with clear objectives and stringent performance
benchmarks. The borrower was advised of unsatisfactory performance of that component
and was put on notice that non-compliance would lead to cancellation; and fairly tight
performance benchmarks were set where there were none at project entry. These actions
led to an intensified effort by the borrower to implement that component of the project.
Ultimately, the performance targets which had been set were met, and in some cases they
were exceeded.
12.   On the government side, project preparation was satisfactory. However, project
implementation was adversely affected by weak overall project management and
supervision. There also were delays in the recruitment of consultants and procurement
processing. Government also failed to comply with the loan covenant for the collections
performance of the PFIs.
Summary of Findings, Key Lessons Learned and Future Operations
13.   The project's simultaneous focus on multiple beneficiary target groups--
government, enterprises, PFIs and providers of technical support services--made the
project too complex, particularly in the absence of clear performance objectives and a
coordinating mechanism to systematically review performance and take corrective
measures. The overall lesson is to carefully limit project objectives and have agreed
performance indicators, implementation plans and monitoring systems in place to help
ensure that they are achieved.
14.   The key lessons learned are as follows:
(i)  The experience with the IRP confirmed the validity of the Bank's
Operational Directive 8.30 of February 1992 on Financial Sector
Operations;
(ii) Support for the provision of technical services to firms needs to be driven
by the demands of those enterprises, rather than be supply driven, and
should be based on supporting measures to improve the public and private
provision of those services;



vii
(iii)  Build into projects systems to monitor subproject implementation results
and TA impact in order to be able to learn during project implementation
and cancel those components that are not working early on and redesign the
remaining ones as needed to achieve developmental impact; and,
(iv)  Successful execution of studies requires participation of all stakeholders
throughout the process, from the preparation of their terms of reference
through their completion, and adequate capacity in the implementing
agencies to manage them effectively;
15.   At the time the project was appraised, it was expected that it would be the first of
a series of subsequent operations to support the restructuring of other subsectors that
would eventually cover all of the industrial sector. However, as a result of the experience
gained with this first project, the Bank and Government adopted a different, broader
approach. A Financial Sector Development Project (Loan 3526-IND) was developed to
address the generic issues in the financial sector, which should improve the provision of
credit to industry. The Industrial Technology Development Project (Loan 3972-IND)
was developed to improve the provision of public and private technology support services
to industry and the formulation and coordination of industrial and technology strategies
and policies.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
(Loan 3040-IND)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. STATEMENT/EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES
1.    The project's main objective was to increase the supply of unsubsidized term
finance and high-quality technical assistance to enterprises undergoing restructuring in
three industrial subsectors-textiles, pulp and paper, and engineering. The project was
envisaged as the first of a series of similar operations which would eventually reach all of
manufacturing industry. A secondary objective of the project was to improve the
capability of the participating financial institutions to evaluate the technical,
environmental, financial and economic aspects of restructuring proposals.
2.    To achieve the above objectives, the project consisted of an investment credit
component, a technical assistance (TA) component and a studies component. The
investment credit component (US$265 million) accounted for about 94 percent of the
Bank loan. It was managed as a line of credit through 12 participating financial
institutions (PFIs) to finance viable restructuring proposals I of industrial enterprises in
the textiles, pulp and paper, and engineering subsectors. Bank funds were onlent by the
Ministry of Finance (MOF) and Bank Indonesia (BI) at rates based on the cost of PFIs'
deposits. The Bank loan was used to finance physical investment (including permanent
working capital) subloans of up to $10 million. The TA component (US$17.1 million)
involved: (a) the planned-but never executed-provision of training to improve the
PFIs' project appraisal capabilities; (b) financing equipment modernization of the public
technology support institutions in the three subsectors and equipment for a regional
testing and calibration network for industry; and, (c) provision of firm-level TA in the
three subsectors by international and local consultants through a cost-sharing program
which was co-financed by a grant from the Belgian government. The studies component
(US$1.9 million) was intended to finance several industrial sector studies for preparation
of a second restructuring project.
3.    The IRP formed part of the Bank's strategy in support of Indonesian industrial
sector development to foster a conducive policy and regulatory environment for efficient
Eligible restructuring investments comprised such activities as rehabilitation, modernization,
rationalization of product mix, improvements to product quality, balancing of production line,
upgrading of technology, strengthening of organizational and managerial capabilities, and
amelioration of industrial pollution. Expansion of existing industrial activities was eligible for
financing only if it's associated with at least one of the above restructuring activities. Investments for
relocation of production facilities due to environmental and other requirements were eligible also.



-2-
sector growth, and strengthen the sector's supply response through targeted financial and
technical assistance. Besides this project, this strategy was supported by a combination
of two earlier Bank-financed trade policy adjustment loans (Nos. 2780-IND and 2937-
IND), two earlier export development projects (Loans 2702-IND and 2979-IND), and a
parallel small and medium industrial enterprise project (Loan 3041-IND). The project
was predicated on continued trade and industrial policy reforms in the three targeted
industrial sectors, as outlined in a Letter of Policy Intent from the Government of
Indonesia (March 1989).
4.    While the project objectives were responsive to the need to facilitate industrial
restructuring, project design was relatively complex, involving multiple sets of
beneficiaries-industrial enterprises, participating financial institutions, several public
technology support institutions and select local and international consulting firms.
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
Increasing the Supply of Credit for Restructuring Three Industrial Subsectors
5.   Involvement of the PFIs. During project preparation the government expressed a
preference for only state-owned financial institutions in the project. However, after
discussions with the Bank, Government ultimately agreed to expand the list of PFIs in the
project to include some private banks as well. As a result, the Bank loan was made
available to twelve participating financial institutions (PFIs) which were judged to be
suitable intermediaries for lending to the three subsectors of industry. As a group they
accounted for about 75 percent of banking assets in Indonesia and mobilized most of the
savings. They included five state commercial banks (SCBs, i.e., Bank Negara Indonesia -
BNI, Bank Dagang Negara - BDN, Bank Rakyat Indonesia - BRI, Bank Bumi Daya -
BBD and Bank Ekspor Impor Indonesia - BEII); one state-owned development finance
institution (BAPINDO); two non-bank financial institutions: one predominantly privately
owned (Private Development Finance Company of Indonesia - PDFCI) and the other
predominantly state owned (UPPINDO); and four private commercial banks (PCBs, i.e.,
Bank Niaga, Bank Duta, Bank Bali and Bank Umum Nasional). Each of the banks has
been active under the project, with the SCBs absorbing the majority of the funds
disbursed (US$141 million, or 64 percent of the total), followed by the development
finance and non-bank financial institutions (US$53 million, or 24 percent of the total).
The PCBs absorbed about 12 percent of the funds used (US$25 million). Among the
PFIs, the main participants, in terms of number of subloans, were BNI and BBD which
each made 11 out of a total of 75 subloans under the project. While most PFIs utilized
close to their preallocated Bank loan share, a few PFIs reduced their allocations due to
lower than expected credit demand (BEII and Bank Bali) while some others increased
their share (BRI and Bank Niaga). Four PFIs (BDN, BBD, BAPINDO and Bank Bali)
had major shares of their allocations canceled due to their inability to use the funds.
About US$45 million from the credit line was ultimately canceled because of the lack of
demand with the Government's tightening of domestic credit in the early 1990s.



-3-
6.    Firm-level and Subproject Achievements. Most of the subprojects were for the
purpose of modernization, technology upgrading and product quality improvement,
combined with capacity expansion. While all subprojects were expected to generate
financial and economic rates of return of more than 15 percent, it is difficult to assess to
what extent these rates of return have been achieved due to very limited data availability
(most of the PFIs do not calculate ex-post rates of return). However, according to the
calculations which were made and the ICR mission's visits to a sample of subprojects, it
seems the ex-ante rates of return have been achieved in most cases. Moreover, the three
subsectors have performed well overall in terms of output and export growth and many of
the beneficiaries were leading firms in those subsectors, and used the credit line to
enhance their competitiveness at home and abroad.
7.    Sectoral and Regional Impact. The credit component helped to improve the
supply of term credit for the three targeted subsectors. The textiles subsector, which was
booming in Indonesia because of the rapid growth of export and domestic demand,
received a major part of the Bank loan (82% by value; 68% in terms of the number of
subloans), followed by engineering subsector (13% by value; 14% in terms of the number
of subloans) which was dominated by small and medium scale firms that were little
known or lent to by the PFIs before the project, and pulp and paper subsector (5%; 10%
in terms of number of subloans). For pulp and paper, the impact of the credit line was
probably marginal since many enterprises in that subsector are parts of joint ventures and
conglomerates that were able to borrow offshore.
8.    When the project was prepared neither the Bank nor GOI expressed any concern
regarding the spatial location of beneficiary firms under the project. Nonetheless, by
region, utilization of the credit line was concentrated on West Java (Jakarta and Bandung,
with 65% of the Bank funds), followed by Central Java (29%), East Java (4%) and
Sumatera (2%). Other areas of the country did not receive any project funding.
9.    Onlending at Market Rates. To bring the cost of Bank funds in line with that of
other sources of funds, Bank loan proceeds were passed onto the PFIs at a rate, adjusted
every six months, equal to the weighted average cost of their deposits over the previous
six months. 2  The PFIs relent the loan proceeds at prevailing market rates. The
onlending formula became an important factor in Bank loan utilization. In an effort to
curb inflation and an overheating economy, the Government tightened domestic liquidity
in May 1990. Consequently, domestic deposit and lending rates increased rapidly in the
second half of 1990. Since adjustments in the onlending rate of Bank funds lagged
developments in market rates because of the formula, utilization of the Bank loan
accelerated as the PFIs capitalized on the higher lending spreads. By 1991 US$125
million of the Bank loan had already been disbursed, compared to US$110 million
expected at appraisal for that period (see Table 4).
2The differential between the Bank's prevailing interest rate and the domestic onlending rate to the PFIs
was also to cover the Government's foreign exchange risk on the Bank loan.



-4-
10.   Subloan Realizations. Overall, US$220 million of the Bank loan was disbursed
for a total of 75 subloans by the PFIs (the remaining US$45 million was canceled). The
average subloan size was US$2.9 million. Eight subloans were at or near US$10 million
(the maximum subloan size), with a combined subloan disbursements of US$93 million
(42% of the total credit line disbursements); 27 subloans were above US$1.5 (the free-
limit) and below US$10 million (with a combined subloan disbursements of US$99
million, or 45% of the total); the remaining 40 subloans were below the free-limit (with a
combined subloan disbursements of US$28 million, or 13% of the total). All the
subloans were within the agreed size limits (US$0.25-10 million) with two exceptions
which were above the ceiling. Such exceptions were anticipated at the appraisal and
recorded in the SAR. The average subloan maturities were 5 years including a grace
period of 6-12 months. The initial onlending rates to final borrowers followed the overall
interest rate trends in Indonesia and have been in the range of 19-23 percent per annum.
11.   Collection Performance. The project included a stipulation that all the PFIs
should maintain a loan collection ratio of at least 80 percent (with the exception of 77.5
percent for BAPPINDO). During the project all the privately-owned PFIs maintained
satisfactory loan collection rates. However, some of the state-owned PFIs were not able
to do so: by 1993 (Table 17) there were severe collection problems under the project at
BRI, BDN, BAPPINDO and UPPINDO. Together, they accounted for $65 million or
about 30 percent of total disbursements under the Bank loan. By the end of 1995 these
four banks had an estimated $32 million in arrears of principal, which was equivalent to
7.2 percent of total disbursements under the Project (including PFIs' contributions), and
were responsible for over 90 percent of the arrears of all the PFIs.
12.   During project implementation the Bank identified several main reasons for this
arrears problem, including: (a) tight monetary policy since 1990 which led to high
interest rates and difficulties for subloan borrowers to repay and restricted the availability
of working capital with the result that some factories were operating below their installed
capacity; (b) subproject appraisals did not adequately address management, technical and
marketing issues, resulting in unexpected implementation delays and cost overruns; and
(c) recession in Indonesia's trade partner countries which caused textile companies
difficulties in exporting their products.
13.   During supervision the Bank recommended that the PFIs take the collection issue
seriously and give high priority to arrears collection and more careful appraisal of new
investment projects. The PFIs were requested to develop action plans to improve
collections, including plans to: closely monitor the progress and performance of their
subprojects; strengthen their monitoring and supervision capabilities through staff
training; and, pay more attention to subborrower's past performance and their other
business activities in the appraisal of specific subproject proposals.
14.   As a result, some of the PFIs, e.g., BRI, became more proactive in trying to
improve subloan collections under the project. More frequent site visits to subprojects
were undertaken. Detailed analyses of the reason for payment delays were carried out



-5-
and action plans for improving collections were agreed with subborrowers including the
sale of non-productive assets, arranging for joint venture partnerships, company
liquidations, write-offs of bad loans and reschedulings were negotiated where necessary.
However, it appears that other state-owned PFIs, e.g. BBD and BAPPINDO, did not
intensify their efforts to collect on delinquent loans under the project. Given the high
interest rate climate prevailing in Indonesia, the Bank became concerned about the
deteriorating portfolios of those PFIs that did not improve their collection efforts and the
slow growth in commitments of the credit line. Consequently, the Bank requested GOI to
consider cancellation of the uncommitted funds allocated for the line of credit and
government agreed.
15.   The poor collection performance of these state-owned PFIs reflected more generic
issues in the banking system that needed to be addressed. By the late 1980s the Bank had
become increasingly concerned about the health of the state banks and their capacity to
respond effectively to the financial deregulation measures that began in 1983 which were
aimed at substantially increasing competition and the role of private banks in the banking
system.3 Recognizing the changed financial sector environment, the Bank concluded that
directed credit projects such as the IRP, with a little technical assistance to the banks,
were not the appropriate instruments for addressing the generic issues in the banking
system.
16.   Consequently, midway through implementation of the project Bank management
took several actions, including a change in the overall strategy for the financial sector and
in implementation of the IRP:
*  Analytical work was undertaken to take stock of the issues in the financial
sector, resulting in the Financial Sector Study which was completed in 1990;
*  Asset quality reviews of the state-owned banks were carried out in 1991 and
1992, financed under a Project Preparation Facility for the Financial Sector
Development Project (FSDP);
*  The Bank changed its strategy in the sector by deciding to discontinue the
practice of providing traditional lines of credits to the banks as had been
planned earlier;
*  The Bank adopted a new sector-wide approach through the FSDP (Loan
3526-IND) which was approved in early 1993 and was designed to:
strengthen prudential banking regulation and central bank supervision of all
banks; promote the state commercial banks (SCBs) competitiveness and
efficiency through the implementation of agreed Action Plans and
3By 1991 the private banks' share of total bank deposits had risen to 45 percent from less than 20 percent
in 1982.



-6-
performance standards; and recapitalize the SCBs so that they would meet the
tougher new prudential regulations;4
In line with the above, the Bank did not approve GOI's request for a further extension of
the closing date for the line of credit under the project and canceled the underutilized
portion of the loan allocated for it ($45 million of the original allocation of $265 million).
17.   Additionality of Bank Funds. A major aim  of the project was to generate
additional term finance in support of industrial restructuring. Prior to the project, there
was a distinct shortage in the availability of term money in the banking system. As a
result, the investment component provided the PFIs with a largely new credit line. In
some cases, beneficiary firms leveraged those resources to gain access to international
capital markets at better terms. However, a shortage of term finance persists in the
banking system because of more systemic problems in the financial sector, which a credit
line and some technical assistance are not capable of addressing.
Strengthen Technical Support Services for Textiles, Pulp and Paper, Engineering
and Environmental Management
18.   About US$12 million from the project was allocated to finance short- and long-
term consultants engaged by technical service groups (TSGs) created under the project to
help firms in the targeted subsectors improve technological capability, productivity and
environmental management. This component was substantially delayed in starting up
because of procurement delays. Consequently, the technical services under the scheme
became available only after the line of credit had been substantially committed, although
the original project design was to have those services available up front so as to help
generate good subprojects for the line of credit and assist the PFIs in appraising
subprojects. Nevertheless, the TSGs provided some useful services to a few firms and
some training to the existing R&D institutes, e.g., in the area of environmental
management practices.
19.   Initially, the TSGs did not carefully target their services to meet firms' needs nor
did they aggressively market themselves. With the encouragement of the Bank during
supervision, by mid 1993-nearly four years into the project-the TSGs had: begun to
systematically survey their potential clients needs, identified specific services they could
provide, aggressively marketed those services and set performance benchmarks to be
achieved. Despite these efforts, the matching grant program provided services to very
few firms in the subsector and at a substantial subsidy since firms were charged only 10
percent of the cost of services, billable mandays were a low proportion of total consultant
time devoted to the program and low collection rates from customers. Contrary to the
BAPPINDO was excluded from the project because it had too many issues to be addressed and there was
no indication of a satisfactory restructuring plan being in place.



-7-
risk assessment in the Staff Appraisal Report, the actual demand for technical services
under the scheme turned out to be well below expectations. Moreover, there were
tensions between the TSGs and the existing R&D institutes in the three subsectors which
were never resolved, including sharp discrepancies in staff salaries between the two
groups of institutions and lack of real autonomy for the TSGs.
20.   The program proved to be unsustainable and at the close of this component the
TSGs were disbanded. Nevertheless, the experience gained under that component of the
project led to a follow-on project specialized on improving the provision of technology
support services. In addition, the TSGs provided the subsector R&D institutes with
which they were loosely associated with a useful demonstration, and some training of
institute staff, of how to promote and deliver technical services to industry. It also
demonstrated to the Government the need to give the institutes involved in the IRP, as
well as others, the greater autonomy and incentives needed to become more demand
driven, commercially oriented and proactive in the delivery of technology support
services. In this context, it should be noted that about $1.4 million from the project was
used for equipment upgrading at the R&D institutes operating in the project subsectors.
While that support helped replace some outmoded equipment in those labs, the project
did not address the fundamental need for changing the incentives for those institutes to
provide services to industry and the need for business plans and management upgrading
to strengthen those services.  Clearly, these could not be compensated for by just
technical assistance and equipment modernization.
21.   About US$3 million from the project was allocated to import testing equipment
and spare parts to provide training to help strengthen testing and calibration services to
the engineering subsector, and to support the adoption of international standards. About
500 (mostly ISO) standards were adopted. But the regional testing and calibration
network established to implement the program has not been effective. It consists of
separate units and does not operate effectively as a network. Those units had little
incentive to be proactive in the delivery of testing and calibration services. In some
cases, staff training, and equipment maintenance and selection in those units were
inadequate; site selection was poor; and, linkages with neighboring R&D institutes were
weak. There were delays in equipment procurement beyond the closing date which
adversely affected the ability of some of the units to provide services effectively. As a
result of these factors, capacity utilization is low. The component also had limited impact
because it did not address some of the more systemic issues in testing and calibration
services for industry, including the fact that awareness of the importance of testing and
quality support services is low in industry, the national standards system was fragmented,
and very few labs in Indonesia are internationally accredited to certify that firms are able
to meet international standards.
Evaluate the Restructuring Potential of Other Industries
22.   About US$2 million from the project was used to finance a number of subsector
studies under the project (Table 7). Several of the studies carried out under the project



-8-
suffered from lack of ownership by government and weak supervision of consultants by
government and the Bank. As a result, in some cases there was little follow up in terms
of implementation of the recommendations of the studies.
Other Objectives
23.   A secondary objective of the project was to improve the capability of the
participating financial institutions to appraise restructuring projects. US$0.4 million from
the loan was allocated for training the PFIs in subproject appraisal. However, this
component was never implemented and was canceled from the loan in early 1994. The
PFIs would have benefited from additional training since the sensitivity analyses were
done in a very mechanical fashion; rarely did they focus on key underlying project risks
such as market risk and delays in project start-up.
24.   As a part of the project design, environmental concerns were to be considered an
important aspect of the restructuring proposals. It was required that all subproject
applications be submitted with an Environmental Impact Assessment in accordance with
prevailing Indonesian laws and regulations.  It appears that this requirement was
generally fulfilled. This was verified in the Bank's review of all subprojects subject to
prior review. Moreover, most of the subproject sponsors under the project were medium
and large firms which employed modern pollution abatement technologies Furthermore,
all the enterprises in the textiles and pulp and paper subsectors that the ICR mission
visited either have their own waste water treatment facilities or have been using
integrated disposal facilities located in the industrial zones. Also, the TA component of
the project included support for the provision of technical support services in the area of
environmental management.  Although the technical service group (para. 18) for
environmental services provided very few services to industry directly, they helped
strengthen the environmental services of some of the R&D institutions. Nevertheless, it
should be noted that firm-level demand for technical assistance in these areas remains
somewhat limited because of weak enforcement of environmental standards in Indonesia.
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
25.   Government's tightening of domestic credit in May 1990 had a considerable
impact on the project in two ways. Initially, and for a brief period, it helped accelerate
subloan commitment as the credit line became a particularly attractive funding source for
the PFIs given the lag in the Bank's onlending rate adjustment, and as the PFIs'
dependence on Bank funds increased in view of tightened liquidity. However, credit
tightening subsequently led to steep increases in interest rates, which contributed to cash
flow problems and unsatisfactory repayment performance for some of the less resilient
borrowers under the line of credit, and a marked decline in the demand for funds from the
credit line to the extent that US$45 million from the credit line ultimately had to be
canceled (para 5). The performance of the PFIs were also adversely affected by more
generic issues in the financial sector, which are being addressed under the Financial
Sector Development Project (Loan 3526-IND), including the need to improve day-to-day



-9-
management, loan recoveries, loan supervision, capital adequacy and provisioning (para
16).
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
26.   The sustainability of the project's achievements differs by type of project
objective. With regard to the main focus of the project, i.e., increasing the supply of
credit for restructuring the three subsectors, project sustainability is likely.  The
economic deregulation program in Indonesia, which has been supported by the Bank
through its overall policy dialogue and a number of lending operations including the
Industrial Restructuring Project, provides a stable macroeconomic environment and
liberal policy framework in which investment is driven by free market signals and
comparative advantage. It is expected that the policy environment will continue to drive
firms to: reduce the capacity of marginal and inefficient plants, and invest in the
modernization and expansion of other, more promising plants. In addition, barriers to
entry and exit in the project subsectors are low. It is expected that the financial sector
will be able to supply credit to those subsectors after the project given the familiarity the
PFIs' have developed with them. In addition, there is evidence that larger firms are
increasingly borrowing offshore for their modernization and restructuring projects given
Indonesia's open capital account.
27.   With regard to strengthening technical support services for those subsectors, the
specific activities supported under the project are not sustainable. The technical service
groups have all folded, the regional calibration and testing network is weak and the R&D
institutions in the three subsectors are still far from being demand driven and
commercially run.  However, based on the experience gained under the project,
Government recently has introduced programs and policy reforms aimed at encouraging
private provision of technical support services and the commercialization of the public
technology support institutions, with Bank support under the Industrial Technology
Development Project (Ln. 3972-IND), that will put technical support services for industry
on a sustainable path.
E. BANK PERFORMANCE
28.   Preparation and Appraisal. Project preparation took about 15 months until Board
approval, and involved five missions. Emphasis was placed on the mechanics of the line
of credit-given the need to avoid subsidies on credit extension and bring in for the first
time private banks in Bank credit projects in Indonesia-and on ways to improve the
provision  of technical services to  firms.   With  hindsight, however, project
implementation would have benefited from having clear performance indicators and
targets for project performance and addressing upfront the incentive framework facing the
public technology support institutions.
29.   Supervision. In the first years of project implementation, the Bank's review of
subloan appraisals was somewhat loose. There also were delays in approval of subloans,



-10-
but staff working on the project were changed and both were subsequently tightened.
Supervision of the institutional strengthening program under the project initially was also
inadequate. However, in 1993 Bank supervision began to focus on the incentive
framework for the PTSIs. By the end of the project that framework was substantially
changed with the introduction of measures--which were supported by the Bank in a
subsequent operation--to increase autonomy and accountability of the PTSIs.
30.   With regard to the technical services component, Bank supervision of this
component to get that component implemented as agreed was quite intensive, and the
supervision team and Bank management intervened on several occasions during project
implementation.  The borrower was advised of unsatisfactory performance of that
component and was put on notice that non-compliance would lead to cancellation; and
fairly tight performance benchmarks were set, where there were none at project entry.
These actions led to a redoubled effort by the borrower to implement that component of
the project. To facilitate those efforts, Bank management agreed to extend the closing
date for the component as requested by the borrower. Ultimately, the performance targets
which had been set were met, and in some cases they were exceeded.
31.  Initially there was poor Bank supervision of the subsector studies, although
midway through the project this was corrected. Bank management granted extensions of
the closing date for this part of the project because of delays in its start up and to support
the broader restructuring objectives of the project. As a result, several useful policy
studies were carried out, which proved to be effective in helping the Government design
and carry out its reform program.
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
32.   GOI committed to undertaking specific policy reforms in the three project
subsectors and to developing a reform program for public enterprises in its Letter of
Policy Intent for the project. These steps were largely carried out, including substantial
deregulation in steel, some rationalization of textile export quotas and partial divestiture
of government ownership of a number of public enterprises. These sector policies, and
the overall deregulation program aimed at maintaining macroeconomic stability,
promoting investment and competition, and creating a more open competitive banking
environment, had a positive impact on project performance. However, tight money
policies in 1990 adversely affected disbursements under the line of credit and affected the
collection performance of the PFIs (para 25).
33.   While reporting and auditing agreements were generally adhered to, Government
monitoring and supervision of the project should have been stronger, particularly in light
of the number of implementing agencies. Compliance with the legal covenants was
deficient, particularly in the area of maintaining agreed minimum collection ratios at the
PFIs. There also were delays in approvals for procurement of consultants under the TA
components of the project and submission of requests for loan reallocations. Management
of some of the consultant studies was inadequate. Institutional identities of some of the



-1 1-
TA units established under the project were unclear, e.g., the regional testing and
calibration network and the Technical Service Groups, as were their relationships with
existing institutions.
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
34.   Overall, project results are considered generally satisfactory for several reasons.
The Government complied with the trade reform and deregulation program of the policy
letter which underpinned the project. The line of credit under the project, which was the
main-component of the project and which accounted for 94 percent of the total loan
amount, facilitated the restructuring of a number of firms in three important subsectors of
industry. While the technical assistance components of the project were not implemented
as planned, Government (and the Bank) learned some valuable lessons from their
implementation which were drawn upon in later measures to improve technology service
provision and in a subsequent Bank-supported project.
35.   For beneficiary firms, the credit line provided timely assistance to their efforts to
respond to the intensification of competition that accompanied economic deregulation.
Those firms have grown substantially and increased exports. Also, despite the
cancellation of the PFI training program, the PFIs used the project effectively as an
opportunity to develop their capabilities to appraise restructuring proposals. The project
also provided several PFIs with their first experience in providing term finance.
Subsequently, some of the PFIs have developed this area of term finance for
modernization and restructuring as a new line of business, in part using funds repaid from
the subloans as well as their own resources.
36.   Although the project had a limited direct effect on the overall provision of
technical support services, firms in those subsectors used other channels, including their
in-house technical staff, foreign consultants they financed themselves, and their joint
venture partners to get their technical assistance needs met. Moreover, the lessons from
the project led to recent actions by the Government to improve the incentive framework
and management of the R&D institutes, which should substantially improve the provision
of technical support services.
H. FUTURE OPERATIONS
37.   Despite the intention during loan preparation, no further industrial restructuring
projects were developed. However, a Financial Sector Development Project (Loan 3526-
IND) was designed to address the financial sector system issues which Bank financed
credit lines, such as the one under the project, clearly were unable to address. The Bank
also followed up in 1995 with an Industrial Technology Development Project (Loan
3972-IND) which focused on improving the provision of technology support services for
industry. Formulation of that project drew heavily on the lessons learned from the
unsatisfactory experience with technical assistance under the IRP.



-12-
I. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
38.   As mentioned, the project was overly ambitious and complex in its design. The
project's simultaneous focus on multiple beneficiary target groups--government,
enterprises, PFIs and providers of technical support services--made the project too
complex, particularly in the absence of clear performance objectives and a coordinating
mechanism to systematically review performance and take corrective measures. The
overall lesson is to carefully limit project objectives and have agreed performance
indicators, implementation plans and monitoring systems in place to ensure that they are
achieved.
39.   The key lessons learned are as follows:
(i)   The experience with the IRP confirmed the validity of the Bank's
Operational Directive 8.30 of February 1992 on Financial Sector
Operations;
(ii)  Support for the provision of technical services to firms needs to be driven
by the demands of those enterprises, rather than be supply driven, and
should be based on supporting measures to improve the public and private
provision of those services;
(iii) Build into projects systems to monitor subproject implementation results
and TA impact in order to be able to learn during project implementation
and cancel components that are not working early on and redesign the
remaining ones as needed to achieve developmental impact; and,
(iv)  Successful execution of studies requires participation of all stakeholders
throughout the process, from the preparation of terms of reference through
completion of the studies, and adequate capacity in the implementing
agencies to manage them effectively;



- 13-
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
INDUSTRLAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
(LOAN 3040-IND)
PART II. STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1:  Summary of Assessment
Table 2:  Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3:  Project Timetable
Table 4:  Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5:  Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6:  Key Indicators for Project Operation
Table 7:  Studies Included in Project
Table 8A: Project Costs
Table 8B: Project Financing
Table 9:  Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Table 14: Credit Allocation and Utilization by PFIs
Table 15: Subsector Distribution of Subloans
Table 16: Regional Distribution of Subloans
Table 17: Loan Collection Ratios by PFIs



- 14-
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives         Substantial        Partial        Negligible      Not applicable
Macro Policies                      E                                  El
Sector Policies                      E3                                E                 El
Financial Objectives                I                                  El                L
Institutional Development           E=                                 =                 El
Physical Objectives                 E         
Poverty Reduction                   E                E                E3
Gender Issues                       I                i                El
Other Social Objectives
Environmental Objectives                                               []
Public Sector Management            El                                 E                 [
Private Sector Development                                             I]                El
Other (specify)                     E                L                 El
B. Project Sustainabilitv              Likely                  Unlikely                  Uncertain
(1)                     (v')                        (/)      l
Hizhly
C. Bank Performance                 satisfactory             Satisfactory                Deficient
(/)                     (1)                         (1) 
Identification                     [                                                    El
Preparation Assistance             I]                                                   [
Appraisal                          E                                                    El
Supervision                          i                                                  Li
Hinhly
D. Borrower Performance            satisfactory               Satisfactorv               Deficient
(/)                      (1/)                       (1)       I
Preparation                        [                                                    []
Implementation                     E                         []
Covenant Compliance                E                        LI
Operation (if applicable)          1                         L                          L
Highly                                              Hi hlY
E. Assessment of Outcome            satisfactory    Satisfacto      Unsatisfactory      unsatisfactory
(E)             (/)              (E) (l)
El                               El O       



-15-
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/Credit Title                      Purpose                       Year of         Status
Approval
Preceding Operations
Third Small Enterprise    Fixed investment and working capital financing of  FY84    Completed
Development Project    small enterprise projects in nearly all economic
(Ln. 2430-IND)         sectors.
First and Second Export  Increase productive capacity in export-oriented  FY86 & 89  Completed
Development Projects    manufacturing sector through lines of credit and
(Lns. 2702-fND &       TA
2979-IND)
First and Second BRI   Strengthen Unit Desa system to mobilize rural  FY87 & 91      Completed
Kupedes Small Credit   savings and provide nonsubsidized credit to small
Projects (Lns. 2800-   borrowers
IND & 3249-IND)
Parallel Operations
Small and Medium       Increase supply of term finance and high quality  FY89        Completed
Industrial Enterprise  TA to small and medium industry
Project (Ln. 304 1-IND)
Following Operations
Agricultural Financing    Support development of small and medium-sized  FY93          Under
Project (Ln. 3402-fND)   agricultural firms by strengthening commercial            implementation
banks in term lending to them, improve
availability term finance, and finance viable
investment projects
Financial Sector       Enhance efficiency of resource allocation in     FY93           Under
Development Project    banking sector by strengthening prudential                  implementation
(Ln. 3526-IND)         banking regulations and bank supervision, and
corporatization and financial strengthening of 5
state commercial banks
Industrial Technology    Enhance competitiveness of industry by: providing  FY96       Under
Development Project    public and private technology support services;             implementation
(Ln. 3972-IND)         facilitate access to technology support services;
strengthen public technology support services; and
improve the formulation and coordination of
industrial technology policies.



- 16-
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle                    Date Planned   Date Actual
Identification - Initial EPS               12/15/87         12/15/87
Second EPS                                 04/28/88         06/07/88
Final EPS                                  07/19/88         08/09/88
Preparation                                02/15/88         03/14/88
Preappraisal                               05/12/88         06/21/88
Appraisal                                  08/15/88         09/05/88
Negotiations                               01/16/89         03/15/89
Letter of Development Policy (if applicable)                03/10/89
Board Presentation                         03/20/89         04/25/89
Signing                                                     06/01/89
Effectiveness                              08/01/89         09/28/89
First Tranche Release (if applicable)        N.A.             N.A.
Mid-term Review (if applicable)              N.A.             N.A.
Second (and Third) Tranche Release (if      N.A.              N.A.
applicable)
Project Completion                         12/31/93         06/30/96
Loan Closing                               06/30/94         06/30/96
Table 4: Loan Disbursements (IBRD): Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ million)
FY90    FY91    FY92    FY93   FY94   FY95   FY96
Appraisal
Estimate        11.00   110.00   190.00   240.00  284.00  284.00  284.00
Actual           9.97   125.13   203.18   217.74  227.02  233.45  234.88
Actual as %      91%     114%     107%      91%    80%    82%    83%
of Estimate
Date of Final
Disbursement November 15, 1996



- 17-
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
I. Key Implementation Indicator in           Estimated         Actual
SAR/President's Report                   l_l
Credit Component                                          .-
1. No. of Participating Financial           12                12
Institutions
2. No. of Subloans                         N.A.               84
3. Average Subloan                         N.A.            2,612,596
TA Component                                                           l
1. Topical Studies                         N.A.               6
2. Training Participants                    200               0
3. Technical Service Groups                N.A.         134 man-months
service delivery
II. Modified Indicators (if applicable)        N.A.             N.A.
III Other Indicators (if applicable)           N.A.             N.A.
N.A. - Not Available
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
Estimated             Actual
I. Key Operating Indicators in           N.A.                 N.A.
SAR/President's Report
II Modified Indicators (if applicable)   N.A.                 N.A.
III Modified Indicators for Future       N.A.                 N.A.
Operation (if applicable)
N.A. - Not Available



-18-
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Study                        Purpose as Defined at Appraisal/Redefined               Status                   Impact of Study
Technology Development      To formulate a technology development plant that would cover a time  Completed    Several actions have been carried out, particularly
Plan for the Engineering    frame of technologies (products and processes technologies) and defines       on technical training, and strengthening the
Industries                  action on policy, technical training and investment, and institutional        technological capability of the engineering
support to strengthen the technological capability of the engineering         subsector through the provision of technical
subsector.                                                                    assistance by PTSIs to industrial firms, particularly
small and medium industry.
Industrial Restructuring of the  To develop strategy for development of the Indonesian electronics  Completed    Several policies have been derived using the
Electronics Subsector in    subsector, and develop restructuring program for priority segments and        results of the study.
Indonesia                   products.
Agro-Industry Subsector     Development of a strategy for the subsector as a whole and derivation of  Completed    As policy input for agrobased industry
Study                       a restructuring program for priority segments and enterprises.                development plan, needs to be developed into an
operation plan and action program.
Analyze the Packaging Sector  To develop a short and long term restructuring strategy for the packaging   Completed    Several policy formulations have been made,
in Indonesia                sector in Indonesia, and to prepare a realistic and practical action plan for  particularly on the area of taxes and tariffs. In
the implementation of the proposed strategy at national level, at the level   addition, one of MOlT's research institutes has
of firms, of their professional associations and of their environment.        been assigned to carry out R&D activities on
packaging technology.
Boosting Competitiveness and  To develop an actionable industrial policy program aimed at establishing   First two  The study comprised 3 phases, namely diagnostic,
Export Growth in the        a viable long-term and significant electronics industry in Indonesia, based  phases  implementation design and implementation
Electronics Industry.       on sustainable competitive advantage, and to suggest improvements at  completed.   support. Impact will be achieved after the final
policy level to promote export growth in the electronics industry and at      phase of the study is finished.
company level to promote competitiveness in electronics.



-19-
Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal Estimate (US$M)      Actual/Latest Estimate(US$M)
Item                   Local   Foreign     Total      Local    Foreign      Total
Costs     Costs                Costs       Costs
Investment 1/                     210.0      265.0     475.0      390.2       219.5    609.7
Technical Assistance
Institutional Strengthening      2.8       5.5       8.3         2.0        3.7       5.7
Technical Services               4.0      16.4      20.4         3.9       14.9      18.8
Training                         0.1       0.3       0.4          -           -        0
Studies                               -        2.0       2.0          -         1.8      1.8
|Total Project Cost a/              216.9     289.2     506.1      396.1       239.9    636.0
Note:  1/ The investment cost estimates at the time of appraisal were only indicative since the pipeline of
subloans was not fixed.
a/ Appraisal estimates included identifiable taxes and duties estimated at US$ 1.1 million equivalent.
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal Estimate (US$M)             Actual (US$M)
Source                  Local   Foreign     Total      Local    Foreign      Total
Costs     Costs                Costs       Costs
Government                           5.9         -       5.9        5.9           -      5.9
IBRD                                 1.0     283.0    284.0           -       234.9    234.9
Bilaterals (Belgium)                   -       6.2       6.2          -         5.0      5.0
PFIs                                67.0         -      67.0      182.3           -    182.3
Subproject Sponsors'                  -          -         -      207.9           -    207.9
contribution
TOTAL                   216.9     289.2    506.1       396.1       239.9    636.0



- 20 -
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
Economic Indicator           Appraisal Estimate      Latest Estimate
1. Line of Credit
Economic Rate of Return (ERR)   All subprojects with   N.A.
ERR above 15%.                              l
2. TA Component                                        ._l
Cost recovery at TSGs                   10%           Less than 4%
3. Training
No. of PFI staff trained in             200            None
subproj ect appraisal
N.A. - Not Available



- 21 -
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Original   Revised
Agreement Section  Covenant  Present fulfillment fulfillment           Description of covenant             Comments
type     status     date       date
Loan       3.01(b)      3         C                           Subsidiary loan agreements between GOI
and Bl, BNI, BDN, BRI, BEII, BAPINDO.
3.01(c)     3         C                           Subsidiary loan agreements between BI and
Bank Duta, Bank Niaga, PDFCI, &
l_____     ____________________           UPPINDO.
3.01(e)     3         C                           Arrangements for financing TA in LPPI
BAPINDO  2.02(a)        3         C                           Comply with schedule of procedures, terms
Proiect                                                       & conditions for subloans.
3.01(b)     I        CP                           Furnish audit reports for corporate accounts  1995 audit not yet
l_______                       and SOEs.                               received.
3.03        2        NC                           Maintain collection ratio of not less than
77.5% & loan arrears of not more than
l_ _ _ _   _____                          7.5%.
3.05        2         C                           Not borrow if debt service ratio less than
1.25 times.
3.06        2         C                           Maintain interest coverage ration of at least
1.5 times.
3.07        5         C                           Retain qualified advisor by 8/31/89.
3.08        5         C                           Prepare Long-term Strategy &
l_______ _________ __________ Implementation Plan by 3/31/90.
CB Project 2.02(a)      3         C                           Comply with schedule of procedures, terms
& conditions for subloans.
3.01(b)     t        CP                           Furnish audit reports for corporate accounts  BBD's 1995 audit not
.________ ________                        and SOEs.                               yet received.
3.03        2        CP                           Maintain collection ratio of not less than  Some PFIs' collection
80%.                                   ratios below 80%.
3.04        2         C                           Ensure disbursements of Bank funds do not
exceed equity.
NCB         2.02(a)     3         C                           Comply with schedule of procedures, terms
Proiect                                                       & conditions for subloans.
3.01 (b)    I         C                           Fumish audit reports for corporate accounts
and SOEs.
3.03        2        CP                            Maintain collection ratio of not less than  Some PFts' collection
80%.                                   ratios below 80%.
3.04        2         C                            Maintain a debt:equity ratio of not less than
80%.
Covenant types:
I. =  Accounts/audits                                    8. = Indigenous people
2. =  Financial performance/revenue generation from       9. = Monitoring, review, and reporting
beneficiaries                                     10.  = Project implementation not covered by categories 1-9
3. =  Flow and utilization of project funds              11.  = Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource
4. =  Counterpart funding                                       allocation
5. =  Management aspects of the project or executing     12. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy! regulatory/institutional
agency                                                   action
6. =  Environmental covenants                            13.  = Other
7. =  Involuntary resettlement
Present Status:
C = covenant complied with
CD = complied with after delay
CP = complied with partially
NC = not complied with



- 22 -
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement Number and Title        Describe and Comment on Lack of
Compliance
n.a.
n.a. - not applicable
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of Project Cycle   Planned           Revised            Actual
Weeks    US$    Weeks    US$    Weeks         US$
Preparation to         N.A.    N.A.    N.A.    N.A.        125.7   321.4
Appraisal                                                                 l
Appraisal              N.A.    N.A.    N.A.    N.A.         38.9    111.7
Negotiation through    N.A.    N.A.    N.A.    N.A.          8.5     24.3
Board Approval                                                            l
Supervision            N.A.    N.A.    N.A.    N.A.        136.6   411.8
Completion             N.A.    N.A.    N.A.    N.A.         14.2    49.3
Total              N.A.    N.A.    N.A.    N.A.        323.9    918.5
N.A. - Not Available



- 23 -
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Project Cycle    Month/   No. of    Days in       Specialization    Implement.  Development                       Type of Problems
Year    Persons    Field                            Status      Objective
Through Appraisal
Identification
Preparation       03/14/88
Preappraisal      06/21/88      4
Appraisal         09/05/88
Supervision
Supervision 1       10/89       3         5      Industrial Specialists    I            I        No major issues identified
Supervision 2       3/90        2         12     Industrial Specialists   2              1       ISP & TSP components: shortage of counterpart funding; delay
in recruitment of consultants
Supervision 3       2/91        2         5      Industrial Specialists    1             I       Delays in TSG component due to problems with BAPPENAS
guidelines for consultant fees.
Supervision 4       4/92        3         10      Industry & Finance       I            I        Slippage in training program.
Specialists
Supervision 5       5/93        4         10      Industry & Finance      2             2        Slower than expected commitment of credit line; limited
Specialists                                impact of TSGs and limited demand for their services; need
for performance benchmarks.
Supervision 6       12/93       2         11      Industry & Finance      2             2        Unsatisfactory subloan collection performance; delayed audit
Specialists                                reports from PFIs.
Supervision 7       5/94        1         15      Industry Specialist     S             S        Sustainability of TSGs and calibration network; need to
accelerate procurement under TA components.
Supervision 8       2/95        1         5       Industry Specialist     S             S        Overdue audit reports.
Supervision 9       1/96        1         5       Industry Specialist     S             S        Qualified & unsatisfactory audit of a PFI (BAPINDO); credit
component not fully disbursed; and sustainability of TSGs.
ICR Mission         8/96        2         10      Industry Specialist
Financial Analyst



- 24 -
Table 14: Credit Allocation and Utilization by PFIs
(US$'000)
PFI          Initial       Final      Cancellation   Disbursements                  No. of          %
Allocation    Allocation                                               Subloans
BBD              20,000         20,000       9,757.43      10,242.57         4.67          11           14.67
BDN              40,000         40,000       16,721.36     23,278.64        10.61          7             9.33
BEII             35,000         20,000         458.81      19,541.19         8.90          2             2.67
BNI              63,000         62,600       4,818.94      57,781.06        26.33          11           14.67
BRI              25,000         30,200          19.26      30,180.74        13.75          9            12.00
Bank Duta         4,000          4,000         443.36       3,556.64         1.62           1            1.33
Bank Niaga        4,000          7,800         220.07       7,579.93         3.45          7             9.33
BUN               11,500        11,200          36.89      11,163.11         5.09          4             5.33
Bank Bali         8,000          5,700       2,723.70       2,976.30         1.36          3             4.00
BAPINDO          29,500         34,500       7,078.90      27,421.10        12.49          9            12.00
PDFCI            20,000         22,500        1,457.61     21,042.39         9.59          8            10.67
UPPINDO           5,000          6,500        1,805.63      4,694.37         2.14          3             4.00
Total           265,000       265,000       45,541.95     219,458.05       100.00         75           100.00



-25-
Table 15: Subsector Distribution of Subloans
Subsector    No. of Subloans                IBRD Subloan         
Amount ($'000)
Textiles            51             68.00         178,972.47        81.55
Engineering          14            18.67          29,551.80        13.47
Pulp & Paper         10            13.33          10,933.79         4.98
Total               75            100.00         219,458.05       100.00
Table 16: Regional Distribution of Subloans
Region     No. of Subloans              _ IBRD Subloan                  l
Amount ($'000)
West Java           55             73.33         143,621.91        65.44
Central Java         15            20.00          63,046.75        28.73
East Java            4              5.33           8,986.61         4.09
Sumatera             1              1.33           3,802.79         1.73
Total               75            100.00         219,458.05       100.00



- 26 -
Table 17: Loan Collection Ratios by PFIs
1  12/91       12/92   [  12/93   J  12/94   (  12/95
State Commercial Banks
1. BNI                       100%        100%         80%        97%        100%
2. BDN                         80%        91%         45%         31%        35%
|    3. BRI                   100%        84%         77%         71%        65%
4. BBD                         78%        56%         24%         20%         17%
|_5. BEII                     100%       100%         63%         75%        100%
State Development Finance Institution
1. BAPINDO                    26%         15%         14%        33%         35%
Private Commercial Banks
1. Bank Niaga                100%        100%        100%       100%        100%
2. Bank Duta                  100%       100%        100%    fully repaid   fully repaid
3. BUN                            -      100%        100%        100%       100%
4. Bank Bali                    n.a.       n.a.        n.a.        n.a.       n.a.
Non-Bank Financial Institutions
1. UPPINDO               J   100%   j    33%   J    30%           14%   ]    29%
2. PDFCI                       52%   |    97%   |    68%   |    96%   |    90%
Note: Bank Bali's collection ratios are not available. It made only 3 subloans accounting for only 1% of
total loan disbursements.



ICR Mission Aide Memoire      -27-                      Appendix A
APPENDIX A
Aide Memoire
Industrial Restructuring Project
(Loan 3040-IND)
World Bank Mission
Implementation Completion Report
August 30, 1996
1.   A World Bank mission comprised of Messrs. D. Mans, Y. Zhou and
K. Wirasubrata visited Indonesia from August 19 to 31, 1996 to review the
design, implementation and development impact of the Industrial
Restructuring Project (Loan 3040-IND), the Bank loan for which closed on
June 30, 1996. The mission would like to express its thanks and
appreciation to the Ministry of Finance, BAPPENAS, Ministry of Industry
and Trade, the participating financial institutions under the project, all the
beneficiary firms under the IRP line of credit that the mission visited and
the Belgian Assistance Development Corporation (BADC) which
cofinanced the project.
2.    Main findings of the mission. The main component of the project
was a line of credit channeled through 12 participating financial institutions
aimed at supporting restructuring of three selected subsectors of industry.
The mission found that the line of credit under the project played a positive
role in supporting restructuring, sustainable investments, and the expansion
of exports and employment in the three targeted subsectors. This component
was successful even though it was not implemented in complete accordance
with the original project design due to the substantial delay in
implementation of the technical services groups that were established under
the project and cancellation of the training component of the project. The
mission also noted that performance of the line of credit under the project
was adversely affected by some generic problems of the financial sector,
including loan repayment problems, particularly for the state owned banks.



ICR Mission Aide Memoire       -28-                       Appendix A
3.   A small portion of the IRP loan (7 percent) was used for technical
assistance to improve technical services to industry and develop strategies
and programs for restructuring of other subsectors of industry. The
mission's view, which is shared by the implementing agencies, is that,
overall, this technical assistance was unsatisfactory in terms of both
implementation and development impact. For example, the Ministry of
Industry and Trade believes that several of the studies that were carried out
with technical assistance under the project were of limited usefulness
because of a lack of borrower ownership. The support provided for testing
and calibration has had limited impact because of the lack of coordination
and performance targets, inadequate planning and incentives to be
proactive, particularly in reaching small and medium industry. The
technical service groups (TSGs) were inordinately delayed in starting up;
provided very few services to industry and training opportunities for the
R&D institutes at very high cost; and ultimately were unsustainable. On the
other hand, the TSGs provided the R&D institutes with a useful
demonstration of how to promote and deliver services to industry.
Furthermore, at the end of the project the Government gave the institutes
involved in the IRP, as well as others, the greater autonomy and incentives
needed (i.e., conversion to Swadana status) to become more demand driven,
commercially oriented and proactive in the delivery of technology support
services.
4.   Next Stp. To expedite preparation of the draft ICR, the mission
requested the participating financial institutions to send to the Bank--
through Mr. Kunrat Wirasubrata of RSI--the information listed in
Attachment 1 by September 13. On that basis, it is expected that the draft
ICR to be prepared by the mission on its return to Washington would be
sent to the Government of Indonesia and the Belgian Assistance
Development Corporation for comment by October 18, 1996.
5.   It was agreed that the Ministry of Industry and Trade would
coordinate preparation of the Government's own final evaluation report on
the project. It is expected that it would be sent to the Bank latest by
November 8, 1996. The mission provided advice and support to the
borrower for preparing its report, which would be attached unedited to the
ICR. It was agreed that it should include:



ICR Mission Aide Memoire      -29-                       Appendix A
(i) an assessment of the project objectives, design, implementation
and operation experiences;
(ii) an evaluation of the borrower's own performance during the
evolution and implementation of the project, with special emphasis
on lessons learned that may be relevant in the future; and,
(iii) an evaluation of the performance of the Bank and its cofinanciers
during the evolution and implementation of the project, including the
effectiveness of the relationship among the borrower, the Bank, and
cofinanciers, with special emphasis on lessons learned.
Should the Government's own evaluation report be longer than ten pages,
the mission encouraged GOI to provide to the Bank a summary of the report
to be included in the ICR.



ICR Mission Aide Memoire             -30-                           Appendix A
Attachment 1
PENDING DATA REQUIRED
PFI          PFI Contact Person            Data Required         Deadline
BDN         Mr. Tofani Kadir, Deputy     Collection ratios under IRP  September
General Manager, Corporate   from 1991 through 1995.    13, 1996
Division I.
Tel. 230-0709
BNI         Mr. Dharmawan, Manager
Tel: 572-8650
UPPINDO   Mr. Edy Priyosantoso,
Treasury
Tel: 829-8666
BUN         Mr. Sundjaja
Ms. Rita Lestai
Tel: 231-2828
Bank Niaga  Mr. Bambang Kuswijayanto,
KUK Coordinator
Tel: 250-5151
PDFCI       Ms. Linda W. Bintari,
Settlement
Tel: 345-6608
Bank Bali   Mr. Peter Sutantio
Team Leader
Tel: 523-7899
BAPINDO   Mr. Budiantoro, Deputy         (a) Completed data tables
General Manager, Large Credit as requested by the Bank's
Dept.                       letter of February 27, 1996;
Tel: 230-0186               (b) Collection ratios under
Mr. Wirawan Primuharko      IRP from 1991 through
Tel: 230-1908 Ext. 1232      1995.



Borrower's Evaluation Report      - 31 -                     Appendix B
APPENDIX B
INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT - IBRD LOAN 3040 IND
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
About the Project
1.   Industrial Restructuring Project (IRP), IBRD Loan 3040IND, was started in
September, 1989, and completed by June, 1996 with 3 times extension. The original
closing date was on June 30, 1994, (Article II, Section 2.03 of the Loan Agreement). The
purpose of IRP was to support the restructuring program of industrial subsectors to
improve their competitiveness. There are 3 industrial subsectors covered by the project,
i.e. textile, pulp and paper, and engineering industry. The amount of loan from the Word
Bank was US $284 million. In addition to this, the Government of Indonesia also
received grant from the Government Kingdom of Belgium for provision of experts and
equipment to support technical assistance to engineering industry, particularly to finance
consultant services and training. As stated on the Loan Agreement, the total amount of
grant from the Government Kingdom of Belgium was B.F. 152,000,000.
2.    The loan was divided into three major components, i.e. investment, technical
assistance, and study. Initially the major amount of the loan was allocated from
investment component, US $265,000,000. Am amount of US $15,400,000 was allocated
for technical assistance component US $1,900,000 for subsector studies, and US
$1,700,000 was unallocated. This allocation had been adjusted toward the need on each
category during the implementation, particularly on technical assistance component and
on study component. Technical assistance component became US $16,150,000; US
$400,000 of training category was canceled, study component became US $2,300,000,
and unallocated budget became US $150,000. Due to the cancellation of training
category, the total loan decreased to US $283,600,000. There were 12 Participating
Financial Institutes (PFIs), government and privately owned participated in the
investment credit program.
3.    Technical Assistance Component consists of three sub programs, first was
strengthening of MOI's (Ministry of Industry's) in-house capacity to provide key
technical support to industrial enterprises, second was provision of technical services to
industrial enterprises to improve their managerial and operational efficiency, and third
was enhancement of the capability of each participating financial institution to evaluate
the technical, environmental, financial and economic aspects of a restructuring
investment. Based on the Loan Agreement, Article III, section 3.01, BPP/MOI was
responsible on the first and the second of those subprograms. LPPI was responsible on
implementation of the third subprogram. The total amount allocated for the first two
subprograms were US $15,000,000. Allocation for the third subprogram was US
$400,000, which then canceled.



Borrower's Evaluation Report         - 32 -                      Appendix B
4.    Strengthening of MOI's in house capacity to provide technical support to
industrial development program covered three IRD Institutes related to the subsector and
MOI Center for Standardization. The three institutes are Institute for R&D of Cellulose
Industries (IRDCI), Institute for R & D of Textile Industries (IRDTI), and Metal
Industries Development Center (MIDC). The programs covered: (a) financing for
purchase of pollution monitoring and product testing equipment including training for
operators; (b) establishment of a network of four calibration and testing service centers
for engineering enterprises (CTSN), including accreditation and product certification, in
Bandung (as center of excellence), Jakarta, Medan, and Surabaya. This network was
organized by MIDC; (c) training in standards application and quality control practices to
30 engineers from testing centers and enterprises, 300 enterprise managers, and to 3000
enterprise workers, organized by MIDC; and (d) strengthening of standards preparation
of 600 standards, promotion and monitoring activities, which was undertaken by the MOI
Center for Standardization. Total loan actually disbursed on this program was US
$3,743,934.
5.    The CTSN  was designed to support calibration and testing of production
equipment of small and medium scale industries in engineering subsector. It was
expected that through procurement of the equipment and training of the institute's staff
for the operation of calibration activities, the institutes can provide length, pressure, and
force calibration to the targeted industries to improve the quality of their products to meet
the standard. In line with the procurement of equipment, training for industrial workers
(engineers) and managers was considered as an essential activity to be provided in this
program to increase their awareness toward the importance of calibration, testing and
standardization in their business.
6.    Provision of technical services to support industrial firms improving their
managerial and operational efficiency, or called as Technical Service Group (TSG),
covered three industrial subsectors including environmental aspects. The objectives of
this program were to arrange and deliver comprehensive technical services to enterprises
in the targeted subsectors, to help them to improve their managerial and operational
efficiency; to provide high-quality services in the areas of product and manufacturing
technology, product and marketing strategies, and management, focusing on the
identification of major constraints on management and technical aspect at company level
and select alternative actions to eliminate them, and to develop the capability of
Indonesian professional and consultants to provide technical assistance to industrial
enterprises for sustain further development.  The three industrial subsectors were
Engineering Industry, Textile Industry, and Pulp and Paper Industry. The locations of
TSG were at MIDC, IRDCI, and IRDTI. Since the institutes did not allowed to collect
fee for their technical service provision to industries, the TSGs were design as
autonomous body, separate from the management of this R&D Institutes, to make them
able to professionally deliver services and to collect fee. It was agreed that at least 10%
of international expert fee of the TSG should be collected from industrial enterprises.
Total actually disbursed of the loan was US $7,2898,660. In addition to this, grant aid



Borrower's Evaluation Report      - 33 -                     Appendix B
from The Government Kingdom of Belgium through CILT received were 216 man
months (15 experts) international experts for Engineering TSG only.
Performance of the Project
7.    Up to June 1994, 86 firms already benefited through Investment Credit program.
During the implementation, an amount of US $219,458,054.66 of investment component
were actually disbursed.  Total amount of funds allocated to this program was US
$265,000,000,00.
8.    On subsector study component, up to June 1994, only 4 studies, and one
monitoring and evaluation had been carried out. One study failed to be carried out due to
unsolved different opinion in negotiating the contract, particularly on problems related to
billing rate and the ownership of the study. Negotiation had taken long time (6 months)
without final conclusion. Some other studies had also been proposed, but the proposals
were not fully accepted by the Bank. After the Bank extended the closing date for
technical assistance component to March 1996 and then to June 30, 1996, two other
studies were made; one of the studies is continued and financed by the Bank through
ITDP (Loan 3792IND). The total amount of allocated budget actually disbursed on this
component was US $1,836,648. The two studies conducted after the closing date of
subsector study component were Boosting Competitiveness and Export Growth in the
Electronics Industry (phase 1) and Evaluation of the Effectiveness of Small Scale
Industry Promotion Programs, which was supported through technical assistance
component.
9.    On Institutional Strengthening Program, several training and workshops were
carried out. During implementation, 9 production worker training were conducted in
Indonesia with supervision of Belgium experts, attended by 3458 participants (compared
to 3000 participants designed previously) from 446 different industrial firms; 2
management workshops have been launched attended by 205 participants (designed for
300 managers) from 94 industrial firms; and overseas training for 17 engineers from
industrial firms and 13 engineers from CTSN staff (designed for 30 engineers). To
support the implementation of this program, the Government Kingdom of Belgium
provided 7 international experts with total of 60 man months, including to formulate
calibration and testing manual for CTSN. Procurement of equipment to support CTSN
and other testing activities for two other IRD Institutes. Textile and Pulp & Paper
Institutes, was also implemented, although some equipment for CTSN could not be
procured during the period of the program due to the unduly slow of administrative
processes, particularly in reallocation of budget from other category to category 2, and in
receiving approval (NOL) from the Bank.
Activities of the CTSN after the closing date are not fully satisfying, however. Two
Regional Service Centers do not work well, due to management problem (lack of
promotion to industries) and weak coordination among those centers. Activities in other



Borrower's Evaluation Report      - 34 -                     Appendix B
two centers are not fully satisfying yet, since most demands come from medium to big
companies that required higher level of calibration, while the equipment available only
appropriate for low level calibration. During the initial stage of preparation for Industrial
Technology Development Project (ITDP), IBRD Loan 3792IND, MOI has proposed
strengthening of the CTSN, to improve the capability of the Regional Centers to provide
calibration and testing services to industrial firms as they need, but the Bank did not
accept the proposal. Revenue received from calibration activities at MIDC in 1995/1996
was Rp 80 million from 60 companies for 500 calibration activities. Total companies
served by CTSN in 1995/1996 was 105 companies for 750 calibration activities. In 1994,
only 90 companies were served with 430 equipment calibrated by CTSN as a whole.
10.   The performance of implementation of the TSGs however was not fully
satisfying. The program was started 2 years behind after investment credit program or
after almost 91% of credit already implemented. So, one of the objective of this program
in relation to implementation of investment credit program became unachievable; since
there were no link between the implementation of this TSG and the implementation of
investment program. The problems encountered at the initial stage was the unability to
recruit excellent experts due the low billing rate as regulated by the Bappenas. The TSG
was actually started on January 1993, and ending on March 1996 for Engineering TSG,
and on October 1994 for Textile and Pulp & Paper TSGs.
11.   Pulp & Paper TSG, including for environmental activity, utilized 120 man month
international experts and 186 man-month national experts including executive manager of
the TSG. Number of firms served by the TSG was 10 out of 21 firms targeted. Revenue
received was RP 140.290.000 (US $63,750 equivalent) from 20 contracts signed.
Comparing to total funds (IBRD loan portion alone) spent on the TSG, US $2,472,870,
that revenue was only 2,6%.
12.   Number of companies visited and diagnosed by Textile TSG was 99 textile
companies. From those companies, only 11 companies finally made contract with the
TSG which generated revenue as amount of US $25,400, or only 2.5% of loan spent.
Expert fielded during the implementation was 60 man-month international experts, and
126 man-month national experts, including executive manager.
13.  Implementation period for Engineering TSG was one year longer than those two
other TSGs. The total experts fielded were 153.5 man-months international experts and
236.5 man-months national experts funded through the World Bank loan, and 213.8 man-
months provided by CILT. Number of companies visited was 253 firms, number of
contracts made was 124 from 74 companies, and revenue received was Rp 311,500
million. 'This revenue was very low compared to the amount of money spent; the lowest
revenue among those three TSGs. Comparing the number of companies visited to
number of contract, the engineering TSG did not effectively operate. For 6 months
during implementation, in transition period between the first and the second Executive
Manager, the Executive Manager for Engineering TSG was empty. During the period,



Borrower's Evaluation Report      - 35 -                     Appendix B
one national expert was appointed to be an acting as Executive Manager and as
professional expert at the same time.
Considering the objective of the program, particularly on the program sustainability,
BPPI decided to urge the consulting firm, in this case DHV, to involve staffs of MIDC
directly in the implementation of technical services to industry. Involvement of the staffs
was approved by the Bank. Through the involvement of these staffs, it was expected that
capability of MIDC staffs in providing professional engineering consultancy to industry
can be improved. In addition, because of no performance criteria of the program stated in
the design of the project (Staff Appraisal Report), BPPI determined the target to be
achieved by DHV during its service, that was the number of contracts with industrial
firms.
BENEFIT OF THE PROJECT
A.   Credit Component
Since the IRP started, 86 companies used the credit to restructure their firm.
Textile industrial firms used extensively the credit which accounted for 81%. As a result,
even though the credit might not directly contributed to the competitiveness of the
industry, the project has promoted the increase of production capacity which then
contributed to the increase of textile export from Indonesia. In addition, the participant
Banks also benefited from this program.
B.   Provision of Technical Services (TSG) To Industries
As mentioned earlier that the objectives of this activity were to provide expert
assistance to firms to upgrade their industrial technological capability and managerial
skills and to encourage national consultants to provide technical assistance to industry.
Impact of this activity to industry is difficult to measure since there was no
complete information gathered from industry side about improvement of the firms
performance and technological capability. This happened because there was no success
indicator established for any contract made. In 1994, the MOI Directorate General for
Metal and Machinery Industry sent questionnaires to companies received services from
Engineering TSG. Some companies responded that the services to their company were
very useful to improve their technical performance. The benefit to industrial firms can
also be seen from the number of repeated contracts made during the period, particularly
on engineering and pulp and paper industries. Several firms made two or more contracts
with TSG with different technical aspects. This can only happen whenever the services
offered previously had proven to promote certain improvement in the company's
performance and give the internal benefit.



Borrower's Evaluation Report      - 36 -                     Appendix B
On institutional aspects, the TSG also generated other impacts to some degrees on
those IRD institutes involved in the TSG, although not directly. Since 1990, one year
after the IRP was effective, IRDIs under the MOI were given a right to generate revenue
(semi autonomy status) from the services they delivered to industrial firms. Since then,
activities on technical assistance, consultancy, testing and technical training, offered by
IRDIs to industries increased and continuously improved. The activities generated
revenue to the institutes and the income increased from year to year. Considering the
increase of the revenue generated by the Institutes, MOI has proposed in 1994 to the
ministry of Finance the "Swadana status" for 10 IRDIs that have shown promising
increased revenue. The proposal then was supported by the World Bank during the
design of ITDP and the Asian Development Bank during the design of Industrial
Technology and Human Resource Development Project which requested Institutes
supported in the project should be an autonomous body. The government of Indonesia
through the Ministry of Finance then approved the proposal of MOI allowing the IRDIs
to receive revenue from industry (autonomous body - as SWADANA). The opportunity
is not only limited to the three institutes, but also another 7 IRD's under the MOI.
Another impact to R&D institutes as that similar activities of the TSG also take place in
those three institutes as models which then continuing now, and even already spread to
the other Institutes under MOI.
C.   Institutional Strengthening
The program generated positive impact on the IRD institutes involved in the
program. MIDC through the establishment of CTSN can provide calibration and testing
services to industry, which generated revenue in 1995/96 an amount of RP. 80 million
(US $ 36,360 equivalent). Other IRD institute in Jakarta as regional service center on
calibration network also made some revenue from calibration activity, although not as
high as those received by MIDC. Testing activities at IRDTI developed since the
implementation of IRP. Before the IRP, testing activity at IRDTI was small, since the
IRP, testing activity has developed steadily which in 1995/96 generated revenue almost
as amount of RP. 200 million (US $90,900 equivalent). Revenue generated from CTSN
actually can be increased whenever some other equipment, especially with higher level
calibration equipment, available at the institutes. Demand for calibration of production
facilities is high form medium to big industrial firms. Due to the low level of calibration
equipment's that can be offered, using calibration equipment available through the IRP,
many requests from big firms can not be fulfilled, which then influence to the
performance of CTSN after the IRP.
D.   Subsector Study
From subsector studies carried out, there was only a few impact generated on
industrial policy reforms and somehow was used to further actions to be implemented for
development of industry and improvement of technological infrastructure for industry. It
can be noted that the result of study on packaging give an idea to establish R&D unit
under MOI on packaging technology which can provide testing services for this product.



Borrower's Evaluation Report      - 37 -                     Appendix B
This R&D unit then needs to be strengthened to be able to provide higher value and
technology of packaging to industry, and the World Bank through ITDP allocates some
funds to strengthen the institute. Other studies also generated impact on the development
of engineering industry and its related infrastructure technology to further improvement
of quality products and development of industrial supplier components. Some other
studies however could not generated optimal impact on industry or policy reforms due to
the reorganization of Ministry of Industry. Some problems encountered during the
execution of some subsector studies were about lack of ownership of the studies.
PROBLEMS AND RECOMMENDATION
A.   Problems
There were some problems encountered during the implementation, particularly
on TSG, strengthening capability of MOI Institutes, and study components.
Performance of TSGs were affected by some factors i.e. the requirement to be an
autonomous body, management of the TSG, willingness and ability of industrial firms to
pay, and communication in delivering services. The TSG was never virtually an
autonomous body since the initial stage, the TSG was established within the MOI IRDIs.
In some instances, the TSG still depend on the administrative management of the
Institutes, either in financial or in decision making process. There was psychological
problem related to the salaries discrepancy among experts and IRD's staff that become a
constrain in promoting improvement capability of the Institutes. In addition, there were
conflict of interests arised between the TSG and the IRD Institute. Since the Institutes to
certain extend, have also a capability to provide technical assistance to industrial firms
without received earnings, on the other hand the establishment of TSG with ability to
receive earnings and with limited involvement of the institute's staffs caused the TSG and
the Institute became separated bodies in one house, and compete each other. The
requirement for TSG to be an autonomous body because of the government's financial
administration system, particularly in relation to Engineering TSG which was supported
by grant from Government Kingdom of Belgium which need counter budget from GOI
made the TSG was not actually as an autonomous body.
High rate of TSG services as 10% of the foreign expert's rate, ability of industrial
firms to pay -- particularly small scale industries, inflexibility and limited scope of TSGs
services offered, communication in different language, and effectiveness of marketing the
program also contributed to the performance of the TSGs itself. The first and the second
aspects caused limited number of small scale firms received the TSG services. Since
most of the targeted industrial firms were small and medium scale enterprises, the
communication language used by experts (foreign) in delivering the services could create
problems which then caused certain firms did not accept the TSG services, although they
need for the technical assistances.



Borrower's Evaluation Report      - 38 -                    Appendix B
B.   Recommendation
Although this program is not fully achieve the expected target, but the modalities
of this project contribute a lot in giving high motivation to the IRD institutes to become
more market oriented to support industrial subsector.
The revenue from technical service to industry of MIDC, IRDTI, IRDCI grew
from year to year. MIDC revenue grew from Rp. 440 millions in 1991/1992 to Rp. 1,553
millions in 1995/1996. IRDCI revenue grew from Rp. 211 million to Rp. 630 million in
1995/1996 and IRDTI from Rp. 462 million to Rp. 836 million in 1995/1996. From this
point of view, the Ministry of Finance approved these three institutes and other seven
IRD institutes to have swadana status, which implies that more autonomy has been given
from the government in managing the institute related to the Bank request.
A professional team have been established in IRD's related to their profession
(quality, production and manufacturing technology, ISO 9000 certification, and
environment), similar to TSGs team to provide better services to industry.






IMAGING
Report No.:         16345
Type:      ICR



