Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 7558-IND
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDONESIA
INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
MARCH 31, 1989
Industry and Energy Operations Division
Country Department V
Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
#   e.  r, "   t. , .  *    * * . . .    .  ...  a  .    .I



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of January 1989)
Currency Name - Rupiah (Pp)
US1.00     Rp 1700
Rp 1000   = US$0.59
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
BAPINDO       -  Bank Pembangunan Indonesia
BAPPENAS      -  National Development Planning Board
BB            -  Bank Bali
BBD           -  Bank Bumi Daya
BBLM          -  Metal Industries Development Institute
BD            -  Bank Duta
BDN           -  Bank Dagang Negara
BEII          -  Bank Ekspor Impor Indonesia
BI            -  Bank Indonesia
BKPM          -   Investment Coordinating Board
BN            -  Bank Niaga
BANK BNI      -  Bank Negara Indonesia 1946
BPKP          -   Financial and Development Supervisory Board
BPPI          -  Agency for Industrial Research and
Development (MOI)
BRI           -  Bank Rakvat Indonesia
BUN           -  Bank Umum Nasional
EDP II        -   Second Export Development Project
ERR           -  Economic Rate of Return
IRDCLI        -   Institute for Research and Development of Cellulose
Industries
IRDTI         -   Institute for Research and Development of Textile
Industries
IRR           -   Internal Rate of Return
KLH           -  Ministry for Population and the Environment
LPPI          -   Indonesia Banking Development Institute
MOF           -  Ministry of Finance
MOI           -  Ministry of Industry
NBFI          -  Non-Bank Financial Institution
OLA           -  On-lending Agreement
PCB           -  Private Commercial Bank
PDFCI         -  Private Development Finance Company of Indonesia
PFI           -  Participating Financial Institutions
PTKS          -  P.T. Krakatau Steel
SCB           -   State-Owned Commercial Bank
SLA           -  Subsidiary Loan Agreement
SMIE          -  Small and Medium Industrial Eaterprise Project
TPAL II       -  Second Trade Policy Adjustment Loan
TSG           -  Technical Services Group
UPPINDO       -  Indonesian Development Finance Company
FISCAL YEAR
Government of Indonesia                 -   April 1 - March 31
Participating Financial Institutions   -   January 1 - December 31



FOR OMFLFIAL USE ONLY
INDONESIA
INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Table of Contents
gate No.
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMARY .....................................                   iv
I.  INTRODUCTION ............................................................         I
II.  THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR .........................................                   1
A.  Structure and Performance of the Sector .................                   1
B. The Policy Framework                          ..                            2
1. Developments in Industrial, Trade and
Financial Policies ..................................                2
2. The Remaining Policy Agenda ..........................                  4
C.  Industry and the Natural Environment ................                      6
D. The Bank's Industrial Assistance Strategy and Rationale
for Involvement    ................................... .                   7
E. The Target Subsectors                          ..                           8
1. Basis for Selection ..................................                  8
2. Engineering Industries ...............................                  9
3. The Pulp and Paper Subsector . ........................               10
4. The Textile Industr-y ..................................              12
III.  THE PARTICIPATING FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS ......................                  14
A.  Choice of Institutions ..................................                 14
B.  The State-Owned Commercial Banks ........................                 15
C.  The Private Commercial Banks ............................                 16
D.  Bank Pembangunan Indonesia (BAPINDO) .....................                17
E.  The Non-Bank Financial Institutions .....................                 18
IV.  THE PROJECT ...................................................                 19
A. Background, Project Concept, Objectives and
Description ..........................................                19
B. The Investment Component                        . . .                      20
1. Objectives ...........................................                20
2. Demand for Restructuring Investment ...................               20
3. Criteria for Enterprise and Subproject Selection   .....              21
4. Environmental Considerations .........................                 21
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission to Indonesia in
September 1988. The mission consisted of J. Gamba, H. Bhattacharya,
C. Escudero, A. Ewing, B. E. Gooi, and H. Sethi (Bank) and E. Su (Consultant).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Page No.
C. The Technical Assistance Component                               .          .             22
1.  Objectives  ...........................................                            22
2.  Institutional Strengthening Program  ..................                            23
3.  Technical  Services  Program  ...........................                          23
4.  Training  .............................................                            25
D.   Subsector Studies  ....... .............                    ...................         26
E.   Project Organization and Implementation  ....... .. ........                            26
V.   CAPITAL COSTS.  FINANCING  PLAN AND LOAN  FEATURES ...............                             30
A.   Capital Costs  ...........................................                              30
B.   Financing Plan  ..........................................                              31
C.   Features  of the Loan  ................              ..      ..................         32
1.  On-lending Arrangements  ..............................                            32
- Investment Component  ...............................                            33
- Technical Assistance Component ......................                            36
- Studies Component ...................................                            37
2. Loan Administration ...................................                             37
- Procurement .........................................                            37
- Disbursements .......................................                            38
- Auditing and Reporting ..............................                            39
VI.   BENEFITS AND RISKS  ...........................................                                 40
A. Benefits ..........                                                                       40
B.   Environmental  Impact  ....................................                             40
C.   Risk  ....................................................                              40
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION                                   .          .              40
A.  Agreements  ..............................................                               40
B.  Recommendation  ..........................................                               42
TABLES IN THE TEXT
2.1    Development of the Engineering Subsector in
Indonesia:   1978-86 .......................................                            10
2.2    Development of the Pulp  and Paper Subsector:   1975-87 .......                              11
2.3    Development of the Textile  Industry.   1971-87 ...............                              13
5.1    Project Cost Summary ........................................                                31
5.2    Financing Plan ..............................................                                32
5.3    Initial Allocation of Loan Proceeds  to Participating
Financial  Institutions ....................................                             33
5.4    Loan Allocation Arrangements  for Technical Assistance .......                               36
5.5    Allocation of Bank Loan .....................................                                38



iii -
ANNEXES
1.   Government of Indonesia Letter of Policy Intent
2.   The Target Industrial Subsectors
A. The Engineering Subsector
B. The Pulp and Paper Subsector
C. The Textile Subsector
3.   The Participating Financial Institutions
A. The Five State-Owned Commercial Banks
B.  Ihe Private Commercial Banks
C.  Bank Pembangunan Indonesia (BAPINDO)
D. The Nonbank Financial Institutions
E. Participating Financial Institutions Performance Criteria
for Initial and Continued Eligibility
4.   Terms of Reference
A. Technical Assistance
B.  Subsector Studies
5.   Training of Participating Financial Institutions' Staff
6.   Key Implementation Indicators
7.   Formula for Calculation of Relending Rate from the
Government to PFIs
8.   Estimated Disbursement Schedule for Bank Loan
9.   Selected Documents Available in the Project File



- iv -
INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:        Republic of Indonesia
Beneficiaries:   Industrial enterprises in the engineering, pulp and paper,
and textiles subsectors, through twelve participating
financial institutions (PFIs) including: Bank Negara
Indonesia 1946; Bank Dagang Negara; Bank Rakyat Indonesia;
Bank Bumi Daya; Bank Ekspor Impor Indonesia; Bank Bali; Bank
Niaga; Bank Duta; Bank Umum Nasional; Bank Pembangunan
Indonesia; Private Development Finance Company of Indonesia;
and the Indonesian Development Finance Company.
Amount:          US$284.0 million equivalent.
Terms:           The proposed loan would be made at the Bank's standard
variable interest rate for a term of twenty years including
five years of grace.
Onlending        US$265.0 million of the loan amount would be on-lent by the
Government to the twelve PFIs for a period of 15 years,
including three years' grace, at a variable interest rate
determined on a six-month basis and equal to the weighted
average cost of interest-bearing rupiah customer depo&its
(currently 13.6% p.a.), subject to a floor of the Bank's rate
plus 1.75%. The Bank loan would be channeled by the Ministry
of Finance: directly to the state commercial banks and
BAPINDO; and indirectly through Bank Indonesia to the private
commercial banks, PDFCI and UPPINDO. The Government would
bear the direct foreign exchange risk on the Bank loan,
receiving compensation for this risk from the spread
(currently about 6% p.a.) between the Bank's rate and the on-
lending rate to the PFIs. This resultant spread is
comparable to the current 7.8% swap rate (LIBOR-Rupiah
deposit indexed) offered by Bank Indonesia for up to three-
year foreign exchange (US dollar) contracts. The PFIs would
re-lend funds to qualifying industrial enterprises at
prevailing market rates for up to 15 years. Out of the
balance of the loan (US$19 million), US$18.6 million would be
passed on as a grant to the Ministry of Industry (MOI) to
fund technical assistance and studies, and US$0.4 million
would be passed on as a grant through Bank Indonesia to LPPI
to fund a training program for PFIs' staffs.



Project          The Government of Indonesia has been implementing a series of
Pescripjton:   policy reforms aimed at promoting private investment,
stabilizing the economy, liberalizing the trade regime,
deregulating industry, and improving the financial sector.
Although this process is incomplete, the results thus far
have been encouraging. However, while the overall policy
framework increasingly provides appropriate incentives to
stimulate efficient industry expansion and restructuring, a
complementary need still exists at the subsector level to
provide financial and technical assistance to help individual
enterprises to restructure and to adjust to the increasingly
deregulated, and thus more competitive, environment. The
proposed Project would address this need by assisting
existing industrial enterprises in three selected
subsectors--engineering, textiles, and pulp and paper--to
undertake viable, environmentally sound, restructuring
investments; by strengthening institutional capabilities and
technical services assisting the three subsectors; and by
evaluating the restructuring potential of other industrial
subsectors. The Project would include: (a) an Investment
Component to provide financial assistance, through the PFIs,
for restructuring projects, including environmental actions,
in eligible enterprises subject to agreed selection criteria;
(b) a Technical Assistance Component to: (i) strengthen
institutional capabilities and technical services assisting
the three subsectors; and (ii) improve the capability of the
participating financial institutions to evaluate the
technical, environmental, financial and economic aspects of
restructuring proposals; and (c) a Studies Component for
preparation of a second restructuring froject.
Benefits:        The principal benefit under the proposed Project would be
improved subsectoral performance through the facilitation of
enterprise restructuring. Specifically, the Project should
lead to: improved capacity utilization, increased cost
competitiveness, improved product quality, greater
dissemination of technology, improved production and
marketing strategy, increased domestic value-added, and
greater foreign exchange savings and earnings. By
establishing specific environmental criteria which must be
met for any subproject, the Project would contribute to
reducing adverse environmental effects. By strengthening the
credit delivery system, the Project would help to ensure high
quality appraisal of investment proposals.
Risks:           There is a risk that the demand for both technical assistance
and credit may not develop to the extent anticipated.
However, during appraisal, potential demand well in excess of
project estimates was confirmed through interviews with
banks, enterprises, subsector associations and government
agencies.



- vi -
Estimated                                          Local   Foreign   Total
Cost:                                            .... (US$ million) 
Investment                          210.0    265.0    475.0
Technical Assistance
- Institutional Strengthening       2.6      5.2      7.8
- Technical Services               3.7      15.5     19.2
- Training                         0.1       0.3      0.4
Studies                               -        1.9      1.9
Base Cost (January 1989)         216.4   287.9    504.3
Physical contingencies La             0.2      0.3      0.5
Expected price increases La           0.3      1.0      1.3
Total Financing Required         216.9    289.2    506.1
Financing                                          Logal   Foreign   Total
Plan:                                            .... (US$ million) ....
Government Lb                         5.9      -        5.9
IBRD %                                1.0    203.0    284.0
Bilaterals                            -6.2              6.2
Participating Financial
Institutions                     67.0       -       67.0
Enterprises' Equity                 143.0      -      143.0
Total                           216.9    289.2    506.1
Estimated                      Bank FY:   1990   1221   1992   1993   1994
Disbursements:                          ......... (US$ million) ........
Annual                    11.0   99.0   80.0   50.0   44.0
Cumulative                11.0  110.0  190.0  240.0  284.0
Rate of        Not applicable to the Project as a whole.  However, subprojects
Return:      will be required to have a minimum economic rate of return of
15%, net of environmental improvement investments.
La Only relating to the Technical Assistance and Studies components.
Lh Including identifiable taxes and duties estimated at US$1.1 million
equivalent.
/c Including retroactive financing of up to US$26.5 million for eligible
subprojects approved by PFIs after completion of the Bank appraisal
mission (September 26, 1988).



INDONESTA
INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.1      Since 1983, the Government of Indonesia has been implementing an
adjustment process aimed at promoting private investment, stabilizing the
economy, liberalizing the trade regime and deregulating industry. Although
this process is by no means complete, the results have been encouraging.
'While the existing overall policy framework provides appropriate incentives to
stimulate efficient expansion and restructuring of the manufacturing industry,
there is a need at the subsector level to provide financial and technical
assistance to help enterprises to restructure.
1.2      Until recently, Bank financial support for Indonesia's industrial
sector was mainly channeled through industrial development finance (IDF)
operations together with a few direct loans for major projects. The
Government's reform program has enabled the Bank to move in new directions
consistent with the needs for policy change and restructuring. These include
targeted financial assistance for exporters, with associated technical assis-
tance through two Export Development Projects, support for trade policy and
industrial deregulation through the first and second Trade Policy Adjustment
loans, and a planned series of industrial restructuring projects of which the
proposed Project would be the first. Bank experience with industrial restruc-
turing in other countries clearly indicates that policy measures of the kind
being pursued by the Government require complementary support of the type
proposed under the Project to promote the effective and timely implementation
of adjustments at the enterprise level.
1.3      The objectives of the proposed Project are threefold: (a) to assist
individual industrial enterprises in three selected subsectors--engineering,
textiles, and pulp and paper--to undertake viable, environmentally sound,
restructuring investments; (b) to strengthen institutional capabilities and
technical services assisting the three subsectors; and (c) to evaluate the
restructuring potential of other industrial subsectors. To support all of
these objectives, the Government is seeking a Bank loan of US$284.0 million
equivalent.
II. THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
A. Structure and Performance of the Sector
2.1      In the last decade, the Indonesian industrial sector 1/ has grown in
size and importance, making steadily increasing contributions to GDP and
employment growth. During the late 1970s and early 19808, the sector grew by
1/ Including agricultural and mineral processing but excluding liquified
natural gas production and oil refining.



- 2 -
more than 12? p.a., while real GDP increased by about 7? p.a. Despite this,
the share of non-oil manufacturing in economic activity is still significantly
lower than the levels found in other ASEAN countries. The largest non-oil
manufacturing activity is food, beverages and tobacco, which accounts for
about one-third of employment and domestic output, and one-quarter of
value-added. Other important sectors are textiles, chemicals and metal
products, which recorded high rates of growth in output, employment and
value-added during the past decade. Intermediate goods account for 45Z,
followed by consumer goods (38Z) and capital goods (172); this composition
differs significantly from that of the early 19708, when consumer goods
accounted for 60X of output. Almost 50? of capital goods are produced by the
public sector, but the Government's participation in the production of
intermediate and consumer goods is much lower. Labor productivity, defined as
value-added per employee, has grown rapidly in the past decade, at about three
times the rate of growth of real wages. About one-quarter of value-added is
produced by enterprises with foreign equity; foreign participation would be
much higher if licensing and technological agreements were taken into account.
The level of output concentration is not high when compared to other
developing countries but the level of regional concentration is extremely
high, with more than 75? of enterprises, employment and value-added located in
the five provinces of Java.
2.2      Until the early 1980s, industrial growth was based mainly on rising
oil revenues and the ensuing expansion in domestic demand, as ell as on
public investment in import-substituting industries, with export growth play-
ing a minor role. This inward-looking regime led to a high-cost industrial
economy. In 1983, as a response to a deteriorating external environment and
to foster the development of a dynamic, competitive and efficient non-oil
economy, the Government initiated a series of policy reforms, aimed at:
(a) liberalizing industrial and trade regulations and the incentives regime;
(b) improving the efficiency of the financial sector; and (c) establishing the
institutional framework required to support non-oil export growth.  These
measures have led manufacturing to grow by 6? p.a. in 1984-87 and non-oil
exports to increase by 13? p.a. in 1982-86.  However, to achieve the
Government's projected growth in manufacturing exports of about 10? p.a. in
real terms between 1986/87 and 1990/91, the sector will need to continue
improving its international competitiveness and efficiency supported by
further industrial, regulatory and financial sector policy reforms.
B. The Policy Framework
1. Developments in Industrial, Trade and Financial Policies
2.3      The adjustment process that began in 1983 has imposed budgetary
constraints that have compelled the Government to curtail public investment
and to rephase large capital-intensive projects, particularly in industry and
mining. More recently, fundamental policy changes have encouraged rapid
diversification of the economy, and stimulated the growth of non-oil employ-
ment and the expansion of non-oil (particularly manufactured) exports.
2.4      In addition to the Government's stabilization measures (which include
active management of the exchange rate), the liberalization of the trade
regime and progress in industrial deregulation have resulted in a substan-



- 3 -
tially improved investment climate and have greatly enhanced Indonesia's
competitiveness in world markets. The response of industrial enterprises to
new opportunities for profitable expansion has been extremely encouraging, as
demonstrated by unexpectedly strong GDP growth and a remarkable upsurge in
manufactured exports. Nearly 702 of incremental non-oil exports over the next
two years is expected to come from manufactured goods. The adjustment process
is maturing and, in the absence of any further severe external shocks, stabil-
ization objectives will decline in importance as emphasis shifts to the
resumption of rapid sustainable growth.
2.5      For the manufacturing industry to fulfill its economic potential
requires integrated policy initiatives for trade, industry and finance. The
declining capacity of the public sector to invest in industrial development
means that the policy environment must provide incentives for private inves-
tors to take up the slack. Providing the right incentives requirest (P) sus-
tained reform of trade and industrial policies and regulations; (b) heightened
ability of the financial system to mobilize resources and to deliver
efficiently an expanding range of financial services; and (c) complementary
public sector support through investments in human resources development, and
in physical and technological infrastructure.
2.6      The development of a dynamic, internationally competitive and export-
oriented manufacturing sector is clearly one of the central components of the
Government's medium-term strategy for achieving rapid, sustainable growth and
reducing Indonesia's dependence on oil revenues. In the near term, this will
require continued progress on the removal of constraints to industrial expan-
sion, combined with assistance that enables private enterprises to respond
more effectively to market opportunities. The Government's strategy is to
pursue those objectives deliberately; progress is expected to be achieved
through a series of phased policy "packages" that gradually deregulate the
incentive regime. Earlier packages in 1983 and 1987 have emphasized financial
sector reform and more liberal trade policies. In November 1988, the
Government adopted a package covering trade policy and the maritime sector.
Reforms of the trade policy regime included removal of import licensing
restrictions for about 300 items and a total of 180 changes in tariff rates.
These measures will lower further the nominal and effective rates of protec-
tion and represent substantial progress in the trade liberalization program.
In the maritime sector the measures included substantial simplification or
elimination of licensing requirements, provision for joint-venture operations
between domestic and foreign investors, deregulation of access to routes,
elimination of controls on the domestic purchase and sale of vessels, and
further development of information systems about domestic shipping services.
These measures will promote the expansion of private sector participation and
will foster increased competition and hence reductions in transport costs,
with a positive impact on the competitiveness of a number of Indonesian export
industries. Prospective packages are expected to combine policy changes that
affect the broad sweep of trade, industrial and financial policy. Areas where
actions are expected includes removing remaining non-tariff barriers;
rationalizing the tariff structure, to reduce the level and dispersion of
protection; and further relaxing licensing arrangements for private investment
and domestic trade.



2.7      For the financial system, the three broad objectives ares  (a) to
enhance the ability of the financial system to allocate resources efficiently;
(b) to provide an appropriate range of financial services efficiently; and
(c) to develop robust, stable, financial regulatory mechanisms that insulate
the real economy from financial shocks. The measures available to the Govern-
ment to secure those objectives, include: promoting the development of
capital markets Rnd the banking system; training commercial banks in sound
banking practice, especially credit appraisal; strengthening the mechanisms
for conducting monetary policy, which requires the gradual introduction of new
instruments and the development of effective money markets; promoting the role
of Bank Indonesia as a central bank; fostering competition in the provision of
financial services; adopting regulations that encourage prudent behavior of
the participants in the financial and capital markets; strengthening auditing
and accounting support for financial intermediaries; and establishing adequate
supervisory practices and provisions. In October and December 1988, the
Government announced two reform packages dealing with the financial sector.
These packages recognized five main objectives: mobilize domestic resources;
promote non-oil exports; improve the efficiency of financial institutions;
improve monetary instruments; and develop capital markets. The major compo-
nents weres liberalization of domestic banking activity; relaxation of
restrictions on the operation of foreign banks; introduction cf more favorable
swap arrangements; enhancing of banking efficiency and monetary policy imple-
mentation; Eupporting the expansion of capital markets; establishment of a
private Stock Exchange Company; and reopening of leasing and of life and
general insurance activities to new national and joint venture companies.
2.8      The longer-term sustainability of industrial development relies on
implementing an incentive regime that allocates resources according to
comparative advantage, and instituting appropriate environmental safeguards to
mitigate the impact of industrial pollution. Inevitably, the Government will
have to depend on private sector initiative for much of the growth of indus-
trial output and employment. To increase Indonesia's access to industrial
technology while reducing the country's reliance on external borrowing,
greater encouragement will have to be given to private foreign investment.
The overall performance of public sector industrial enterprises also must
improve, through direct support for physical and financial restructuring of
viable firms, combined with the possibility of mergers or divestiture where
feasible and appropriate.
2. The Remaining Policy Anenda
2.9      The Government has confirmed to the Bank its commitment to continuing
policy and regulatory reform in industry, and has outlined a number of future
policy actions it intends to take, particularly with respect to the three
subsectors to be assisted under the froject. The letter of Policy Intent is
attached as Annex 1. The Government's main economic policy objectives remain
as outlined in the policy letter prepared in conjunction with the Second Trade
Policy Adjustment Loan (TPAL II) (Ln. 2937-IND). In the area of trade and
industrial policy, these are directed to: maintaining a competitive exchange
rate; removing trade barriers; rationalizing tariffs; and simplifying domestic
licensing. To maintain the current momentum on trade and industrial policy
reform, the Government intends to continue with a comprehensive approach that
will give priority tot further substantial removal of non-tariff barriers;



- 5 -
reduction and harmonization of tariff levels; review of remaining export
restrictions; reductions in the scope and complexity of investment licensing
restrictions; and review of other regulations that raise production costs.
All of these measures are expected to have a positive impact on industrial
performance.
2.10     The ability of industrial enterprises to respond to these measures
will depend significantly upon complementary financial sector development and
supportive technical infrastructure. The main priorities for financial sector
development will include the promotion of a more market-oriented and stable
system, to improve its operational efficiency, and an increase in the volume
of term-finance and equity. With regard to the technical infrastructure, the
Government is committed to strengthen institutions, by developing product
standards, promoting technological upgrading, improving applied research,
providing training, and strengthening technical and managerial capabilities.
In the three industrial subsectors to be supported under the proposed Project,
the Government will apply the above strategic principles, through further
removal of remaining policy distortions as detailed below.
2.11     For textiles, the Government has deregulated cotton sourcing pro-
cedures and has replaced non-tariff barriers by import tariffs on textile
products. These tariffs will need to be reduced further as improvements occur
in the operational efficiency and economic performance of the subsector.
Import tariffs on essential spare parts will also be reduced. The Textile
Export Quota Regulation System has been rationalized through simplification of
the allocation and institutional mechanisms. Proposals currently under review
by the Government should ensure that the quota allocation and transfer
mechanisms are open, non-restrictive and cost-effective.
2.12     For pulp and paper, the main policy initiative has been trade reform,
through removing non-tariff barriers on imports and rationalization of
tariffs. Controls on trade and prices of newsprint will gradually be removed.
Tariffs on paper products need to be reduced further and brought in line with
those on pulp, to reduce the risk of returning to a situation of unbalanced
development of these two products.
2.13     For enRineering, the Government expects to make further progress on
the implementation of policies aimed at promoting the competitiveness and
economic efficiency of this industry. A strategy for the technological devel-
opment of engineering industries will be identified in a study to be financed
under the proposed Project, which will be completed in 1990. On the input
side of the engineering industry, the Government has given high priority to
the design and implementation of a steel development strategy, to be based on
the findings and recommendations of steel subsector studies, completed in
March 1988. The Government has significantly reduced non-tariff barriers on
imports of non-flat steel products and intends to remove the remaining non-
tariff barriers, including those for flat and semi-manufactured products, and
to reduce import tariffs and surcharges.



- 6 -
C. Industry and the Natural Environment
2.14     The Government is giving priority to sustainable development and
environmental protection. The State Ministry for Development Supervision and
Environment, which was established in 1978 and subsequently evolved into the
present State Ministry for Population and the Environment (KLH) in 1983,
established an institutional focus for coordinating efforts to introduce
environmental concerns into the development planning process. Nevertheless,
the scope of present achievements falls far short of requirements, as a result
of the lack of enforceable standards, the low level of financial resources
directed at these activities, the imperfect coordination among the many
different agencies that share the responsibility for environmental regulation,
and the acute shortage of environmental expertise.
2.15     There can be no doubt that, particularly in Java, water and air
pollution problems stemming from industry are severe, and result in a loss of
beneficial use of these resources as well as increased morbidity and mortality
in the population. Recent estimates based on a survey of a dozen rivers in
Java suggest that industrial pollution averages close to 50Z of the water-
borne pollution load. Given the heavy emphasis on industrial growth in future
development programs, these environmental hazards will multiply rapidly if
adequate and appropriate measures are not taken.
2.16     Of the three industries included under the Project, the engineering
industry is not a major problem in terms of environmental damage but textile
and paper industries have the potential for relatively serious pollution. In
textiles, finishing (dying and bleaching) operations are a cause for environ-
mental concern, since these operations, typically discharge untreated effluent
with suspended solids and Chemical Oxygen Demand (COD) at unacceptably high
levels. In the paper industry, the few operations with pulping capacity are
even more serious polluters, but most plants merely produce paper from
purchased fiber and, although the suspended solids discharges may be high,
levels of Biochemical Oxygen Demand (BOD) and COD are typically not.
Legislation and regulations exist to compel plant operators to meet Indonesian
standards, which are modelled on international guidelines, but follow-up and
enforcement are weak.
2.17     Forestry management is related to the proposed Project because of the
inclusion of the pulp and paper industry as one of the target subsectors 2/
and ineffective management of Indonesia's forest resources is both a local and
an international concern. Wood consumption for paper production is not yet of
major importance, amounting to only about 1.2 million cubic meters in 1987, or
less than 1 of total reported roundwood removals from Indonesia's forests,
but there are ambitious projects under implementation that will be based on
wood. Current legislation on forest concessions is being examined with a view
to developing regulations for pulp and paper operations that will give due
regard to environmental protection. The ongoing Bank-assisted Forestry
Institutional Development and Conservation Project (Ln. 2930-IND) is focusing
on this issue.
2/ Note, however, that tropical hardwoods are not very suitable for making
most grades of pulp and paper.



-7-
2.18     The Bank is working with the Government to improve environmental
conditions concomitant with development. The main vehicle for this work is
the report Indonesia - Forest. Land and Water: Issues in Sustainable
Development, produced by the Bank in 1989. This report highlights, among
other things, the impact of industrialization on the environment. During the
period of implementation of the proposed Project, the Bank would focus the
dialogue with the Government on the development of a national strategic plan
for the environmental aspects of industrialization. This plan would define
the national objectives in the industrial-environmental area, and cover the
regulatory, institutional, technical, financial and economic aspects of the
problem. Future lending operations in the industrial sector would include
support for the implementation of such a strategic plan. In the meantime,
since the proposed Project will be the first major Bank-assisted industrial
operation in Indonesia for a number of years, it is appropriate to introduce
environmental criteria for subprojects: (a) to ensure that this operation is
protective of the environment; (b) to raise environmental consciousness in
both industrial and banking circles in Indonesia; (c) to reinforce Government
efforts to establish procedures for minimizing adverse environmental impacts,
both for new investments and in existing plants; and (d) to provide a basis
for replication in subsequent industrial restructuring operations. The design
features in the Project aimed at achieving these objectives are described in
Chapter IV. Guidelines based on these features would also apply to subloans
for the planting and replanting of pulpwood plantations.
D. The Bank's Industrial Assistance Strategy and
Rationale for Involvement
2.19     The Bank's strategy is to assist the Government to pursue effectively
the multitude of objectives described above. The cornerstone of the Bank's
support lies in the continuing dialogue with the Government on broad policy
issues. Much of that dialogue on industry, trade and finance will occur in
the preparation of major macroeconomic reports, but it will also be supported
by more sector-specific efforts that include the ongoing studies of industrial
deregulation, financial sector development, private sector development, and
the telecommunications and industrial subsectors.
2.20     At the economy-wide level, the Bank has supported the reform of trade
policy and industrial deregulation directly through the first and second Trade
Policy Adjustment Loans (Lns. 2780-IND and 2937-IND). In the policy dialogue
with the Government, the Bank has focused on ways in which it can support
Government efforts to maintain the momentum of reform, and has reached broad
agreemc.;nt on a program of analytical work, technical assistance and lending
support within the overall framework of the Government's strategy for
industrial growth and diversification.
2.21     This support will be designed around two principal objectives.  The
first involves continued support for Government efforts to deregulate trade
and industry, to establish an appropriate incentive structure for the key
manufacturing industries (with an emphasis on manufactured exports), and to
strengthen the efficiency and capacity of the financial system. Analytical
work will focus on: (a) a more detailed examination of the regulatory frame-
work, and areas for possible further reform; (b) an analysis of trade reform,
as part of an industry and trade policy study, to develop the Government's



capacity to monitor and evaluate specific reforms; and (c) ongoing analysis of
the financial sector that will lead to recommendations for improving the
supply of term credit in support of industrial sector growth. The lending
program could provide diroct support for specific reform packages through
policy-based operations similar to the earlier Trade Policy Adjustment loans.
A private sector development project is under preparation as well.
2.22     The second objective is to assist individual industrial enterprises
to respond to the changing trade and regulatory framework and to overcome the
effects of past constraints. Operations pursuing these objectives will
support the restructuring of enterprises in specific subsectors, initially
textiles, pulp and paper, and engineering under the proposed Project, and
subsequently the potential in wood processing, electronics, fine chewicals,
agro-industry, and packaging would be explored. In addition to fin'ncial
assistance (through financial irtermediaries), operations will provide
technical assistance for the development and strengthening of subsector-
apecific support services, and would help to implement and monitor
environmental standards. The latter also would be supported under Bank-
assisted operations in other sectors. The second Jabotabek Urban Development
Project, under preparation, would include provisions for preparation of an
inventory of polluting industries in the Jakarta area, and for improvement of
monitoring and enforcement of industrial environmental standards. Other
operations would target directly an expansion of industrial employment and
exports, with particular attention to the financing needs of, mainly, small-
and medium-size4 industrial firms with substantial employment and export
potential that are currently unable to secure financing on appropriate terms.
In addition to financial support, technical assistance would help in the
development of appropriate local consulting services and in supporting
efforts, already under way, to strengthen the appraisal and supervision
capacity of the lending institutions.
E. The Target Subsectors
1. Basis for Selection
2.23     To assess subsector-specific competitive strengths and weaknesses and
to identify restructuring requirements, the Government has undertaken a number
of studies, financed under the BAPINDO V Project (Ln. 2277-IND), for three
subsectors: engineering, pulp and paper, and textiles. These subsectors have
been selected due to the following factors: (a) impact on the economy, in
terms of their actual and potential contribution to development objectives;
(b) market growth prospects, in terms of exports or import-substitution poten-
tial; (c) potential economic viability, in terms of competitiveness and
growth; (d) subsector structure, in terms of its suitability for adjustment;
and (e) potential for restructuring, given a policy environment increasingly
deregulated and including adequate incentives. The studies, together with the
Project preparation analysis, have identified the investment and technical
assistance requirements at the enterprise level to facilitate the restructur-
ing process and have also identified the trade, regulatory and financial
reforms needed to sustain improvement in subsectoral efficiency. The follow-
ing paragraphs present first, a brief description of the performance and main
characteristics of each of the engineering, pulp and paper, and textile sub-



sectors, and second, highlight the main constraints to development and the
priorities for further adjustment in order to minimize these constraints.
Further details are provided in Annex 2.
2. Enaineering Industries
2.24     Indonesia's engineering industries 3/ are relatively undeveloped.
This subsector currently contributes only about 142 of the country's total
manufacturing value-added, compared with 20-25Z in Korea, Malaysia and India,
and over 40? in the Federal Republic of Germany. Around 300 enterprises in
four main branches (metal products, non-electrical machinery, electrical
machinery and transport equipment) produce around 602 of the country's demand
for engineering goods. The balance is met through imports, which currently
total about US$2.5 billion annually. Exports, at around US$100.0 million
annually, are of relatively little significance.
2.25     The structure and recent growth pattern of the industry is shown in
the following table. From 1978 to 1986, the output of the engineering sub-
sector grew at 10.52 annually (in real terms) compared with 9.7Z annually for
the manufacturing sector as a whole. Growth was most rapid in the transport
equipment group (the largest group) and the metal products group. Growth was
considerably less in the non-electrical and electrical machinery groups,
particularly during the second half of this period. The relatively low share
of machinery 28Z) in the output of the subsector compares unfavorably with
other successful economies in Asia such as the Republic of Korea (56?),
Malaysia (75Z) and India (58Z). The figures reflect the concentration of
development of this subsector in Indonesia on assembly operations in the auto-
motive industry, and on the production of relatively unsophisticated metal
products. There has been inadequate development in the production of inter-
mediate products, most of which are still imported.
3/ The engineering industries comprise essentially product group 38
(Fabricated Metal Products) in the UN International Standard Industrial
Classification (ISIC). Scientific and photographic equipment (group
385) and foundries and forges (group 371) are excluded.



_ 10 -
Table 2.1: DEVELDPMENT OF THE ENGINEERING SUBSECTOR IN INDONESIA: 1970-86
(Constant 1988 billion ruplah)
Value added
Outeut           Value added        srowth rate M
1978  198. 988:    1978  1982   1986   175W-2i9812-58
Metal products         407   672 1,214      109   197   a8e       16.0   14.8
Non-electrical
machinery            109  182   202        e1   77    68         5.68   -2.9
Electrical machinery   608  787   917       176  234   252         7.6    1.9
Transport equipment    488 1,080 1,681     177  828   509         16.7   11.8
TOTAL            1.607 2.671 a994      622   838  1.165       122 2   89
2.26     The concentration of resources in final assembly operations and the
lack of a substantive technological base in the subsector are in part the
product of past industrial policies, which created a bias towards consumer
goods and away from capital goods, and provided excessive protection to estab-
lished producers, regardless of their efficiency, by erecting substantial
barriers to international and domestic competition. However, the reforms of
the past three years should induce a structural change in the medium term that
should lead to a much more balanced and competitive industry. In this regard,
of particular importance to this subsector are the measures taken by the
Government in the past three years or so under the Bank-assisted Trade Policy
Adjustment loans, including the movement away from non-tariff barriers, the
reduction in tariff levels, the simplification of licensing procedures, the
significant reduction of regulations on product diversification, and a more
flexible approach to the implementation of deletion programs. These reforms
have created an environment which is conducive to the efficient development of
the subsector, which provides the main justification for targeting engineering
industries in the present project.
3. The Pulp and Paper Subsector
2.27     The paper industry in Indonesia contributes about 32 of manufacturing
value-added. Since 1975, this subsector has expanded rapidly in response to
fast-growing domestic demand and to the gradual liberalization of the indus-
trial environment. The number of pulp and paper mills grew from nine estab-
lishments in 1975 to 36 in 1987, with all of the new plants in the private
sector. Other key elements of this expansion are summarized in the following
table:



- 11 -
Table 2.2: DEVELOPMENT OF THE PULP AND PAPER SUBSECTORs 1975-87
(thousands of tons)
Apparent                                                 Domestic
Domestic                                                   Self-
Year        Consumption      Exports     Imports      Production      Sufficiency /a
1975             287             -         235             51             18?
1978             405             -         250            155             38Z
1981             538             1         280            260             481
1984             633            36         267            403             58?
1987             764           182         142            804             81?
Average
annual
growth          8.5?          n.a.       -4.12          25.8?
La  Domestic production less exports divided by domestic consumption.
2.28     The rapid growth of domestic production, particularly by the private
sector, has exceeded domestic demand requirements for a number of grades and
in 1987, Indonesia, for the first time, became a net exporter of paper. Not
all of this expansion has been economically efficient. During the late 19708
and early 1980s, tariffs of up to 60? on some grades of paper, bans on imports
of other g.ades, and very low or zero tariffs on pulp imports, encouraged new
capacity additions that were largely based on imported pulp and thus generated
little or no domestic value-added. Of the 27 new mills built in the last
12 years, 24 were not integrated with pulp production capacity at the time of
start-up. While pulp production has increased in terms of tonnage, it
amounted to only 352 of paper production in 1987, compared to 75? in 1975.
2.29     Although the trade regime and regulatory framework had not changed
significantly, other pressures began to force a change in the structure of the
industry beginning in about 1981. First, domestic capacity had expanded to
the point where domestic production of a number of grades (printing and
writing paper, corrugating medium, and the cheaper grades of wrapping paper
and board) was approaching domestic demand. While tariff and non-tariff
barriers remained in place, domestic competition in these grades forced prices
downwards. Second, domestic energy prices were raised substantially to levels
that approached international prices. Since energy can be a major component
of pulp and paper production costs (up to one-third of total costs), this had
a significant impact on some of the plants that had been built under a regime
of low energy costs and high product prices. Third, the increasing sophisti-
cation of the major end-users of paper (printers and packagers) led to
increasing demand for higher quality paper, which was beyond the production
capability of many of the small, simple mills. Fourth, the evolution of envi-
ronmental regulations, while sporadically and inconsistently applied, has



- 12 -
nevertheless in some cases forced changes to plant operations leading to
higher investment and production costs. Finally, in the past two years, pulp
prices have recovered from .historic low levels, narrowing the differential
between the prices for pulp and for paper, thus squeezing the profit margins
of the non-integrated producers.
2.30     Deregulation and, more importantly, the factors listed above have
forced the pulp and paper industry to begin to restructure itself. The indus-
try as a whole is more economically viable today than in the recent past, and
continues to develop in a strong and positive manner. Nevertheless, many of
the smaller firms that were established during the period of high protection
lack the technical or financial resources to adapt properly to the new regime,
while some of the more technically complex restructuring activities in larger
firms have yet to be initiated. Given the long-standing dialogue between the
Bank and the Government in this subsector, continued Bank support is warranted
for the more difficult restructuring which has yet to be implemented.
4. The Textile Industry
2.31     The textile industry is one of the larger manufacturing industries in
Indonesia, accounting for around 10? of manufacturing value-added and 11? of
manufactured exports.  At present there are over 2,000 textile and garment
establishments in the country, covering all aspects of textile operations
including spinning, weaving, knitting, fabric finishing, fabric printing and
garment manufacturing. Exports, at over US$1.0 billion annually, are impres-
sive, but this benefit is tempered by the heavy imports of fiber, yarn and
cloth, which total almost US$500.0 million annually. From 1970, the industry
has expanded dramatically responding to both booming domestic demand and
enhanced export opportunities. Per capita domestic consumption of textiles is
of the order of 2.3 kg annually (about 15 meters). Some key statistics, which
indicate both the rate and structure of the growth of the subsector, are
sumarized in the following table.



- 13 -
Table 2.3: DEVELOPMENT OF THE TEXTILE INDUSTRY: 1971-87
Annual Growth
Rate (Z)
1971   1980   1984   1987       1980-87
Installed equipment
Spindles (millions)                  0.5    1.7    2.2    2.7             7
Looms (thousands)                     30     82      93    103            3
Printing and Finishing
Total capacity (million meters)      0.2    0.7    1.4    2.5            20
Employment (millions)                  0.5    1.0    1.3    1.5             6
Fiber imports (US$ million)           n.a.    159    157    344            12
Textile imports (US$ million)         n.a.   n.a.   n.a.    139         n.a.
Textile exports (US$ million)
Yarn                                   3      3      11     81           60
Cloth                                  6     30    137    302            39
Garments                               3     97    268    587            29
2.32     The strengths of the Indonesian textile industry are its large and
growing domestic market and its relatively low wage rates. Its weaknesses are
its reliance on imports for raw materials and operating supplies, its rela-
tively low level of technology which limits its capacity to enter the high
quality end of export markets, and its low labor productivity, all of which
have led to a number of structural inadequacies in the subsector.
2.33     The reliance on imported primary raw materials may, to some extent,
be unavoidable. Primary raw materials are man-made fibers (rayon, polyester,
nylon and acrylic) which together account for about 60? of fiber consumption,
and cotton, which accounts for the other 40X. Domestic production of man-made
fibers supplies about 902 of demand but almost 902 of cotton requirements are
imported. Cotton cultivation has increased in recent years, but because of
unfavorable climatic conditions, Indonesia is never likely to be a major
cotton producer. There are, however, opportunities for reducing imports of
other inputs, primarily through technological improvement. The spinning
industry, for example, cannot produce specialized yarns which therefore must
be imported. Weaving and processing activities have concentrated on narrow-
width, low-value fabrics and there are serious capacity and technological
constraints in specialized finishing operations. As a result, the relatively
recent and highly export-oriented garment industry is based primarily on
imported fabrics. Finally, the inadequacy of domestic support industries
means that the bulk of other operating supplies (dyes, chemicals, rings,



- 14 -
spindles, shuttles, etc.) all have to be imported, further offsetting the
benefits from exports. Technological deficiencies also limit the potential
benefit of exports, evan in markets which are dominated by quotas, by forcing
a concentration into the lower value products while leaving higher value
quotas unfilled.
2.34     The process of economic and regulatory reform undertaken in Indonesia
has now created an environment within which some of these structural and
technological deficiencies in the textile industry can be removed. One
priority for further policy reform is the rationalization of the allocation
mechanism for quotas (para. 2.12). What is now required is intensive support
for necessary restructuring and technological improvement aimed primarily at
redressing the deficiencies of the subsector. Principal objectives should be
to reduce the reliance on imports and improve product quality in order to
maximize the benefits obtainable from Indonesia's comparative advantage in
this subsector. The proposed Project is aimed specifically at achieving these
objectives.
III. THE PARTICIPATING FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS
A.  Choice of Institutions
3.1      The Indonesian financial sector comprises a banking system with Bank
Indonesia (BI--the central bank) at the apex, five state-owned commercial
banks, 64 private national commercial banks, 10 foreign banks, one joint-
venture bank, a state development bank, Bank Pembangunan Indonesia (BAPINDO),
27 regional development banks, and three non-bank financial institutions
principally engaged in medium- and long-term lending and equity participation.
The decision to use twelve of these institutions to channel the proposed
Project funds to sub-borrowers is a signal of Bank support to the existing
system of incentives for the restructuring of industrial enterprises and a
means of meeting the need for medium-term financing. This broad base is
expected to enhance competition among the participating financial institutions
(PFIs), which is in line with one of the main objectives of the ongoing
financial sector reforms in Indonesia.
3.2      The selection from among these institutions was based on proposals
from the Ministry of Finance (MOF) and BI, and on the good experience with
some of them under ongoing Bank-financed projects, followed by a review of
each institution's performance in relation to specific criteria as detailed
below. Apart from financial viability, operational performance and staff
capability, the large resource base and broad branch network of the state-
owned commercial banks (SCBs), the potential contribution to a more
competitive environment in the financial sector by the private commercial
banks (PCBs), the role of BAPINDO in the development of the industrial sector,
and the capability and experience in the handling of term loans by the non-
bank financial institutions (NBFIs) were considered. Details of the twelve
PFIs selected are in Annexes 3-A to 3-D and a summary of their main
characteristics is presented in Sections B to E below.



-15 -
3.3      The criteria established both for the initial eligibility of the
institutions, and as measurement of their suitability for continued eligibi-
lity, except as otherwise agreed by the Bank, are given in Annex 3-E. These
criteria were agreed with the Government during negotiations.
B. The State-Owned Commercial Banks
3.4      Information concerning the five state-owned commercial banks, Bank
Bumi Daya (BBD), Bank Dagang Negara (BDN), Bank Ekspor Impor Indonesia (BEII),
Bank Negara Indonesia 1946 (BNI 1946) and Bank Rakyat Indonesia (BRI), is
contained in Annex 3-A. The SCBs dominate the commercial banking sector in
Indonesia and collectively they account for approximately 702 of total assets
of deposit money banks. Until the June 1983 financial sector reforms, the
evolution of the SCBs was strongly influenced by the role and policies of BI,
which was also the main source of funds for the SCBs. After the 1983 reforms,
the SCBs had to mobilize resources for lending purposes directly from the
public and to operate more efficiently in an increasingly competitive
environment.  The SCBs have moved rapidly to fulfill their new role, and
reforms aimed at improved operational efficiency are under way.
3.5      Since the 1983 reform package, the SCBs have continued to grow.
Total assets were Rp 40,602 billion (US$23.9 billion equivalent) in 1987,
showing an annual growth of 20X since 1985. The combined net profit of the
five SCBs in 1987 was Rp 303.3 billion (US$0.18 billion equivalent) and return
on equity was about 26X. The maturity structure of the SCBs' assets and
liabilities is reasonably matched (term transformation was 18Z in 1987).
Borrowings from BI and the Government also increased, but the relative impor-
tance of these loans has declined In recent years and in 1987 constituted
about 35Z of total resources. Total deposits amounted to Rp 23,291 billion
(US$13.7 billion equivalent) at the end of 1987, almost double the level of
1984. The equity base of the SCBs is relatively small (for three SCBs it is
less than 3? of total assets) and has to be improved. The Government has
recently (October 1988) adopted a financial sector reform package that, among
other changes, now allows all banks and non-bank financial institutions to
increase their capital by issuing new shares on the capital market, in addi-
tion to increasing the equity participation of the existing shareholders. Two
positive developments in recent years have contributed to improved SCB profit-
ability: one, an improvement in their lending margins reflecting the impact
of deregulated interest rates; and two, a reduction in personnel and other
administrative expenses. Recent efforts undertaken by the SCBs to introduce
operational efficiencies appear to be succeeding.
3.6      "Classified loans" in the SCBs' portfolio (including substandard,
doubtful and bad loans with different degrees of uncollectibility) are at
manageable levels (an average of 4.1? of the total loan portfolio) while
accumulated provisions for bad debts amount to about 4.61 of the loan port-
folio. While rather low, since risks associated with a large portion of their
loan portfolio are shared with BI and the Government through back-to-back
financing and guarantees, the effective level of provisions is higher and
adequate to cover the SCBs' net risk. Financial accounts of the SCBs are
audited and certified acceptable by the Government's Financial and Development
Supervisory Board (BPKP), and their operations and performance are regularly
supervised and rated by BI.



- 16 -
3.7      One of the positive aspects of the SCBs' participation in the
priority credit programs of BI was the establishment of institutional capacity
for term lending operations and internal loan review procedures. Loan appli-
cations are evaluated on the basis of a comprehensive appraisal, including
financial analysis and examinations of managerial and technical aspects of the
potential borrowing enterprises. Overall, both subproject approval and super-
vision procedures of the SCBs are edequate for their current term lending
activities. However, there is room for improvement, and the proposed Bank
loan will build on the SCBs' capacity for term lending by providing training
of the PFIs' staffs, particularly in the technical, financial, economic and
environmental analyses required in assessing industrial investments.
C. The Private Commercial Banks
3.8      Of the 64 private commercial banks, Bank Duta, Bank Niaga, Bank Umum
Nasional and Bank Bali have been selected as suitable financial intermediaries
for the proposed Project because of their superior management procedures and
practices. BI regularly supervises their compliance with general banking
regulations, as well as their financial condition and operating performance.
Details of the operations and current situation of these four private banks
are contained in Annex 3-B and summarized in the following paragraphs.
3.9      The growth of the four participating PCBs during 1984-87, measured by
their total assets, was impressive. On average, total assets increased more
than threefold, with Bank Niaga registering the highest (377Z) and Bank Duta
the lowest (210t) rate. The growth of their loan portfolios ranged from 282Z
to 328Z. This rapid expansion was primarily financed with sharply increased
deposits, which rose by 158Z during the period, due to the higher deposit
rates offered by these banks. Retained earnings increased by 96Z and paid-in
share capital by only 34Z. As a result, by the end of 1987, the aggregate
equity of the four banks was only 3.7? of aggregate total assets, i.e., the
average debt:equity ratio reached 26:1. The proposed criterion under the
Project that the participating commercial banks' total borrowings under the
Bank's industrial lines of credit to Indonesia should not exceed their equity
is aimed at encouraging these banks to increase their share capital and to
slow down cash dividend payments.
3.10     From end-1984 to end-1987, the four banks' net profits showed an
increase of 83Z, from Rp 15.3 billion in 1984 to Rp 28.0 billion in 1987.
Bank Umum Nasional's return on average equity increased from 192 in 1984 to
30? in 1987; Bank Niaga from 25Z to 332, Bank Bali from 29? to 32?, while Bank
Duta stayed within a narrower range of 22-25Z, showing no steady upward trend.
The average cost of borrowed funds to private banks was higher than that to
state banks (because of the availability to the latter of deposits from public
sector enterprises and more low-cost loans from BI and the Government). The
private banks also have a higher lending spread. In 1987 for example, the
four participating PCBs had an average cost of funds of around 11 compared to
7.2? for the SCBs. The average spread of the four participating PCBs was 7.1?
compared with 4.4Z for the SCBs. Bank Duta's lending rates were relatively
low resulting in profit margins lower than the other three banks.



- 17 -
3.11     The quality of the loan portfolios of the four participating PC8s is
sound, according to BI criteria. At the end of 1987, the "classified" loans
of these banks amounted to Rp 42.9 billion, representing 2.12 of the aggregate
total portfolios. Cumulative provisions of the four banks amounted to
Rp 29.0 billion, acrounting for 692 of the "classified" loans.  Full
provisions have not been made because a portion of the classified loans
(around 262 at end-1987) were categorized as "substandard," which implies a
relatively high degree of collectibility even though rescheduling may be
needed. As a regular practice, the private banks charge loan write-offs
against current year's income and also set aside provisions for doubtful
accounts. Partly as a result of inconsistent accounting treatment, the
provisions of Bank Duta and Bank Niaga appear low, relative to their
respective "classified' loans, although both banks are taking steps to ensure
that adequate provisions will be made for possible loan losses at the end of
each accounting period.
3.12     The outstanding amount of long-term and working capital loans to the
industrial sector made by the four private commercial banks as of
December 31, 1987 was Rp 488.0 billion, representing 23.32 of their total
outstanding loans.
D. Bank Pembanaunan Indonesia (BAPINDO)
3.13     BAPINDO, a wholly Government-owned development bank established in
1960, is a major source for medium- and long-term finance for industry. It is
guided by a two-man Supervisory Board that represents the Minister of Finance
and the Governor of BI. Directly below it is the five-man Board of Managing
Directors, headed by the President. The BAPINDO Act and its Policy Statement,
adopted in 1972 and modified in 1983, set out the institution's broad policies
and operational guidelines, which are supplemented by implementing regulations
issued by the Board of Managing Directors. A detailed account of BAPINDO's
operations, procedures, financial position and performance, portfolio quality
and resource position is in Annex 3-C.
3.14     Since 1972, the Bank has assisted BAPINDO's operations, focusing on
the continued strengthening of its institutional capability, on the improve-
ment of its appraisal and supervision procedures and on its operational
autonomy. The latest operation, the BAPINDO V Project (Ln. 2277-IND), is due
to close by June 30. 1989. Performance under these Bank loans has been mixed.
Partly because of the economic downturn, and to a large extent due to its
weakness in portfolio management, BAPINDO's loan portfolio deteriorated and
its profitability declined sharply during 1982-85, with loans affected by
arrears reaching 502 of the portfolio and net profit dropping to only 0.12 of
total assets in 1985. The long-term viability of BAPINDO was clearly at risk,
and to deal with the situation, the Government, BAPINDO and the Bank reached
agreement on a number of measures involving BAPINDO's organizational stream-
lining, capital restructuring and portfolio rehabilitation. These measures
began in 1985, including: (a) in early 1986, the Government took steps to
bolter BAPINDO's capital structure, by contributing additional equity and
restructuring borrowings from official sources; (b) portfolio rehabilitation



- 18 -
covering 71 projects was carried out during 1986-87 with the assistance of
external consultants; and (c) BAPINDO's reorganization with improved
management and operating procedures was implemented beginning mid-1987. A
large-scale training program was also initiated in 1987. By 1988. positive
results were apparent: the overall ratio of arrears (over three months)
declined from 14.5Z in December 1986 to 7.72 in September 1988; profitability
rose from 3.4Z of equity at end-1986 to about 11.42 as of September 30, 1988;
sources of income have been diversified significantly; and total assets have
increased by over 502 between end-1986 and September 1988, with an increase of
more than 60? in approvals of loans and equity investments. To sustain these
favorable trends and recognize that a more competitive financial market will
develop as a result of the financial sector reforms adopted by the Government
since 1987 and of impending new banking legislation, BAPINDO would:
(a) appoint, not later than August 31, 1989, a senior banking and financial
advisor; and (b) adopt, not later than March 31, 1990, a Long-term Development
Strategy and Implementation Plan.
3.15     The inclusion of BAPINDO among the PFIs in the proposed Project is
justified by its improved portfolio and financial performance and its
significant role in the development of Indonesian industry. as well as the
need to diversify and promote competition among funding sources for industrial
restructuring.
E. The Non-Bank Financial Institutions
3.16     Two non-bank financial institutions were selected to participate in
the Project: the Private Development Finance Company of Indonesia (PDFCI) and
the Indonesian Development Finance Company (UPPINDO). PDFCI and UPPINDO were
set up as development finance companies to provide long-term finance to indus-
trial projects. Not permitted by law to take deposits, they rely primarily on
special liquidity credits from 8I to replenish their resources. PDFCI is
predominantly privately-owned with 34? ownership by Bl. The International
Finance Corporation (IFC) has made an equity investment in PDFCI, and the Bank
has previously provided it with two credit lines totalling US$25.0 million.
Since 1977. the Bank's lending to PDFCI has been constrained by the
Government's policy of guaranteeing multilateral loans only for fully
Government-owned institutions.  With PDFCI as an eligible participating
financial institution receiving an allocation of US$20.0 million under the
Second Export Development Project (EDP II) (Ln. 2979-IND), the Bank's lending
to this institution was resumed. UPPINDO is a joint undertaking by BI and the
Netherlands Finance Company for Developing Countries, with 75Z and 252
ownership, respectively. UPPINDO's inclusion in EDP II with an allocation of
US$10.0 million represented the first Bank Group support for this institution.
3.17     Both institutions are well organized and managed, with policies and
procedures designed to promote term financing for industry. By the end of
1987, PDFCI had total assets of Rp 246.0 biLiion and UPPINDOs had
Rp 195.0 billion. Although UPPINDO had a larger paid-in capital, its long-
term borrowings were much higher. UPPINDO's long-term debt:equity ratio was
4.5sl at the end of 1987 and reached 6.3:1 as of June 30, 1988. In
August 1988, UPPINDO floated a five-year bond issue of Rp 25.0 billion, at the
interest rate of 17.75?. As a result, the long-term debttequity ratio



- 19 -
increased to approximately 7.3:1. Under the proposed Project, the non-bank
financial institutions must maintain a long-term debttequity ratio not higher
than 7:1. UPPINDO has taken steps to increase its share capital with new
equity participation by the Rabo Bank of the Netherlands and the Asian
Development Bank. In addition, in February 1989, BI extended a subordinated
loan of Rp 38.3 billion that will be treated as part of equity, so that,
during the entire implementation period of the proposed Project, UPPINDO's
long-term debt:equity ratio will not exceed 7:1, as required. Taking into
account the allocation of US$20.0 million under EDP II and the proposed
allocation of US$20.0 willion under the proposed project, PDFCI's long-term
debt:equity ratio would reach 5.5:1, still well below the maximum 7:1 ratio
required.
3.18     PDFCI's return on average equity has increased from 25.52 in 1985 to
34.62 in 1987, while UPPINDO's return increased from 10.9Z to 14.22. At the
end of 1987, principal arrears over three months of PDFCI's outstanding loans
amounted to Rp 1.8 billion, representing 2.22 of the portfolio. The arrears
of UPPINDO's outstanding loans reached Rp 12.9 billion representing 9.62 of
the portfolio. PDFCI's provisions at end-1987 amountnd to Rp 6.8 billion, or
2.82 of the total loan portfolio compared with UPPINDO's provisions of
Rp 3.3 billion, or 2.22 of the portfolio. In recent years, PDFCI, due to lack
of long-term resources, has greatly expanded its short-term money market
operations while UPPINDO has continued to focus on term lending to industry
since its founding. Both PDFCI and UPPINDO have established procedures for
project appraisal and supervision and have experienced staff to handle term
lending. With access to wnhre long-term resources from the Bank under EDP II
and the proposed Project, the role of these two institutions in identifying
sound industrial projects and providing term finance to the sponsors should be
greatly enhanced.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Background, Proiect Concept, Obiectives and Description
4.1      Economic management in Indonesia is dealing effectively with policy
and regulatory deficiencies, and has created an environment strongly conducive
to a reorientation of industrial activities in many enterprises. The proposed
Project deals with three subsectors tI'-t are expected to play a significant
and increasing role in the industrial economy as policy reforms proceed and
further distortions are reduced. The concept underlying the proposed Project
is thus to assist enttrprises in the three subsectors, with technical advice
and credit, to transform themselves into efficient competitors in an
increasingly market-oriented economy. It is envisaged that subsequent
operations will add progressively to the group of subsectors supported,
eventually reaching all of manufacturing industry.
4.2      Specifically, the Project woulds  (a) assist individual industrial
enterprises in three selected subsectors--engineering, pulp and paper, and



- 20 -
textiles--to undertake viable, environmentally sound, restructuring invest-
ments; (b) strengthen institutional capabilities and technical services
assisting the three subsectors; and (c) evaluate the restructuring potential
of other industries.
4.3      To achieve these objectives, the Project includest  (a) an Investment
Component to provide financial assistance, through the PFIs, for restructuring
projects, including environmental actions, in eligible enterprises subject to
agreed selection criteria; (b) a Technical Assistance Component to:
(i) strengthen technical supporting institutiois and the provision of techni-
cal services to enterprises; and (ii) improve the capability of the partici-
pating financial institutions to evaluate the technical, environmental, finan-
cial and economic aspects of restructuring proposals; and (c) a Studies
Component for preparation of a second restructuring project.
B. The Investment Component
1. Obiectives
4.4      The major part of the proposed loan would provide credit that will be
made available to enterprises for restructuring projects, through twelve PFIs
(details in Chapter III). For the purposes of the proposed Project,
restructuring investments for existing enterprises would comprise such
activities as rehabilitation, modernization, rationalization of product mix,
improvements to product quality, balancing of production line, upgrading of
technology, strengthening of organizational and managerial capabilities, and
amelioration of industrial pollution. Expansion of existing industrial
activities would be eligible for financing under the proposed Project,
provided it is associated with at least one of the above restructuring
activities. Investments for the relocation of production facilities due to
environmental and other requirements will be eligible also. Although
financial restructuring may be an essential component of subprojects under
consideration, project funds would not be allocated for this purpose; PFIs
would need to support financial restructuring using their own resources.
2. Demand for Restructuring Investment
4.5      There is a strong demand for credit for restructuring activities in
the three subsectors; the pipelines for the twelve PFIs total about
US$450.0 million in loan requests. Questionnaires circulated through trade
associations in the three subsectors indicate a total demand for about
US$1.0 billion over the next three years. Finally, Investment Coordinating
Board (BKPM) statistics on license applications confirm this order of
magnitude of expected investments. Concern has been expressed that proposed
interest rates (which will match market rates) may constrain borrowing.
However, existing studies on the relationship between financing cost and
return to aggregate investment in Indonesian industry indicate that
enterprises are obtaining satisfactory returns under current rates. These
terms and conditions should not constrain the estimated demand for investments
to be supported under the Project.



- 21 -
3. Criteria for Enterprise and Subproiect Selection
4.6      The following eligibility criteria for project subloans were agreed
with Government during negotiations. Existing industrial enterprises in the
three subsectors will be eligible regardless of ownership (i.e., private,
pribumi, non-pribumi. mixed, foreign or public). Investments in green field
plants sponsored by new enterprises will be ineligible for financing under the
proposed Bank loan.
4.7      With regard to the financial condition of the borrowing enterprise.
projections of the capital structure and financial performance must show thats
(a) the long-term debt:equity ratio of the enterprise will not exceed 70:30;
(b) the current ratio will not be less than 1.2; and (c) the debt-service
coverage ratio will not be less than 1.5.
4.8      Eligible subprojects would be restructuring investments as defined in
para. 4.4. Supporting feasibility analyses must accompany all requests for
subloans under the Project.  Subprojects will be appraised by the PFIs taking
into consideration managerial, technical, marketing, financial and economic
aspects. Both the financial and economic rates of return of investments to be
financed must be at least 15Z, net of environmental improvement investments.
In addition, subprojects would have to satisfy appropriate environmental
criteria for the enterprises in the three subsectors, and borrowing
enterprises engaged in restructuring activities would be required to prepare a
survey to identify existing environmental problems and ways to overcome such
problems, including use of subloans under the proposed Project. For
enterprises in the pulp and paper industry that produce their own wood
supplies, these environmental requirements would also cover forestry-related
activities. Subprojects including investments for the planting and replanting
of wood plantations would be subject to prior review by the Bank.
4.9      Although a US$10.0 million ceiling is proposed for subloans, pipeline
evaluation shows a demand for a number of subloans in excess of this figure.
Because of the potentially significant restructuring impact of such projects,
it has been agreed that a maximum of three (preferably one in each subsector)
will be considered for financing on the basis of submissions from the PFIs.
Selection will be made on the basis of the significance of the subproject in
the subsector and on the commitment of the enterprise's management to the
project objectives. Such subprojects would be appraised jointly by the Bank
and the respective PFI proposing the subproject. For consideration under this
provision, enterprise submissions, i.e., feasibility studies, should be
forwarded by the PFIs to the Bank for review.
4. Environmental Considerations
4.10     Indonesia has a comprehensive package of environmental legislation
which is not, however, consistently applied. The installation and operation
of pollution control equipment in plants visited during the preparation of
this project varied from full pollution control facilities where discharges
are controlled to reasonable standards to other plants with poor treatment
facilities and lack of regular control.



- 22 -
4.11     Under the proposed Project, environmental aspects in the plants where
subprojects are to be financed will be addressed through application of the
following criteria:
(a) All subprojects would be subject to an Environmental Impact
Assessment (EIA), in accordance with prevailing Indonesian laws and
regulations;
(b) In each subproject, all necessary facilities would be included to
ensure that their operation will satisfy the existing relevant
environmental standards, and subloan agreements will include
assurances that such facilities will be operated and maintained to
ensure that this objective is met; and
(c) In enterprises that seek financing for subprojects and that are not
now in compliance with the relevant local environmental standards, a
survey of the current situation will be undertaken and a plan will be
prepared showing how, and according to what timetable, the plant will
be brought into compliance. This plan will form a part of the loan
application.
4.12     For the pulp and paper industry, in a few cases there may be an addi-
tional environmental consideration where enterprises use and manage forest
resources to provide a significant part of their fiber input. In such cases,
the application of the three criteria defined above would be extended to cover
good management practice of the forest resource. These criteria were agreed
with Government at negotiations.
C. The Technical Assistance Component
1. Obiectives
4.13     The Technical Assistance Component is designed to strengthen existing
institutions serving the three subsectors and to assist both enterprises and
participating financial institutions to identify restructuring investments
that are technically, financially and economically responsive to the changes
in the incentive structure of the subsectors. Some einterprises will be unable
to justify additional expenditures and should be dissolved. Many enterprises,
however, will have opportunities, through investment, to become viable and
efficient entities by improving their management, production technology,
financial structure, marketing abilities, and product range and quality. For
this to happen quickly and efficiently, significant upgrading and refocusing
of current institutional support are required.
4.14     In recognition of these requirements, the main objective of the Tech-
nical Assistance Component of the proposed project is to enhance the capabili-
ties of existing industrial and financial supporting institutions and
services, thus helping industrial enterprises in the three selected subsectors
to improve their overall efficiency through restructuring. This component
would consist oft (a) strengthening existing industrial institutions to
ensure that they are capable of providing necessary technical support for the



- 23 -
three subsectors; (b) implementing a technical services program to help indus-
trial enterprises to improve their managerial and operational efficiency; and
(c) improving, through training, the capabilities of PFIs to evaluate the
technical, managerial, environmental, financial and economic aspects of
restructuring proposals.
2. Institutional Strengthening Program
4.15     For pulp and paper, the project will include financing for the
purchase of pollution monitoring and control testing equipment and training in
its use, to be provided to the MOI's Institute of Research and Development of
Cellulose Industries (IRDCLI), located in Bandung. This equipment, estimated
to cost US$0.6 million, would be made available for any testing and other
pollution control activities required in any of the subsectors, and also in
connection with the work to be undertaken by the Technical Services Groups.
4.16     For textiles, a provision of US$0.8 million has been made for
replacement of obsolete equipment for raw material and product testing at the
IMOI's Institute for Research and Development of Textile Industries (IRDTI) in
Bandung.
4.17     For engineering, there is an urgent need to establish an effective
engineering standards system to sustain sound technological development. The
project includes provisions to support the following three programs: (a) a
network of four calibration and testing service centers, including accredi-
tation, product certification and quality audit. This network will be
organized under the MOI Metal Industries Deve]opment Institute (BBLM) in
Bandung; (b) training in standards application and quality control practices.
About 30 engineers from testing centers and enterprises, 300 enterprise
managers and 3,000 enterprise workers would be trained. BBLM will be respon-
sible for this program; and (c) strengthening of standards preparation, promo-
tion and monitoring activities undertaken by the MOI Center for
Standardization. About 15 technical teams will be supported to prepare about
600 standards for basic engineering products and for testing purposes.
Promotion, implementation and monitoring of such standards will also be
supported under this program. Full details of these programs are available in
the Project File.
3. Technical Services Program
4.18     With some exceptions, industrial enterprises in Indonesia lack
experience in identifying the kind of technological, production, marketing and
management options that may be available to them in: (a) resolving producti-
vity, efficiency and technological issues; (b) evaluating and comparing
investment alternatives; (c) designing restructuring programs to improve
operational efficiency; and (d) preparing the technical and other documenta-
tion required to support an application for project financing from an
Indonesian financial intermediary. Moreover, there is a need to upgrade and
expand the skills of the local consultant industry to help industrial enter-
prises in their restructuring and improvement efforts. The Bank's experience
with industrial adjustment in other countries clearly indicates that, as an
essential part of the deregulation process, there is a critical need to



- 24 -
augment broad policy reform with a complementary support system at the
enterprise level to promote the effective, timely implementation of actions
and investments. Without this assistance, there is a risk that enterprises
may respond sluggishly or even inappropriately to the new policy environment.
Therefore much-needed technological strengthening and restructuring may not
take place, resulting in a misallocation of resources and, more importantly,
in lost opportunities to capitalize on the comparative advantages identified
in subsector studies.
4.19     Based on these considerations, the Project would support the imple-
mentation of a Technical Services Program to help industrial enterprises to
improve their managerial and operational efficiency through restructuring.
Under this program, three Technical Services Groups (TSGs) will be set up,
under a schedule agreed with the Bank (Annex 6), to provide high-quality
services in the areas of product and manufacturing technology, product and
marketing strategies, and management, focusing on the identification of major
constraints on enterprise performance and on alternative courses of action to
eliminate them within the ongoing deregulation process. This front-end
technical service function is so far insufficient in Indonesia. It is
expected that the Technical Services Program will contribute also to
developing the capabilities of Indonesian professional staff and consultants
to provide technical assistance to industrial enterprises.
4.20     Upon receipt of requests from enterprises in the three subsectors,
the proposed TSGs will:
(a) Conduct a brief review of overall enterprise operations, and identify
potential options for enterprise improvement through restructuring;
(b) Undertake preliminary analyses of the costs and benefits of such
options in order to assess the relative merits of the options and the
likely capital requirements;
(c)  Where the initial analysis suggests a need for assistance in current
operations, identify the need for any longer-term, in-plant technical
assistance that may be required. In such cases, assist enterprise
managements to prepare terms of reference and to identify sources for
technical assistance;
(d) Where an investment project appears viable, identify the need for any
further, more detailed, feasibility study required for project
preparation. Assist with the preparation of terms of reference as
required and identify suitable consultants for consideration by
enterprise management;
(e) Assist enterprises to determine the requirement for and scope of
environmental impact assessments. In simple cases, the services and
the enterprise may be able to complete the assessment. In more
complex cases, the services could help prepare terms of reference for
the more detailed work that may be required;



- 25 -
(f) Assist, as appropriate, enterprise management to prepare loan appli-
cations for financing under the Project; and
(g) Provide other short-term technical assistance and advice as may from
time to time be requested by enterprises in the subsector, and, to
the extent possible, provide similar assistance to the participating
financial intermediaries as they evaluate investment proposals
submitted by enterprises in the three subsectors.
4.21     The Project also includes provisions under the Technical Services
Program to support: (a) strengthening existing capabilities of domestic
producers of steel inputs to the engineering industries on investment
evaluation, production optimization, and project engineering and management;
and (b) improving the capabilities of the engineering enterprises
manufacturing spare parts for the domestic steel plants. Details are in the
Project File.
4. Training
4.22     The experience and quality of subproject appraisal and supervision
vary among the twelve PFIs; generally, these cover an overall review of the
financial and organizational aspects of the sponsor, with rather simple finan-
cial analysis. Consideration of economic and environmental aspects is either
rudimentary or omitted, although some basic information is provided in
appraisal reports of complex investments. In addition, some of the PFIs, in
particular the small private commercial banks, have little or no experience
with term lending. The same is true of existing training efforts undertaken
by PFIs. Some, like the larger state commercial banks, have decided to
implement comprehensive training programs covering all operational matters,
using the "training the trainer" approach. For other PFIs, training is
provided mainly through in-house arrangements, including seminars, lectures
and specific sessions conducted by their own staff and invited outside
speakers. These efforts are geared mostly towards new staff and junior credit
officers. Overall, among the PFIs, there is a perceived need to improve the
coverage and depth of training activities with regard to technical, financial,
economic and environmental appraisal and supervision of industrial investment
proposals.
4.23     To this end, a training program will be implemented under the Project
covering technical, managerial, financial, economic, and environmental aspects
of subproject appraisal, as well as the objectives and organization of PFIs'
subloan supervision. About 200 staff from the PFIs would participate in the
proposed program, which would extend over three years, with two courses to be
conducted per year. Details of the program are in Annex 5. An initial
training course will be conducted by Bank staff, prior to effectiveness of the
proposed loan. This one-week course will cover the most critical aspects of
subloan appraisal and supervision, including environmental impact assessment,
to start improving the skills of PFIs' credit or loan department personnel,
until the proposed training program is under way.
4.24     The Indonesia Banking Development Institute (LPPI) will be entrusted
with implementation of the training program. It is expected that this przgram



- 26 _
will enhance significantly the capability of the PFIs' personnel to apply
current methodologies and techniques in the appraisal and supervision of
restructuring investments. It is expected also that the experience gained by
participants will filter through their respective institutions and contribute
to an overall healthier portfolio.
D. Subsector Studies
4.25     For preparation of subsequent Bank restructuring operations in the
Indonesian industrial sector, the proposed Project includes provisions for
undertaking studies of the packaging, the agro-based and the electronics
industries. These studies will focus on: the existing policy framework
affecting the subsector; its current condition and the main development
constraints; the potential for growth; the restructuring requirements,
including an assessment of investment priorities, identification of financial
and technical needs, and recommendations for further policy reform. A study
of Technology Development, with specific reference to the engineering subsec-
tor, will also be financed under the Project. With regard to other subsec-
tors, a study of wood-based industries is under way and will be completed in
April 1989. A study of the fine chemicals and specialty chem'zals products
industry is currently being undertaken for the Government by the United
Nations Industrial Development Organization (UNIDO). In addition, the
Government is considering studies of rubber processing, and the potential of
semi-precious stones and jewelry production. Subsector selection for further
restructuring operations will depend on the outcomes of these studies, and on
the extent to which they may be supported through Bank or other financing
available.
E. Proiert Organization and Implementation 4/
4.26     For subloans to be supported under the Investment Component of the
project, the PFIs will be responsible for their processing and supervision,
under procedures and criteria detailed in paras. 4.6-4.9. The appraisal and
summary report formats have been discussed and agreed with the PFIs. Each PFI
will appoint a team or enlarge its existing team at its headquarters in
Jakarta under the EDP II, as appropriate, to handle the processing and
monitoring of subloan applications, and respective disbursements and
reimbursements under the Project. A similar arrangement under EDP II is
proceeding satisfactorily. The team leader will be an experienced credit
officer and possess an understanding of the Bank's appraisal, disbursement and
supervision procedures. Team members will be trained under provisions
detailed in paras. 4.22-4.24. Assurances to these effects were obtained at
negotiations.
4.27     The Technical Assistance Component, will be organized and implemented
as follows. The Project's institutional strengthening and technical services
programs will be implemented by institutions under MOI's Agency for Industrial
Research and Development (BPPI). For institutional strengthening in the
engineering industry, three programs will be implemented. The first program,
establishment of a Network of Calibration and Testing Service Centers, will be
organized under MOI's BBLM in Bandung.  This network will cover four regional
4/ Key Implementation Indicators are given in Annex 6.



- 27 -
centerst Bandung (at BBLM); Jakarta (to be set-up in 1989-90 under bilateral
financing); Surabaya (at the Industrial Development Center); and Medan (at the
Metal Research Center). Each cester will have a core staff of ten technical
experts; BBLM will have five additional staff to deal with the planning and
coordination of the network. About 60 staff-months of foreign consultants
will be required, under terms of reference agreed with MOI. The second
program, Standards Training, will be conducted by BBLM during a three-year
period.  Consultants working in the first program will help BBLM in the
preparation of the training program, which will be submitted to the Bank for
review and approval. The third program, Standards Preparation, Promotion and
Monitoring, will be implemented by the MOI Center for Standardization, through
existing technical teams to be strengthened under the Project. About 12
staff-months of foreign experts will be required for this program; terms of
reference have been prepared and agreed with MOI and were confirmed during
negotiations (Annex 4-A).
4.28     Implementation of provisions for institutional strengthening in the
pulp and paper, and textiles subsectors (paras. 4.15 and 4.16) will be vested
in the respective MOI Industrial Research and Development Institute: IRDCLI
and IRDTI.
4.29     With regard to institutional strengthening activities, assurances
were obtained during negotiations that the Government will: (a) implement
these activities as detailed in paras. 4.27 and 4.28; (b) provide the proposed
implementation agencies with the appropriate facilities, staffing and other
resources required during the project period; and (c) implement these activi-
ties in accordance with annual work programs and budgets satisfactory to the
Bank.
4.30     In designing the organization and staffing for delivery of high
quality support and advice to enterprises under the Technical Services
Program, four main criteria have been applied: cost effectiveness, autonomy
in decision making, broad participation in directing the technical assistance
activities, and full use of existing institutions supporting the industrial
sector. By proposing the inclusion of private sector representatives in
technical steering meetings to be convened regularly by BPPI, an attempt has
been made to ensure responsiveness to the needs of private enterprises, as
well as to create the possibility that, if the demand for technical services
should outlive the proposed project, a mechanism would exist to encourage
continued supply of those services on a self-financing basis. Independence in
decision-making is seen as a key element in ensuring that objectivity governs
the diagnosis offered to enterprises, and that essentially non-viable public
and private enterprises are not funded under the project.
4.31     Separate TSGs (para. 4.19) will be established in the three MO0
Industrial Research and Development Institutes, located in Bandung, assisting
the three subsectors--IRDCLI, IRDTI and BBLM--where suitable office space is
available. Each group will have its own Technical Manager, who will be
responsible for the day-to-day operations of the TSG. The Technical Managers
will be qualified and experienced administrators with technical experience in
the private sector, and with proven ability to organize, implement and monitor
complex technical programs. The pulp and paper and textiles TSGs will be



- 28 -
staffed with five experts each, of whom three will be Indonesian and two
internationally recruited specialists.  The engineering TSG will consist of a
core team of five locally- and four internationally-recruited experts, and
about 60 staff-years of internationally recruited specialists. Staffing
requirements have been based on estimates for the demand for technical
services. All Indonesian experts will have at least 10-15 years of experience
in the industry. Terms of reference for the experts to be recruited inter-
nationally were confirmed during negotiations (Annex 4-A). Recognizing the
difficulty of locating and attracting Indonesian experts with the required
qualifications and experience, cost estimates have been based on salary scales
at least equivalent to those of the private sector. It is anticipated that
the cost of six of the eight core team experts to be internationally recruited
will be financed under the World Bank loan; the remainder will be funded by
the participating bilateral donors: Belgium and the Netherlands. The cost of
the specialists in the engineering TSG will be financed by the World Bank and
by the bilateral donors.
4.32     While the Project would finance the foreign costs of establishing and
operating the three TSGs for the expected three-year term of the Project, no
provision has been made for providing support beyond that time, on the assump-
tion that, if there is a clearly demonstrated need for the types of service to
be provided, they would become self-supporting. During negotiations, MOI has
agreed to undertake not later than December 31, 1990, a mid-term review of the
activities of the TSGs, which would include an assessment of their performance
and recommendations as to any arrangements for their operation beyond the
completion of the Project.
4.33     To support the development of local consulting expertise in specific
areas of product and production technologies and operational management, it is
envisaged that local consulting companies, directly or through their local
association, will provide counterparts to the TSG for participation in
specific assignments, together with the proposed team of specialists in the
engineering TSG, or with the pulp and paper and textiles experts.  The cost of
these counterparts would be borne by their parent consulting companies and
therefore it is not included in the cost estimates.
4.34     Activities to strengthen existing capabilities of domestic producers
of steel inputs to the engineering industries and to develop the capacity of
engineering enterprises manufacturing spare parts for domestic steel plants
(para. 4.21), will be implemented by P.T. Krakatau Steel (PTKS), a wholly
government-owned company. About 230 person-months of consultants would be
required; terms of reference were discussed and agreed upon during
negotiations. PTKS would finance the local expenditures related to these
activities.
4.35     The Project also includes a provision for hiring a team of industrial
environmental specialists, to be located at IRDCLI in Bandung. The team would
consist of two Indonesian experts and one specialist who will be internation-
ally recruited and appointed for a period of three years. The team will be
the focal point of all inquiries from enterprises in the three subsectors and
from the PPIs regarding assistance in complying with the Government's environ-
mental and pollution control requirements. Terms of reference for the specia-
list to be internationally recruited were confirmed during negotiations
(Annex 4-A).



- 29 -
4.36     With regard to the technical services activities, assurances were
obtained during negotiations that the Government will:  (a) implement these
activities as detailed in paras. 4.31 to 4.35; (b) provide the proposed imple-
mentation agencies with the appropriate facilities, staffing and other
resources during the project period; and (c) implement these activities in
accordance with annual work programs and budgets satisfactory to the Bank.
4.37     To oversee, guide and coordinate the implementation of the
Institutional Strengthening and Technical Services Programs, and of the
studies to be supported under the Project, BPPI will convene regular meetings
with the following participants: (a) the Director of BPPI (Chairman); (b) one
representative from each of the bilateral donors participating in the Project;
and (c) one private sector representative from each of the three subsectors,
through their respective subsector associations. The managers of the
implementing agencies for the Institutional Strengthening Program, the
managers of the three TSGs and the head of the local counterpart team for each
study will act as secretaries of these meetings, when matters pertaining to
their respective activities are discussed. The main objectives of these
meetings will be to: (a) coordinate the policy and decision-making of the
agencies concerned with the implementation of institutional strengthening,
technical services and studies activities under the Project; (b) review and
recommend for approval annual work programs and budgets for Project
implementation in accordance with agreed policies and Project objectives;
(c) recommend the allocation of loan, bilateral and domestic funds; (d) guide
project implementation to minimize delays in implementation; and (e) report
regularly to the Project sponsors. Assurances to these effects were obtained
at negotiations.
4.38     For the effective and successful implementation of the proposed
training proaram (paras. 4.22-4.24), it is essential that the executing agency
be already established in Indonesia, with a satisfactory record in development
and investment banking. LPPI fully complies with these requirements and,
therefore, will be responsible for implementation of the training program for
PFI staff. LPPI is an autonomous institution, headed by a Board of Trustees,
chaired by the Governor of Bank Indonesia, and with members representing
Indonesian banks. Day-to-day activities are the responsibility of a
Management Board, consisting of one chairman and three members. LPPI will
assign one senior staff member as responsible for this program. LPPI will
prepare annual training programs and budgets, in consultation with PFIs, which
will be submitted to the Bank for review and approval. Assurances to these
effects were obtained at negotiations.
4.39     For each study, MOI will establish a counterpart team, including a
team leader, to monitor the development of the study and to ensure that all
necessary information and facilities are available to support the work of the
consultant. These arrangements and the terms of reference for the studies
were confirmed during negotiations.
4.40     The Government has expressed its interest in examining the Project's
implementation experience on a regular basis, in order to minimize the
incidence of implementation constraints, to introduce quickly corrective



- 30 -
action and to gather relevant information and analysis to be used in similar
industrial restructuring activities in the future. BPPI will prepare a
detailed proposal to implement a management information system for the
monitoring and evaluation of project activities, and submit such proposal,
with cost and financing estimates, to the Bank for review and comment, before
implementation. An assurance to this effect was obtained at negotiations.
V. CAPITAL COSTS. FINANCING PLAN AND LOAN FEATURES
A. Capital Costs
5.1      As shown in Table 5.1, the total project cost and financing required
are estimated at US$506.1 million, iacluding US$1.1 million in identifiable
taxes and duties and US$289.2 million in foreign exchange. Detailed cost
tables are in the Project File.
5.2      Base costs are expressed in January 1989 values.  Unit costs are
based on consultants' reports prepared in 1987-88 and on estimates prepared by
MOI. MOF and PFIs, all of which were reviewed during appraisal in September-
October 1988.
5.3      The estimated US$475.0 million needed for the Investment Component
has been derived from the requested allocations of the PFIs which total
US$265.0 million (para 5.8, Table 5.3), and the financing plans proposed for
subprojects (302 of total subproject cost to be funded by the enterprise and
2O0 of the loan financing to come from the PFI's own resources). This cost
estimate is thus only indicative; for some subprojects World Bank financing
may be less than the maximum allowable. The figure is also considerably lower
than would be derived from the estimated pipeline of projects prepared by the
PFIs in the selected subsectors (a pipeline of about US$450.0 million of
loans, suggesting over US$640.0 million in subprojects); or from the estimated
aggregated restructuring needs of the three subsectors over the next three
years (more than US$1.0 billion).
5.4      Details of the capital cost estimate for the Technical Assistance
Component are contained in the Project File. The estimate includes a total of
92.4 staff-years of foreign consultants, at an average cost per staff-month of
US$15,000 including fees, subsistence and travelling expenses. In addition,



- 31 -
Table 5.1: PROJECT COST SUMMARY /a
Foreign  Percent of
Component               Local Foreign Total  Local Foreign Total  exchange Total Base
-----Rp billion ---   --- US1 thousand ----    X       Cost
A. Investment          367.0  450.6  807.6 210,000 265,000 475,000     so       94.18
B. Technical Assistance
Institutional
strengthening        4.4    8.9   18.8   2,6*0   6,200  7,800       67       1.66
Technical s*rvices     8.8   26.8   82.8   8,700  16,500 19,200       81       8.80
Traininng              0.2    0.5    0.7    180       290    420      69       0.08
Subtotal            10.9   86.7   48.6   8.480  20.990 27.420      77       5.48
C. Studies               -      8.2    8.2        -   1,900  1,900    100       0.87
Total Base Cost lb  887.9  489.4  067.8 216.430 287.8090 504.820   67     100.00
Physical conting encies Le  0.8    0.5    0.8   200     800   S5       60       0.09
Expected price ?ncreases Lc 0.6    1.7    2.8   520   1,010  1,880     76       0.26
Total Project cost
_nd Financing
RTuired          888.8  491.6  860.6 218.950 289.200 566.160     67     100.86
_ US31.00 = Rp 1,700.
Including identifiable taxes and duties estimated at US11.1 million.
Applicable only to the Technical Assistance and Studies Components.
this component includes supporting equipment for institutional strengthening
and technical service activities, including vehicles, computing and other
office equipment, and a limited amount of measuring and testing equipment,
particularly to support the work of the environmental specialist. Physical
contingencies have been allowed at 5? for the Institutional Strengthening and
Training Subcomplnents, and a further allowance has been incorporated to cover
price escalation for the Technical Assistance and Studies components during
the period of project implementation, based on the following expected price
increases: for local costs, 9.OZ for 1989-90 and 5.22 for 1991 onwards; and
for foreign costs 5.3? for 1989-90 and 4.12 for 1991 onwards.
B. Financing Plan
5.5       The proposed Bank loan of US$284.0 million equivalent (about 56Z of
total financing required and 981 of foreign exchange) would cover: (a) all of
the foreign exchange requirement for investments under the Investment



- 32 -
Component (local funding for this component would be provided by the
enterprises and the PFIs); (b) that part of the foreign exchange costs for
technical assistance not covered by bilateral funding and a small portion of
the local technical assistance costs; and (c) the cost of the proposed
studies. The Government will provide the remainder of local funds for the
Technical Assistance Component. Bilateral donors--Belgium and the
Netherlands--will provide grants to finance US$6.2 million equivalent of the
cost of institutional strengthening and technical services. It would be a
condition of loan disbursement for consultant services that the consultants to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Belgium and the Netherlands grants had
been retained.   On the basis of the foregoing, the proposed financing plan
for the Project is given in Table 5.2 below.
Table 5.2: FINANCING PLAN
(US$ million)
Source                                      Local    Foreign    Total   Percent
Government                                    5.9       -          5.9        1
IBRD                                          1.0     283.0      284.0       56
Bilaterals                                    -         6.2        6.2        1
Participating financing institutions         67.0       -         67.0       13
Enterprises' equity                         143.0       -        143.0       29
Total                                 216.9 /a  289.2      506.1       100
la Including identifiable taxes and duties estimated at US$1.1 million.
5.6      Eligible subprojects approved by the PFIs between the completion of
appraisal (September 26, 1988) and the date of loan signing would be eligible
for retroactive financing under the proposed Bank loan, provided that the
necessary approvals have been obtained and procurement is consistent with the
agreed procedures under the loan. The aggregate amount for such retroactive
financing will be limited to 102 of the credit component of the loan
(US$26.5 million), with each PFI limited to 10? of its respective allocation.
C. Features of the Loan
1. On-lendina ArranRements
5.7      The proposed Bank loan of US$284.0 million would be lent to the
Republic of Indonesia on standard country terms. The MOF would act as the
Government's agent. The Government would allocate the proceeds of the loan as
detailed below.



_ 33 -
*          Investment ComPonent
5.8      BI, on behalf of MOF, will establish a separate project account to
!          record:  (a) the allocation of the Bank loan to the individual PFIs; and
(b) the debt service payments received from them.  The Government would on-
lend the loan proceeds to the PFIs as follows:
!              (a)  At ne4otiations, each of the PFIs agreed to subscribe to a portion of
the loan, based on the amount of funds it expects to commit over a
three-year period.  The initial allocations are shown in Table 5.3
below.
Table 5.3:  INITIAL ALLOCATION OF LOAN PROCEEDS
TO PARTICIPATING FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS
PFI                                Amount (US$ million)
SCBs
BBD                                            20.0
BDN                                            40.0
BEII                                           35.0
BNI 1946                                       63.0
BRI                                            25.0
Subtotal SCBs                             183.0
PCBs
Bank Duta                                       4.0
Bank Niaga                                      4.0
Bank Umum Nasional                             11.5
Bank Bali                                       8.0
Subtotal PCBs                              27.5
BAPINDO                                           29.5
NBFIs
PDFCI                                          20.0
UFPINDO                                         5.0
Subtotal NBFIs                             25.0
Total                                     265.0
(b) Each PFI would assume the obligation for paying the Government the
commitment fee equal to 0.75Z of the undisbursed portion of the
amount of the loan to which it has subscribed. There would be a



- 34 -
provision for a subsequent reallocation of World Bank funds by the
Government, to ensure that the funds are used as quickly and
efficiently as possible. Under this provision:
(i)  Eighteen months after World Bank Loan effectiveness, the
Government, in consultation with the Bank, will review the
situation with respect to all uncommitted balances;
(ii)  After review, reallocations iuay be made by the Government from
one PFI to another. The PFIs will pay commitment fees on
undisbursed balances from the date of the new allocation, but
there will be no retroactive adjustment of commitment fee
obligations; and
(iii)  Subject to an agreement from the Government, PFIs may make
voluntary reallocations among themselves, in which cases
commitment fee obligations could be adjusted by mutual consent.
(c) Funds to the SCBs and to BAPINDO will be lent by MOF through
Subsidiary Loan Agreements (SLAs) with each institution. Funds to
the private banks, and to the NBFIs will be lent in the first
instance by MOF to BI, through a separate SLA between MOF and BI.
This SLA essentially will limit Bl's role to that of a channeling
agent between MOF and these institutions. BI will then relend these
funds to the PBCs and the NBFIs through respective On-lending
Agreements (OLAs) between BI and the respective PFIs. Loan proceeds
on-lent to the PFIs would be for a maximum term of 15 years,
including three years of grace. The Government negotiating team
brought to Washington draft SLAs between (a) MOF and BI; (b) MOF and
the SCBs; (c) MOF and BAPINDO; and (d) draft OLAs between BI and the
PCBs, and BI and the NBFIs, which were reviewed and approved during
negotiations. All PFIs will sign a Project Agreement with the World
Bank outlining their obligations in implementing the proposed
project. Signing of the SLA between MOF and BI, and between MOF and
at least three SCBs (on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank)
will be a condition of loan effectiveness. For all PFIs, compliance
with the eligibility criteria (Annex 3-E) will be a condition of
disbursement. For each SCB and BAPINDO, the signing of a SLA with
MOF, on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, will be a
condition of disbursement. For each PCB and NBFI the signing of an
OLA with BI, on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, will be
a condition of disbursement. The PFIs would use the loan proceeds to
finance eligible restructuring projects as defined in para. 4.4.
These funds are expected to cover a three-year commitment period with
the final date for the submission of requests for subproject
financing being June 30, 1992.



- 35 -
5.9      Interest Rate.  The PFIs will pay a variable interest rate equal to
the weighted average cost of their deposits (excluding non-interest-bearing
deposits from the Government and Government-owned entities).5/ Based on
December 1988 data, this arrangement would result in a relending rate to the
PFIs of about 13.6Z p.a., which is highly positive in real terms. The rate
would be adjusted every six months and would be subject to a floor equal to
the rate on the Bank loan plus a minimum spread of 1.752 (the proposed formula
is detailed in Annex 7). The Government will assume the direct foreign
exchange risk against a fee built into the differential between the Bank's
prevailing interest rate and the proposed on-lending rate to the PFIs
(currently about 6? p.a.). This resultant spread is comparable to the current
7.81 swap rate (LIBOR--Rupiah deposit indexed) offered by BI for up to three-
year foreign exchange (US dollar) contracts. Since deposit rates in Indonesia
are market-determined and capital flows are generally unrestricted, the
proposed formula indirectly includes a variable element to cover the foreign
exchange risk as perceived by the currency markets; the difference between the
Bank's lending rate and the relending rate to the PFIs charged by the
Government is therefore considered an acceptable premium for bearing the
foreign exchange risk. BI will be responsible for calculating the on-lending
rate to the PFIs on the basis of the most recent data available to it. The
Government's agreement to these proposed interest rate provisions, as well as
to the method and frequency of interest rate calculations, was confirmed at
negotiations.
5.10     On-lending Terms.  The proceeds of the Bank loan, along with comple-
mentary financing from the PFIs' own resources, will be on-lent to the final
borrowers by the PFIs at current Indonesian market rates. Since the on-
lending rate set by the PFIs will reflect their costs plus a profit margin,
the premium for foreign exchange risk paid to the Government by the PFIs will
be fully passed on to the final borrowers. Present indications are that the
interest rates to the final borrowers initially would be in the range of
18-21Z. The maximum term for subloans,6/ including the grace period, will be
15 years. Rollover funds (i.e., the repayments on Bank-financed subloans)
would be relent by the PFIs fo7 similar restructuring investments. Agreement
on these on-lending terms were obtained during negotiations.
5.11     Free Limits, Individual Subloan Limits and SubDroiect Review.  A
subloan free limit of US$1.5 million is proposed for all PFIs. However, the
first two subloans from each PFI will be subject to the Bank's prior review
and approval regardless of subloan size. These two submissions should be from
different subsectors. Except as previously noted (para. 4.9), the maximum
size of individual subloans will be US$10.0 million, and this will also be the
maximum amount of Bank funds provided to any single enterprise. A minimum
subloan size of US$250,000 will apply. There would be no maximum size on the
investment cost of an eligible subproject. Subprojects jointly financed with
other PFIs are also eligible for financing under the proposed Bank loan,
5/ Excluding PDFCI and UPPINDO, which are not deposit-taking institutions,
and BAPINDO.
61 The term "subloan* refers to the 802 portion of'the loan tc the
subproject, which represents the portion financed with the proceeds of
the Bank Loan.



- 36 -
provided that the maximum allocation of Bank funds to each subproject is not
more than US$10.0 million. Subprojects to be jointly appraised by the Bank
and the proponent PFI will be subject to prior review by the Bank. Assurances
to these effects were obtained during negotiations.
Technical Assistance Component
5.12     The allocation of project funds will be made as indicated in
Table 5.4:
Table 5.4: LOAN ALLOCATION ARRANGEMENTS FOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Proceeds of Bank Loan
and other cofinancing sources
Activity                    From          To                   Procedure
Institutional Strengthening    GOI/MOFLa   MOI/BPPI/Subsector }  As grants
Institutions      }    through
Technical Services              GOI/MOF     MOI/BPPI/TSG/PTKS  }    annual
: budgetary
I allocations
Training                        GOI/BI      LPPI                    Financial
Arrangement
ia   GOI = Government of Indonesia.
5.13     For the Institutional Strengthening and Technical Services Programs
the proceeds of the Bank loan and other cofinancing sources will be passed on
by MOF to the respective executing agencies and to PTKS, as appropriate, as
grants, through annual budgetary allocations, and will be recorded by these
agencies and PTKS in separate accounts. Assurances on these arrangements were
obtained at negotiations. For the Training Program the proceeds of the Bank
loan will be passed on by the Government to LPPI as a grant, under a Financial
Arrangement (FA) between BI and LPPI. It would be a condition of disbursement
for the Training Program that the FA between BI and LPPI, on terms and
conditions acceptable to the Bank, had been finalized.
5.14     With regard to the provision of technical services (paras.
4.19-4.20), the initial diagnostic service to be provided by the TSGs in
designing effective enterprise restructuring plans is considered so important
to the industrial sector that these services would be made available at no
charge to enterprises in the three subsectors.  In the case of the engineering
TSG, with regard to the services to be provided by the specialists, the
enterprises will be charged a minimum of 102 of the specialists' cost, under a
formula that will consider an assessment of the enterprises' financial
capacity.  Revenues derived in this way would be used to support the
operational cost of the engineering TSG and to provide further similar
services. Any recovery from enterprises of the cost of providing such
services will be recorded in the



- 37 -
separate accounts and kept by the implementing agency (BPPI) for the provision
of further technical services. With respect to the provision of training
(paras. 4.22-4.24), LPPI will charge participants from the PFIs a fee that
recovers a reasonable amount of the total cost of providing such training, but
in no case at levels representing less than 75X of such costs. Proceeds from
these fees will be recorded in the separate account to be kept by LPPI and
used for further training of the PFIs' staffs. Assurances with regard to
these cost recovery provisions were obtained at negotiations.
Studies Component
5.15     The proceeds of the Bank loan for this component will be made avail-
able by the Government to MOI as a grant, through an annual budgetary alloca-
tion. MOI, through the respective Directorate Generals will keep a separate
account to record the utilization of these proceeds. Assurances to these
effects were obtained at negotiations.
2. Loan Administration
Procurement
5.16     Procurement procedures used at present by borrowing enterprises in
Indonesia are implemented in a competitive and efficient open market;
purchasers solicit various bids to obtain reasonable quotes. The PFIs do not
have formal procurement requirements but they do require borrowers to justify
their procurement decisions, often requiring them to provide comparative price
quotations. These procedures are applied under ongoing Bank-financed projects
(for example, under the EDP II) and are proceeding satisfactorily. Under the
proposed Project, the eligible enterprises will be responsible for procure-
ment. The PFIs would require eligible enterprises to demonstrate that
procurement procedures adopted by them are acceptable to both the lending PFI
and the Bank. For purchases of equipment, except for proprietary items, price
quotations would be obtained from eligible qualified suppliers, with the goods
and related services purchased from the supplier offering the lowest evaluated
price. Determination of this lowest evaluated price will take into account
such relevant factors as reliability of goods, time of delivery and the
availability of spare parts and maintenance facilities, and, in the case of
services, the competence and quality of the parties rendering them. Each
subproject appraisal report and sunmmary would indicate how the proposed
investment's goods and services are to be procured and confirm that these
procedures are acceptable to the PFI and consistent with Bank guidelines, as
appropriate. For purchases of equipment and materials for the Technical
Assistance Component, which are likely to be small in quantity and amount,
prudent shopping would be followed. Where the proceeds of the Bank are to be
used to finance consulting services, these will be procured according to Bank
Guidelines. Funds to be provided by bilateral donors will be utilized in
accordance with the donor's respective procedures and guidelines.



- 38 -
5.17     The contracts for goods and services would be reviewed by the PFIs
and the Government Procurement Control Units, as required, and, subsequent to
their award, by the Bank on a sample basis.
Disbursements
5.18     Disbursements of the proposed Bank loan would be made as shown in
Table 5.5.
Table 5.5: ALLOCATION OF BANK LOAN
(US$ thousand equivalent)
Category                    Amount          Percent of costs to be financed
(US$ *000)                        (Z)
Investments (subloans)      265,000      For civil works, 50Z of expenditures;
for goods, 1002 of foreign exchange
expenditures, 902 of local expenditures
for locally manufactured items (ex-
factory cost), and 602 of other items
procured locally; and for consultant
services, 1002 of expenditures.
Equipment                     3,000      1002 of foreign expenditures for
and materials                         directy imported items; 902 of local
expenditures for locally manufactured
items (ex-factory cost); and 60S of
other items procured locally (for
Institutional Strengthening and
Technical Services).
Training                        400      100S of expenditures.
Consultants                  12,000      100Z of expenditures.
Studies                       1,900      1002 of expenditures.
Unallocated                   1,700
Total                  284.000



- 39 -
5.19     Incremental permanent working capital in the form of raw materials,
spare parts and other material inputs, would be eligible for financing, in
conjunction with the financing of fixed assets, up to a maximum of 25Z of
individual subloans. For subloans below US$1.5 million, Statements of
Expenditures (SOEs) will be used; subloans above US$1.5 million will be
disbursed against standard documentation. For subloans disbursed under SOE
procedures, full supporting documentation will be retained by the PFIs and
made available for Bank review during supervision.
5.20     The estimated schedule of disbursements for the Bank loan (Annex 8)
has been based on the disbursement profiles of IDF and industry projects in
Indonesia and the Asia Region, adjusted to reflect the implementation schedule
and the features of the proposed project. It is anticipated that the loan
would be committed in three years, i.e., by June 30, 1992, and fully disbursed
in five years; thus the project is expected to be completed by
December 31, 1993, and the loan closing date will be June 30, 1994.
Auditing and Reportinx
5.21     Project accounts will be kept in accordance with sound accounting
practice.  The state commercial banks' financial accounts and SOE
documentation will be audited annually by the Financial and Development
Supervisory Board (BPKP), which is acceptable to the Bank.  Auditing of
financial accounts and SOEs of the private commercial banks, BAPINDO, the non-
bank financial institutions and LPPI would be done by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank. The PFIs and LPPI would submit the reports of their
respective external auditors, in English, directly to the Bank, no later than
nine months after the end of their respective financial years. The PFIs and
LPPI would also be required to submit semi-annual progress reports, acceptable
to the Bank, covering their respective operations under the Project. BPPI
would submit to the Bank and to the participating bilateral donors copies of
the minutes of steering and coordinating meetings for the Technical Assistance
and Studies components.
5.22     Accounting control of individual government agencies is exercised by
the MOF and accounts are audited annually by BPKP. Detailed annual applica-
tions for budget allocations are prepared by agencies and submitted to MOF by
end-February. These applications are reviewed and approved by MOF and form
the basis for the quarterly distribution of funds. Following automatic fund
distribution for the first quarter of each fiscal year, MOF requires submis-
sion and approval of expenditure documentation before releasing funds for
subsequent quarters. In addition, agencies are not permitted to exceed unit
costs used in the approved budget applications. Consequently, there is signi-
ficant ongoing control exercised over agencies' financial affairs. In this
Project, the Government agencies responsible would be required to maintain
accounts and records in sufficient detail to support expenditures and have
them audited annually by BPRP. The Government agencies would be required to
submit semi-annual progress reports, acceptable to the Bank, dealing with
their respective implementation responsibilities under the Project.
5.23     Six months after the closing date, the Government would submit to the
Bank a project completion report covering all project components. During
negotiations an agreement was reached on all the above auditing and reporting
requirements.



- 40 -
VI. BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Benefits
6.1      The principal benefit under the proposed Project will be improved
subsectoral performance through the facilitation of enterprise restructuring.
Specifically, the Project should lead to; improved capacity utilization,
increased cost competitiveness, improved product quality, greater dissemina-
tion of technology, improved production and marketing strategy, increased
domestic value-added and foreign exchange savings and earnings, and
strengthened supporting services and institutional capabilities. As further
elaborated in the following paragraph, the Project will also contribute to
reducing adverse environmental effects. By strengthening the credit delivery
system, the Project will help to ensure high quality appraisal of investment
proposals.
B. Environmental Impact
6.2      To recognize the need to protect the environment in Indonesia,
particularly in Java where the majority of industry is located, the Project
ensures first, that it in no way contributes to further environmental
degradation, and second, that, to the extent possible, it makes a positive
contribution to ameliorating current environmental problems. The Project will
ensure that the first objective is met by requiring that all subprojects
include an environmental impact assessment (para. 4.11). Two other elements
of the Project will contribute to a longer-term benefit: enterprises seeking
restructuring support under the Project will have to provide an environmental
survey of all of their operations, not just those concerned with the immediate
project (para 4.11), and the team of environment specialists will assist
enterprises in the identification and resolution of environmental issues in
the three industrial subsectors (para. 4.35).
C. Risk
6.3      A possible risk is that the demand for both technical assistance and
credit may not develop to the extent anticipated; however, demand far
exceeding project estimates was confirmed during appraisal through interviews
with PFIs, enterprises, subsector associations and Government agencies.
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
A. Agreements
7.1      During negotiations, agreements were reached with the Government on
the following:
(a) that the initial and continued eligibility of PFIs would be subject
to the criteria indicated in Annex 3-E;



- 41 -
(b) that BAPINDO willt (i) not later than August 31, 1989, appoint a
senior banking and financial advisor; and (ii) not later than
March 31, 1990, adopt a long-term Development Strategy and
Implementation Plan (para. 3.14);
(c) that the eligibility criteria for enterprise and subproject selection
would be as detailed in paras. 4.6-4.9 and 4.11-4.12;
(d) that each PFI will appoint a team or enlarge its existing team (under
the EDP II), as appropriate, to handle subloans under the Project
(para. 4.26);
(e) that institutional strengthening activities will be implemented as
indicated in para. 4.29;
(f)  that, not later than December 31, 1990, MOI will undertake a mid-term
review of TSGs' activities, including assessment of their performance
and arrangements for their operation beyond Project completion
(para. 4.32);
(g) that the technical services activities will be implemented as
indicated in para. 4.36;
(h) that BPPI will convene regular meetings to oversee, guide and
coordinate the imr.lementation of the Institutional Strengthening and
Technical Services Programs, and of the Studies Component
(para. 4.37)
(i) that LPPI will implement the training program as indicated in
para. 4.38;
(j)  that, for each study supported under the Project, MOI will establish
a counterpart team (para. 4.39);
(k) that BPPI will prepare a detailed proposal for monitoring and
evaluation of project performance, and submit such proposal to the
Bank for review and comment, before implementation. (para. 4.40);
(1) that the arrangements for the allocation of loan proceeds and the
lending terms to the PFIs will be as indicated in paras. 5.8-5.9;
(m) that the financial terms and conditions of subloans will be those
indicated in paras. 5.10-5.11;
(n) that, for the Institutional Strengthening and the Technical Services
Programs, the allocation of proceeds from the Bank loan and from
bilateral donors will be undertaken as indicated in paras. 5.12-5.13;
(o) that cost recovery provisions for technical services and training
will be implemented by BPPI and LPPI, respectively, as indicated in
para. 5.14;
(p)  that, for the Studies Component, MOI, through the respective
Directorate Generals, will keep a separate account to register the
use of the Bank loan proceeds (para. 5.15); and



- 42 -
(q) that arrangements for auditing and reporting will be as indicated in
paras. 5.21-5.23.
7.2      A condition of loan effectiveness would be that the Subsidiary Loan
Agreements between MOF and BI, and between MOF and at least three SCBs, on
terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, were finalized (para. 5.8(c)).
7.3      Conditions of disbursement would be:
(a) for investment subloans, that (i) all subloans had complied with the
eligibility criteria (paras. 4.6-4.9); (ii) all PFIs had complied
with the financial eligibility criteria (para. 5.8(c)); and (iii) all
PFIs had finalized a SLA with MOF or an OLA with BI, as appropriate,
on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank (para. 5.8(c));
(b) for consultant services, that the consultants to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Belgium and the Netherlands grants had been
retained (para. 5.5); and
(c) for the training of PFIs' staffs, that the Financial Arrangement
between BI and LPPI had been finalized (para. 5.13).
B. Recommendation
7.4      Subject to the above agreements and conditions, the proposed Project
is suitable for a loan of US$284.0 million equivalent to the Republic of
Indonesia for twenty years, including a grace period of five years, at the
standard variable rate.



- 43 -
ANI4EX 1
Page 1 of 4
UUOISIU OF FLARMNGICIAMMAN
OP tI NAlllAlL OlVUL0UNT PLANNING AO4CV (WUIAIS)
WUUJC OF IHOONNUJ
No.: 81D/K/3/1989                                      March 10, 1989
Mr. Barber Conable
President
The World Bank
1818 H St., N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
U. S. A.
Dear Mr. President
1.    The Government of Indonesia has requested assistance from the World
Bank to support a program of industrial restructuring in three selected
subsectors: engineering, textiles, and pulp and paper. This letter
provides information on the latest measures taken by the Government
concerning the policy framework, particularly as is relates to the three
subsectors, and the main direction of planned future policy actions to be
undertaken during Repelita V.
2.    The Government's main economic policy objectives remain as outlined
in Minister Ali Wardhana's letter to you of February 29, 1988 in relation
to the Second Trade Policy Adjustment Loan. In the area of trade and
industrial policy, these are directed to : maintaining a competitive
exchange  rate;  removing  trade  barriers;  rationalizing  tariffs;  and
simplifying domestic licensing. To maintain the current momentum on trade
and industrial policy reform, we intend to continue with a comprehensive
approach which will give priority to : further removal of non-tariff
barriers, especially for those which will have the greatest impact on



- 44 -
ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 4
increasing efficiency and reducing cost; rationalization of tariffs to
lower-the level and dispersion of protection; reduction in the scope and
complexity of investment licensing restrictions, including adoption of a
short negative list; reviewing a number of other regulations, with a view
to eliminate those that no longer serve a positive purpose or have the
effect of raising production costs; and adopting a more flexible approach
in increasing the local content.
3.    The ability of industrial enterprises to respond to these measures
will be further strengthened by financial sector adjusment policies and
supportive technical infrastucture. The main priorities of the recent
financial sector policy reform includes the promotion of a more market-
oriented system, the improvement in its operational efficiency, and the
enlargement of tenm financing and equity base. With regard to the
technical infrastucture, the Government is committed to strengthen
relevant  institutions,  by  developing  product  standards,  promoting
tech.nological upgrading, improving applied research, providing training,
and strengthening technical and managerial capabilities.
4.    In the industrial subsectors to be supported under the proposed
World Bank Loan, the Government will apply the above strategic principles,
through further removal of remaining policy distortions as detailed below.
S.    For textiles, the Government has deregulated raw material sourcing
procedures and has replaced non-tariff barriers by import tariffs on
textile products. These tariffs will be further reduced in line with
improvements in operational efficiency and economic performance of the
subsectors. It is intended to reduce the currently high level of import
tariffs on essensial spare parts. The Textile Export Quota Regulation
System has been rationalized which ensures transparency and simplifies
allocation mechanisms. The quota allocation and transfer mechanism are
open, non restrictive and cost effective. This system will be continuously
reviewed and improved.



-45-
ANNEX 1
Page 3 of 4
6.    For pulp and paper, the Government's main policy initiative has been
trade reform, through the removal of import restrictions, rationalization
and lowering of tariffs and removal of limitation on new investments. The
present specific policy in the trade and prices of newsprint paper will
be gradually eased, through the incorporation of further deregulatory
elements into policy, to enable the newsprint paper industry to function
competitively and economically. Tariffs on paper products will be further
harmonized in line with those on pulp to reduce the risk of uneven
development of these two products.
7.    For engineering, the Government expects to make further progress on
the implementation of policies aimed at promoting the competitiveness and
economic efficiency of this industry. A strategy for the technological
development of engineering industries will be identified in a study to be
financed under the proposed Worl Bank Loan and completed in 1989.
B.    On the input side of the engineering industry, the Government has
given high priority to the design and implementation of a steel develop-
ment strategy, based on the findings and recomendations of a steel
subsector study, completed in March 1988. Further, the Government has
significantly reduced non tariff barriers on imports of non-flat steel
products and will continue to review and rationalize tariffs barriers on
all steel products to ensure a balanced growth and development of the
domestic manufacturing industries and in order to increase the competi-
tiveness of all steel enterprises. On the output side, the Government,
through the recent reforms in trade and industrial regulations, has
introduced more flexibility in the timetables of increasing local content,
lower tariffs and multiple sourcing of parts and components, consultation
between the Government and the industry to establish a viable timetable
of the local content program, and easing of import restrictions. Finally,
harmonization of tariffs is intended to provide a more competitive
environment for the production of quality engineering products.



- 46 -
ANNEX 1
Page 4 of 4
9.   In all subsectors, the Government is concerned about the impact of
industrial activities on the natural environment and has adopted a
comprehensive package of the environmental legislation. Steps are being
taken to ensure the consistent and effective implementation of this
package. The Government intends to ensure that Industrial investment
proposals will be fully in compliance with environmental regulations. This
objective is fully recognized and supported in the proposed Industrial
Restructuring Project.
10.    With regard to state-owned industrial enterprises, the Government
recognized the need to improve their operating performance and financial
viability. The President of Indonesia has commissioned a review of the
financial performance of all state-owned enterprises, to identify
potential candidates for rehabilitation, merger or divestiture, and to
prepare an appropriate action plan. The Government is currently in the
process of preparing the action plan.
11.   The Government considers that the proposed Industrial Restructuring
Project to be supported by the World Bank, is an important instrument in
the ongoing policy reform efforts. It will assist industrial enterprises
to respond effectively to a changing policy framework, through the
provision of technical and financial support. It is hoped that the
successful implementation of the project will lead to similar operations
in the future with broader industrial subsectors coverage.
Sincerely Yours,
.-  SALEH AFIFF
\  ate Minister for
al Development Planning



_ 47 _                          ANNEX 2-A
Page 1
INDONESIA
INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
The Engineering Subsector
A. Introduction
1.       The engineering industries in Indonesia 1/ are relatively
undeveloped. This subsector currently contributes only about 142 of the
country's total manufacturing value-added, compared with 20-252 in Korea,
Malaysia and India, and over 40S in the Federal Republic of Germany. Around
300 enterprises in four main branches (metal products, nonelectrical
machinery, electrical machinery and transport equipment) produce around 602 of
the country's demand for engineering goods. The balance is met through
imports which currently total about US$2.5 billion annually. Exports, at
around US$100 million annually, are of relatively little significance.
2.       The structure and recent growth pattern of the industry is shown in
the following table. From 1978 to 1986, the output of the engineering
subsector grew at 10.5Z annually (in real terms) compared with 9.72 annually
for the manufacturing sector as a whole. Growth was most rapid in the trans-
port equipment group (the largest group), and also in the metal products
group. Growth was considerably less in the nonelectrical and electrical
machinery groups, particular during the second half of this period. The
relatively low share of machinery (282) in the output of the Indonesian sector
compares unfavorably with other successful economies in Asia such as the
Republic of Korea (562), Malaysia (752) and India (58?). The figures reflect
the concentration of development of this sector in Indonesia on assembly
operations in the automotive industry, and on the production of relatively
unsophisticated metal products. There has been inadequate development in the
production of machinery and of intermediate products, most of which are still
imported. The relatively unbalanced performance of the Indonesian engineering
industry is primarily related to a lack of knowledge of market opportunities;
a set of incentives and policies that, until recently, failed to stimulate
domestic investment; a lack of a skilled labor force; and the relatively young
age of the engineering subsector in the country.
l/ The engineering industries comprise essentially product group 38
(Fabricated Metal Products) in the UN International Standard Industrial
Classification (ISIC). Scientific and photographic equipment (group
385) and foundries and forges (group 371) have not been included.



- 48 -                            ANNEX 2-A
Page 2
INDONESIA - DEVELOPMENT OF THE ENGINEERING SUBSECTOR: 1978-86
(billions of constant 1986 rupiah)
Growth Rate in
Output          Value Added       Value Added (Z)
1978  1982  1986   1978  1982  1986   1978-82 1982-86
Metal Products          407   672  1,214   109   197   336       16.0    14.3
Nonelectrical
machinery             109   182    202    61    77    68        5.8    -2.9
Electrical machinery   503   737    917   175   234   252         7.5     1.9
Transport Equipment    488 1,080  1,661   177   328   509        16.7    11.6
1,507 2,671  3,994   522   836 1,165       12.2     8.9
3.       Despite this indifferent performance, the Government has given a high
priority to the future promotion of the engineering subsector because:
(a) the opportunities for import substitution are still substantial, and there
are real opportunities to export some parts, components, sub-assemblies and
products; (b) the strong backward and forward linkages of engineering indus-
tries stimulate growth in other subsectors; (c) entrepreneurial opportunities
exist for relatively small-scale domestic enterprises; and (d) there is signi-
ficant potential for employment creation. In addition, and perhaps most
importantly, the engineering industries play an important role as "carriers'
of technological change.
B. Structure and Level of Technology
Technological Characteristics
4.       The engineering subsector is a nonhomogeneous collection of diverse
production activities, with the only common denominator being that they
involve making things of metal. The ISIC classification (para. 1) defines the
industry according to products, but to assess technological capabilities, it
is more useful to group products according to the degree of complexity of the
manufacturing process.  Such a rearrangement of the Indonesian engineering
industry is presented in the folloving tabulation.



!49 -                             ANNEX 2-A
Page 3
INDONESIA - STRUCTURE OF THE ENGINEERING INDUSTRY
ACCORDING TO TECHNOLOGICAL COMPLEXITY
Block, Group and Category                     Percent of Total Value of
Engineering Output (1985) la
Block One        Primary Shapes
- Wire products                         2
- Wires and cables                      4
- Pipes and fittings                    5
Block Two        Simple Assemblies
- Sheet metal products                  2
- Vehicle parts                         5
- Building products                     7
- Cans and drums                        2
- Simple structural products            9
- Electrical apparatus                  3
- Electronic assemblies                15
Block Three      Intermediate Assemblies
- Machine sub-assemblies                3
- Household appliances                  2
- Small ships and repairs               4
- Automatic sub-assemblies              3
Block Four       Complex Assemblies
- Motor cycles                          8
- Motor vehicles                        7
/a  Excluding categories with less than 22 of output
5.       A recent comprehensive study of the Indonesian engineering industry 21
showed a somewhat distorted structure of the subsector in that there was very
little flow of products between these blocks, with most products flowing
directly to end-users. Most of the activity is concentrated in the first two
blocks (642 of the total output), and although there is considerable and
diverse activity in these areas, most units are unsophisticated and with
little technical knowhow, concentrating on making simple items for direct
consumption and for the building industry.
6.       The activities in blocks three and four (362 of total output) contain
the capital goods and complex technology products which are important not only
for the engineering industry itself, but also for other productive sectors of
the economy. In Indonesia, activities in the third block are still of rela-
21 Engineering Subsector Study. Study prepared for the Ministry of
Industry by IMG consultants of Australia in 1985, updated in 1987, and
financed under the BAPINDO V Project (Ln. 2277-IND).



- 50 -                            ANNEX 2-A
Page 4
tively little significance.31 and in the last block are largely confined to
final assembly operations in the automobile industry.
7.       Overall, therefore, the engineering industries of Indonesia are too
heavily concentrated in lower technology activities, which do not provide
adequate support for rational development of the subsector. At the more
complex end of the industry, resources are heavily concentrated on assembly
operations based on imported components, because the technological base is not
properly developed. Intermediate products, which should be well within the
country's technological and production capabilities, are not produced to any
significant degree.
Scope for Technological Improvement
8.       To accelerate the process of technology acquisition and development
of the industrial sector involves much more than investing in production capa-
city or acquiring the latest machinery. The referenced IDG study (para. 5)
presented an analysis that suggested that "software" limitations are a much
more severe constraint to local supply than inadequacies in machinery and
equipment. The Indonesian industry is relatively advanced in its use of manu-
facturing technologies, but lacking in its use of product technologies and
management tools. The best firms are reasonably well-accomplished in utiliz-
ing the main mAnufacturing technologies associated with the first three blocks
(para 4), but have not advanced in such important areas as supporting
technoloRies (tool making, standards, quality control), production management
techniques (inventory, control, production planning, scheduling), and least of
all in product technology (applications engineering, product design, etc.).
9.       The relatively low level of technology has hindered the development
of technological linkages between branches, which remains one of the most
serious distortions in the structure of the engineering industry in Indonesia.
The Indonesian engineering industries remain heavily dependent on imported
components and technologies. Government-mandated deletion programs are
designed to increase the local content of local products, but without adequate
technological support, they can be only partially successful.
10.      The IMG study analyzed the cost-efficiency of various branches of the
engineering industry and found that only a limited number of products are
internationally cost-competitive.  However the study also projected various
future scenarios, under varying assumptions concerning improvements in tech-
nology, efficiency and cost structure. The principal conclusions of this
aspect of the study were thatt (a) Indonesia has strong possibilities of
developing a comparative advantage in the production of intermediate assem-
blies (the third block in the table in para. 4) which, until now, have not
been given the same degree of encouragement as assembly industries; (b) cost
competitiveness is very sensitive to plant productivity and the cost of raw
materials, particularly steel; and (c) the availability of reasonably-priced
long-term credit is important to the ultimate viability of the engineering
subsector.
3/ An encouraging recent sign, however, is the recent activity in the
production of parts and sub-assemblies for automotive and machinery
industries.



- 51 -                            ANNEX 2-A
Page 5
C. Market Prospects
11.      Desptte a considerable improvement in some branches, Indonesia
remains heavily dependent on imports for its capital goods, and also for parts
and components to support domestic production. The following table presents
1986 data for domestic production, imports and exports for major engineering
industries groups, and also compares the self-sufficiency ratios (that propor-
tion of domestic demand supplied by domestic production) for 1980 and 1986.
INDONESIA - SUPPLY AND DEMAND OF ENGINEERING GOODS
Value in 1986 (billion rupiah)        Self-sufficiency
Production                   Apparent            Ratio
Branch                 /a      Imports Exports Consumption       1980     1986
Hetal Products        1,196       531        5     1,722           461     69?
Nonelectrical
machinery             194     1,918       28     2,085           102     9S
Electrical
machinery             910       246       67     1,089           532     842
Transport
equipment           1,635       462       16     2,080           36Z     79?
Engineering
subsector           3,935     3,157     116      6,976           35Z     56?
la Value of goods produced plus value of industrial services.
12.      The table shows that for the most important group, nonelectrical
machinery, only 9? of domestic demand is supplied from domestic production.
Although self-sufficiency in the other categories appears to be encouraging
(70-852, with considerable improvement since 1980), there are some indications
that major imports of engineering products in 1987 and 1988 will have reversed
this trend. Moreover, these figures understate the importance of imports
since a significant proportion of the value of domestic output is made up of
imported materials. Exports, which were equivalent to around US$90 million in
1986, are mostly electrical and electronic sub-assemblies, based primarily on
imported components, and originating in a few foreign joint-venture firms.
13.      The 1MG study (para. 5) projected the growth in demand for engineer-
ing products at around 9? annually for the next decade, based on analysis of
consumption demand, investment demand, and intermediate demand. Most of the
potential is in domestic markets, although some export possibilities exist.
The same study projected that domestic supply could expand at an average rate
of almost 13? annually over the same period; however, this will require a
significant restructuring of the domestic industry which could be accomplished
through: (a) the provision of appropriate technical assistance; (b) the
building up of the industrial base; (c) the development of production inter-
linkages; and (d) the strengthening of the technological structure. The
Industrial Restructuring Project aims specifically at addressing these areas.



- 52 -                           ANNEX 2-A
Page 6
D. The Policy Framework
Impact of Past Policies
14.      The concentration of resources in final assembly operations and the
lack of a substantive technological base in the subsector are in part the
product of past industrial and trade policies, which created a bias towards
consumer goods and away from capital goods, and provided excessive protection
to established producers, regardless of their efficiency, by erecting substan-
tial barriers to international and domestic competition.   A range of policy
instruments such as import duties, negative lists, duty exemptions, quantita-
tive restrictions and licensing procedures, while designed to stimulate indus-
trial development and assist local manufacturing of engineering products, have
in fact encouraged some inefficient activities while discouraging others which
would have contributed to a more balanced subsectoral development.
15.      However, the reform initiatives of the past three years are inducing
a structural change in the medium term that will lead to a much more balanced
and competitive industry. Of general beneficial impact across the industrial
sector have been the reduction of controls in the areas of investment and
capacity licensing and foreign investment. Of more specific importance to
this subsector are changes in the trade regime (movement away from nontariff
barriers and reduction in tariff levels), and a more flexible approach to the
implementation of deletion programs. As further detailed below, all of these
reforms have created an environment that is conducive to efficient development
of this subsector, and provide the main justification for targeting engineer-
ing industries in the present project.
The Trade Regime
16.      Nontariff and tariff barriers have led to a structure of protection
in the engineering industries that varies widely. The system has been heavily
biased towards the production of consumer goods (with average effective
protection of 88S) and away from capital goods (38Z). Import bans have
accorded high protection to operations such as assembly of vehicles and motor
cycles, while relatively labor-intensive manufacturing activities have been
granted relatively low protection. Under these circumstances, there has been
little incentive to produce those products that give Indonesia the best chance
of achieving comparative advantage, and this has been an important contribut-
ing factor to the weak inter-industry linkages in the engineering subsector.
17.      Reforms in trade policies aim at moving away from a trade regime
based on nontariff barriers to one based on tariffs. The share of total
domestic production in engineering industries covered by import restrictions
has fallen from 87? prior to reforms to 58? at present, and many items still
subject to restriction are now in the least restrictive category. The average
effective rate of protection has been reduced from 592 to 48?. There has also
been an across-the-board reduction in nominal tariff levelss the tariff
ceiling has been reduced from 225? to 60?, with most tariffs in the range
5-35S. While there have also been some increases in tariffs to compensate for
the removal of licensing restrictions, these have remained within the reduced



53 -                            ANNEX 2-A
Page 7
tariff ceiling.  Some of these changes are already putting pressure on domes-
tic component manufacturers to reduce costs and improve quality, and the
overall impact will be a shift towards a more balanced structure in a more
competitive engineering subsector.
18.      Despite these improvements, policy improvement is lagging in a number
of areas important to the subsector. To provide protection to the domestic
steel industry, import volumes of iron and steel are still controlled through
a centralized procurement and reporting system. Because of the importance of
steel as an input, this is probably the major priority for further reform to
improve the competitiveness of the engineering subsector. Many other goods
remain under restrictive license or import ban categories, and the system of
license categories should be simplified.
Deletion Programs
19.      Trade restrictions through tariff and nontariff barriers have been
coupled with a series of 'deletion programs" designed to reduce import depend-
ence and increase domestic value-added by forcing (through phased changes in
import controls and tariff levels) the pace of development of domestic capa-
city to produce parts, components and sub-assemblies. However, because of the
small and fragmented market and the generally weak technological and indus-
trial base, these programs have not been very successful. Rather, the forced
pace of development has led to a proliferation of production, freezes in
product design and inefficiencies in costs.
20.      The reform process has led to a number of changes in the Government's
approach to deletion programs. First, no new programs have been introduced.
Second, existing programs have been modified in areas such as relaxation of
time schedules, replacement of local-content targets with values rather than
specific parts, removal of restrictions on the sourcing of some components,
and changes in the category of some imports. These steps signal a more
flexible approach to the implementation of deletion programs, but further
changes are required to achieve sustained improvement in Indonesia's inter-
national competitiveness. In particular, the large number of items still
subject to deletion should be reduced, high local value-added targets should
be reduced in recognition of the weak technological base, and further relaxa-
tion in time schedules should be allowed.   As a longer-term goal, deletion
programs should be eliminated altogether as tariff protection, with proper
harmonization of tariffs, should be able to achieve the same objectives with-
out introducing the inefficiencies and distortions inherent in such programs.
E. Strategy for Future Development
21.      The future performance of Indonesia's manufacturing sector will
increasingly come to depend on the growth, efficiency and depth of the engi-
neering subsector. A long-term development strategy requires a two-pronged
approach consisting of: (a) continuing reforms in the Government's trade and
industrial policies, to force the subsector to a more efficient performance
and structure; and (b) restructuring measures at the subsector and enterprise
level to strengthen the viable industrial base through the provision of tech-
nological and financial support.



54 -                            ANNEX 2-A
Page 8
Agenda for Further Policy Reform
22.      As dTscussed above (paras. 15-20), the Government has already under-
taken a number of policy reforms which have important implications for the
competitive position of the engineering industries. The Government is also
committed to further reform including, in particular, further liberalization
of steel trade and further relaxation of the deletion program. With respect
to steel, which is one of the most important material inputs for fabricated
products such as tanks, vessels, structures and processing machinery, trade
liberalization would lower costs in a branch of the engineering industry where
Indonesia has the potential to be cost competitive. Improvements in the dele-
tion program are required to avoid a proliferation of technologies and to
allow more flexibility in building a strong technological and industrial base
in Indonesia.
Restructuring Support
23.      Restructuring support must be aimed at assisting engineering enter-
prises to take advantage of the reform to redirect existing activities where
appropriate, and to exploit new opportunities and markets, through promotion
of new import-competitive products, rationalization of the existing structure,
and improvement of the performance of existing enterprises. This support
should be provided through the provision of credit to individual enterprises,
and through the provision of technical assistance to enterprises and to the
subsector as a whole.
24.      Credit must be made available for restructuring investments designed
to increase production efficiency in areas with a strong potential for inter-
national competitiveness, promote products of developing technologies provid-
ing production linkages, and expanding production of basic products through
such activities as rehabilitation, modernization, rationalization of product
mix, improvements to product quality, upgrading of technology, expansion of
existing operations and strengthening of organizational and managerial
capabilities.
25.      Technical assistance to support this restructuring is of two types.
At the enterprise level, assistance must: (a) assist enterprises to identify
potential options for enterprise improvement; (b) provide in-plant technical
assistance to enterprises requiring it; and (c) assist in preparing investment
proposals for financing. At the subsector level, a major priority is the need
to support a program for the introduction and utilization of a comprehensive
set of engineering standards that would: (a) establish a network of calibra-
tion and testing service centers, including accreditation, product certifica-
tion and quality audit; (b) implement a training program in standards applica-
tion and quality control practices; and (c) strengthen regulatory activities
in standards preparation, promotion and monitoring.
26.      Support to the engineering subsector under the Government's proposed
industrial restructuring project is aimed specifically at meeting these
requirements.



- 55 -                             ANNEX 2-A
Page 9
F. Rationale for Bank Assistance
27.      The lank's past involvement in the engineering subsector in
Indonesia, the need for high-quality technical assistance to help direct
needed restructuring of the subsector, and the substantial need for further
investment to accomplish this restructuring, all provide a rationale for con-
tinuing Bank assistance. Specifically, the Bank has been engaged in dialogue
with the Indonesian Government with respect to the engineering industry for
several years and has helped to finance a major study of subsectoral problems
and prospects. The proposed program of technical assistance to be supported
under the project is largely an outcome of this work.
28.      Recent estimates show that investments in the subsector will be
required to average about US$350 million equivalent annually over the next
several years if growth targets are to be met. This compares with actual
average annual investments for the past four years of around US$220 million
annually, based on records of the Indonesian Investment Coordinating Board-
-BKPM). The pipelines of the participating financial institutions, and data
on specific projects by enterprises in the subsector, confirm a major
requirement for project loans for restructuring and expansion. The limited
alternative sources of project finance available to support these activities
are an important component of the justification for World Bank involvement in
the proposed Industrial Restructuring Project.



- 56 -                           ANNEX 2-B
Page 1
INDONESIA
INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
The Pulp and Paper Subsector
A. Introduction
1.       Since 1975, the Indonesian pulp and paper subsector has expanded
rapidly in response to fast-growing domestic demand and the gradual liberali-
zation of the industrial environment. The number of pulp and/or paper mills
grew from 9 establishments in 1975 to 36 in 1987, with all of the new plants
in the private sector. Other key elements of this expansion are summarized in
the following tables
INDONESIA - DEVELOPMENT OF THE PULP AND PAPER SUBSECTOR. 1975-87
(thousands of tons)
Apparent                                              Domestic
domestic                                                self
Year      consumption      Exports     Imports   Production   sufficiency /a
1975          287             -          235            51          182
1978          405             -          250           155          382
1981          538             1          280           260          482
1984          633            36          267           403          S82
1987          764           182          142           804          81Z
Average
Annual
Growth Rate   8.5?           na         -4.1?         25.8Z          -
la   Domestic production less exports divided by domestic consumption.
2.       As is typical in developing economies, demand growth has exceeded GDP
growth (although the demand/income elasticity of about 1.8 is atypically
high). However, the rapid growth of domestic production, particularly by the
private sector, has exceeded domestic demand requirements for a number of
grades and in 1987, Indonesia for the first time became a net exporter of
paper.
3.       Not all of this expansion has been economically efficient.  During
the late 1970s and early 1980s, tariffs of up to 602 on some grades of paper,
bans on the imports of other grades, and very low or zero tariffs on pulp
imports, encouraged new capacity additions which were largely based on



- 57 -                           ANNRX 2-B
Page 2
imported pulp and thus generated little or no domestic added value. Of the 27
new mills built in the last 12 years, 24 were not integrated with pulp produc-
tion capacityfat the time of start-up. Pulp production, which amounted to
more than 75Z of paper production, had slipped to 35Z by the early 19809.
4.       Although the trade regime and regulatory framework had not signifi-
cantly altered, other pressures began to force a change in the structure of
the industry beginning in about 1981. First, domestic capacity had expanded
to the point where domestic production of a number of grades (printing and
writing paper, corrugating medium, and the cheaper grades of wrapping paper
and board) was approaching domestic demand. While tariff and nontariff
barriers remained in place, domestic competition in these grades forced prices
downwards. Second, domestic energy prices were raised substantially to levels
which approached international prices. Since energy can be the major compon-
ent of pulp/paper production costs (up to one-third of total costs), this had
a significant impact on some of the plants which had been built under a regime
of low energy costs and high energy prices. Third, the increasing sophistica-
tion of the major end-users of paper (printers and packagers) led to increas-
ing demand for higher quality paper, beyond the capacity of many of the small,
simple mills to produce. Fourth, the evolution of environmental regulations,
while sporadically and inconsistently applied, has nevertheless in some cases
forced changes to plant operations leading to increased investment and produc-
tion costs. Finally, in the past two years, pulp prices have recovered from
historic low levels, narrowing the differential between the prices for pulp
and for paper, thus squeezing the profit margins of the nonintegrated
producers.
B. Structure and Performance
Current Performance
5.       Deregulation, but more importantly the other factors listed above
(para. 4), have led to major changes in the forces that shape the Indonesian
pulp and paper subsector. As a result, the industry as a whole is much more
economically viable today than in the recent past, and continues to develop in
a strong and positive manner.
6.       In particular, the industry is becoming increasingly competitive in
international markets. Although nominal protection is still in place at a
level of 302 for many grades, actual prices are close to import parity. As
domestic and export prices have converged, the level of exports has dramatic-
ally expanded, and is estimated to have reached over 200,000 tons valued at
about US$180 million in 1988. With no major differences in domestic and
export prices, and no major distortions in the price of inputs for this sub-
sector, the level of effective protection, which averaged 902 in the early
1980s, is approaching zero for most of the products in this subsector.
7.       For new capacity development, major emphasis in the past five years
has been in the expansion of domestic pulping. Thirteen of the 36 pulp/paper
enterprises now have at least some pulp production capacity, and most of the
others have installed facilities to use waste paper rather than relying on
imported pulp for all of their fiber requirements. While imported pulp still



- 58 -                           ANNEX 2-3
Page 3
amounted to over 250,000 tons (at a cost of about US$150 million) in 1987,
100,000 tons of new market pulp capacity is coming on stream at the end of
1988, and a fu-rther 165,000 ton market pulp expansion is in the late planning
stages. Among announced expansion and new projects, there is substantially
more pulp capacity being added than paper capacity. In short, the major
structural distortion of the pulp and paper industry is being satisfactorily
addressed within the subsector.
Technological Condition
8.       The installed capacity of the Indonesian pulp and paper industry is
of three distinct types. The first group is capacity installed before 1973,
in small integrated mills of old design, almost all in the public sector. The
second group was installed during the rapid expansion in the late 1970s and
early 19809 and is almost all privately-owned nonintegrated mills, most of
which are also small. The third group is the few large integrated mills and
the new pulp mills which have come on stream in the last 3-4 years.  With the
end of the highly protected environment in which they were established,
because of the economies of integrated production and scale, most of the mills
in the first two groups are technologically incapable of competing with the
mills in the third group. If they are to survive, they must become special-
ized in terms of product, to produce either high-value small-volume grades, or
use low-value raw materials such as waste paper to make low-cost paper for
wrapping and packaging. Insofar as the older existing mills are concerned,
the object of restructuring must be to identify and implement this type of
adjustment.
9.       In addition to these changes in product orientation, almost all mills
are inefficient in terms of consumption of raw materials and energy and will
have to introduce improvements in these respects if they are to become inter-
nationally competitive. Finally, as further elaborated below, with very few
exceptions the installed facilities for pollution control are totally
inadequate.
Raw Materials
10.      Most of the first group (para. 8) of mills constructed in Indenesia
use rice straw as a fibrous raw material, although two small integrated mills
were designed to use a mixture of wood and bamboo. The second group of mills
use primarily imported pulp, although during this period some pulping capacity
for utilizing bagasse (sugarcane residue) was also installed, particularly at
the large public-sector Aill at Lejes which has undergone two major expansions
based on this raw material. While both rice-straw and bagasse are perfectly
adequate for some grades of paper, they have technical as well as cost draw-
backs which limit their overall utility.
11.      In common with 95Z of the world's pulp and paper industry, the third
group of mills in Indonesia are based on wood, and as climatic and soil condi-
tions provide Indonesia with natural comparative advantage in the production
of wood, this must continue to be the raw material of preference for future
development.



- 59 -                           ANNEX 2-B
Page 4
12.      When including wood as a raw material for the pulp and paper
industry, consideration must be given to the international concern over the
loss of the world's tropical forests, and Indonesia's in particular. In fact,
tropical hardwoods are not really very suitable for making most grades of pulp
and paper 1/ but they are used to some extent in Indonesia, and are one alter-
native to consider for future expansion. Wood consumption for paper produc-
tion in Indonesia is not of major importance, amounting to only about 1.2
million cubic meters in 1987, or less than 12 of total reported roundwood
removals from Indonesia's forests. Two new wood-based mills coming on stream
at Aceh and Porsea (North Sumatra) will draw their raw material from indigen-
ous stands of Pinus merkusii which will be replanted to continue to provide
pulpwood on a sustained yield basis. At Riau, where a pulp mill is in opera-
tion and a major expansion is planned. logged-over indigenous hardwood forest
is being cleared and will be replanted with fast-growing hardwood species. A
planted area of about 40,000 ha will be adequate to supply the Riau plant with
about a million cubic meters annually on a sustained yield basis.
13.      Even within a maximum growth scenario for the pulp and paper
industry, the areas of plantation which would be required are limited. It
should never be necessary to clear virgin tropical forest for this purpose.
Environmental Issues
14.      As discussed above, until recently most plants in Indonesia's pulp
and paper subsector merely produced paper from purchased fiber. While the
suspended solids discharges from this type of operation may be high, BOD/COD
levels are typically not. However, with few exceptions, operations with pulp-
ing capacity are rather serious polluters, discharging effluent which is not
toxic, but which is often highly colored and highly oxygen-demanding.  Legis-
lation and regulations exist to compel plant operators to meet Indonesian
standards which are modelled on international guidelines but follow-up and
enforcement are weak. This is an important issue in the subsector which
should be addressed immediately for any new or expansion projects, and accord-
ing to a reasonable timetable for existing operations.
15.      Insofar as protection of the tropical forest is concerned, emphasis
should be placed on identifying suitable areas for the establishment of indus-
trial plantations, without conflict in terms of land-use or forest conserva-
tion. Current forest concession legislation is being examined with a view to
developing regulations more appropriate to the long view of pulp and paper
operations compared with the shorter outlook of logging companies and even
sawmilling and plywood operations. An ongoing World Bank forestry project is
examining this aspect.
i 1/The biggest problem with tropical hardwoods for pulp-making is their
relatively high cost of extraction, and their heterogeneity which makes
it difficult to maintain consistent quality. In the few locations
world-wide where tropical hardwoods are used to make paper, this is a
temporary measure until lower-cost, homogeneous pulpwood plantations
can be established.



- 60 -                           ANNEX 2-B
Page 5
Supporting Institutions
16.      The Institute for Research and Development of Cellulose Industries at
Bandung (IRDCLI) provides direct technical support to the paper industry, and
also runs a training school for pulp and paper technologists. In addition,
the institute organizes in-plant or ex-plant training programs for specific
companies or groups of companies on demand.  Training programs have developed
on a self-sustaining basis and are highly valued by industry. Technical
support, however, is hindered by a lack of up-to-date technical expertise and
equipment, and inadequate funding to remedy these deficiencies. Despite these
drawbacks, the institute is providing certain technical services to individual
enterprises, and in the area of pollution control in particular, is developing
valuable experience.
17.      Almost without exception, Indonesian producers of pulp and paper
belong to the Pulp and Paper Manufacturers' Association (AKPM) which fills a
valuable coordination role among enterprises, and between the industry and the
Government. In this way, the association has played, and continues to play,
an important role in guiding the restructuring of the pulp and paper sector.
C. Market Prospects
18.      Based on recent past experience in Indonesia and that in other devel-
oping countries, domestic demand should continue to grow at around 6-8S
annually into the foreseeable future, with somewhat higher growth in the
industrial grades, and lower growth in newsprint. The additions to installed
capacity implied by this growth (around 75,000 tons annually over the next
decade) are relatively modest in relation both to current installed capacity
(over 1 million tons) and the rate of capacity addition over the past decade.
19.      Indonesia's potential comparative advantage in the pulp and paper
subsector lies primarily in its capacity to produce large volumes of rela-
tively low-cost wood in industrial plantations.  Supporting this advantage are
the readily available domestic supplies of energy and the availability of low-
cost labor.  Notwithstanding these potential advantages, the recent expansion
into export markets has initially been a response to over-capacity in the
domestic market. However, Asia will remain a major net importer of pulp and
paper into the foreseeable future, and as the Indonesian industry begins to
properly capitalize on its potential advantage, there is considerable poten-
tial to efficiently develop this industry into a major earner of foreign
exchange.
D. Policy Framework
Impact of Recent Developments
20.      The deregulation measures which have made up the Indonesian Govern-
ment's reform package over the past 2-3 years have had an effect on the devel-
opment of the pulp and paper subsector, but less than they might have had if
internal competition had not already been forcing change.  The trade regime
changed in 1985 with the replacement of nontariff barriers on a number of
grades with a tariff of 60S, but this had little impact as domestic capacity



- 61 -                           ANNEX 2-B
Page 6
was in place to produce adequate quantities of most of the protected grades at
considerably lower prices. Similarly, when tariffs were reduced to 301 in
1987, impact was minimal since domestic competition had already lowered prices
to levels approaching c.i.f. values. Import controls remain in place for
newsprint and for banknote paper. For newsprint, controls, for the moment,
are more-or-less irrelevant as new newsprint capacity installed in the past 24
months is more than adequate to supply domestic demand. The controls on bank-
note paper are presumably a security measure and the 2,000 to 3,000 tons
involved are insignificant in terms of the whole subsector.
21.      Of more concern are the continuing controls on the domestic price and
the exports of domestically-produced newsprint. The current price is somewhat
less (about 5-10?) than the import parity price, and domestic producers may
export only tonnages above a contracted monthly supply to the state-run news-
print distribution agency. While the price differential is not so great as to
create a major distortion at the present time, there is a real danger that
future price adjustments will not adequately account for changing external
prices or exchange rates, forcing a greater divergence in newsprint prices,
hardship on the two existing newsprint producers (one public and one private),
and discouraging further investments in newsprint production capacity. The
rationale for the controls is to ensure a continuing supply of newsprint to
domestic publishers at a reasonable cost but penalizing the producers could
eliminate a significant export potential as Asia is a major net importer of
newsprint, and Indonesia is an efficient producer.
22.      Other elements of deregulation have had a relatively minor impact on
the pulp and paper subsector. As exports expand, there is scope to take
advantage of the duty-drawback and value-added tax remission schemes but since
exports so far have represented only marginal output from existing mills, and
since imported inputs are a relatively small proportion of total inputs, these
measures have had little significant impact. Similarly, measures aimed at
easing licensing requirements, and the flexibility introduced into the licen-
sing process, are too new to have had any significant impact. Energy pricing
should also receive some consideration. From pricing most forms of energy at
far below international levels, Indonesia has moved to a situation where at
present international oil prices, energy costs for paper producers may be as
much as 402 above the costs of their foreign competitors in international
markets. Since energy can form an important part of pulp/paper manufacturing
costs, this puts Indonesian producers trying to enter export markets at a
significant cost disadvantage.
Agenda for Further Policy Adjustment
23.      There are no urgent outstanding issues requiring immediate policy
action to ensure the well-being of the subsector. Priority should be given to
ensuring that the measures already adopted are in fact being applied, as there
is considerable anecdotal evidence which suggests that enterprises are not, in
fact, able to realize the proposed benefits of the reform because of misunder-
standings at the enterprise and/or the bureaucratic level.
24.      Insofar as the remaining restrictive controls are concerned, a grad-
ual removal should form an integral part of the continuing process of policy
reform. Measures to be considered in this context includet



- 62 -                           ANNEX 2-B
Page 7
(a) Further reduction of import duties from present levels of around 302
on most grades.  While this must be considered in the overall context
of trade liberalization, recognition could be given to the fact that
domestic competition has effectively removed most of the effect of
this level of tariff protection so that the impact of moving tn the
reasonably near future would be minimal.
(b) Removal of export and price controls on domestic newsprint. Again,
this distortion is not great at present and thus the effect of remov-
ing the controls would likely be less painful now than in the future.
(c) Within the context of an overall energy pricing policy. consider the
impact of fixed energy prices on energy-intensive industries compet-
ing on world markets with producers with varying energy prices.
E. Strategy for Development
25.      Despite the overall beneficial effects, there have been some disrup-
tive effects as a result of the new directions of subsectoral development.
Three plants have completely shut down and three others have substantially
curtailed operations. Other enterprises are in serious financial difficul-
ties, while still others face a possible threat of closure due to their
inability to meet pollution control standards for mill discharges. In some
cases, financial difficulties are of such magnitude that major financial
restructuring will be required. In other cases, technical changes which may
lead to product diversification, improvements in quality, or reductions in
production costs, may be adequate to restore profitability. For those plants
facing environmental difficulties, technical and financial assistance may be
required to identify and implement appropriate solutions.
26.      Despite these problems in some individual enterprises, for the sub-
sector as a whole, the first development priority must be to continue the
direction of restructuring already under way: the development of more
domestic pulping capacity and more integrated pulp and paper capacity to
reduce the reliance on imported pulp. This will primarily be accomplished by
a relatively small number of large investments. To ensure international
competitiveness, such investments should be based on wood, which will focus
attention away from Java. To ensure the absence of conflict with environmen-
tal objectives, the development of suitable areas of sustained-yield indus-
trial forestry plantations to support pulping operations should be an integral
part of all projects of this type.
27.      While this strategy will take care of the bulk of future demand, and
also be the main element of any large-scale future export activity, there
remains a pressing need to provide financial and technical assistance to
existing smaller enterprises, to assist them to adapt to the new policy regime
and to integrate into the newly evolving structure of the pulp and paper sub-
sector. This type of assistance would support subprojects aimed at: product
diversification; product improvement; fiber supply improvement; production
cost reduction; and pollution reduction. Insofar as the pulp and paper sub-
sector is concerned, assistance of this type is the main element of Govern-
ment's proposed restructuring project.



- 63 -                           ANNEX 2-B
Page 8
F. Rationale for Bank Involvement
28.      Indonesia's pulp and paper subsector is developing, and will continue
to develop, largely irrespective of Bank support.  Investment requirements
over the next decade are likely to average US$150-200 million annually, and
Bank support on this scale would clearly not be appropriate. Nevertheless,
over the past ten years the Bank has had an intermittent dialogue on sub-
sectoral development strategy and has financed in 1982 a Pulp and Paper
Engineering Project in Central Java (Ln. 2199-IND), which may have contributed
to an improved policy environment in this subsector today. To continue to
support the industry in those areas where the technical issues are more
complex, and investment funds are harder to come by, is a critical and
appropriate means by which the Bank can continue to provide assistance.
29.      Another rationale for continuing Bank involvement in the subsector
stems, most importantly, from the basic conclusion that the industry is becom-
ing increasingly internationally competitive, but the process of restructuring
to adapt to a competitive and distortion-free environment is proving to be
rather painful to some of the existing enterprises. Bank technical and finan-
cial assistance of the type proposed under the project could help such enter-
prises to adjust to the new situation while at the same time ensuring that new
distortions are not introduced.
30.      While it is impossible to develop a precise estimate of the number or
size of subprojects for which financing may be sought, and hence to develop a
quantitative estimate of the demand for Bank funds in this subsector, it is
possible to develop indicative estimates based on a variety of sources. In
1984, a consultant study 2/ sampled mill intentions and planned activities and
concluded that 20 of the 30 plants then in operation had restructuring plans
totalling about US$120 million, of which US$20 million was for fiber-recovery
projects, US$64 million for energy-related projects, and US$35 million for
debottlenecking and process modification. Figures of this order of magnitude
are generally confirmed by the Indonesian Pulp and Paper Manufacturers,
Association.
31.      The current pipelines of the participating banks were evaluated to
make an alternative assessment of demand for subprojects in this subsector.
Of the total demand of approximately US$500 million in the three subsectors,
approximately 402 (US$200 million) is in the pulp and paper subsector. The
limited alternative sources of project finance available to support these
activities are an important component of the justification for World Bank
involvement in the proposed Industrial Restructuring Project.
2/ Strengthening the Structure of the Indonesian Pulp and Paper Industry.
Study financed by the World bank and prepared for the Directorate
General of Basic Chemical Industries by Jaakko Poyry Oy, Helsinki,
1984.



ANNEX 2-C
-64 -                         Page I
INDONESIA
INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
The Textile Subsector
A. Introduction
1.       With industrial diversification, the relative importance of
Indonesia's textile industry has declined somewhat in recent years. Neverthe-
less, the textile industry remains one of the larger manufacturing industries
in Indonesia, accounting for around 10 of manufacturing value-added and 117
of manufactured exports. At present, there are over 2,000 textile and garment
establishments in the country, covering all aspects of textile operations
including spinning, weaving, knitting, fabric finishing, fabric printing and
garment manufacturing. Exports, at over US$1.0 billion annually are impres-
sive. Current employment is over 1.5 million, one-quarter of the manufactur-
ing labor force.
2.       Although the textile industry was relatively well developed in the
19209 and 1930s, it was more-or-less completely destroyed during World War II.
Subsequent rebuilding in the 1960s was concentrated in the public sector and
aimed principally at meeting the demands of the domestic market. From the
mid-1970s, the private sector assumed a more important role and the industry
expanded into export markets, for both textiles and garments. Per capita
domestic consumption of textiles is now of the order of 2.3 kg annually (about
15 m).
3.       Also during the last decade, foreign joint ventures have been estab-
lished in both manufacturing and man-made fiber operations to the point where
such companies now account for about one-third of the output of the sector.
These joint ventures, with updated management skills, are to a large extent
responsible for bringing about healthy competition in the domestic market as
well as fostering the export orientation of the sector.
4.       Some key statistics, which demonstrate both the rate and structure of
the growth of the subsector, are summarized in the following table.



ANNEX 2-C
- 65 -                            Page 2
DEVELOPMENT OF THE TEXTILE INDUSTRY, 1971-87
Annual Growth
rate (t)
1971  1980  1984  1987      1980-87
Installed Equipment
- Spindles (millions)                   0.5   1.7   2.2   2.7           7
- Looms (thousands)                      30    82    93   103           3
Printing and Finishing
- Total Capacity (million meters)       0.2   0.7   1.4   2.5          20
Employment (millions)                    0.5   1.0   1.3   1.5           6
Fiber Imports (US$ million)               na   159   157   344          12
Textile Imports (US$ million)             na    na    na   139          na
Textile Exports (US$ million)
- Yarn                                    3     3    11    81          60
- Cloth                                   6    30   137   302          39
- Garments                                3    97   268   587          29
B. Current Structure and Performance of the Industry
Structure
5.       The Indonesian textile industry is characterized by a nucleus of a
few large-sized integrated plants, and a large number of medium- and small-
sized plants. Government ownership is concentrated in older, larger plants,
primarily engaged in spinning. Foreign joint venture companies, which are
relatively new and generally of medium size, are concentrated in man-made
fiber manufacture, and also in spinning and garment manufacture where their
emphasis is largely on export markets. The following table shows the number
and ownership characteristics of the most important textile, garment and man-
made fiber producing plants.



ANNEX 2-C
- 66 -                            Page 3
CURRENT STRUCTURE AND OWNERSHIP IN THE TEXTILE INDUSTRY
Type of           Number of
Operation        Establishments    Ownership
Spinning                88       222 public. 302 foreign joint venture, balance
domestic private companies
Weaving                942    )
Knitting               399    ) Mostly domestic private companies
Fabric finishing       236    )
Fabric printing         55    )
Garment                334       8S foreign joint venture, balance private
Man-made fibers         11       902 foreign joint venture, balance private
6.       In addition, there are several small-sized units, the more important
of which are 53 texturizing and 33 sewing-thread manufacturing units, as well
a hand-loom sector with around 60,000 looms and a batik printing sector.
While highly fragmented, poorly documented and relatively small in terms of
output, these operations are highly important in terms of employment.
Technological Characteristics
7.       The rapid development in the last decade has meant that spinning
operations are in the most part relatively modern and in good condition.
Around 30,000 state-of-the-art open-end rotors are also in operation. The
operating performance of this branch (84Z plant utilization and 821 production
efficiency) is reasonably satisfactory, but almost 1 million spindles
installed before 1975 are technologically backward. Most weaving operations
are also technologically out-dated with average size of plant around 100 looms
(701 of enterprises have less than 100 looms). While there are 4,800 state-
of-the-art shuttleless looms, these account for less than 5Z of the total
compared with 10 in the Republic of Korea, 18S in Taiwan, China, and over 40Z
in Western Europe.
8.       In knitting, while the age of the equipment is not that great,
average productivity is only about 50? of that of comparable countries,
apparently because of poor maintenance and rehabilitation efforts. Fabric
finishing equipment is outdated and totally inadequate in terms of capacity as
it can only process around 11 of domestic cloth production.
9.       Garment production, the most rapidly expanding branch, comprises some
3,000 relatively small enterprises producing around 850 million garments per
year. Developed on the basis of the relatively low labor costs in Indonesia,
this activity has attracted significant investment and has developed rapidly
to become a major export earner. While relatively young (most capacity has
been installed since 1975), this branch is certainly not technologically
modern.



ANNEX 2-C
- 67 -                            Page 4
Raw Materials
10.      With consumption approaching 150,000 tons annually, the most impor-
tant raw material for Indonesia's textile industry is cotton. However, about
90Z of the industry's cotton requirements are imported. Although during
recent years there has been a significant increase in cotton cultivation in
Indonesia, the country is not likely to become a major cotton producer because
of unfavorable climatic conditions.l1 Despite the relatively low production,
Indonesian cotton is of reasonably high tensile strength, clean (low trash
content), and of good staple length. In terms of quality, it is comparable to
Delta Pine and Stoneville varieties from the US, suitable for 34s-40s count
spinning.
11.      In contrast to cotton, the domestic capacity for the production of
man-made fibers, based on cellulose and petroleum resources, is rather well
developed. Man-made fibers account for approximately 602 of the total demand
for fibers, and 902 of this share is produced domestically. Amongst the
individual fiber types, the domestic production of rayon fibers and nylon
filaments is adequate to meet domestic demand, but about 20,000 tons of
polyester fiber/filament (202 of consumption) is imported, together with a
further 20,000 tons of acrylic fibers, which are not produced domestically.
12.      Imports are not limited to fibers.  Due to technological constraints,
the spinning and more particularly the weaving branches are incapable of manu-
facturing specialized yarns (for knitting) and fabrics (for garment produc-
tion) to meet the quality requirements for export. These deficiencies lead to
significant imports of yarn and cloth. Also, weaknesses in supporting indus-
tries necessitate imports of almost all production equipment, spare parts, and
consumables (dyes, chemicals, rings, spindles, shuttles, etc.).
13.      Overall, therefore, the Indonesian textile industry is heavily depen-
dent on imports, which must be set against the export performance of the
subsector. Production inputs and operating supplies approached US$600 million
in 1987, distributed as follows:
Fibers (mostly cotton)              US$ 345 million
Yarn                                     70
Cloth                                    69
Operating supplies and spares            90
Environmental Issues
14.      Without exception, the textile enterprises in Indonesia are deficient
in the area of environmental control. Working conditions in most plants are
unsatisfactory, with inadequate lighting, and high levels of humidity and
(particularly in weaving) noise. The processing plants do not have proper
effluent treatment plants for discharging toxic chemicals. Biochemical oxygen
demand and suspended solids (copper, chromium, etc.) levels are higher than
1/ Cotton cultivation requires periods of relatively dry climate to mature
properly and adequate rainfall at the right stage of growth.



- 68 -                            ANNEX 2-C
Page S
the levels prescribed for the textile industry under current Indonesian legis-
lation. Addressing these problems will be an essential component of any
restructuring program for the textile industry.
Supporting Institutions
15.      Two technical institutions support the Indonesian textile industry:
the Institute for Research and Development of the Textile Industry (IRDTI);
and the College of Textile Technology (CTT). IRDTI was established in Bandung
to provide information and technical services for the development of the
textile industry, and to promote proper utilization of raw materials, manpower
resources, equipment and new technologies. In practice, however, the
provision of these services by IRDTI has been limited by budget constraints,
aging and outdated testing and research equipment, and a lack of qualified
staff. Almost 902 of the annual budget is expended on staff salaries, leaving
very little for replacing obsolete equipment or conducting innovative
research. Of 472 staff, only about 102 are technically qualified. As a
result of these constraints, IRDTI's technical activities are limited to raw
material testing and the conducting of some technical seminars.
16.      IRDTI is under the administrative control of the Agency for
Industrial Research and Development and also the Directorate for Textiles,
both of which are in the Ministry of Industry, and is responsible for monitor-
ing the industry's performance and for providing guidance and information to
assist the industry's development. At present, neither IRDTI nor any other
agency of the Ministry has the capability to collect, maintain or disseminate
adequate subsector information to fulfil this role. Particularly as the
Government's regulatory role is diminished, there is a need for providing the
industry with up-to-date technical and marketing information.
17.      CTT is also located at Bandung, and is the main facility for training
personnel in textile engineering. The College offers a four-year diploma
course to about 100 students every year. Despite a reasonably good course
content, CTT is seriously constrained due to obsolete teaching aids, such as
testing equipment and pilot plants, most of which are no longer in use in the
textile industry. Despite these limitations, CTT appears to be as well-run
training facility, able to provide valuable support to the Indonesian textile
sector.
C. Markets and Marketing
18.      Exports of textiles have increased from a negligible USlO million
annually in the early 1970s to around US$l billion today. This rapid increase
has been possible because of the basic competitiveness of the Indonesian
textile industry. An assessment of this performance needs to highlight the
heavy reliance on imports, as already discussed (paras. 10-13), and the fact
that exports have been weighted towards low-quality low-value products, and
have failed until recently to make full or efficient use of available quotas.



ANNEX 2-C
- 69 -                          Page 6
19.      Indonesia's basic competitiveness in the textile industry stems from
its relatively low wage rates.2/ However, although some of the newer joint-
venture operations have been able to translate this advantage into an overall
quality and cost competitiveness, the majority of the public and domestic
mills are inefficient, with higher overall labor costs as a result. Also, due
to the lower average quality of yarn and cloth, and to an inadequate marketing
effort, the export prices of Indonesian textiles average from 10-20t less than
similar products from other major exporting countries.
20.      As shown in the following table, exports to quota countries have been
growing in importance, but still represent only about 50? of the total value
of exports. Indonesia is utilizing 80-85 of its quota allocations to the USA
and the EEC. However the unutilized quota represents high value items for
which production capacity is restricted. The table also shows the declining
relative importance of exports to Asian and Middle Eastern countries,
primarily as a result of increased competition from other developing
countries, and in particular China.
TEXTILE EXPORTS TO QUOTA AND NON-QUOTA COUNTRIES
(Percent)
Percent of Total Exports
Destination                       1979      1986              Change
Principal Quota Countries
- USA                            6.2       35.7              + 29.5
- Canada                         1.2        3.8              +  2.6
- EEC                            8.3        2.1              -  6.2
Principal Non-Quota Countries
- Hong Kong                     13.5        7.6              -  5.9
- Singapore                     39.2       13.6              - 26.3
- Japan                          3.8        1.1              -  2.7
- Middle East                   14.7        6.7              -  8.0
21.      If Indonesia is to make more effective use of its competitive
advantage in the textile subsector, improved labor productivity and product
quality, together with a more effective use of quotas, will be essential.
D. Policy Framework
22.      Through a series of recent positive policy measures and trade
reforms, the Government of Indonesia has created a favorable climate for
industrial growth. Perhaps more than any other industry, the textile industry
2/ Average wage rates for textile labor in Indonesia are around US$0.30
per hour, compared with about US$0.58 in India, U$1.65 in Korea,
US$1.68 in Taiwan, US$7.58 in the Federal Republic of Germany and
US$9.50 in the USA.



- 70 -ANNEX 2-C
Page 7
has responded well to these measures through increased production and export
activity, and-through investments which have exceeded US$250 million in each
of the past two years. Specifically, the Government has deregulated cotton
sourcing procedures and has replaced non-tariff barriers by import tariffs on
textile products. These tariffs will be reduced in line with improvements in
operational efficiency and economic performance of the subsector. It is also
intended to reduce the currently high level of import tariffs on essential
spare parts.
23.      The only remaining priority for further reform is rationalization of
the allocation mechanisms for quotas. To this end, adjustments will be made
to the textile export quota regulation system in order to increase its trans-
parency through simplification of the allocation and institutional mechanisms.
Proposals currently under review will ensure that the quota allocation and
transfer mechanisms are open, non-restrictive and cost-effective.
24.      However, despite this favorable environment and the encouraging
reaction from industry, the industry cannot derive maximum benefits because of
aging equipment, out-dated technology, inadequate research and training, lack
of quality control, and, most importantly, poor linkages among the various
branches of the subsector. As a result of these deficiencies, there remain
many unexploited opportunities for further development of the sector, parti-
cularly in those areas where technical issues are more complex, and where
medium-term investments are required. The proposed restructuring project
would provide assistance for these activities by supporting a rational
strategy for further development of the subsector.
E. Strategy for Development
25.      The principal element of the sutsector's development strategy must be
product diversification towards greater value-added items. The Government
policy of allowing easy imports of raw materials and state-of-the-art equip-
ment (duty-free for exporting enterprises) should facilitate this strategy of
moving away from the restricted count range in spinning, and conventional
product lines in weaving. As noted above (para. 7) much of the spinning capa-
city is reasonably up-to-date but there remain nearly 1 million spindles which
are out-dated and need to be replaced or upgraded. Of higher priority is
restructuring of the neglected weaving and finishing branches, which requires
major capacity additions as well as upgrading of existing equipment to benefit
from improved economies of scale, labor saving, energy conservation and
recycling. For knitting and garment production. where much of the equipment
is of low sophistication, restructuring priorities should focus not only on
plant up-dating but also on training to improve operational skill, product
design and marketing.
26.      In general, therefore, the order of priority for further operational
development of the textile sector should be: (a) weaving and finishing; (b)
garment production; (c) spinning; (d) knitting; and (e) man-made fiber produc-
tion. In addition, full recognition should be given to the elaboration and
solution of environmental issues.



ANNEX 2-C
- 71 -                            Page 8
27.      A program of technical assistance is required to support this
physical restructuring. Specific assistance is required to: (a) help enter-
prises to identify and prepare restructuring projects; (b) strengthening the
operations of IRDTI by updating testing and quality-control facilities; and
(c) strengthening the capacity of the Ministry of Industry to maintain an up-
to-date information base. The proposed restructuring project contains provi-
sions for all of these areas.
28.      Implementation of this strategy of physical restructuring and techni-
cal support should increase overall employment in the subsector, provide a
more competitive edge in international markets, and increase the value of
exports, particularly in the higher value and hitherto largely unexploited
part of the market. Finally, through better linkages between spinning and
knitting on the one hand, and weaving and garment production on the other,
substantial savings could be made in imports of yarn and cloth.
F. Rationale for Bank Assistance
29.      The Bank's past involvement in textiles in Indonesia, the need for
high-quality technical assistance to help direct needed restructuring of the
subsector. and the substantial need for further investment to accomplish this
restructuring, all provide a rationale for continuing Bank assistance. Speci-
fically, the Bank has been engaged in a dialogue with the Indonesian
Government with respect to the textile industry for several years and has
helped to finance a major study of subsectoral problems and prospects, under
the BAPINDO V Project (Ln. 2277-IND). This dialogue and the study have, to
some extent, contributed to the relatively issue-free environment of today.
Investments in the subsector are expected to match the recent experience of
about US$250 million equivalent annually over the next several years. The
pipelines of the participating financial institutions confirm a major require-
ment for project loans for restructuring and expansion. The limited alterna-
tive sources of project finance available to support these activities are an
important component of the justification for World Bank involvement in the
proposed Industrial Restructuring Project.



- 72 -                              ANNEX 3-A
Page 1
INDONESIA
INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
The Participatins Financial Institutions (PFIs) Under the Proposed Project
The Five State-Owned Commercial Banks
1.       Within the financial system in Indonesia, the five state-owned
commercial banks (SCBs)i.e., Bank Bumi Daya (BBD), Bank Dagang Negara (BDN),
Bank Ekspor Impor Indonesia (BEII), Bank Negara Indonesia 1946 (BNI 1946) and
Bank Rakyat Indonesia (BRI), dominate the commercial banking sector. They
account for approximately 752 of total assets of deposit money banks, ful-
filling the dual role of commercial bank and agent of development for the
Government.
2.       Background and Development.  Among the five SCBs, BRI, founded in
1895, is the oldest while the remaining four were established in post-indepen-
dence Indonesia. They operate under the guidelines of the Banking Act of 1967
and a number of other legislative measures enacted in 1967/68 that established
the SCBs in their present forms.  Until the June 1983 financial sector
reforms, the evolution of the SCBs was strongly influenced by the role and
policies of Bank Indonesia (BI) which set the deposit and lending rates,
established credit ceilings and guided the allocation of credit through the
liquidity credit mechanism (subsidized funds for priority sector lending).
With the 1983 reforms, the SCBs had to mobilize substantial resources for
lending purposes directly from the public and to operate more efficiently and
profitably in an increasingly competitive environment. Notwithstanding the
1983 reforms which eliminated many categories of liquidity credits, the SCBs
continue to rely on them as an important source of funding, although their
importance has declined over recent years.
3.       Despite an initial effort to assign sectoral specialization for each
of the SCBs, all five banks have increasingly competed among themselves and
with other banks to diversify their client base and to lend to all sectors of
the economy. Nonetheless, the SCBs' loan portfolios still reflect to a great
extent their original specialization. BIN 1946, the largest of the SCBs with
Rp 11,543 billion (US$6.8 billion equivalent) in assets at December 31, 1987,
concentrates in industry and manufacturing; BBD, the next largest, in estates,
plantations and forestry. BRI specializes in agriculture, fisheries and
cooperatives; it also operates the Unit Desa system which administers rural
credit programs.  BDN has traditionally lent to the mining sector while the
smallest SCB, BEII with Rp 4,926 billion in assets (US$2.9 billion equiva-
lent), has specialized in trade finance. Collectively, about 34Z of the SCBs'
total outstanding loans (Rp 27,813 billion or US$16.4 billion equivalent) at
December 31, 1987 were industry loans.
4.       The following table provides key financial indicators and ratios for
each of the five SCBs, based on the December 31, 1987 financial data:



- 73 -                              ANNEX 3-A
Page 2
Table 1: FINANCIAL INICATORS OF THE FIVE STATE COMMtERCIAL BANKS
(as of Decembr 81, 1987)
(Rp bl iI Ion)
85D      BDN       BE!?   SNI 194        BRI
Totel Asset                    9,190     7,568     4,926     11,64$     7,561
Total Loans                    6,848     5,165     2,862      7,410     6,084
Total Deposits                 5,180     4,198     8,046      7,862     8,56
Total Equity                    128       849       851        276        149
Not Income (1985)                 9        26        80         24        27
(1908)                  37        76        91         44        81
(1987)                 40         6o        84         68        44
Ratio. (1987):
Nt Income/Avg. Assets (X)         0.48      1.02      1.85       0.56      0.61
Net Income/Avg. Equity (X)       34.2      21.0      25.5       27.0      80.6
AX Expense/Avg. Asset. (3)        1.66      1.70      1.82       1.89      8.48
Tot. Debt/Tot. Equity (time)     70.8      20.1      18.0       40.9      49.6
Tot. Loans/Tot. Deposits (time)   1.2       1.2       0.9        1.0       1.7
Industry Loans/Tot. Loans (X)    81.2      57.5      24.4       45.8      11.9
5.       Organization, Management and Staffing.  SCBs operate through a rather
similar organizational structure. The organization of each SCB follows a
pyramid structure with the Board of Supervisors at the apex and the branches
for the broad base of the pyramid (individual organizational charts for the
SCBs are available in the Project File). Aside, from administrative and human
resource type units (e.g. departments for administration, personnel, organiza-
tion planning, public relations, logistics, electronic/data processing and
training), the operations of the SCBs are drawn along similar functional
units. While terminology differs from SCB to SCB, these units includes
(a) credit management (subdivided into investment loans, agriculture loans,
small credit, credit development, credit supervision/control, credit rescue);
(b) accounting and audit (subdivided into general audit, internal au.it,
regional/branch audit); (c) international banking; (d) geographic administra-
tion (sub-divided by region and branch); and (e) research and development.
Reforms aimed at improved operational efficiency are underway. These efforts
reflect a strong commitment on the part of the SCBs towards developing
efficient, modern, full service commercial operations and results to date are
encouraging. Both BNI 1946 and BRI have recently completed a major organiza-
tional reform program to improve their organizational structure, banking
policies, management guidelines and to streamline the credit process.  On a
smaller scale, BDN has alco recently implemented an organizational and systems
improvement program while both BBD and BEII obtained the assistance of large
multinational banks to help them improve specific aspects of their operations.
Each SCB is headed by a three-member Board of Supervisors which oversees the
Board of Managing Directors. A President-Director, acting as the SCBs' Chief
Executive Officer, heads the three- to five-member Board of Managing Directors



- 74 -                             ANNEX 3-A
Page 3
which is responsible for implementing general policy guidelines and day-to-day
management of bank performance, credit quality and soundness. Appointment of
members for both boards is usually for a five-year term.
6.       The SCBs operate through large branch networks that span the country
and, with the exception of BRI, selected international operations. Principal
activity is centered in Jakarta where each of the five SCBs has its head
office. As shown in the table below, the SCBs collectively had 754 domestic
branches (plus 202 auxiliary branches/cash offices). Unlike the private
commercial banks and the nonbank financial institutions (NBFIs), the SCBs have
much larger staffs; the smallest of the SCBs, BEII with a little over 4,300
employees, has nearly three times the staff of Bank Niaga. the largest of the
other participating financial institutions (PFIs).
Table 2: ORGANIZATIONAL AND STAFFING DATA OF SCBs, December 31, 1987
(number)
Auxiliary
Regional      Full           branches/
SCB          Offices       branches       cash offices     Staff
BBD              -             89               40           7,802
BDN             12            103               35           7,654
BEII             -             56                -           4,371
BNI 1946        11            207               76          11,682
BRI la          15            299               51         19,660
Total      38            754              202         51,169
la  Numbers do not include:  (i) No of Unit Desa (3,499)
(ii) No of Unit Desa employees (12,954).
7.       Lending Procedures.  In each of the SCBs, most loan applications are
initiated at the branch level. Branches are responsible for the initial
evaluation of the loan application and for compiling all supporting documenta-
tion.  The system of loan approval confers a significant amount of lending
authority on designated individuals depending on loan size. The branch
manager's approval authority is very limited and varies among the SCBs from
(Rp 50.0 million) to Rp 200.0 million (US$29,400 to US$117,600 equivalent).
The limit for discretionary approval by the regional manager is approximately
Rp 300.0 million (US$176,500 equivalent) and the approval authority of the
head of respective credit departments in the Jakarta head office varies from
Rp 300.0 million to Rp 500.0 million (US$176,500 to US$294,100 equivalent).
Loans exceeding Rp 500 million are approved only by the Board of Managing
Directors.
8.       Project appraisal and loan evaluation procedures are well established
in the SCBs. Although formats vary from bank to bank, the information, docu-
mentation and analysis required are basically the same.   While full appraisal



_ 75 -                              ANNEX 3-A
Page 4
and evaluation are done by the branches, they are reappraised once received in
the Jakarta head office. This is seen as a necessary quality control measure
and the analysts in the head offices are generally better trained than their
branch counterparts who often have far too many customers to devote close
scrutiny to each application. Loan applications are evaluated on the basis of
standard creditworthiness criteria including the capability of the entre-
preneur, the financial position of the enterprise, market prospects, and
collateral. For investment loans exceeding Rp 500 million (US$294,100 equiva-
lent). audited financial statements and a feasibility study are required as
part of the loan application. With respect to the technical, procurement and
environmental aspects of a subproject proposal, the SCBs place considerable
emphasis on the experience and reputation of the project sponsor and the
accompanying feasibility study. Whenever technical issues or questions arise,
outside consultants are engaged directly by the SCB for advice. The SCBs have
recently started to require for industrial subprojects an environmental impact
analysis and identification of measures to be undertaken by project sponsors
to bring proposed operations in compliance with environmental standards and
regulations.
9.       Responsibility for loan and subproject supervision rests primarily
with the branch in charge of the client account. Supervision of corporate
accounts, however, takes place through almost daily scrutiny of account move-
ments as well as through regular on-site visits, with more important loans and
investments also supervised by the head office credit departments. The loan
portfolio is audited during regular internal audit. While there are no formal
mechanisms for dealing with problem loans on a regular basis, once a loan has
been past due for six months, it is supposed to be transferred to the State
Committee for Settlement of Credit Claims (PUPN), a state operation estab-
lished as a collection agency for the SCBs. Overall, both subproject approval
and supervision procedures of the SCBs are adequate for their current term
lending activities. However, there is room for improvement and the proposed
Bank loan will build on the SCBes' capacity for term finance, through training
of the PFIs' staff (refer paras. 4.22-4.24), particularly in the technical,
financial, economic and environmental aspects that need to be carefully
analyzed with reference to industrial investments.
10.      Financial Position.  Review of the financial accounts for 1985
through 1987 of the five SCBs is based on their audited financial statements,
prepared by the Governnment's Financial and Development Supervisory Board
(BPKP) (at the time of project appraisal, two SCB accounts, BEll and BRI, were
still being audited).  Provisional financial accounts, in condensed form, as
of June 30, 1988, have been incli ed, mainly to depict significant trends
(income statements and balance sheets for the individual SCBs are available in
the Project File).
11.      The financial position and performance of the individual SCBs demon-
strate an acceptable financial structure and an adequate level of profit-
ability. The composite financial position of the SCBs over the period of



- 76 -                             ANNEX 3-A
Page 5
1985-87 is sumarized in Attachment 1.1/  The following table provides an
aggregated summary of the key parameters of the SCBs' financial position.
During the thriee and a half-year period reviewed, total SCB assets grew by 95Z
from Rp 23,338 billion (US$13.7 billion equivalent) as of December 31, 1984,
to Rp 45,333 billion (US$26.7 billion equivalent) as of June 30, 1988, with
individual growth rates varying between 731 and 144Z. This rapid growth
reflects the impact of the June 1983 financial sector reforms.
Table 3:  SUMMARY OF SCBS' LENDING AND BORROWING OPERATIONS, 1984-JUNE 1988
(Rp billion)
1984      1985      1986       1987      June 1988
Total Assets                 23,337.9  28,249.0  36,232.6  40,602.0  45,427.6
Total Loan Portfolio /a      15,209.3  17.727.6  22,516.9  27,813.5  31,258.2
Long-term                             a.' e 43.2  10,876.3  13,999.0  16,944.4
Short-term                            9 .-4.4  11,640.6  13,814.5  14,313.8
Total Borrowings             20,493.3  25,482.5  32,440.9  36,522.4  39,955.8
Long-term                   6,064.6   7,087.0   8,618.6   8,914.4  12,042.7
Time deposits                          743.4     930.6     816.7   2,454.8
BI & other gov't loans              5,332.2   6,960.1   7,786.7   9,083.5
Other                         -     1,011.4      727.9     311.0      504.4
Short-term                 14,428.7  18,395.5  23,822.3  27,608.0  27,913.1
BI loans                            3,015.8   3,596.3   4,894.8   4,163.0
Customer deposits                  15,198.5  19,934.3  22,474.1  23,666.3
Demand                            5,019.2   5,428.6   5,595.8   5,437.3
Time                              9,369.2  13,466.7  15,624.1  17,004.9
Savings                             810.1   1,039.0   1,254.2   1,224.1
Other                                 181.2      291.7     239.1       83.8
Total Equity                    753.4      759.2   1,073.5   1,252.9   1,459.9
/a Before provision for bad debts.
12.      Loans account for approximately 68Z of total assets at the end of
1987, with slightly less than half of the loan portfolio classified as term
loans. Although the 1987 loan-to-deposit ratio of 119! appears excessive as
an indicator of liquidity, once 8I liquidity and government fundings are
discounted, this figure drops to a more comfortable 65Z. Again, this under-
1/ Since the the historical development of the five SCBs (paras. 2-3) has
resulted in considerable similarity in their basic financial positions
and financial performance, the ensuing analysis has been done on an
aggregate basis.



- 77 -ANNEX 3-A
Page 6
scores the significance of BI and other government loans, most of which repre-
sent channeled and directed funds, as a source of funds for SCBs' resource
base; in 1987, approximately 35Z of total borrowings came from state entities.
Deposit mobilization, however, has undeniably increased substantially since
the liberalization of interest rates in 1983 and this growth has been
primarily in time deposits. The maturity structure of SCBs' assets and liabi-
lities seems reasonably matched: 64Z of total assets were short-term compared
to 772 of total liabilities, that is, about 182 of the SCBs' long-term assets
are financed with short-term liabilities. While this level of term transfor-
mation is prudent and provides room for expansion, it also demonstrates the
need for additional term resources if the SCBs are to increase their term
lending activities.
13.      The equity base of the SCBs is relatively small because of governmen-
tal restrictions on the size of authorized capital and the fact that the
Government appropriates 452 of annual net (after tax) profits; therefore, the
SCBs have had difficulty in building up their respective capital bases through
retained earnings. The Government has recently (October 1988) adopted a
financial sector reform package which, among other changes, now allows all
banks and NBFIs to increase their capital through the issuance of new shares
on the capital market, in addition to increasing the equity participation of
the existing shareholders.
14.      Financial Performance.  Aggregated income statements for the five
SCBs for the period 1985 through June 1988 are summarized in Attachment 2 and
the key indicators of the SCBs' composite financial performance are summarized
below in Table 3: the SCBs have reported profits for the last three years
under review; net profit as a percentage of both average total assets and
average total equity improved significantly in 1986 and 1987. Windfall
foreign exchange gains resulting from the September 1986 rupiah devaluation
accounted largely for the improvements under 'Other income' in 1986, and the
impact of the 1987 deregulation of interest rates are reflected in 1987's
earnings performance (SCBs' lending margin increased from 3.52 in 1986 to 4.22
in 1987).



- 78 -                              ANNEX 3-A
Page 7
Table 4: INDICATORS OF SCBS' FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE, 1985-JUNE 1988
1985      1986       1987    June 1988
Average Total Assets (Rp billion)    25,793.5  32,240.8  38,417.3   43,014.8
Average Loan Portfolio (Rp billion)  16,468.5  20,122.3  25,165.2   29,535.9
Average Borrowings (Rp billion)        22,987.9  28,961.7  34,481.7   38,239.1
Average Equity (Rp billion)               756.3      916.4   1,163.2    1,356.4
As a S of Average Total Assets
(a) Income from lending                     7.25       6.75      7.62       8.05
(b) Other income                            3.65       5.73      3.95       2.65
(c) Gross income                           10.90      12.48     11.57      10.70
(d) Financial expenses                      6.95       6.54      7.06       6.80
(e) Gross spread (c-d)                      3.95       5.94      4.51       3.90
(f) Salary and personnel expenses           1.36       1.49      1.12       1.08
(g) Administrative expenses la              0.96       0.87      0.97       0.85
(h) Provision for bad debts                 0.88       2.21      1.16       0.93
(i) Profit before tax                       0.75       1.37      1.26       1.04
(j) Net profit                              0.45       0.87      0.79       0.68
Return on Average Total Equity (Z)         15.36      30.45     26.07      21.54
Lending Margin
(k) Income from lending as a Z of          11.36     10.81      11.64      11.72
average loan portfolio
(1) Financial expenses as a S of            7.80       7.28      7.87       7.65
average borrowings
(m) Spread on lending (k-l)                 3.56       3.54      3.77       4.07
Cumulative Provision for Bad Debts as
a Z of Outstanding Loan Portfolio         3.80       3.84      3.92       3.92
/a Administrative expense ratio excludes salary and personnel expenses.
15.      Portfolio Quality.  As required by BI, the five SCBs classify their
respective loan portfolios on the basis of collectibility. As shown in
Attachment 3, as of December 31, 1987, about 94.2Z of SCBs' loans were classi-
fied as regular, with about 4.12 regarded as doubtful (that is, requiring
special attention or for liquidation). However, since the criteria used in
classifying 'regular" accounts are not clearly specified, the classification
of accounts is a relatively subjective exercise. Aging of arrears has not
been a standard procedure within the SCBs, although for those SCBs undergoing
organization reforms, this aspect of portfolio management is being introduced
as part of the overall institutional reorganization. All SCBs regularly set
aside provisions to cover losses on their loan portfolio and write off bad



- 79 -                             ANNEX 3-A
Page 8
debts. As of December 31, 1987, the SCBs' combined provisions for bad debts
constituted nearly 4Z of their outstanding loan portfolios. Since the
Government carries the direct risk on substantial portion of the SCBs' loan
portfolio, 40Z of which are from (guaranteed) BI liquidity credits, the level
of provisions compared to their own risk assets is actually quite
conservative.



- 80 -
ANNEX 3-A
Attachmenr I
INDONESIA
INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTUhING PROJECT
The Five State-ned Commercial Banks
Summarized Balance Sheets (Aggregated). December 31, 1985-87 and June 30, 1988
Rp bI,llon)
Dec 31,       Dec 31,       Dec 31,       Dec 31,         Jun 30,
1984          1985          1986          1987            1988
(unaudited)
Assets
Current Assets
Cash on hand                                       -          401.5         496.5         618.7          412.1
Due from Bank Indonesia                            -          678.7         949.5        1,574.4       2,128.5
Due from other banks                               -          400.2         901.0          551.6         599.8
Notes/securttles/short-term  placements            -        7,775.7       9,166.7       8,429.3        9,168.9
Short-term loans                             9,953.1        9,274.4      11,640.6      13,814.5       14,311.8
Less:  reserve for bad debts                       -          308.9         383.9         552.1          541.3
Net short-term loans                             -       8,965.5       11,256.7      13,262.4      13,772.5
Other current assets                               -        1,484.5       1,822.5       1,560.6       2,003.5
Subtotal current assets                          -      19,706.1       24,598.9      25,997.o      28,145.9
Lon-Trm Assets.
ongterm  loans                                  5,256.2       8,453.2       10,87b.3      13,999.0i     16,944.4
Less:  reserve for bad debts                       -          364.0         480.2         538.0          684.8
Net long-term loans                              -        8,089.2      10,396.1      13,461.0      16,259.6
Equity participation                               -           29.0          39.2           69.1          62.8
Other Investments                                  -          117.6         859.8         677.4          438.8
Subtotal long-term  portfolio                   _        8,235.8       11,295.1      14,207.5      16,761.2
Net fixed assets                                   -          241.4         300.4         362.8          421.4
Other                                              -           65.7          38.2           34.7          99.1
Subtotal long-term assete                        -       8,542.9       11,633.7      14,60S.0      17,281.7
Total Assets                              23,337.9      28,249.0       36,232.6      40,6u2.0      45,427.6
Liabilities and Equity
Current LiabItities
Demand deposits                               5,105.7       5,019.2       5,428.6       5,595.8        5,437.3
Time deposits                                 5,628.6       9,369.2      13,466.7      15.524.1      17,004.9
Savings deposits                                567.3         810.1       1,039.1/      1,254.2       1,224.1
Accounts payable                                   -          678.4         868.2       1,116.0        1,064.6
Liquidity credits from SI                    2,814.3        3,015.8       3,596.3       4,894.8       4,163.0
Due to other banks                                 -          181.2         291.7         239.1          83.8
Other current liabtilities                         -        1,328.9       1,85u.0       1,710.6       2,947.3
Subtotal current liabilities                     -      20,402.8       26,540.5      30,434.6      31,925.o
Long-Term Liabilities
BI liquidity credits                               -        4,829.5       5,868.5       6,019.2       7,714.9
Loans from RI                                      -          186.0         297.9         343.6           50.1
Governmant loans                                   -          316.7         793.7       1,423.9       1,318.5
Time deposlts                                      -          743.4         930.6         816.7       2,454.8
Other                                              -        1,011.4         727.9         311.0         504.4
Subtotal long-term liabilities             6,064.6       7,087.0        8,618.6       8,914.4      12,042.7
Equity
PWaid-up capital /a                                -          200.9         259.3          264,7         271.0
Reserves                                           -          403.4         456.5         564.'         649.2
Retained earnings                                  -          154.9         357.7         424.1         539.7
Subtotal equity                              753.4          759.2       1,073.5       1,252.9       1,459.9
Total Liabilities and Equity                     -      28,249.0       36,232.6      40,601.9      45,427.6
/a  Rp 1.55 billion of which represents authorized, paid-in capital from the Government; remaining a.ounts
essentially represent conversion of BlI liqudity credits to capital contribution.



- 81                                  NNEX 3-A
Attachment 2
INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
The Five State-Owned Commercial Banks
Audited Income Statements (Agaregated), 1985-87 and January-June 1988
(Rp billion)
Jan-Jun
1985        1986         1987           1988
(unaudited)
Income
Interest
On loans                                1,658.2      1,943.4      2,671.5        1,612.1
On notes/securities/placements             694.4       816.1        847.3           250.0
Other                                        4.7         46.1       168.2            67.1
Subtotal interest                      2.357.3      2,805.6      3,687.0        1,929.2
Commissions and fees                         212.5        232.8        257.0          118.2
Foreign exchange transactions /a             147.0        876.3       218.6            83.4
Other operating income                        71.4         74.1        223.2          141.3
Subtotal operating income              2,788.2      3,988.8      4,385.8        2,272.1
Nonoperating income                           23.8         35.1         59.8           29.2
Total Income                           2,812.0      4,023.9      4,445.6        2,301.3
Expenses
Interest charges on borrowings             1,792.0     2,108.2      2,713.1        1,462.4
Salaries and other personnel expenses        351.2        480.0        429.2          233.3
Other operating and misc. expenses           194.5        210.5        269.9          147.9
Depreciation                                  26.8         39.1         58.9           18.9
Provision for bad debts                      227.5        711.8        446.4          199.0
Nonoperating expenses                         26.1         31.1         43.3           15.1
Total Expenses                         2,618.1      3,581.7      3,960.8        2,076.6
Net Income Before Taxes                   193.9       442.2        484.8          224.7
Lesst Provision for taxes                       77.7        163.2        181.5           78.6lb
Net Income                              116.1        279.0        303.3          146.1
la  Includes net windfall income resulting from the September 1986 devaluation of the rupiat
lb Provision for taxes made at end of year; assumed at 35Z of net income before tax.



-82-                                   ANNEX 3-A
Attachment 3
INDONESIA
INDUSTRIL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
The Five State-Owned Commercial Banks
Loan Portfolio Quality - Collectibility. 1985-87
(Rp billion)
Classification of portfolio
Regular       Often late   Special attention   Liquidation            Total
1985
BNI 1946   3,730   (97.1)    30  (0.8)         64       (1.7)       16   (0.4)    3,840  (100)
BDN         3,051   (91.6)   168  (5.1)    101          (3.0)       10   (0.3)    3,330  (100)
BRI         3,974   (92.0)   114  (2.7)    196          (4.5)       34   (0.8)    4,318  (100)
BBD          n.a.            n.a.            n.a.                n.a.               n.a.
BEII         n.a.            n.a.            n.s.                n.a.               n.a.
Total  10,755   (93.6)   312  (2.7)    361           (3.2)      60   (O.S)   11,488  (100)
1986
DII  1946   4,759   (97.6)    38  (0.8)        68       (1.4)        8   (0.2)    4,873  (100)
BDN         3,467   (90.0)   228  (5.9)    134          (3.5)       21   (0.6)    3,850  (100)
BRI         4,502   (94.4)    93  (2.0)    168          (3.5)        4   (0.1)    4,767  (100)
BID         4,240   (84.9)   140  (2.8)    472          (9.5)      140   (2.8)    4,992  (100)
BEl1        2,006   (97.1)    30  (1.5)        23       (1.1)        6   (0.3)    2,065  (100)
Total  18,974   (92.3)   529  (2.6)    865           (4.2)     179   (0.9)   20,547  (100)
1987
BNI 1946   5,857   (97.7)    37  (0.6)         78       (1.3)       26   (0.4)    5,998  (100)
BDN         4,593   (93.2)   223  04.5)    107          (2.2)        7   (0.1)    4,930  (100)
BRI         5,412   (94.0)   124  (2.2)    189          (3.3)       27   (0.5)    5,752  (100)
BBD         5,309   (89.8)    40  (0.7)    399          (6.8)      162   (2.7)    5,910  (100)
BEII        2,798   (97.8)    20  (0.7)        37       (1.3)        6   (0.2)    2,861  (100)
Total  23,969   (94.2)   444  (1.7)    810          (3.2)      228   (0.9)   25,451  (100)
Notess  (1) Figures in parentheses are percentages of the total loan portfolio
(2) n.a. - not available.



- 83 -
Annex 3-B
Page 1
INDONESIA
INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
The Participating Financial Institutions (PFIs) Under the Proposed Project
The Private Commercial Banks
Bank Duta
1.       Ownership. Organization and Management.  Bank Duta was established in
1966 with an authorized share capital of Rp 15.0 billion, of which Rp 13.5
billion is paid up. Seventy percent is held by private shareholders and 30%
by a Government-owned holding company. Bank Duta has a total of thirteen
branches and a staff of 1,056. Three of these branches are in Jakarta; the
other ten are in the cities of Medan, Pontianak, Surabaya, Ujung Pandang,
Bandung, Denpasar and Batam. The bank is headed by a Supervisory Board
consisting of four members, all senior officials of the Government. The
Supervisory Board, which meets four times a year, deals essentially with broad
policy matters. The day-to-day management of the bank is vested in a Board of
Directors comprising the President Director and five Directors. All six
Directors are professional bankers.
2.       Lending Procedures.  Credit applications are processed by the Credit
Department either at the head office or at the branch level, depending on the
size of the credit. Each branch office has a credit limit that depends on the
size of the portfolio handled by the branch as well as the experience of the
management of the branch. All credit applications up to the branch discre-
tionary limit are processed by the branch Account Officer and are decided upon
by the branch Credit Committee without reference to the head office. For
credit amounts above the branch limit, applications are processed by the
branch Account Officer, reviewed by the branch Credit Committee and sent to
head office for final action. The applications are further reviewed by the
head office's Credit Committee, which can approve or decline applications for
credit amounts of up to Rp 250.0 million. Applications for credit amounts of
Rp 250 million to Rp 500.0 million are referred to the Credit Director for
decision. The Credit Director can approve or decline credit applications
within this range, but his decision requires ratification by the President
Director. All applications for credit amounts of Rp 500.0 million and above
are referred to the President Director for decision. The maximum amount that
Bank Duta can lend to any single company is Rp 6.5 billion, equivalent to
US$3.8 million (or 15% of its total equity). Borrowers are required to
provide security of at least 100% of loan amounts.
3.       Financial Position.  As of December 31, 1987, Bank Duta had total
assets of Rp 705.4 billion (US$428.0 million equivalent), having grown at an
average annual rate of about 22% during the past three years. Its total
assets registered a furthcr increase of 17% (to Rp 822.0 billion) during the
first six months of 1988 (Attachment 1). Loans constitute the bulk of Bank
Duta's assets--almost 74% as of end-1987 (compared to 77% and 68% as of end-



- 84 -
Annex 3-B
Page 2
1985 and end-1986, respectively), with marketable securities and other short-
term placements accounting for another 9%. Bank Duta's loan portfolio as of
end-1987 amounted to Rp 518.9 billion. Term loans (over one year) represented
18% of total loans outstanding (the same as of end-1985 and end-1986).
However, a large number of the short-term loans, after annual reviews, are
rolled over for a further 12 months. Customer deposits (with maturities of
less than one year) are the main source of funds for financing Bank Duta's
lending operations, accounting for almost 81% of total borrowings; term
resources (mainly BI funds) account for less than 12% of total borrowings.
Bank Duta's assets and liabilities structure is reasonably matched: as of
December 31, 1987, 85.5% of total assets were short-term compared to 89.7% of
total liabilities (essentially the same as of end-1985 and end-1986). Over
the past three years, loans outstanding, as a percentage of deposits, have
been around 100%; adjusting for BI borrowings, this loans-to-deposits ratio
declined from 95% as of end-1985 to 87% as of end-1987. Bank Duta's paid-in
share capital has been increased from Rp 13.5 billion to Rp 32.5 billion in
December 1988. Bank Duta's allocation of US$4.0 million under the proposed
project, US$15.0 million under EDP II and US$2.5 million under SMIE represent
60% of its equity as of December 31, 1988.
4.       Financial Performance.  As shown in Attachment 2, Bank Duta's annual
net income during the past three years has been steady, ranging between Rp 5.7
billion and Rp 6.7 billion (a return of about 25% on average total equity).
As a percentage of average total assets, net (after tax) income has been
satisfactory although it has declined from 1.5% to 1.1% during 1985-87. Two
major factors contributed to this decline: first, annual personnel and
general administrative expenses increased significantly over the three-year
period (from Rp 11.4 billion in 1984 to Rp 23.4 billion in 1987) as a direct
result of Bank Duta's expansion of its branch network from four branches and
two subbranches in 1984 to thirteen branches in 1988; and second, as a result
of the economic recession that started in 1982, Bank Duta increased provisions
and corresponding write-offs in 1986 and 1987 to reflect that part of its
portfolio which it recognized as potentially unrecoverable. On the positive
side, Bank Duta's gross spread (total income less financial expenses) as a
percentage of average total assets improved from 6.0% in 1985 to 6.5% in 1987.
In addition, Bank Duta has improved its average interest spread from 5.3% in
1986 to 7.2% in 1987.
5.       Portfolio Ouality.  As of December 31, 1987, 96.4% of the portfolio
was classified as sound, 1.8% as substandard, 1% as dubious and 0.8% as bad
debts. Loans are reviewed every six months, with the doubtful and bad loans
reviewed every month. Overall, the quality of the portfolio is satisfactory.
Each branch has primary responsibility for supervision of the loans in its
portfolio. Overall loan portfolio supervision activities, however, are coor-
dinated by the Branch Credit Supervision Group at the head office comprising
two senior managers. In addition to overseeing the supervision of the loan



- 85 -
Annex 3-B
Page 3
portfolio, particularly of loans classified as doubtful, the group also super-
vises the activities of the branches. Bank Duta regularly makes provisions
against a portion of loans considered potentially unrecoverable and writes off
losses during the year as they occur. Annual write-offs during 1986/87 repre-
sented about 1.5% of the average loan portfolio. The provisions at end-1987
amounted to Rp 600 million representing 0.1% of the loan portfolio, which is
low. The provisions remained unchanged as of June 30, 1988. Bank Duta's
practice of keeping provisions at a very low level tends to overstate its
annual profitability.
Bank Niaga
6.       OwnershiR. Organization and Management.  Bank Niaga was established
in 1955 with an authorized share capital of Rp 15.0 billion, of which Rp 14.4
billion is paid up. Ninety percent is held by private shareholders and 10% by
BI. It has 24 branches: eight in Jakarta, fifteen in other major Indonesian
cities and one in Los Angeles. Bank Niaga's activities are supervised by a
Board of Commissioners which also establishes the bank's broad operating
guidelines and policies. The Commissioners are appointed by the shareholders
and serve for a term of up to two years. The day-to-day management of the
bank is entrusted to a Board of Directors comprising the President Director
and two other Directors. All three are experienced bankers. The bank has a
total of 1,790 employees.
7.       Lending Procedures.  Processing of credit applications is the respon-
sibility of the branches. Credit applications are reviewed on the basis of
standard creditworthiness criteria, with detailed cash flow analysis being
required for all investment loans. All credit applications not exceeding the
branch's discretionary limit are processed and finalized at the branch level;
for credit amounts above this limit, applications are processed by the branch
Account Officer, reviewed by the branch credit committee and submitted to the
head office in Jakarta for action. At the head office, credit applications
are reviewed by a credit committee which is authorized to approve loans of up
to Rp 1.0 billion. Applications for credit amounts from Rp 1.0 billion to
Rp 2.0 billion are referred to the senior Vice President in charge of credit,
who makes the final decision in consultation with any one of the three
Directors. Loans of over Rp 2.0 billion require approval of the President of
the bank and at least one of the other two Directors. Maximum exposure in a
single company is limited (by BI regulations) to a maximum of 15% of the
bank's share capital plus reserves, currently amounting to Rp 2.8 billion.
The maximum loan maturity is eight years. Bank Niaga usually requires
borrowers to provide collateral security of up to 150% of the value of the
loan amount; on a selective basis, regular clients may be required to provide
security covering only 80-100% of the loan amount.
8.       Financial Position.  During 1985-87, Bank Niaga's total assets
increased almost threefold--from Rp 278.5 billion to Rp 781.2 billion at end-
1987 with another 29% increase in the first six months of 1988 (Attachment 3).
As of December 31, 1987, Bank Niaga's outstanding loan portfolio of Rp 610.8
billion constituted the bulk (78.2%) of total assets; one-third of this port-
folio was long-term, i.e., with maturities of more than one year. Marketable
securities and other short-term placements accounted for another 7% of Bank



- 86 -
Annex 3-B
Page 4
Niaga's asset base. Customer deposits accounted for 91% of Bank Niaga's total
borrowings. BI liquidity credits, Bank Niaga's only other term resources
(apart from equity), represented less than 5% of total borrowings
(corresponding figures for the end of 1985 and 1986 were 6.6% and 7.4%,
respectively). Over the past three years, loans outstanding as a percentage
of deposits have been slightly less than 100%; adjusting for BI funds, the
corresponding percentage has been around 91%. This pattern is similar to that
of other private banks which, due to their small branch networks, are
generally net borrowers in the interbank money market (which has been very
active since June 1983). Following a share capital increase of Rp 4.5 billion
in 1986, Bank Niaga's total equity increased to Rp 25.4 billion by end-1987.
This represented a relatively hW h total debt-to-equity ratio of 30:1. Bank
Niaga's level of capitalization, however, is within BI guidelines, which are
based on a risk-weighing of assets under the capital adequacy formula.
Also, Bank Niaga's accounting policies, particularly regarding fixed assets,
tend to underestimate the value of assets and thus constitute an element of
hidden reserves.
9.       Financial Performance.  As shown in Attachment 4, net income during
the past four years has been increasing from Rp 3.5 billion in 1984 to Rp 7.7
billion in 1987 amounting to 1.2% of average total assets and 28% of average
total equity. Pretax income showed an increase of 50% during the first six
months of 1988. Ninety-five percent of Bank Niaga's total gross income is
attributed directly to its loan portfolio. In addition to maintaining a good
quality portfolio, Bank Niaga has been successful in recent years both in
maintaining adequate lending margins and in keeping operating expenses (i.e.,
all expenses less financial) under control. As a percentage of average total
assets, operating expenses declined from 5.3% in 1985 to 5.2% in 1986 and 4.8%
in 1987.
10.      Portfolio Ouality.  The quality of Bank Niaga's portfolio is good.
As of December 31, 1987, 98% of the loans were classified as sound, less than
1% as substandard and 1% as potential write-offs. Bank Niaga regularly
reviews the performance/status of all loans; those classified as substandard
and potential write-offs are reviewed on a continuing basis.  The branches
have primary responsibility for follow-up of their portfolios and are required
to submit monthly reports to the head office on progress made towards improv-
ing the performance of these loans. Provisions against doubtful loans dutring
each of the past three years have averaged about 0.6% of the outstanding . an
portfolio (annual write-offs have averaged about 0.4%). As of December 31,
195?, the cumulative provisions for bad debts amounted to Rp 3.5 billion, or
0.6% of the outstanding loan portfolio. The provisions were higher, at
Lp 5.6 billion as of June 30, 1988, representing 0.8% of the loan portfolio,
wciich still appears low. Bank Niaga is reviewing its loan portfolio on a
continuing basis and will make adequate provisions for doubtful accounts
henceforth.
Bank Umum Nasional
11.      OwnershiR. Organization and Management.  Bank Umum Nasional was
established in 1952 with an authorized share capital of Rp 2.5 million, of
which Rp 500,000 was then paid up by 20 shareholders. Since then, the share



- 87 -
Annex 3-B
Page 5
capital has been increased four times. As of June 30, 1988 the authorized
share capital stood at Rp 25.0 billion, of which Rp 13.25 billion or 53% has
been paid up. There are more than 1,000 shareholders. Mr. Kaharudin Ongko
has been the Chief Executive Officer (President Director) of the bank since
1972. Starting with two branches in Java, Bank Umum Nasional has expanded its
branch network to include 23 branches and subbranches, scattered in ten
provinces. The bank has a total of 1,841 employees. At the top of the bank's
organizational structure is the Board of Commissioners consisting of the
President Commissioner and four members. The Board of Commissioners deals
with policies and broad operating guidelines. Day-to-day operations are
looked after by the Board of Directors comprising the President Director and
four Directors. All the Directors are experienced bankers.
12.      Lending Procedures.  Credit applications are processed by branches,
which have the authority to approve credits up to Rp 300.0 million. Credits
above this amount require approval by the Board of Directors. The maximum
size of loans which Bank Umum Nasional can extend is Rp 5.0 billion or
US$3 million equivalent. This is in line with the general guideline of BI
that a financial institution's exposure in a single company should not exceed
15% of its equity. Bank Umum Nasional extends loans to all sectors. During
recent years, the bank has put more emphasis on lending to industry and
foreign exchange operations (foreign trade activities). The industrial loans,
mostly for working capital financing, accounted for 36% of its total loan
portfolio, compared with 27% for trade, 11% for construction projects, 10% to
service sector and 16% for government programs. Bank Umum Nasional has long
had Government approval to carry out foreign transactions.  Correspondence
relationship was established with several banks in foreign trade and financial
centers. As of June 30, 1988, out of its 23 branches and subbranch offices,
11 have foreign exchange bank status, and four have a money changer's license.
Also, two representative offices are to be opened abroad.
13.      Financial Position.  During the period from December 31, 1984 to
June 30, 1988, Bank Umum Nasional's total assets increased more than three-
fold--from Rp 285 billion to Rp 878 billion. However, Bank Umum Nasional's
loan portfolio increased at a much lower rate (287%) than its total deposits
(334%). This is attributable to the fact that a portion of its resources
mobilized has been used to finance its foreign trade operations which require
the bank to put short-term deposit placements with foreign correspondence
banks. Short-term liquidity credits from BI have been declining since 1986.
After a 17% share capital increase in 1985, the paid-up share capital has
since remained unchanged. Interbank borrowings did not show a clear trend,
fluctuating from year to year. Therefore, it is clear that Bank Umum Nasional
has relied solely on deposit growth to expand its lending operations. BI has
never extended any long-term liquidity credits to Bank Umum Nasional. How-
ever, Bank Umum Nasional has been more successful in term transformation
compared with other private commercial banks in Indonesia, and it has been
making term loans mostly for acquisition of residential houses and vehicles
during the past two years. As shown in Attachment 5, its term loans represen-
ted an average of 65% of the total loan portfolio since end-1986. Availabi-
lity of World Bank funds would enable the bank to play a larger role in



- 88 -
Annex 3-B
Page 6
providing term finance to industrial enterprises. The proposed allocation of
US$11.5 million under the IRP represents around 60% of its share capital and
retained earnings as of June 30, 1988.
14.      Financial Performance.  Bank Umum Nasional's net profit has increased
at an average annual rate of 49% during 1984-86, from Rp 2.5 billion in 1984
to Rp 6.9 billion in 1986 (Attachment 6). The rate of increase went down to
14% in 1987 because of narrowing of its interest spread, from an average of
8.7% in 1986 to 8.0% in 1987. The profits in the first six months of 1988
continued to show a slower growth, because of further narrowing of the
interest spread (to 7.5%). Return on equity increased from 18.7% in 1984 to
32.9% in 1986 and then declined to 30% in 1987. In the first six months of
1988, it dropped further to 26.8%. In 1987, export transactions amounted to
US$113.3 million compared witb US$219 million in 1986, on account of
"abolition of Export Certificates" on certain types of commodities handled by
the bank. The decline of export transactions handled by the bank is another
contributing factor to Bank Umum Nasional's slower rate of increase of its
profitability during the past 18 months.  The management is making efforts to
reverse the trend.
15.      Oualitv of Portfolio.  The branches have primary responsibility for
follow-up of the loan portfolio and regular reports are submitted to the Head
Office on progress of the implementation of the projects. As of December 31,
1987, 95.2% of the loans were classified as sound, 3.7% as substandard and
dubious and 1.1% as bad debt. Provisions for doubtful loans amounted to
Rp 13.1 billion, accounting for 2.34% of the loan portfolio, at the end of
June 1988. These provisions are sufficient to cover all bad debts.
Bank Bali
16.      Ownershin. Organization. and Management.  Bank Bali was established
in 1955 under the name of P.T. Bank Persatuan Dagang Indonesia (the United
Commercial Bank of Indonesia Ltd.) and six years later the name was changed to
P.T. Bank Bali. The authorized share capital was Rp 11.8 billion, of which
Rp 7.08 billion, or 60%, was paid up. There are 150 shareholders but more
than 80% of the shares are held by two groups headed respectively by Mr. D.
Ramli, President, and Mr. Santoso Symkoputro, member of the Board of
Commissioners. It has nine branches: two in Jakarta, four in Surabaya, and
one each in Bandung, Palembang and Medan, and a subsidiary in Hongkong called
"Bali International Finance Ltd." The larger number of branches in Surabaya
resulted from the acquisition of Bank Dharma Usaha in Surabaya in May 1988.
Bank Bali's activities are supervised by a Board of Commissioners consisting
of four members which meets four times a year. The day-to-day management of
the bank is entrusted to a Board of Managing Directors comprising the
President and three other Directors, which meets weekly. The bank has a total
of 1,040 employees.
17.      Lending Procedures.  Credit applications are processed by branches.
The credit committee at the branch level has authority to approve credits up
to Rp 100.0 million. Credits between Rp 100.0 million and Rp 200.0 million
are appraised by the Head Office Division Level Credit Committee consisting of
the Division Chief, Credit Officer and Marketing Officer. Credit applications



- 89 -
Annex 3-B
Page 7
above Rp 200.0 million require approval by the Loan Committee at the Board of
Directors level. Bank Bali does not require borrowers to submit feasibility
studies. All projects financed by Bank Bali are appraised by its own staff.
Maximum exposure in a simple company is limited to 15% of the bank's equity,
currently amoutiting to Rp 34.7 billion, equivalent to US$2.0 million. (Given
such lending limits, any project sponsored by a company requiring loan finance
exceeding US$2.0 million will have to be jointly financed with other financial
institutions.) To one single "group' the limit is 100% of the equity. The
minimum size of a loan is Rp 10.0 million.  The maximum loan maturity is three
years. Bank Bali requires borrowers to provide collateral security in the
form of fixed assets and trading assets (inventories and receivables),
limiting the former to 70% of their value and the latter to 50%. Penalty
interest on arrears is 44%. When interest payment by a client is overdue for
three months, it is no longer reflected in the bank's income statement. When
loan principal is in arrears for three consecutive repayment periods, it will
be treated as bad debt and the amount will be written off if it continues to
be in arrears for another 12 months. Bad debt provisions should not exceed
2.5% of the year-end loan portfolio in accordance with the maximum limit set
by BI and tax authorities.
18.      Financial Position.  During the period from December 31, 1984 to
June 30, 1988, Bank Bali's total assets increased more than threefold--from
Rp 236.0 billion to Rp 791.5 billion, and the loan portfolio increased almost
at the same rate (Attachment 7). Long-term loans accounted for 0.7% of the
total loan portfolio at end-1984; the percentage increased to 12% as of June
30, 1988. The continual growth of its loan portfolio in the past was attri-
buted to the sharp rise in deposits of all types and continual access to
liquidity credits from Bl. While Bank Bali was able to increase its retained
earnings each year, the paid-up capital was not increased during the period.
Therefore, its equity base relative to debt became thinner each year. As of
June 30, 1988, total debt:equity reached 33:1, which is high. However, given
its very l^w level of risk assets (see para. 20), this capital structure is
within BI guidelines which focuses on risk assets under its capital adequacy
formula. Bank Bali has never made any equity investment. The proposed allo-
cation of US$8.0 million under the proposed Project for Bank Bali represents
59% of its share capital and retained earnings as of June 30, 1988. When Bank
Bali starts to make loan commitments under the proposed project in 1989, the
percentage will drop, given the upward trend of its profitability. No Bank
funds had been made available to Bank Bali under other Bank-financed projects.
19.      Financial Performance.  During the past four and a half years, Bank
Bali's annual net profit increased by 142%, from Rp 2.4 billion in 1984 to
Rp 5.8 billion in 1987 (Attachment 8). The financial results for the first
six months of 1988 were equally impressive. Return on equity averaged
approximately 30% during the period, with a rate of return on total assets
approaching 10%. Administrative expenses hovered around 4% of average total
assets. Almost 90% of Bank Bali's gross income was directly related to its
lending operations.
20.      Ouality of Portfolio.  Bank Bali regularly reviews the performance of
all loans. The Head Office and the Branches share the responsibilities of
loan supervision; with the limited number of branches, this appears to work



- 90 -
Annex 3-B
Page 8
well. As of December 31, 1987, 97.8% of the loans were classified as sound,
2.0% as substandard and 0.2% as bad debt. The collection ratio for the past
three years was more than 90%. As of June 30, 1988, provisions against doubt-
ful loans amounted to Rp 15.4 billion or 2.6% of the loan portfolio. The
provisions made are more than enough to cover potential write-offs under the
three categories, namely, substandard, dubious and bad loans.



- 91 - *
AVqS 3-B
Attacliiint I
INDONESIA
INWsTRIAL REsTRUCTURING PROJECT
Bank Dutai Audited Balance Sheet. December 31. 1984-87 and June 30. 1988
Dec 31,     Dec 31,      Dec 31,     Dec 31,        Jun 30,
1984        1985        1986         1987           1988
(unaudtted)
Asets
Current Assets
Cash on hand                                     2,286       3,533       4,518        7,381           7,529
Due from Bank Indonesia                         15,046      28,156      33,327       36,645         40,212
Due from other banks                            79,072      22.610      60,590       54,370          41,012
Notes/securities/short-term placements         38,908       34,376      47,260       65,221          52,637
Accounts receivable - VISA card                  8,266       5,792        8,122       9,335          10.304
Short-term  loans                             223,504      284,211     299,393      418,637         501,748
Less:  Reserve for bad debts                        -         (110)       (323)        (600)           (600)
Net short-term  loans                        233,504      284.101     299,070      418,037        501,148
Other current assets                             7.685       2,334       2,031       14,200          16,525
Subtotal current assets                      384,767      380,902     454.918      605.189        669,367
Long-Tar. A sets
Long-term  6oans                                     -      64,500      70,200       93,300         128,145
Less:  Reserve for bad debts                                     -           -            -               -
Net long-term loans                                -       64.5W0      70,200       93.300        12l8,145
Equity partCicpation                             1,307       1,307       2,036        2,036          2,066
Other Investments                                  501         50          501         50l               -
Subtotal long-term portfolto                   1.808       66.308      72 737       95.837        130.211
Fixed assets                                    4,273        8,170       9,584       11,371          12,163
Less:  Accumlutted depreciation                     -       (2,892)     (3,919)      (5,498)        (5,498)
Net fixed assets                               4.273        5,278       5.665        5 8?3          6.665
Other                                             528          415         936          032          15,99t
Subtotal long-term assets                      6.609       72,001      79,338      102,642        152,872
Total Assets                                 391.376      452.903     534.256      707,831        822 239
Liabilities and Eqduty
Current Liabtitties
Demand deposits                                 78,082     113.001     127,938      169,062         169,652
Time deposits                                 182,285      208,967     238,541      338,810        438,826
Savings deposits                                 1,908       3,132       4,521        5,488          6,098
Due to other banks                             57,372       41,323      36,739       83,228         67,733
Notes payable                                   1,00        3,483      36,047       11,650         35,542
Accounts payable                                    -       13,049      19,241       10,248          3,314
Other current ltabtlitles                       8,722        7,282      10,421       17,700          19,653
Subtotal current liabtttites                 329 369      390,237     473,448      636,186        740,818
lar -Term Liabilities
81 loan                                  35,000       41,216      39,377       39,284         38,208
Subtotal long-term liabiLities                35,000       41,216      39,377       39,284         38,208
Equity
Paid-up capital                                 10,000      10,000      1O,0O0       13,500         13,500
Reserves                                        2,705        3,805       4,805        6,805          8,555
Retained earnings                              14,302        7,645       6,626       12,056         21,158
Subtotal equity                               27.007       21t450      21,431       32,361         43,213
Total Liabtlities and Equity                 391,370      4S2,903     534,256      707,831        822,239
Ratios
Current ratio                                       1.17        0.98        0.96         0.95           0.90
Long-term debt/equity ratio                         1.30        1.92        1.84         1.21           0.88
Total debt/equity ratio                            13.50       20.11       23.93        20.87           18.03
Loan portfolio/total assets (2)                      60           77          69           72              77
Loan portfolio/depoests (2)                          85          107        99.6         99.7             102
ASSIe
October 1988



-92 -
AIEX  3-8
Attachoft 2f
INDONESIA
INDUSTEAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Bank Duta Audited loonme Stateoents. 1984-87 and January-June 1988
(Rp milIUon)
Jan-Jun
1984    1985    1986      1987        1988
(unaudited)
Income
On   loans                                  28,804  44,677  52,386   74,07L        51,835
On notes/securities/placements               9,525   8,416   7,471    9,047        3,890
Other                                        2,013   2,380   3,032    3,704        6,120
Subtotal Interest iacomae                  40342  55.473  62.889   86.822        61,845
Conssions and fees                             3,627   3,975   4,696    5,696         2,*oO
Inco*  from foreign exchange transactions    5,457   4,578   5,009    1,679           1,195
Other operating income                         1,075   1,012   2,730    4,289           S16
Nonoperating Income                                -       25     104         -       2,544
Total tncoma                               50.501  65,063  75,430   98,486       68,586
Expnses
fxtterest charges                             25,027  39,735  45,321   58,161       43,961
Provlsions for bad debts                       2,405   1,851   5,691    6,325         2,702
Salaries and other personnel expense        ) 11,400   7,857   8,101    9,981         5,609
Other operating and misc. expenses                      5 ,439   7,265   13,404       7,458
Nonoperating expenses                          1,117      119      82         -         129
Total Expenses                             39,949  55.001  66,461         87,871  59,85
Net Income Before Tax                      10.552  10,062   8,969   10,615        8,727
Less:  Provision for tax                         3,687   3,676   3,273    3,896         3,037
Net Income                                  6,865   6,386   5,696    6,719        5.690
Ratios
Net profit/average equity (Z)                  25.43   29.77   26.57    24.98         30.12
Net profit/average total assets (2)             1.75    1.51    1.15       1.08        1.48
Admin. exp./average total assets (%)            3.50    3.18    3.13       3.77        3.42
Admin. exp./average loan portfolio (2)          5.90    4,69    4.30       5.29        4.58
A b51    9
October 1988



INDONESIA
INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Bank Niaga: Audited Balance Sheets. December 31, 1984-87 and June 30, 1988
Dec 31,     Dec 31,      Dec 31,     Dec 31,        Jun 30,
1984        1985         1986        1987           1988
(unaudited)
Assets
current Assets
Cash on hand                                     2 936       3,884        5,060       6,460         6,902
Due from Bank Indonesia                        22,788       23,737      25,653       35,636       32,469
Due from other banks                            14 762      33,461       34,588      47,445         1,312
Marketable securities                            4,000       7,033        7,000       4,000         4,000
Promissory notes and bills                       1,592      22,117      45,761       55,120       62,712
Short-ter- loans                               161,360     204,349     273,485      405,972      423,961
Less:  Reserve for bad debts                     (936)      (1,001)           -           -             -
Net short-term loans                          160,424     203,348      273,485     405,972      423,961
Interest and commissions receivable              3,691       3,910        5,185       8,467        9,732
Prepayments                                       854          555        3,222       3,101         7,933
Other receivables                                  680         405          676       1,112         1,100
Assets in foreign currencies                         -           -            -           -      227,729
Subtotal current assets                      211,727      298,450     4,630        567,313       777,850
Long-Term Assets
Ljng-term loans                                59,658       74,24.      101,513     204,791      261,817
Less: Reserve for bad debts                    (1,533)      (1,555)      (2,943)     (3,516)      (5.6;3)/s
Net long-term loans                           58,125       72,686      98,570      201,275      256,194
Equity investment                                 486          622        1,938       2,074          652
Fixed assets                                    4,599        5,348       6,517       10,011       11,342
Less:  Accumulated depreciation                (1,525)      (2,028)      (2,707)     (3,831)      (4,027)
Net fixed assets                               3,074        3,320        3,810       6,180        7,315
Buildings under construction                     3,138         932        1,666       1,116         1,513
Subtotal long-term assets                     64,823       78,560     105,984      210,645      265,674
Other Assets
09epoasts, advances and deferred charges         1,966         838        1,750       3,304         1,216
Goodwill                                            18          12            6           -             -
Subtotal other assets                           1,984         850        1,756       3,304        1,216
Total Assets                                 278,534      376,860     508,370      781,262    1,044,740
Liabilities and   uit
curren    a    tea
Jemsnd deposIts                                56,836       72,647      98,297      123,892       129,401
Time deposits                                 151,864      193,644     267,985      483,733      514,970
Savings deposits                                 7,299      12,171       18 257      21,230       24,651
Collateral deposits                             2,804        5,389       8,882        9,921        1,677
Promissory notes payable to banks                 751       35,015      28,956       24 609       20,192
Short-term liquidity credits from 81           11,642        3,567       8,980       13,300       13,907
Current maturities of long-term loans            1,463       1,875      17,197       20,899       21,845
Unearned interest                                8,683      13,083       19,600      33,311       28,569
Other current liabilities                        7,111       7,551       12,033      19,586       27,914
Liabilities in foreign currencies                   -            -           -            -      223,457
Subtotal current liabilities                 248,453      344,942     480,187      750,481    1,006,583
Lona-Term Liabilities
Long-term iquT dtiyi credits from B           16,215       16,555       7,007        5,405        6,206
Long-term consortium loans                          -            -           -            -            -
Subtotal long-term liabilities                16,215       16,555       7,007        5,405        6,206
rald-up capital                                 9,896        9,896      14,396       14,396       14,396
Reserves/retained earnings                      3,970        5,467       6,780       10,980        8,533
Profit of current period                            -            -            -           -        9,022
Subtotal equity                               13,866       15,363      21,176       25,376       31,951
Total Liabilities and Equity                 278,534      376,860     508,370      781,262    1,044,740
Ratios
er-nt ratio                                         0.85        0.87         0.86        0.78          0.77
Long-term debt/equity ratio                         1.17        1.08        0.33         0.21         0.19
Total debt/equity ratio                            19.09       23.53        23.01       29.79        31.70
Loan portfolio/total assets (2)                       79          74           74          78           66
Loan portfolio/deposits (1)                          101          98           95          96           102
/a Including reserves for bad debt on short-term loans.
AS5IE
October 1988



- 94 -
ANNEX 3-B
Attachment 4
INDONESIA
INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
lank Niaaa:  Audited Income Statements.- 1984-87 and January-June 1988
(Rp million)
Jan-Jun
1984    1985    1986      1987        1988
(unaudited)
Income
Interest on loans                           ) 43,430  59,419  70,797  109,558       7 74 807
Interest on notes/securities/placements   1                     2,103    3,233   1
Commissions and fees                           1,760   2,415   3,467    5,917        4,636
Income from foreign exchange transactions        854      638   1,824    2,430       2,218
Other operating income                           665      169      59        38   }    795
Nonoperating incoue (net)                        150      237     576       230   )
Total Income                               46,859  62,878  78,826  121,406       82,456
Expenses
Interest and commslsion expenses              26,585  39,312  44,018   75,915       53,031
Write-offs and provisions for bad debts         1,666   1,169   3,260    2,638        2,090
Salaries and other personnel expenses          7,251   8,868  11,106   15,575       10,358
Other general and administrative expenses    6,149   8,654  11,806   15,261          7,954
Total Expenses                             41,651  58,003  70,190  109,389       73,433
Net Income Before Tax                       5,208   4,875   8,636   12,017        9,022
Less:  Provision for tax                         1,700   1,600   2,972    4,350         3,158
Net Income                                  3,508   3,275   5,664    7,667        5,864
Stock dividend                                       -        -   2,100         -
Cash dividend                                    1,245      949   1,,83    2,339
Ratios
RNetprofit/average equity (Z)                  25.30   22.41   31.00    32.94        40.92
Net profit/average total assets (2)             1.26    1.00    1.28       1.19        1.28
Admin. exp./average total assets (2)            4.8)    5.35    5.18       4.78        4.01
Admln. exp./average loan portfolio (2)          6.06    6.29    6.11       5.05        5.65
AS5IE
October 1988



-  95  -                                  ANNEX 3-B
Attachment 5
INDONESIA
INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Bank Umum Nasionali Audited Balance Sheets. December 31. 1984-87 and June 30. 1988
(Rp million)
Dec 31,     Dec 31,     Dec 31,      Dec 31,        Jun 30,
1984        1985         1986        1987           1988
(unaudited)
Assets
Current Assets
Cash on hand                                    2,850        3,925       4,283        5,117           5,925
Due from Bank Indonesia                        15,288       24,750      26,624       38,365         43,553
Due from other banks                            4,988        7,308       6,353        9,097         11,650
Short-term deposit placements with other
banks                                        46,825       49,980     141,587      163,004        191,231
Promissory notes and bills                          -            -           -            -               -
Short-term loans                              195,565      294,244     114,747      171,970        217,932
Less:  Reserve fox bad debts                   (2,497)      (3,620)     (8,418)    (11,957)        (13,145)
Net short-term loans                         193,068      290,624     106,329      160.013        204.787
Other receivables                              15,4R.1      16,808      18,480       30,974         53,588
Subtotal current assets                      278,480      393,355     303,656      406,570        510,734
Long-Term Assets
Long-term loans                                     -            -     291,330      311,500        344,003
Fixed assets                                    5,402        8,924       7,017       10,413         10,413
Less: Accumulated depreciation                 (1,497)      (1,953)     (1,997)      (3,967)        (5,164)
Net fixed assets                               3,905        6.971       5.020        6,446          5.249
Subtotal long-term assets                      3,905        6,971     296,350      317,946        349,252
Other Assets
Real and chattel properties                     2,794        6,056      11,883       16,717         18,467
Other                                             214          475         697          577
Subtotal other assets                          3.008        6.531      12,580       17,295         18,467
Total Assets                                 285,393      406,897     612,587      741,782        878,453
Liabilities and Equity
Current Liabilities
Demand deposits                                45,194       81,247      86,754      106,829        100,892
Time deposits                                 154,800      229,152     314,462      450,026        547,669
Savings deposits                                    -            -       3,888       11,669         23,400
Guarantee deposits                              5,328        8,018       9,991        9,864         13,252
Promissory notes payable to banks (partici-
pation funds)                                 1,153        2,305           -            -              -
Short-term liquidity credits from 81           30,587       10,155      44,002      30,549          29,831
Due to other banks                             23,481       41,850     113,256       82,888        108,133
Tax payable                                       654        1,239       1,018          836            377
Other payables                                  9,822       15,015      15,357       20,593         22,086
Subtotal current liabilities                 271,019      3E8 981     588,728     713,254         845,640
Long-Term Liabilities                                 -            -           -            -              -
Equity
Paid-up capital                                 9,100       11,325      13,250       13,250         13,250
Revaluation of assets                               -            -           -          937            937
General reserves                                   65          266       3,733        6,483          6,483
Retained earnings                               5,209        6,323       6,876        7,858         12,143
Subtotal equity                               14374        17"914      23,859      28.528          32.813
Total Liabilities and Equity                 285,393      406,895     612,587      741,782        878,453
Ratios
Current ratio                                       1.03        1.01        0.52         0.57           0.58
Long-term debt/equity ratio                           0            0           0            0              0
Total debt/equity ratio                            18.85       21.71       24.68        25.00          25.77
Loan portfolio/total assets (Z)                      69           72          66           65             64
Loan portfolio/deposits (Z)                          95           92          98           84             82
AS5IE
October 1988



- 96 -                             ANNZX 3-4
Attachment 6
INDONESIA
INDUSTRIAL RISTRUCTURING PROJECT
Bank Umum Nasionals Audited Income Statements. 1984-87 and Jaua"r-June 1968
(7P) million)
Jan-Jun
1984    1985    1986      1987       1988
(unaudited)
Income
Interest
On loans                                  35,529  54,166  71,618   93,931       56,630
On noteslsecurities/placements             6,414   6,803  15,962   22,670       14,207
Subtotal interest income                 41,943  60,969  87.580  116,601       71,037
Commissions and fees                             -        -   6.386    7.437           _
Income from foreign exchange transactions   1,523       500   2.711    2,542           -
Other operating income                       4,305   5,671   5,974    3,335        6,791
Nonoperating income                            451      369     164      453           -
Total Income                             48,222  67,515  98.815  130.365       77.828
Exienses
Interest expense                            28,343  42,280  55,933   82,570       53,690
Bad debt write-off                           1,844   2,155   3,500    3,086            _
Provision for bad debt                       1,864   1,123   4,797    3,570
Salaries and other personnel expenses        5,307   6,557   9,270   11,636        6,294
Other general and administrative expenses        -        -       -         -          -
Nonoperating expenses                        6,813   9,098  13,909   17.028       12,086
Total Expenses                           44,171  61,513  87,409  117,890       72,070
Net Income Before Tax                     4,051   6,002  11,406   12,475        5,758
Lesss  Provision for tax                       1,548   2,182   4,531    4,617        1,656
Net Income                                2,503   3,820   6,875    7,858        4,102
Ratios
Net profit/average equity (Z)                18.72   23.66   32.92    30.00        26.75
Net profit/average total assets (Z)           0.93    1.10    1.35      1.16        1.01
Admin. exp./average total assets (Z)          4.48    4.52    4.55       4.23       4.54
Admin. exp./average total loan portfolio (2) 6.70    5.32    6.62       6.44        7.03
AS51E
October 1988



-97-                                                       _
11WSLRA    51OTR            PAN=
Bank- Bel: Audited Blanc. S" 9t. Il. r 31. 1987? ea Ju   30. I9U
NUp d Uoa)
Dc 31,   Dec 31.   Doc 31.   Doc 31,          Jun 30.
1984       1985       196        1987         19U
(unaldited)
Assets
Current Assets
Cos, on hand                                       1,757      2,776      4.664      3.904        4.444
Due froo Bank Indonesta                           10,643     25,487     21,29, 28.451           10.404
Due from other baank                               6,470      6.474      9,540     25157       40,353
Short-term deposit placsnnte dltb otbar banks    24M099      56,698     41,769    101.951       78.056
Securttieo                                           229        229        64?        98S        1,017
Portfollo account witb foreig  bk                      -*                9.646     10,509       11.101
Short-term loans                                 179,119    283,072    356,745    458.941      521*437
Less:  ieserve for bad debts                      (2,462)    (4,900)   (8.157)   (12.887)      (15.405)
Net short-term loans                            176.657    278.172    38858    40             S06.032
BUlls receivable                                   6,176          -          -          -            -
Other recetvables                                  5,142      3,847      3,828      3.236       21,029
Subtotal cu:rent assets                         233.173    373.633    450.373    620,247      712.436
Long4etrm Ansets
Long-term loans                                    1,282      2.392      7,456     29,448       71,138
Less:  eserve for bad debts                            -          -          -          -            -
Net long-term loans                              1t282       2.392      7.456     29.44S       71.138
Fixed assets                                       2.603      3,470      6,452     10.523       12,491
Lass:  Accumlated deprecietion                    (1,29S)    (1,747)    (2,085)    (3,628)      (4,526)
Net fixed assets                                  1.508      1.723      4.367      6.695        7.965
Subtotal long-oters senet                         2.790      4.115     11.823     36.343       79.103
Total Assets                                    235.963    377.99     492.196    654,590      791.53
Liabiltlo and Equity
Currant Liabilities
Denad deposits                                    37,419     57,994     72,147     87,949      119,1b4
Call deposlts (notes)                              4,778      6,793     11,474     a7,342        3.542
Savings deposits                                       -          -        95L      3,133        4,500
Time deposits                                    111,203    229,84     222,631    315,343      463,686
rJurantee deposits                                 2,405      9,996     29,555     20,914       27,203
Liquidity credCtx from 11                         10,494     12,8U3     26,477     27,001       16.564
Export bIll. redlo0ounard                             -           -      2,731      3,250        1,598
Dus to other bankls                              29,892      16,583     73,598    119,603       79,287
Tax payable                                            -        339      1,210        865            -
Jotnt fiauncing borromwin                         22.743     21,297     19,679     12.220        5,750
Other payablea                                     7,467     10,001     16,254     24,881       41,532
Subtotal currant liabilttte                     226.401    365.730    476.712    632.501      762.646
Lomrt er Llabiitites
Long-term ltquidity credits frm                       -           -          -      3,817        5,591
Lese:  Current mturttie                                                                 -
Subtotal  aing-term liablttiss                                                     3.617        5.591
Equitv
Paid-up capital                                    7,087      7.087      7,087      7,087        7,087
Share preaium                                                     I          I          I            I
Revaluation of  assets                                 -                     -        775          775
General reserves                                   1,000      1,000      3 000      5.000        5,000
Retained earnaing                                  247'       4,180      5,395      7,409       10,239
Subtotal equity                                   9.562     12.20      152484     20.272       23.102
Total Liabiitiea end Euity                     235.963    377.9S8    492.196    656.590      791.539
Ratios
Current ratio                                         1.03       1.02       1.01       0.98         0.93
Long-term debt/equLty ratio                             0          0          0       0.19          0.24
total debt/equlty ratio                              23.66      29.81      30.78      31.39        33.26
Loan portfoliottotal  nasset  (2)                       76        76          82         74           75
Loan porttolio/depostet (2)                            116         94        120        110           96
October 1988



- 98 -
ANNEX 3-f
Attachnt 8
INDONESIA
INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Bank Bali:  Audited Incom  Stateents. 1984_87 and January-June 1988
(Rp milUon)
Jan-Jun
1984    1985    1986    1987         1988
(unaudited)
Incom
Interest income                    34,223  45,985  60,319  74,098       50,248
Coisslons and fees                  2,186   3,116   3,437   4,906        3,575
Income fros foreign exchange
transactions                        327   1,245   3,499   3,827        1,082
Otber operating Lncome              1,267     943   1,517   2,447        1,232.
Nonoperating incoo (gain oan
rupiah devaluetion)                   -       -   2,305        -         239
Total Income                   38,003  51.289  71.077  85.271        56.376
anterest expense                  22,455  31,228  39,406  45,710        32,892
Depreciation                          520     550      990   1,568         669
Provision for bad debt              1,919   2,441   6,736   7,091        2,098
Salaries and other personnel
expenses                          3,531   5,594   8,337  11,507        7,205
Other general and adainistra-
tive expenses                     5,645   7,247   8,931   9,413        4,528
Nonoperating expenses                   -       -        -       -       4,640
Total Eft-nses                  34.070  47,060  64,491  76,278       52,032
Net Income Before Tax            3,933   4.229   6,585   9.001        $,34
Less:  Provision for tax              1,522   1,523   2,306   3,216        1,514
Not Incoae                      2,411   2,706   4,279   5.785         2,830
Ratios
Net profit/average equity (2)       28.85   24.79   30.84   32.36        26.10
Net profit/average total
assets (2)                         1.15    0.88    1.06    1.07         0.78
Admlnistrativ, expenses/average
total assets (2)                   4.63    4.36    4.52    4.14         3.43
Administrative expenses/average
loan portfolio (2)                 6.58    5.75    5.30    5.04         4.59
AS51E
October 1988



- 99 -
ANNEX 3-C
Page 1
INDONESIA
INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
The Participating Financial Institutions (PFIs) Under the Proposed Proiect
Bank Pembaneunan Indonesia (BAPINDO)
Background and Role of BAPINDO
1.       BAPINDO was established in 1960 as a wholly government-owned institu-
tion for providing finance to industry, and soon after, absorbed Bank Industri
Negara which was the earlier industrial lending institution in Indonesia. The
Bank Group has been associated with BAPINDO for the past twenty years,
providing it with five industrial credits totalling US$359.0 million, the last
of which (Ln. 2277-IND for US$209.0 million) was approved in 1983. This long
relationship started when the Government agreed in 1970 to transform BAPINDO,
with Bank assistance, gradually into an effective development bank as the main
source of term finance for industry. This institutional development of
BAPINDO continued to be a principal objective of the subsequent Bank loans.
BAPINDO has achieved progress in terms of institutional development since the
early 1970s, although this progress has been erratic over the years, and has
clearly established itself as a major source of medium- and long-term finance
for the industrial and maritime sectors.
Major Problems Facing BAPINDO in the 1980s
2.       After a period of dramatic growth, with loan approvals doubling
annually during 1978-82, BAPINDO's operations dropped precipitously in 1983,
with new approvals amounting to 24% of the 1982 level, when the economy slid
into recession with currency devaluation and tight monetary policy affecting
investments as well as the health of industrial enterprises. The financial
system reforms in June 1983 and the sharp curtailment of the BI rediscount
schemes, on which BAPINDO had depended for most of its local currency funding,
also had negative impact on BAPINDO's operations. As a result, BAPINDO's
portfolio deteriorated considerably, showing large arrears and very low
collection rates, and it was faced with severe and worsening financial perfor-
mance and liquidity position.
3.       To deal with this situation the Government, BAPINDO and the Bank
subsequently reached agreement on a number of measures to (a) strengthen
BAPINDO's capital structure; (b) review the loan portfolio, aiming at restruc-
turing and rehabilitation of projects in difficulties, and write-offs for
those that were unsalvageable; and (c) reform BAPINDO's organization and
internal management and monitoring procedures to improve staff capability in
project appraisal and supervision. Implementation of these measures began in
1985, and included: (a) in early 1986 the Government took steps to bolster
BAPINDO's capital structure by contributing additional equity and
restructuring borrowings from official sources; (b) a portfolio rehabilitation
was carried out during 1986-87 with assistance of external consultants
covering 71 projects; and (c) RAPINDO's reorganization plan for improving
management and operating procedures, was implemented beginning mid-1987.



- 100 -
ANNEX 3-C
Page 2
BAPINDO also embarked on a large-scale training program for its staff. All
these measures set BAPINDO on a firm footing to restore its long-term
viability.
Institutional Asgects
4.       Oraanization. Management and Staff.  BAPINDO has a two-man
Supervisory Board representing the Minister of Finance and the Governor of
Bank Indonesia. The Supervisory Board advises on policy matters, provides
guidelines on development priorities and approves BAPINDO's f'nancial opera-
tions and budgets. A five-man Board of Managing Directors, headed by the
President Director, is responsible for all operational decisions.   There are
14 departments at BAPINDO's Head Office. BAPINDO has also established two
Loan Committees (for difficult sectors), whose members are drawn from depart-
ment management level, to assist the Board of Managing Directors in evaluating
loan and investment proposals submitted by the operating departments. These
committees have served a useful function by acting as an effective screening
mechanism.
5.       The 1987 reorganization resulted in a 6-7% reduction of staff.  At
the end of September 1988, BAPINDO's staff totalled 1,138. Moit of this
reduction resulted from a streamlining of professional staff at the Head
Office, while the staff at the branches were, on the whole, strengthened.
This reflected a decision to delegate more authority to the branches. The
quality of BAPINDO staff has improved, largely due to the intensive training
efforts over the past two years, through both in-house and external training
programs.
6.       Operating Pglicies.  BAPINDO's Policy Statement, which was last
amended in 1983, laid down guidelines on the scope of its activities, the
investment criteria, and the building of an effective organization and staff.
Specifically, the Policy Statement limited BAPINDO's long-term debt-to-equity
ratio to 6:1; prohibited it from assuming foreign exchange risks; restricted
its exposure to a single enterprise to not more than 20% of its net worth;
limited total equity participation in a single enterprise to 10% of BAPINDO's
net worth and 25% of the enterprise's total equity; and limited BAPINDO's
total equity participations to not more than its net worth. BAPINDO has
complied with the provisions of the Policy Statement with few exceptions which
were approved by its Supervisory Board.
7.       Appraisal and Supervision Procedures.  The quality of BAPINDO's
project appraisal has continued to improve, although analysis could be further
sharpened especially with regard to market and economic aspects. BAPINDO has
made substantial progress in reducing the loan processing time, from an
average of over 300 days previously to 120 days in the past year. This was
achieved by a delegation of approval authority depending on the proposed loan
size, streamlining of appraisal procedures, close monitoring of the processing
schedules and more extensive use of computerization. BAPINDO maintains a
project supervision manual and a reasonable project monitoring system. To
further facilitate the coordination between the Head Office and branches, and
to clearly assign and pinpoint responsibility for the performance of a



- 101 -
ANNEX 3-C
Page 3
project, BAPINDO is experimenting with a new "integrated team management"
approach, that would put a team in charges of the entire loan cycle, from
project appraisal to loan collection.
Operations
8.       Due to the economic recession and the depressed credit demand in
1983, BAPINDO's new approvals of loans and equity investments dropped precipi-
tously from 1,427 approvals for Rp 559 billion (US$845 million) in 1982 to 490
approvals for Rp 138 billion (US$151 million) in 1983. Since then, BAPINDO's
level of approvals recovered at a fairly steady pace to a total number of
1,389 new approvals of loans and equity investments for Rp 575 billion (US$550
million) in 1987, and increased drastically with 1,974 approvals for Rp 1,185
billion (US$697 million) in the first 9 months of 1988. BAPINDO's total loans
and equity investments outstanding rose from Rp 839 billion at the end of
1983, to Rp 1,480 billion at the end of 1987 and Rp 1,914 billion at the end
of September 1988.  BAPINDO's total approvals of loans and equity investments
during January-September 1988 reached Rp 1,185 billion (US$697 million)
comprising: Rp 1,122 billion (US$660 million), or 95%, for industrial loans
(investments and working capital); Rp 25 billion (US$15 million), or 2%, for
maritime; Rp 36 billion (US$21 million), 3%, for "program loans" (made under
BI's special financing programs such as loans to small contractors); and Rp 2
billion (US$1 million) for equity investment and cofinancing with rural
development banks.  BAPINDO's industrial loans have been diversified in
various subsectors, with relatively higher exposure in wood and wood products,
textiles, and non-metallic mineral products (mainly cement), due to a number
of large projects in these sectors.
9.       BAPINIDO's equity investments are made with the objective of
strengthening the equity base of private pribumi enterprises and to increase
the local Indonesian share in joint-venture companies. As of the end of 1987,
BAPINDO's equity investments amounted to Rp 56 billion (US$34 million) for 42
companies, which was equivalent to about 19% of its net worth. Taking capital
gains into account, the overall return on BAPINDO's equity investment port-
folio in 1987 amounted to about 18%.
Financial Position and Performance
10.      Financial Position.  BAPINDO's summarized balance sheets for 1983 to
1988 (as of September 30) are given in Attachment 1. During the period from
the end of 1983 to the end of 1987, BAPINDO's total assets rose from Rp 852
billion to Rp 1,695 billion, representing an average annual growth rate of
about 18%. During the first 9 months of 1988, total assets increased by about
32% to Rp 2,241 billion. BAPINDO's long-term loan and equity investment port-
folio accounted for 95% and 93% of total assets, as of December 31, 1983 and
1984, respectively, but declined to 77% and 72% as of December 31, 1985 and
1986, respectively. With the increases in op-rations in 1987-88, the percen-
tage of long-term loan and equity investment portfolio over total assets rose
to 82% as of December 31, 1987 and 85% as of September 30, 1988. BAPINDO's
capital structure was strengthened through additional shareholders'



- 102 -
ANNEX 3-C
Page 4
contributions and conversion of some local loans during 1984-86. As a result,
BAPINDO's long-term debt-equity ratio declined from 5.7:1 as of December 31,
1983, to 3.2:1 as of December 31, 1987, which is well below the ceiling of 6:1
stipulated in Bank Loan No. 2277-IND.
11.      Financial Performance.  BAPINDO's summarized income statements for
1983 to 1988 (as of September 30) are shown in Attachment 2. BAPINDO's
profitability, in terms of return on average equity, declined from 5.6% in
1983 to 4.5% in 1984 and 0.8% in 1985. This deterioration was accounted for
mainly by the poor performance of the loan portfolio which required substan-
tial annual provisions for losses. The return on average equity subsequently
increased to 3.4% in 1986 and 12.3% in 1987. BAPINDO's profit after tax
increased sixfold, from Rp 5.9 billion in 1983 to Rp 35.0 billion in 1987.
The gross spread in 1987 was 4.36% of average total assets. BAPINDO's
administrative expenses have been kept at satisfactory levels, ranging from
1.8% to 2.3% of average total assets since 1984. BAPINDO's ability to meet
debt service obligations has also improved, with debt service cover interest
cover ratios of 1.54 and 2.16, respectively, in 1987.
12.      OualJty of Portfolio.  The quality of BAPINDO's overall portfolio
deteriorated markedly from 1983 to 1986, but began an improving trend in 1987
due to the portfolio rehabilitation efforts and write-offs in the mid 1980s.
Loan amounts affected by arrears (over three months) increased from Rp 108.2
billion, or 14.3% of total loans outstanding, as of December 31, 1983, to
Rp 516.9 billion, or 49.7%, as of December 31, 1985, and Rp 502.6 blllion, or
57.2%, as of December 31, 1986. The arrears (over three months) in absolute
terms rose from Rp 26.5 billion, or 3.5% of loans outstanding as of December
31, 1983, to Rp 130.8 billion, or 12.5% of loans outstanding, as of December
31, 1985, and Rp 149.1 billion, or 14.5% of loans outstanding, as of December
31, 1986. This poor performance was in spite of a total loan amount of Rp 110
billion rescheduled and Rp 67.9 billion written off during 1983-85. The large
amounts of loans rescheduled totalling Rp 199.6 billion in 1986-87, or 16% of
average loans outstanding, and of loans written-off totalling Rp 76.9 billion,
or over 6% of average loans outstanding, during this two-year period helped
reduce the amount of loans affected by arrears to Rp 323.6 billion, or 23.2%
of total loans outstanding, as of December 31, 1987. The arrears (over three
months) at that time amounted to Rp 101.6 billion, or 8% of total loans out-
standing. As of September 30, 1988, the arrears (over three months) amounted
to Rp 140.0 billion, representing 7.7% of the total loans outstanding. Over-
all collections ratios. which deteriorated from 68.8% in 1983 to 41.0% in
1985, improved to 52% in 1986 and 67.8% in 1987. BAPINDO expected to achieve
the 70% collection ratio target at the end of 1988. Provision for losses as
of December 31, 1987, which amounted to Rp 62.7 billion, or 4.6% of total
loans outstanding, were adequate.
Future Long-Term Development Strategy
13.      BAPINDO has recently begun to deal with the various current major
issues confronting most development finance institutions around the world,
such as the needs to increase market orientation in providing the services and
product mix required by the clients; to diversify the sources of funding; and
to enhance the efficiency and flexibility of the organization and staff to
better handle the evolving nature of the operations and to compete effectively



- 103 -
ANNEX 3-C
Page 5
in a more open environment. The October 1987 financial reforms and the
impending new banking legislation will have a direct impact on BAPINDO's
future business prospects and resources. It will face much greater competi-
tion from other financial institutions in the market place and will have to
rely increasingly on self-mobilized resources. BAPINDO thus intends to
develop a strategy for its future development in terms of its clientele,
product mix and sources of funding and to implement this strategy with the
assistance of consulting experts with requisite experience and expertise. In
this regard, it is in the process of recruiting, not later than August 31,
1989, a new Senior Banking/Financial Advisor to help initiate and coordinate
this effort. BAPINDO'S Long-Term Development Strategy and Implementation
Plan, which will be prepared with assistance of consulting experts under the
supervision of the Senior Banking/Financial Advisor for consideration and
approval by BAPINDO's Board of Managing Directors, would be completed by not
later than March 31, 1990.



ANNEX 8-C
- 104 -                              Attachment 1
Pasg 1
INDONESIA
INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURINO PROJECT
BAPINDO: Summarized Balanee Sheets. D cember 31. 1988-1987 /a
and Seetember VW. 1988 /b
1988         1984       lss9         1986         1087         1988
Dee 81      Dec 81      Dec 81       Dc 81       Doe 81       Sep 89
Assets
Cuent Assets:
Cash In Hand I Bank                 88,676      48,656       82,798      46,584       57,228       118,971
Short-term Investments                 100       7,525       46,898     298,641      198,6S6        6a58,5
Export Bills
Purchasd                               -       2,060        2,a72      21,758       85,59s        46,065
Accrued Interest                    15,728      28,065       24,208      28,680       14,077        81,592
(of which Prov.
for lose)                       (16,476)    (26,481)     (48,686)    (46,619)    (17,858)       (18,695)
Current Maturity of
Loans                           124,699      197,1'0      264,072     846,976      492,298       448,0659
Other Current Assets                 8,240       5,716      191,194      88,652       89,848       161,485
Subtotal Current Assts           177,888     287,191      66e,787     775,688    687,699         848,762
Lon -trm Aset :
Loans                              ' 772,292     926,968      910,175   1,628,s88   1,842,153      1,847,016
Equity Investment                    48,248       45,205       51,846      58,112       58,281        56,978
Subtotal                           816,585     972,178      982,016   1,081,446   1,898,974      1,988,991
Leos: Current
Maturities               124,659      197,170      264,072     846,978     492,296        448,0659
Lose: Prov. for Losse              18,924       19,875       14,754      27,042       62,752        83,895
Net portfolio                     672,012      755,108      688,189     767,189      848,926     1,872,587
Other long-term asset.                8,517        4,478        5,278       8,172       14,111        19,775
SubIotel long-term as*ets         675,529      769,586     688,462      715,666      858,067     1,892,812
Total Assets                      852.887   1.646.77    1.249.199   1.491.188   1.695.198        2.241.014



ANNEX 8-C
- 105 -                           Attacment 1
Page2
1988        1984       1986        1986        198        198I
Doc 81      Dec 31     Doc 31        Dec 81   Doc 81       Sep 80
Liability end Eqult
Cur-rent Liabilities
Depoesi.                           73,689     100,528      182,708     284,879    829,889      402,022
Accrued Expenses                   18,372      21,771       32,089      16,249     25,965       84,690
Customer DeposIts                   2,892         785        1,148       5,822      8,978      187,079
Current Maturity of
Borrower                         68,098     100,824      198,640     189,189    189,988      128,222
Other Current Liabi-
lities                          28,621      14,044       20,780      80,156      70,145      68,222
Subtotal current liabilities    179,822     287,897      820,898     483,742    672,409      768,428
Special deposits                  117,902     142,758      152,980     126,810    106,990      9s,0so
Long Term Liabliti0es
Government A ank of
Indonosia                         406,493     494,047      588,329    608,499    646,857       796,864
Bonds Payable Lc                     20,188      24,s86       24,690      74,744     74,949      150,000
IBRD. KFW. IDA. ADS /d              e6,698       93,060      117,090     109,853    127,99       218,441
Other Borrowings                     12,692      11,853       10,086       9,228      6,987        8,168
Total L.T. Borrowings           602,626     628,885      688,046    799,824    856,892    1,172,958
Loss:  Current Maturities        66,998     100,824      109,640     189,189    189,988      126,222
Net L.T. Borrowings           448,728     528,011      584,4015    660,685    715,409    1,046,786
Total Liabilities               744.22      9031.16    1.0698.228   1.221.287  1.94.8908    1,905.262
Stockholders' Eautty
*      DPd-in Capital                       90,861     127,648      177,179     249,094    249,094      249,094
Retained earnings                    17,784      16,978       18,792      20,867     51,234       66,668
Net Equity                        108,815     148,616      190,971     269,951    800,826      885,762
Total Liabilities A
Equity                        052.887   1.046.777    1,249.199   1.491.188  1,695s.18    2.241.014
Off Balance Sheet Item:
Managed Funds                       117,841     154,892     285,904    255,806    866,684        388,900
Ratios
Cur-rent                               1.0         1.2          1.7         1.8        1.5          1.1
Total Debt/Equity                      6.7         6.8          5.5        4.5         4.6         5.7
LT Debt Lo /Equity                     5.2         4.6          8.9         2.9        2.7          8.4
Debt /e /Equity                        5.7         5.8          4.4         S.4        3.2          8.8
(IBRD formula) Lf
/a   Auditod.
Unaudited.
Sinking Fund Investment Is shown as part of short-term Investments under
current assets.
1d   Foreign currency borrowings of the Government with back-to-back
relending to BAPINDO.
Special deposi-s treated as a long-term debt.
Z!   Current maturities are treated as part of long-term debts.



- 106 -                        ANNEX 3-C
Attachment 2
INDONESIA
INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
BAPINDO: Sumgarised Income Statements 1983-87 /a and 1988 (9 months) /b
CRp million)
(9 month)
1983    1984     1985        1986     1987      1988
Income
Income from
Loans                   88,115  117,793  168.849   113,209   176,769   171,866
I            Income from
Securities &
Deposits                 1,002    1,829    4,098    32.608    26,654    11,725
Other Income               3.035    5,031    7,942    30,774    40,850    38,380
Total Income          92,152  124,653  180,889   176,591   244.273   22.1971
Expenses
Interest Costs            48,522   67.283   86,623    84,217   107,375   115,203
Admin. Exp.               21,714   19,255   21,332    26,093    37,621    27,199
Prov. for Lossess          9,692   29,033   70,165    50,438    44,134    23,100
Total Expenses         79,928  115,571  178.120   160,748   189.130   165,502
Profit before tax           12,224    9,082    2,769    15,842    55,143    56,469
Lesss Tax provision          6,317    3,397    1.539      8,040    20,085    20,329
Net profit                   5,907    5.685    1.230      7,802    35.058    36,140
RATIOS:
As X Av. Total Assets:
(a) T. Income            11.9      13.1     15.6       12.9      15.3     14.5/c
Cb) Interest Cost         6.2       7.1      7.5        6.1       6.7      7.5/c
(c) Gross Margin
(a) - (b)             5.7      6.0       8.1        6.8       8.6      7.0/c
(d) Prov. for Losses      1.3       3.0      6.1        3.7       2.8      1.5/c
(e) Admin. Esp.           2.8       2.0      1.8        1.9       2.3      1.8/c
(f) Profit before Tax     1.6       1.0      0.2        1.2       3.5      3.7/c
(C) Net Profit            0.8       0.6      0.1        0.6       2.2      2.4/c
Net Profit as X of
Av. Equity                   5.6      4.5      0.8         3.4     12.3     11.41c
Debt Serv. Cover Id            N.A.     N.A.     N.A.        1.11     1.54     1.09
Interest Cover le              N.A.     N.A.     N.A.        N.A.     1.79     1.42
/a Audited.
lb  Unaudited
/c Annualized percentages.
Id  (Net profit + Non-cash charges + Interest Cost + Accrued Interest
Beginning of the Year-Accrued Interest End of the Year + Cash Collectional of
Loans Principal + Sales of Investments) - (Interest Cost + Repayment of
Borrowings)
e  (Net profit + Non-cash charges + Intrest cost - Accrued Interest Beginning of
Year - Accrued Interest End of Year-Interest Cost.



- 107 -
Annex 3-D
Page 1
INDONESIA
INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
The Participating Financial Institutions (PFIs) Under the Proposed Proiect
The Non-Bank Financial Institutions
Private Development Finance Company of Indonesia (PDFCI)
1.       PDFCI was established in 1973 with the active cooperation of BI and
the Bank Group through (i) an IFC equity participation of US$482,000 (8% of
initial capital) and (ii) an IDA credit of US$10.0 million (Credit 436-IND)
which became effective in 1974 when PDFCI commenced operations. This was
followed by a Bank loan of US$15.0 million (Ln. 1363-IND) in 1977. The
objective in setting up PDFCI was to strengthen the financial system in
Indonesia with the addition of a predominately privately owned development
finance company that would provide private sector enterprises with a wider
range of financial and technical services than those previously available to
them. These goals proved difficult for PDFCI to achieve for a number of
reasons: (i) sir.-e it could not take customer deposits, PDFCI could not
develop its own independent resource base and was thus continuously dependent
on BI for its resources; (ii) in 1979 the Government of Indonesia (GOI), in a
policy change, stated that it was no longer prepared to guarantee borrowings
from multilateral institutions other than for institutions fully owned by GOI,
thus effectively cutting off PDFCI from further Bank borrowing; and (iii) in
the restrictive financial environment that prevailed until June 1983, PDFCI
(like other privately owned institutions) was at a disadvantage compared to
its state-owned competitors. However, despite these difficulties, PDFCI had
developed into a small but well-managed Development Finance Institution (DFI)
that had to turn to short-term money market-related activities in order to
survive. The June 1983 reforms and the recent reversal in GOI policy
regarding the participation of non-GOI entities in the proposed project,
therefore, provide PDFCI with a new opportunity to renew its relationship with
the Bank Group and to increase its term-lending activities in line with its
original objectives.
2.       Ownershig.  PDFCI's authorized share capital is Rp7.0 billion, of
which Rp4.54 billion has been paid in. Presently, Indonesian shareholders own
68% of the shares (of which BI holds a half, i.e., 34% of total). The rest is
held by private shareholders. PDFCI's total equity as of December 31, 1987,
amounted to Rpl9.0 billion including reserves and retained earnings.
3.       Organization. Management and Staffing.  PDFCI's Board of Directors,
which comprises nine members, deals with policies and broad operating
guidelines. Loan approval authority has been delegated however to the Board
of Managing Directors, consisting of the President Director and two Managing
Directors. There are eight departments: Finance and Accounts, Project
Appraisal East Indonesia, Project Appraisal West Indonesia, Project



- 108 -
Annex 3-D
Page 2
Supervision I, Project Supervision II, Money and Capital Markets, Research,
and Legal. The total staff of PDFCI now stands at 97, of whom 54 are
professional.
4.       Operating Policies. Proiect ARRraisal and Supervision Procedures.
PDFCI's Development Strategy Statement and the Statement of Operational
Policies, adopted in the context of earlier Bank operations, remain valid and
provide a sound basis for PDFCI's involvement in the proposed project. Inter
alia, these set limits on exposure per client both for loans and equity.
Appraisal of projects is based solely on the basis of demonstrated financial,
technical and economic viability. PDFCI does not take the foreign exchange
risk in its operations. Projects are normally appraised by teams consisting
of a financial analyst/economist, an engineer and a lawyer, and reviewed by a
loan committee (consisting of the department heads) before being submitted to
the Executive Committee of the Board for final decision. As part of its
effort to improve the quality of its loan portfolio, PDFCI has set up a
special unit headed by a Deputy Managing Director to take charge of all
problem projects.
5.       Operational and Financial Performance.  PDFCI's total assets have
grown rapidly, from about Rp 170.0 billion at end-1985 to Rp 210.8 billion at
end-1986 and Rp 247.5 billion at end-1987. The fastest growth was in total
loans outstanding, which increased by 33% in 1987 to Rp 103.8 billion.
Overall, however, loans still represent only 42% of total assets.
Attachments 1 and 2 summarize PDFCI's balance sheets and income statements for
1985-June 1988. Although it was PDFCI's objective principally to provide term
financing, its inability to mobilize resources independently of BI, following
curtailment of access to Bank loans, led it to concentrate on money market and
short-term lending operations to survive. These operations have contributed
more than 60% of PDFCI's income in the last three years.
6.       With the change in financial sector policy, and particularly with
renewed access to World Bank resources, PDFCI's management is placing
increasing emphasis on term lending operations. Thus, in 1987, PDFCI
increased approvals for term loans by 64% over 1986 levels (from Rp 29.6 bil-
lion to Rp 48.4 billion). For the same period, commitments increased by 35%
(from Rp 21.7 billion to Rp 29.2 billion) and disbursements increased by 67%
(from Rp 19.1 billion to Rp 31.3 billion). PDFCI has not been very active in
equity investments. The main resource for PDFCI's lending is a line of credit
from BI. PDFCI's total income grew from Rp 25.5 billion in 1986 to Rp 36.8
billion in 1987, mainly as the result of a sharp increase (of 56%) in interest
income on short-term operations. Although average borrowing costs also
increased (from 8.67% to 9.53% of average total assets) in line with rising
interest rates, PDFCI widened its gross spread by almost 40% from 4.7% to
6.58% of average total assets. In 1987, PDFCI's net income amounted to 2.5%
of average total assets. Net profit represented a return on average equity of
34.6% compared to 25.1% the previous year. PDFCI's long-term debt to equity
ratio stood at 3:1 as of end-1987 and 3.6:1 as of June 30, 1988, with the
outstanding subordinated loan from BI treated as a part of equity in calculat-
ing PDFCI's debt-to-equity ratio. PDFCI has been allocated US$20.0 million
under EDP II and is requesting an additional allocation of US$20.0 million
under the proposed project. Taking into account these allocations on a



- 109 -
Annex 3-D
Page 3
commitment basis, PDFCI's long-term debt to equity ratio would be 5.4:1, well
within the maximum of 7:1 specified for all NBFIs under the proposed Project.
7.       Portfolio Quality and Provisions.  With the onset of the recession in
the early 1980s, PDFCI experienced considerable portfolio problems. This led
PDFCI's management in 1984-86 to concentrate on restructuring and consolida-
tion. As a result, PDFCI's term loan portfolio condition has improved
considerably. The total loan portfolio outstanding, consisting of medium-term
loans, long-term loans and export credits, amounted to Rp 103.8 billion as of
December 31, 1987. A detailed analysis of the outstanding term loans with
maturities over five years, totaling Rp 80.2 billion for 104 projects as of
end-1987 indicates that 74 projects totaling Rp 58.3 billion or 73% of the
total outstanding amount were operating profitably, with 11 projects for
Rp 11.4 billion, or 14% of the loan portfolio, operating at a loss, 17
projects for Rp 9.8 billion, or 12% in technical or financial difficulties and
the remaining two projects totaling Rp 731.0 million or 0.9% in liquidation.
Total principal arrears amounted to Rp 1.8 billion, representiny S.3% of the
long-term loans outstanding.  The projects which have serious P:oblems or in
liquidation constitute 16% in number and 10% in amount of thb portfolio.
Collection performance has improved over the past three years: collection
ratio on new loans increased from 74% in 1985 to 87% in 1987 and that for all
loans increased from 55% to 65%. PDFCI's provisions for doubtful loans as of
December 31, 1987 amounted to Rp 2.8 billion representing 2.7% of total loan
portfolio. As of June 30, 1988 the provisions were increased to Rp 3.2
billion, representing 2.5% of total loan portfolio.
PT Indonesian Development Finance Comtany (UPPINDO/IDFC)
8.       Establishment and Objectives.  The IDFC was established under the
name "PT Usaha Pembiayaan Pembangunan Indonesia" (UPPINDO) in 1972 by BI and
the Netherlands Finance Company for Developing Countries (FNO) with the objec-
tive of supporting the development of the Indonesian economy by financing
(through loans and equity) and providing technical assistance to commercially
viable projects. UPPINDO's authorized share capital is Rp 20.0 billion, of
which Rp 17.2 billion has been paid in. BI holds 75% of the capital and F1NO
the remaining 25%.
9.       Manazement. Staffing and Organization.  UPPINDO operates under the
usual Indonesian two-tier board system. The Board of Supervisory Directors,
which comprises the Chairman (who is also a Managing Director of BI) and four
other members, lays down policy guidelines and supervises policy execution by
the Board of Managing Directors, which is responsible for the day-to-day
management of UPPINDO and the execution of policy directives. The Board of
Managing Directors consists of the President Director and one Managing
Director. It has the authority to decide on investments of up to Rp 1.0 bil-
lion to a single client and a one-time repeat financing to the same client of
another Rp 500.0 million maximum. Four Deputy Managing Directors oversee
Operations (divided into East and West Indonesia), Finance and the
Secretariat, Research and Legal Functions. UPPINDO has no branches but
operates a small liaison office in Surabaya. At the end of 1987, UPPINDO
employed 125 staff, of whom 65 were professional. UPPINDO relies on both in-
house and external courses for its staff development program.



- 110 -
Annex 3-D
Page 4
10.      Policies and the Credit Process.  UPPINDO's Statement of "General
Principles of Management and Investment Policy" (held on file) details the
company's objectives and management policies. It also establishes investment
principles that stipulate that UPPINDO shall only fund financially and econo-
mically viable projects and should not take token investments or a controlling
interest in any project/client company. It also sets maximum exposure limits
for any one client at 25% of UPPINDO's net worth (which currently means a
maximum exposure per client of Rp 6.4 billion, equivalent to US$3.7 million).
UPPINDO does not normally take on foreign exchange risk in its term lending
operations. UPPINDO's Business Development Department is responsible for the
identification of new projects and screening of applications. This Department
submits a brief report on the merits of each project to the responsible
Managing Director, who then decides whether to proceed to a full appraisal.
If the project is to be appraised, it is assigned to a Project Officer who
would lead the appraisal team and be responsible for supervision if the
project is approved for financing. The appraisal report is reviewed by a
management meeting consisting of the President, Managing Director and respec-
tive Deputy Managing Director. The Deputy Managing Directors are authorized
to approve loans up to Rp 500.0 million. The Board of Managing Directors can
approve loans up to Rp 1.0 billion. All loans above Rp 1.0 billion have to be
sanctioned by the Board of Supervisory Directors. These procedures, as well
as the appraisal standards of UPPINDO, are satisfactory for the participation
of this development finance company in the proposed project.
11.      ODerations. Financial Position and Performance.  A summary of
UPPINDO's balance sheets and income statements for the period 1985-87 and the
first six months of 1988 are shown in Attachments 3 and 4, respectively.
UPPINDO's main activity has been term lending together with complementary
short-term financing, including for export-related transactions. In 1987,
UPPINDO approved a total of 58 term loans for an amount of Rp 73.6 billion
(compared to 50 term loans for Rp 44.5 billion in 1986). Term loan commitment
in 1987 amounted to Rp 56.8 billion for 46 projects (compared to Rp 42.9
billion for 58 projects in 1988). Total disbursements amounted to Rp 54.1
billion in 1987 (compared to Rp 42.3 billion in 1986). As of December 31,
1987, UPPINDO's total outstanding loans amounted to Rp 129.4 billion with
long- and medium-term loan portfolio amounting to Rp 94.5 billion and short-
term loans (including the current portion of term loans) Rp 34.9 billion. As
of June 30, 1988, total outstanding loans reached Rp 166 billion. UPPINDO's
equity investments are small, with a total of Rp 1.7 billion invested in 9
companies. The bulk of UPPINDO's remaining assets are short-term interest-
bearing promissory notes from other financial institutions. BI is UPPINDO's
most important funding source. In 1987 it provided 47% of total resources and
86% of total long-term debt. The cther long-term debt resources were provided
through FMO and two foreign banks. Equity provided 12% of total resources.
UPPINDO funded its short-term activities mainly through short-term money
market borrowing. Total income in 1987 represented a return of 14% on average
total assets. Net profit after tax at Rp 3.2 billion represented a return on
equity of 14.1%. UPPINDO's long-term debt:equity ratio was 4.5:1 at the end
of 1987 and reached 6.3:1 as of June 30, 1988. In August 1988, UPPINDO
floated a five-year bond issue of Rp 25.0 billion, at the interest rate of
17.75%. As a result, the long-term debt: equity ratio increased to
approximately 7.30:1, and is expected to rise further.  Under the proposed



- 111 -
Annoy, 3-D
Page 5
project, the nonbank financial institutions must maintain a long-term
debt:equity ratio not higher than 7:1. UPPINDO, which has been allocated
US$10 million under EDP II and is requesting an an allocation of US$5 million
under the proposed Project, has taken steps to increase its share capital with
new equity participation by the Rabo Bank of the Netherlands and the Asian
Development Bank. In addition, in February 1989 BI has extended to UPPINDO a
subordinated loan of Rp 38.3 billion which will be treated as part of equity,
so that in the future, UPPINDO's long-term debt:equity ratio will not exceed
7:1 and will meet the eligibility criteria.
12.      Portfolio and Provisions.  Since the early eighties, UPPINDO's
management has concentrated its efforts on tackling portfolio problems that
emerged with the onset of the recession in 1982. A special unit to take
charge of problem projects was set up for the purpose. Portfolio performance
showed considerable improvement in 1987. Problem free loans accounted for
about 78% of the portfolio. Another 3% of loans have minor problems. The
other 19% had arrears of interest or principal of more than one month. The
total amount of principal in arrears over 3 months was Rp 12.9 billion,
representing about 9.6% of total portfolio. About 15 projects accounted for
the bulk of the loans in difficulty. All were import substitution-oriented
projects that were hard hit by the devaluation of the rupiah since 1983. As
of December 31, 1987, UPPINDO had provisions for losses on its loan portfolio
amounting to Rp 3.3 billion, representing 2.5% of its total loans outstanding.
The provisions were increasel to Rp 4.4 billion as of June 30, 1988,
representing 2.7% of its portfolio.



-112 -Ala 3-D
Att Cb_nt I
INDOMIN8AI
DUSThIAL 3R S?UCMluNG PROJEC,
PDFCI: Audited Balance  estS1 Vcaber 31. 1985-' and JSn  30. 1988
(milin           11n 0)
Doe 31,        Dne 31.        Doc 31,        Doc 31,      Jun 30.
1984          195             1986           1987         1988
(unaudited)
Assets
Current Assets
Cash on hand                                       795          1,228          1,513           1,693       1,852
NoteS/securities/short-term pl1aceeuts          89,395         97,454        129,234          38,123     140,095
Less: Reserve for bad accounts                  (2,214)        (2,803>        (3,400)         (4,010)     (4,099)
Not short-term placementS                      87.181         94.651        125.83          134.113     135.996
Current portion of long-term loans              11,362          8,818          9,773          13,603      22,429
Other current assetS                             2,092          2,525          2,666           3,643       5,310
Subtotal current assets                       105.430        107.222        139.786         153-053     165,387
LOng-Ter Asset.
LOng-term IOans                                 61,863         68,301         77,828         103 822  1
Leas5  Current portion                         (11,362)        (8,818)        (9,773)        (13,603)    108,079
Less: Reserve for bad debtS                     (1,682)        (2,072)        (2.313)         (2,843)     (3,232)
Net long-term loans                            48.819         52.411         65.742          87.376     104.847
Equity participation                             2,206          2,443          2,338           2,207       2,458
Other investments                                1,660          1,660          1,660           1,660       1,660
Subtotal long-term portfolio                   52.685         61.514         69.740          91.243     108.965
Net fixed assets                                   563            531            528             645         621
Other                                              539            761            815           1,533        1,525
Subtotal long-term assets                      53.787         62.806         71.083          93.421     111.111
Total Assets                                  155.217        170,028        210.869         246.474     276.698
Uabilities and ECuity
!CUrrent Liabilities
I   PrOmi8sory notes                              73,146         75,044         97,134          95,567      103,015
Accounts payable                                   516            280            731           2,578       6,105
Current portion of long-term debt                3,673          5,806          7,347           9,418      10,645
Other current liabilities                        3,789          3,972          5,256           6,412       2,340
Subtotal currant liabilities                   81.124         85-102        110-468         113-975     122-105
La S-Term Liabilitts/
LoBD/UXO b lo t s   /a4,061                                     2,503          1,562             933         407
at liquidity credits                            19,337         23,208         28,945          40 6"      114,256
Loans frOm DI                                   33,278         37,865         45,036          59,054 1
Export credit                                        -              -              -           1,250       6,100
GOVernet loans (subordinated loans)              1,838          9,196         10,337          10,966       11,190
Other                                                -            357            357             357          357
Subtotal long-term tlabilities                 64.514         13-321         86.237         113.228      132.310
sqUity
Paid-up capital                                  4,540          4,540          4,540           4,540       4,540
Reserves                                         2,331          4,358          6,389           8,943       13,914
Retained earnins                                 2,708          2,699          3,235           5,788        3,829
Subtotal equity                                 959           11.597         14.144          19.271       22.283
Total Liabilities sad Equity                  155.217        170.028        210.869         246.474      276.698
Ratios
unt ratio                                           1.25           1.26           1.27             1.41        1.36
Long-term debt/equity ratio                         3.25           3.05           3.11             2.97        3.62
Total debt/equity ratio                            15.20          13.65          13.94            11.79       11.42
Lon portfolio/total assets (X)                        40             40             37               42          39
/a Net of current portion.
ASSIE
October 1988



ANNE 3-D
-113 -                                        Attachmeni  2
INDONESIA
INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
PDFCI: Audited Income Statements. 1985-87 and January-June 1988
(Rp million)
Jan-Jun
1984         1985         1986         1987             1988
(unaudited)
Income
Interest
On loans                                        19,726       23,293        8,131       10,632            6,782
On notes/securities/placements              }  1                          16,130       25,029           14,320
Other                                                                                     115               33
Subtotal interest income
Commissions and fees                               1,256        1,047        1,033          734              369
Other operating income                               316          192          205          338              155
Total Income                                  21,298       24,532       25,499        36,848           21.659
Expenses
Interest charges on borrowings                    13,675       15,053       16,515       21,792           14,105
Salaries and other personnel expenses              1,549        2,557        1,929        3,208            1,014
Other operating and miscellaneous expenses  }  1                2            1,929        3,208            1,014
Depreciation                                    }                               67           86               49
Provision for bad debts                            2,083        2,938        1,719        2,629              477
Total Expenses                                17,307       20,548       20,646       28.169            15,852
Net Income Before Taxes                        3.991        3.984        4.853        8.679             5.807
Less:  Provision for taxes                           1,283        1,285        1,617        2,891            1,979
Net Income                                     2.708        2.699        3.235        5,788             3.828
Ratios
Net profit/average equity (2)                      28.27        25.49        25.12        34.62            36.85
Net profit/average total assets (Z)                 1.74         1.66         1.70         2.53             2.93
Admin. exp./average total assets (Z)                1.00         1.57         1.27         1.64             0.97
Admin. exp./average loan portfolio (2)              2.50         3.93         3.30         4.13             2.54
/a Included in interest on loans above.
AS51I
October 1988



ANNEX 3-D
Attachment 3
INDONESIA
INDUSTRIAL ItRSTRUCTURING PROJECT
UPPINDO:  Summarized Balance Shts.  Decem           1985-87 and June 30, 1988
'lec 31,       Dec 31,         Dec 31,         Dec 31.       Jun 30.
1984           1985            1986            1987          1988
(unaudt ted )
Assets
Current Assets
Cash on hand                                       2,436           1,499           2,357            2,614        2,229
Notes/securities/short-term ptacements            22,823          20,469          34,664           49,861       69.806
Short-term loans                                       -               -           4,375           14,436       21,465
Current portion of long-term loans                 8.200           9,055          15,956           20,504       18,914
Other current assets                                2,846          4,469           4,391            6,520        7,638
Subtotal current assets                          36.305          35,492          61,743           93,935      120,052
Lon erm Assets
Cofinancing with RDBs                              6,906          11,312          11,288           11,309       11,851
long-term loans                                   39,918          53,459          74,846          103,709      132,734
Less:  Reserve for bad debts                      (1,218)         (1,953)         (2,329)          (3,297)      (4,432)
Less:  Current portion                            (8,200)         (9,055)        (15,957)         (20,504)    (18.914)
Net long-term loans                              37,406          53,763          67,848           91,217      121,239
Equity participatton                                1,326          1,360           2,017            2,097        1,720
Subtotal long-term portfolio                     38,732          55,123          69,865           93,314      122,959
Net fixed assets                                      144          1,812             206              321       10,040
Other                                               1,556          1,818           4,694            7,751        2,727
Subtotal long-term assets                        40,432          58,753          74,765          101,386     135,726
Total Assets                                     76,737          94,245         136,508          195,321     255,778
Liabilities and Equity
Current Labilities
Current portion of long-term debt                  3,098           3,225           5,824            7,077        5,6')8
Promissory notes                                   6,995           6,790          11,359           26,892      28,121
Short-term loans                                                       - -         8,205           24,750      28,662
Accounts payable                                    1,791          2,034           3,130            5,326        6,417
Subtotal current ltabilities                     11,884          12,049          28,518           64,045      68,808
Long-Term Liabilities
81! liquidtty credits                              1,182             948           1,135              971          971
Loans from 81                                     46,662          61,784          78,946           98,719     151,908
Other                                              8,643           8,511          12,308           15,063       13,973
Lass:  Current portion                            (3,098)         (3,225)         (5,824)          (7,077)      (5,608)
Subtotal long-term liabilities                   53,389          68,018          86,565          107,676     161,244
Equity
Paid-up capital                                    8,000          10,300          16,400           17,220       17,220
Reserves                                           1,566           2,475           2,868            3,185       3,185
Retained earnings                                  1.898           1,403           2,157            3,195       3,195
Net income for current year                            -               -               -                -       2,126
Subtotal equity                                  11,464          14,178          21,425           23,600      25,72b
Total Liabilities and Equity                     76,737          94,245         136,508          195,321     255,778
Ratios
a-urrent ratio                                         3.05           2.95            2.16             1.47         1.75
Long-term debt/equity ratio                           4.66            4.79            4.05             4.56        6.28
Total debt/equity ratto                               5.69            5.63            5.37             7.28         8.95
Loan ,.ortfolio/total assets (2)                        61              69              66               66           65
AS51E
October 1988



- 115 -
ANNEX 3-D
Attachment 4
INDONESIA
INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
UPPINDO: Audited Income Statements, 1985-87 and January-June 1988
(Rp million)
Jan-Jun
1984     1985      1986     1987         1988
(unaudited)
Income
Interest
On loans                                     }   9,403   12,887   16,319   24,544         15,992
On notes/securities/placements               I
Subtotal interest
Commissions and fees                                 675       914    1,146    1,112           598
Foreign exchange transactions (net)                   98      (197)   1,577       232           (6)
Other operating income                               668       106      300       507          482
Total Income                                   10,844   13,710   19,342   26,395         17,066
Expenses
Interest charges on borrowings                     4,447    7,086    9,845   15,902         11,590
Salaries and other personnel expenses              1,281    1,614    1,928    2,315          1,398
Other operating and misc. expenses /a                821       936    1,166    1,377           776
Provision for bad debts                            1,404    1,885    2,964    1,832          1,176
Total Expenses                                  7,953   11,521   15,903   21,426         14,940
Net Income Before Taxes                         2,891    2,189    3,439    4,969          2,126
Less:  Provision for taxes                             993       786    1,283    1,774             -
Net Income                                      1,898    1,403    2,156    3,195              -
Ratios
Net profit/average equity ()                       17.86    10.94    12.11    14.19              -
Net profit/average total assets (%)                 2.83      1.64     1.87      1.93            -
Admin. exp./average total assets (%)                2.13      2.98     2.68      2.23         1.93
Admin. exp./average loan portfolio (t)              5.07      4.57     4.10      3.67         3.26
/a Includes depreciation.
AS5IE
October 1988



- 116 -
ANNEX a-E
INDONESIA
INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Participating Financial Institutions Performance for Initial and Continued Eligibility
Participating
Financial Institution Category                   Minimum Performance for Withdrawal
1.  State-Owned and Private Commercial       -   Collection ratio L  on Bsank industrial credit lines not
Banks La                                  less than 80%.
-   Access to Bank funds limited to Its net worth (paid-in
capital plus reserves and undistributed retained earnings).
Bank funds would include disbursements and und;sbursed
commitments of industrial loans.
2.  Non-sank Financial Institutions /e       -   Collection ratio lb on Bank industrial credit lines not
leos than B0%.
-   Long-term debt to equity ratio not to exee d seven to one.
3.   Development Banks  d                    -   Collection ratio /b not less than 72.SX on its loan portfo-
I io.
-   Collection ratio /b not less than 77.SX on its l}an
portfolio in order to withdraw over SOX of its loan
allocation. /
-   Loan arrears ratio /f of 7.5X or below.
-   Debt:serv;ce cover ratio Lg not less than 1.26 times for
1989 and every fiscal year thereafter.
-   Interest cover ratio /h not less than 1.6 times for 1989
and every fiseal year thereafter.
8 BB; BBD; SD; BDN; BEII; SN; SN! 1946; BRI; and BUN.
Collection Ratio.  Total cash collections In the last 12 months as a pereentage of past dues at tho
start of the period plus billings of current dues, not of amounts rescheduled.
LC PDFCI and UPPINDO.
BAPINDO.
j  By March 1, 1990, BAPINDO shall achieve a collection ratio of not less than 77.WX on Its loan
portfolio.
f   Loan Arrears Ratio.  Arrears of principal and interest over three months including all arrears of
interest irrespective of whether booked as Income or not, plus amounts rescheduled during the year as
a percentage of total loans outstanding.
Lg   Debt Service Cover Ratio.  Cosh generated by operations (gross cash income less esh administrative
and general expensoo and ineome tax) plus cash collections (principal only, plus salo of investments
divided by the sum of loan repayments plus interest on borrowings.
/h   Interest Cover Ratio.  Cash generated by operations (gross cash income less administrative and goneral
expenses and income tax) divided by total interest on borrow;ngs.



- 117 -
ANNEX 4-A
Page 1
INDONESIA
INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Technical Assistance for
Implementation of Calibration and Testing Service Centers Network Program
Terms of Reference
Backaround
1.       At the national level, DEWAN is responsible for the cootdination of
all standards development activities, and the PUSLITBANG KIM is the primary
Standards Institute. They comprise the national framework within which
various levels of standards systems should be developed to service specific
sectors and industries. down to product groups. These systems are the
operational mechanisms of the national standards system. In this assigment,
the main concern is the development of the standards systam that will serve
the engineering industries. They are not only the largest users of standards
but also absolutely require a rigorous application of standards to achieve
efficient production and growth.
2.       The core of the engineering standards system will be a calibration-
testing service network. There are many ways of setting up a standards net-
work, depending upon the size and the scope of the services to be provided.
It is possible to establish, from the start, a full-service network of stan-
dards centers serving all the industries in each region. While this approach
will avoid some duplication of investments and services over the long run, it
would be very costly (costs will rise exponentially with the required level of
measurement precision), it would take time to plan and develop, and it would
be difficult to find enough qualified technicians to staff these centers. A
pragmatic approach will be adopted in this assignment. It calls for a
regional network of calibration and testing service centers designed to serve
the working needs of small- and medium-size engineering enterprises in the
regions. The need for standards services is perceived to be greatest for
these types of enterprises and the impact of the program will also expectedly
be large. These regional service centers should be operational in a short
period, which means the existing facilities and entities in the regions should
be fully utilized to build the network. 'T time, as the national standards
system in the country matures, the service centers can become part of a larger
network of regional full-service standards centers.
3.       The lack of accredited testing laboratories and facilities both at
the company and at the national levels also prevents the improvement of
product-quality. An initial network of four regional service centers will be
considered, one each in Bandung, Jakarta, Surabaya and Medan. The network's
head office will be located in Bandung. Additional service centers will be
set up in other regions as the engineering industrial activity in such regions
grows.
4.       Bandung.  The Metal Industries Development Instite (BBLM) of the
Ministry of Industry in Bandung has an adequate basic testing facility for



- 118 -
ANNEX 4-A
Page 2
engineering products, and could accommodate the operational headquarters of
the network as well as the Bandung Regional Service Center. This step not
only economizes on costs but also considerably simplifies the setting up of
the network.
5.       Jakarta.  A new facility will be acquired and suitably equipped.  A
suggested location is Pulaugadung.
6.       Surabaya and Medan.  The Surabaya Industrial Development Center and
the Medan Metal Research Center of the Ministry of Industry undertake metal
product testing and have a small amount of basic testing equipment. The
proposed service centers will be located in these premises: the existing
testing facilities will be incorporated fully.
7.       Each service center will provide the following range of services:
instrument calibration; instrument repair service; product testing; product
certification; laboratory accreditation; and quality audit. Thus, each center
will provide integrated services to assist engineering industrial enterprises.
Obiective
S.       The objective of the program is the establishment of a network of
regional standards service centers to provide an integrated range of services
to engineering firms in each of the selected regions.
Scope of Technical Assistance
9.       There will be need for advisory help from short-term and long-term
foreign consultants to develop the standards network. It is estimated that
about 60 man-months of assistance will be required.
10.      The foreign experts will be based in Bandung and will assist all four
centers. They will help on the start-up of the regional service centers,
conduct staff training and advise on all operational aspects of the network.
11.      Proposals will be invited from qualified international institutions
to provide the services of two experts in engineering for 12 months each, plus
36 man-months equivalent of short-term consultants in different areas, such as
laboratory inspection and product testing procedures, including an expert on
training.
12.      One expert on standards should be on site at the inception of the
program so that he can further advise the Ministry of Industry on:
administrative and operational procedures; staffing matters; training programs
for the technical staff (overseas and in Indonesia); preparation of operating
manuals on calibration, measurement and testing; assessment of premises and
installations in each region to provide detailed estimates of capital and
operating costs for each location. The second expert on standards will join
the program when the network becomes operational, and will have the direct
responsibility of guiding the centers in the provision of services to the
enterprises.



- 119 -
ANNEX 4-A
Page 3
13.      The short-term consultants will join the program as required, with
the training -expert joining early to organize the training of the network
staff.
14.      In addition to the main standards network program, there will be
general training programs to expand the pool of standards and quality control
experts in the country, a laboratory accreditation program, certification
program and quality audit program, to encourage more rigorous application of
standards by the engineering enterprises. The standards experts will be
expected to advise the Government on the organization and the implementation
of these other urograms.



- 120 -
ANNEX 4-A
Page 4
INDONESIA
INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Technical Assistance on Engineering Standards Application
Terms of Reference
Background
1.       At the national level, DEWAN is responsible for the coordination of
all standards development activities, and the PUSLITBANG KIM is the primary
standards institute. They comprise the national framework within which
various levels of standards systems should be developed to service specific
sectors and industries, down to product groups. These systems are the
operational mechanisms of the national standards systems. In this assignment,
the main concern is the development of the standards system that will serve
the engineering industries. They are not only the largest users of standards
but also require a rigorous application of standards to achieve efficient
production and growth.
2.       There are serious problems in the Indonesian engineering industry
related to measurement. The level of dimensional quality of the products of
the engineering industry is low. This is shown in the dimensional errors of
products and the inadequacy of interchangeable manufacturing.
3.       The building of the standards system will require the establishment
of a standards service network which is described under separate terms of
reference. Additional work will be required on standards preparation, promo-
tion, implementation and monitoring. It is essential to review existing stan-
dards and prepare new ones. The streamlining of the test standards will be in
conjunction with the tightening of testing laboratory accreditation and
product certification.
Obiectives
4.       The objective of this assignment is to implement a more intensive
promotion and regulation of activities on standards application, covering:
standards development; standards implementation; review of existing standards
on test procedures for clarity, simplicity and consistency; standards promo-
tion; and standards monitoring.
Scope of Technical Assistance
5.       The technical assistance activity calls for one man-year of expert
help, which could be provided by one expert for 12 months or by two experts
for six months each. The expert or experts will be graduate engineers with at
least ten years of experience in the field of standards preparation, implemen-
tation, promotion and monitoring. They will help organize the teams, provide
training for team members, prepare the manuals on procedures, and provide
advice during implementation and promotional activities. Further, they will
review the existing standards, recommend on the preparation of new ones,
especially the test standards, and advise the Government on the implementation
of product testing and certification.



- 121 -
ANN,EX 4- A
Page 5
INDONESIA
INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Technical Experts for the Engineering Technical Services Group
Terms of Reference
Background
1.       In its efforts to support the development of the engineering
subsector, the Government of Indonesia is establishing a Technical Services
Group (TSG), to provide assistance to engineering enterprises mainly in the
areas of product and production technology, marketing and management with the
objective of strengthening the technical capability of the subsector;
achieving more effective technology diffusion within the subsector; and
improving productivity, viability and competitiveness of individual
enterprises. The Government has approached the World Bank and a number of
bilateral donors to finance these activities, under an Industrial
Restructuring Project.
Obiectives
2.       To assist the  'anager of the TSG in organizing the technical services
program, identify the technical assistance needs of enterprises and channel
the technical assistance through specialists, and train on-the-job the TSG
staff, the TSG is seeking experienced foreign consultants to undertake the
scope of work detailed below.
Scone of Work
3.       Four consultants will be required to carry out the following tasks:
(a) assist the manager of the engineering TSG to organize the technical
services program and procedures, and to prepare annual work programs
and budgets for the TSG;
(b) identify potential options for enterprise improvements through
restructuring, and establish the enterprise's need for technical
services, in the areas of production, marketing and management;
(c) identify and describe the profiles of foreign specialists needed;
channel such specialists to undertake in-plant technical services for
enterprises;
(d) identify the enterprise's need for investment projects and the work
required for subsequent project preparation by enterprises'
management;



- 122 -
ANNEX 4-A
Page 6
(e) monitor the progress of the assistance program and assess its
effectiveness;
(f) help establish and implement a training program for local TSG staff;
(g) provide other advisory services as may be requested by enterprises in
the subsector, by participating financing institutions in the
Project, and by the TSG management; and
(h) promote regularly the TSG's activities in the engineering subsector.
Oualifications and Experience
4.       The consultants will have in-depth knowledge of engineering
industries and a proven track record. They will have at least 15 years of
work experience, including at least 5 years of experience in management and
organization, and an understanding of financial and economic aspects of
engineering production activities. The assignment of the four consultants
will be for three years. The contract will be initially signed for one year,
and upon review of satisfactory performance, will be extended for the
additional two years.



- 123 -
ANNEX 4-A
Page 7
INDONESIA
INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Experts for the Technical Groupe in the Pulp and Paper,
and Textiles Subsectors
Terms of Reference
Background
1.       In its efforts to support the development of the pulp and paper and
textiles subsectors, the Government of Indonesia is establishing Technical
Services Groups (TSGs) to provide assistance to enterprises in these subsec-
tors. This assistance will cover the following areast production processing
and technology, production organization, management, marketing, restructuring,
and financial and economic evaluation of investments, with the overall objec-
tive of improving the efficiency and competitiveness of the enterprises. The
Government has approached the World Bank to finance these activities, under an
Industrial Restructuring Project.
Objectives
2.       To assist the managers TSGs in the pulp and paper and textiles sub-
sectors, in organizing and operating the technical services programs, the TSGs
are seeking experienced foreign consultants to undertake the scope of work
detailed below.
Scope of Work
3.       For each of the TSGs, the consultants will be required to:
(a) assist the manager of the TSG to organize the technical services
program and procedures;
(b) conduct a brief review of overall enterprise operations, and identify
potential options for enterprise improvement through restructuring
(as defined for purposes of the Project);
(c) undertake preliminary analyses of the costs and benefits of such
options in order to assess the relative merits of the options, and
the likely capital requirements;
-(d) in cases where in the initial analysis suggests a need for assistance
in current operations, identify the need for any longer-term, in-
plant technical assistance that may be required. In such cases,
assist enterprise management to prepare terms of reference, and to
identify sources for technical assistance;



- 124 -
ANNEX 4-A
Page 8
(e) in cases where an investment project appears to be viable, identify
the-aeed for any further, more detailed, feasibility study required
for project preparation. Assist with the preparation of terms of
reference as required, and identify suitable consultants for
consideration by enterprise management;
(f) assist enterprises to determine the requirement for and scope of
environmental impact assessments. In simple cases, the services and
the enterprise may be able to complete the assessment. In more
complex cases, the services could help prepare terms of reference for
the more detailed work that may be required;
(g) assist, as appropriate, enterprise management to prepare loan
applications for financing under the Project;
(h)  provide other short-term technical assistance and advice as may from
time to time be requested by enterprises in the subsector, and, to
the extent possible, provide similar assistance to the participating
financial intermediaries as they evaluate investment proposals
submitted by enterprises in the subsectors; and
(i)  provide training on-the-job to the TSG staff.
Qualifications and Experience
-    For the PulP and Paper TSG. Two consultants, to be internationally
recruited, will be required to have at least 15 years experience in
the industry. One consultant will be an ex-Managing Director of pulp
and paper plants, who will bring senior expertise in the areas of
production, technc ogy, planning, management and marketing. The
other consultant will be an all-round process engineer.
-    For the Textiles TSG.  Two consultants, to be internationally
recruited, will be required to have at least 15 years experience in
the industry. One consultant will be an engineer with extensive
industry - wide exposure, at higher management levels. The second
consultant will be an all-round process engineer.
All the consultants will be appointed for a three-year period. The
second position in both TSGs could also be filled on a *floating,
basis, that is, engaging the services of consultants for six-month
periods, subject to the specific requirements of the enterprises in
the subsector.



- 125 -
ANNEX 4-A
Page 9
INDONESIA
INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Industrial Environment Specialist - Terms of Reference
Qualificationst           A minimum Bachelors' degree in chemical or industrial
process engineering, with preferably a higher-level
degree in environmental engineering or in
environmental sciences.
Experience:               At least 10 years actual industrial experience in
pollution control. either in the pulp and paper,
textile or engineering industries. Additional
experience with an environmental regulatory agency
would be desirable. Experience in the areas of occu-
pational health and safety in the Environmental
Impact Assessment (EIA) process, and in Indonesia
would also be desirable.
Languaae:                 English (Indonesian helpful but not required).
Term:                     Contract position for about 3 years.
Location:                 Preferably with one of the Technical Services Groups
in MOI.
Job Description:    -    Organize and manage a two-person Indonesian team that
would be the focal point for all inquiries from
enterprises in the three subsectors regarding assis-
tance to comply with the Government environmental and
pollution control requirements.
Advise enterprises on actions required to prepare
subprojects for review by participating financial
institutions (PFIs). including assistance in the
preparation for required EIAs.
Review completed EIAs when requested by the PFIs.
Assist enterprises in undertaking necessary surveys
of their existing plants to determine their current
status in relation to the Government environmental
and pollution control requirements. This assistance
would include advice on survey terms of reference,
review of the completed survey, recommendations on
measures to bring the enterprise into compliance with
the Government requirements and assistance in
preparing detailed compliance plans.



- 126 -
ANNEX 4-A
Page 10O
Advise enterprises on clean technologies, and methods
to reduce pollution and improve process efficiencies.
Assist enterprises to identify suitable consulting
companies (domestic and foreign) with the capability
of preparing EIAs, undertaking surveys, and advising
on pollution control.
Remain available to provide enterprises with further
advice, as may be required to complete subproject
preparation and implementation.
After a period of 18 months, prepare an evaluation
report highlighting the successes and failures of the
TSG program as a vehicle for providing enterprise
with assistance in the environmental and pollution
control areas. This report will include specific
recommendations and proposals for future action.
The Industrial Environment Specialist would assist in
the recruitment of the two Indonesian members of the
team. who would have education and professional
qualifications similar to those of the Specialist.
These requirements, however, would need to be
adjusted as appropriate, given the relative scarcity
of such specialists in Indonesia.



- 127 -                       ANNEX 4-B
Page 1
INDONESIA
INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Technology Development Plan for Engineering Industries
Terms of Reference
Background
1.       The technical infrastructure of the engineering industries in
Indonesia is not well developed. Within the industries, there is little engi-
neering activity in support of the production programs. Outside the indus-
tries, there is only one national institution (Metal Industries Development
Institute) equipped to do product and process development work; however, the
Institute has not been able to provide much help to the engineering enter-
prises. Against this background, the Government of Indonesia has initiated
major efforts to expand engineering production and export engineering goods.
The Government has also been promoting a local content program. The present
liberalization policies are promoting competition among the industries. Also,
an active program of investment promotion is under way, to attract the more
modern industries to Indonesia and to improve the production structure of the
local industries. In conjunction with these efforts, the Government has put a
high priority on technology development, recognizing that technology more than
any other single factor will determine how these industries grow and develop.
The cost of technology to the nation is far greater than the direct costs of
licences and foreign experts. The indirect costs of technologies contained in
the import of parts and knock-down kits are very substantial. These costs are
estimated to escalate rapidly unless appropriate s9eps are taken to accelerate
technology development within the local industries. Therefore, a comprehen-
sive program of promoting technology transfer and development is required
involving a coordinated development of research and development, technical
manpower development and other actions to expand the technology base of the
engineering industries.
Obiectives
2.       The objective of this work is the preparation of a technology devel-
opment plan, covering a timeframe of 10 years. The main components of the
plan will bet
fa) Formulation of policies to promote the technology development of the
engineering subsector;
(b) formulation of strategies and priorities; and
(c)  design of specific programs to develop th. technological capability
of the engineering industries.



- 128 -                       ANNEX 4-B
Page 2
Scone of Work
3.       The task will include the following key a.pectst
(a) assessment of current technology needs, including capability to
absorb technical know-how under technology transfer agreements, and
the availability of skills (at the design and workshop levels);
(b) analysis of market trends in terms of technologies which Indonesia
needs to become aware of and adopt in order to improve the competi-
tiveness of the products and processes in which it has potential for
comparative advantage;
(c) analysis of policy framework, including aspects directly associated
with technology and those related to the development of the engineer-
ing subsector;
(d)  assessment of supporting institutions responsible for dissemination
of technical know-how and information, and for facilitating linkages
with vendors of technology;
(e) analysis of existing activities for technical training, including
vocational, university and on-the-job programs;
(f) assessment of existing financial and technical assistance, and of
that needed to accelerate investments in technology development in
engineering industries; and
(g) assessment of the current and future role of the public and private
sectors in technology development in the subsector.
End-Product
4.       The consultant will prepare a report containing a Technology Develop-
ment Plan for Indonesian Engineering Industries. The report will address,
inter alia, the followingt (a) policy guidelines to create a climate condu-
cive to technological absorption and adoption, establishing clearly the roles
to be played by the public and private sectors in implementing such policy;
(b) institutional incentives required; (c) establishment of technical informa-
tion mechanisms; (d) increasing the capacity of existing technical institu-
tions (Universities, technical and vocational centers, etc.); (e) requirements
in terms of technical assistance and of finance to facilitate technological
improvements at the enterprise level.
Implementation
5.       It is expected that the study will be completed in a six-month
period. The consultant will prepare a progress report after three months of
the start of the study. A review meeting will be scheduled at that time to
review progress in the study and to discuss preliminary recommendations con-
cerning the coverage for a proposed strategy. A second review meeting will be
scheduled five months from the inception of the study, to review the proposed
recommendations before the report is finalized. The consultant will work with
and provide on-the-job training to a counterpart team to be appointed by MOI
for the duration of the study.



- 129 -                       ANNEX 4-B
Page 3
INDONESIA
INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Agro-industry Subsector Study
Terms of Reference
A. Introduction
1.       The Government of Indonesia intends to support the implementation of
a restructuring program for the agro-industry subsector, to improve its
efficiency and competitiveness, and to provide a basis for the sustained
development of the subsector. The work to be carried out under this Terms of
Reference (TOR) is expected to build on the existing material already avail-
able supplementing it as appropriate with additional work required to prepare
a comprehensive strategy for the subsector.
B. Objectives
2.       The objectives of the study include the development of:
(a) a strategy for the development of agro-industry in Indonesia,l/
particularly to increase its efficiency and competitiveness, and to
take full advantage of the ongoing liberalization and financial
sector reforms; and
(b) a restructuring program for priority segments and products, con-
sistent with the overall subsector strategy, including investment,
funding and technical assistance requirements for implementing the
program at the enterprise level.
C. Approach
3.       A two-stage approach is envisaged.  The first phase will include
subsector-based analysis of the main issues affecting agro-industry
develop-13nt in the policy, structure and institutional areas, and proposals
for the resolution of such issues that will constitute the basis for a
strategy for the subsector and for a restructuring program. This program
would detail priority actions by segment and product for these to achieve the
potential competitive advantage evaluated in the study and would include the
related investment, funding and technical assistance needs. The second phase
will include the implementation of the strategy and of the restructuring
program. This TOR refers only to the first phase.
1/ For the purposes of the study, agro-industry is defined as an
enterprise that processes agricultural raw materials, including ground
and tree crops as well as livestock.



- 130 -                        ANNEX 4-B
Page 4
D. Scone of Work
4.       The subsector-wide analyses to be performed will focus on the identi-
fication of main development issues and on recommendations for their
resolution with regard to the following key areas: (a) policy framework;
(b) subsector structure; (c) comparative advantage; and (d) institutions and
support services. A distinction should be made between those issues relevant
for the subsector as a whole and those pertinent to a particular segment or
product. The following analyses will be undertaken:
(a) brief historical review of the subsector, by segments and products;
(b) current status with regard to production structure, capacity, and
ownership; technology; product quality manpower; agricultural and
other inputs; geographical distribution of plants and capacities;
marketing and distribution arrangements for local and export markets;
financial structure, sources of investment and working capital
finance;
(c)  assessment of the policy environment; with reference to trade,
regulatory and financial policies, and to specific subsector
policies, including linkages with agricultural policies, as
appropriate;
(d) assessment of manpower availability and development needs;
(e) analysis of the institutional and supporting framework;
(f) assessment of the role of both public and private sectors in the
structure and organization of the subsector;
(g) analysis of existing demand and prospects for future demand (local
and exports); and
(h) assessment of the subsector's competitive position by segment and
product, both at present and in the future, in terms of (among other
factors) product cost and quality and with specific reference to the
nature and scope of competition in key international markets (for
this analysis, full use would be made of available studies).
E. End-Products
5.       The expected end-products would bes
(a) a recommended development strategy for the subsector, including:
(i) a product and market strategy (based on expected competitive
advantage); (ii) an appropriate industry structure;
(iii) determination of the institutional framework required;
(iv) overall determination of the resources required (inveatment,
funding and skills); (v) determination of the role to be played by
the public and private sectors; and (vi) list of policy reforms
needed to support implementation of the subsector strategy; and



- 131 -                       ANNEX 4-B
Page 5
(b) a restructuring program, for priority segments and products, at the
enterprise level, including investment, finance and technical
assistance requirements for executing such program.
F. Implementation
6.       It is expected that the study will be completed in a six-month
period. The consultant will prepare a progress report after three months of
the start of the study. A review meeting will be scheduled at that time to
review progress in the study and to discuss preliminary recommendations
concerning the coverage for a proposed strategy. A second review meeting will
be scheduled five months from the inception of the study, to review the
proposed recommendations before the report is finalized. The consultant will
work with and provide on-the-job training to a counterpart team to be
appointed by OI for the duration of the study.



-132 -                       ANNEX 4-B
Page 6
INDONESIA
INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Electronics Subsector Study
Terms of Reference
A. Introduction
1.       The Government of Indonesia intends to support the implementation of
a restructuring program for the electronics subsector, to improve its effi-
ciency and competitiveness, and to provide a basis for the sustained develop-
ment of the subsector. The work to be carried out under this Terms of Refer-
ence (TOR) is expected to build on the existing material already available
supplementing it as appropriate with additional work required to prepare a
comprehensive strategy and restructuring program for the subsector.
B. Obiectives
2.       The objectives of the study include the development oft
(a)  a strategy for the development of the Indonesian electronics subsec-
tor, particularly to increase its efficiency and competitiveness, and
to take full advantage of the ongoing trade, regulatory and financial
reforms; and
(b) a restructuring program for priority segments and products, consis-
tent with the overall subsector strategy, including investment, fund-
ing and technical assistance requirements for Implementing the pro-
gram at the enterprise level.
C. Approach
3.       A two-stage approach is envisaged.  The first phase will include a
subsector-based analysis of the main issues affecting the development in the
policy, structure and institutional areas, and proposals for the resolution of
such issues that will constitute the basis for a strategy for the subsector
and for a restructuring program. This program would detail priority actions
by segment and product for these to achieve the potential competitive advan-
tage evaluated in the study, and would include the related investment, funding
and technical assistance needs. The second phase will include the implementa-
tion of the strategy and of the restructuring program. This TOR refers only
to the first phase.
D. Scope of Work
4.       The subsector-wide analyses to be performed will focus on the identi-
fication of main development issues and on recommendations for their resolu-
tion with regard to the following key areass (a) policy framework; (b) sub-
sector structure; (c) comparative advantage; and (d) institutions and support



- 133 -                        ANNEX 4-B
Page 7
services. A distinction should be made between those issues relevant for the
subsector as a whole and those pertinent to a particular segment or product.
The following analyses will be undertaken:
(a) brief historical review of the subsector, by segments and products
(consumer electronics; telecommunications equipment; data processing
and controls; electronic components; engineering software);
(b) current status with regard to production structure, capacity, and
ownership; technology; product quality manpower; technology and other
inputs; geographical distribution of plants and capacities; marketing
and distribution arrangements for local and export markets: financial
structure; sources of investment and working capital finance;
(c) assessment of the policy environment, with reference to trade, regu-
latory and financial policies, and to specific subsector policies;
(d) assessment of manpower availability and development needs;
(e) analysis of the institutional and supporting framework, including
research and development;
(f) assessment of the role of both public and private sectors in the
structure and organization of the subsector;
(g) analysis of existing demand and prospects for future demand (local
and exports); and
(h) assessment of the subsector's potential for growth based on competi-
tive position by segment and product, both at present and in the
future, in terms of (among other factors) product cost and quality
and with specific reference to the nature and scope of competition in
key international markets (for this analyjis, full use would be made
of available studies).
E. End-Products
5.       The expected end-products would be:
(a) a recommended development strategy for the subsector, including:
(i) a product and market strategy for each segment and product (based
on expected competitive advantage and the most appropriate technolo-
gies for the subsector); (ii) an appropriate industry structure;
(iii) determination of the institutional framework required, includ-
ing the development of standards; (iv) overall determination of the
resources required (investment, funding, research and development and
skills); (v) determination of the role to be played by the public and
private sectors; and (vi) list of policy reforms needed to support
implementation of the subsector strategy with particular reference to
technology acquisition and foreign investment; and
(b)  a restructuring program, for priority segments and products, at the
enterprise level, including investment, finance and technical assis-
tance requirements for executing such program.



- 134 -                       ANNEX 4-B
Page 8
F. Implementation
6.       It is expected that the study will be completed in a six-month
period. The consultant wvil prepare a progress report after three months of
the start of the study. A meeting vill be scheduled at that time to review
progress in the study and to discuss preliminary recommendations concerning
the coverage of a proposed strategy. A second meeting will be scheduled five
months from the inception of the study, to review the proposed recommendations
before the final report is issued. The consultant will work with and provide
on-the-job training to a counterpart team to be appointed by MOI for the dura-
tion of the study.



- 135 -                       ANNEX 4-B
Page 9
INDONESIA
INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
The Packaging Subsector Study
Terms of Reference
A. Introduction
1.       Indonesia has a large and diverse packaging industry which is impor-
tant in terms of both its contribution to export trade, and for domestic com-
merce. Despite its size and diversity, packaging in Indonesia is seriously
deficient in that:
(a) It has failed to keep up with evolving trends in technology and
design of packing materials, to the extent that development of export
markets is significantly impaired by inadequate or inappropriate
packaging;
(b) The raw material allocation and distribution system, and the short-
ages of raw material have not met the growing needs of the packing
subsector further contributing to problems in the subsector;
(c) In domestic commerce, inadequate or inappropriate packaging, whether
through package design or lack of packaging materials, contributes to
product damage, material loss and delays of product distribution, and
is thus a significant contributing factor to overall economic ineffi-
ciency; and
(d) The shortages in the local supply of packaging have led to heavy
imports, as imported packaging is required to enable exports of many
goods, such as agroindustrial products.
2.       Recognizing these problems, the Government of Indonesia has decided
to give priority to the analysis and restructuring of the packaging subsector
with a view to identifying specific problem areas and constraints, developing
a strategy for their amelioration, and determining the appropriate economic
and regulatory environment to stimulate the implementation of this strategy
and the further efficient growth of the packaging industry.
B. Background to the Packaging Subsector
3.       Principal product groups in the packaging subsector includet
(a) metal-based packages (tin-plated steel cans, aluminum cans, steel contain-
ers such as drums, etc.); (b) plastic-based products (based on polyethylene,
polyvinylchloride (PVC), polypropylene, polystyrene, and others in the form of
films, bags, cups, bottles, containers, etc.); (c) cellulose and paper-based
packaging (including cellophane films, paper and paperboard packages and
boxes, and corrugated containers); (d) glass-based packages (bottles and
jars); and (e) other assorted packages including combination of the foregoing



- 136 -                       ANEX 4-B
Page 10
(paper/plastic and paper/aluminum/plastic laminates, paper and steel contain-
ers, and others). and miscellaneous other packages such as woven boxes. The
manufacture of these packages is primarily in the hands of specialized package
producing enterprises, but is also undertaken by the producers of the primary
raw materials (for example, the production of corrugated containers in a spe-
cialized line attached to a pulp and paper mill), or by the end-user of the
package (such as the manufacture of cement sacks from paper in a cement plant
or of plastic bags from plastic granules in a fertilizer plant). Whereas in
this respect the overall development of the packaging industry is not greatly
dissimilar from corresponding developments in more industrialized countries, a
number of factors have led to the distortions and structural deficiencies
which characterize the subsector today.
4.       Three major constraints hampering the development of the subsector in
Indonesia are: (a) insufficient supply (quantity and quality) of basic raw
materials and auxiliary materials (adhesives, inks, etc.); (b) outmoded manu-
facturing equipments and obsolete technology and design of packaging; and
(c) inadequate structure to serve the users' needs.  Furthermore, the imbal-
ance of supply of certain raw materials such as PVC and polyethylene has fur-
ther induced distorted design of certain packages (e.g. plastic bags).  This
has resulted in shortages of packaging, excessive imports and unused capaci-
ties.
C. Obiectives of the Study
5.       The specific objectives of the proposed packaging subsector study
are:
(a) to prepare a detailed review of the sup1pl' side of the subsector;
(b) to prepare a corresponding review of the emand side, with a dynamic
component to include the effects of changing demand patterns as a
result of the influences of technological and design developments and
substitutions;
(c) to identify the constraints which have led to the current deficien-
cies in the subsector;
(d) to develop a strategy for easing these contraints; this strategy
should be aimed at increasing the output value of the industry,
upgrading the levels of technology, equipment and management to meet
international standards and to reduce losses due to inadequate pack-
aging;
(e) to identify priority areas for action within this strategy, including
investments and the provision of technical assistance; and
(f)  to propose specific regulatory and incent.ve measures which would
first, stimulate developments within the proposed strategy to over-
come existing constraints, and second, ensure that the restructured
subsector would have the flexibility and capability to further
develop according to evolving packaging requirements.



- 137 -                       ANNEX 4-B
Page 11
D. ScoPe and Coverage
6.       Within these general objectives, the study should cover the specific
topics elaborated below. Considerable basic information and a number of stu-
dies of the subsector are available within Indonesia and will provide a start-
ing point for the analysis. However, extensive interviews and visits to
enterprises are also envisaged in order to confirm, update and deepen the
current understanding of the industry's structure, constraints and issues. As
detailed below (para. 11), the reporting and timetable envisaged for the study
allow for two intermediate in-depth progress reviews, in order to provide the
consultant with prel3minary feedback of interim findings and recommendations
as these may affect the subsequent direction of the study. The information
collection aspects of the study should include:
(a) Preliminary Segmentation. Determine market requirements for packag-
ing according to the nature of the products to be packaged, the vol-
ume of the packages, the transportation requirements and the existing
packaging products on international markets;
(b) Review of the SupplV Side
(i) Prepare a detailed statistical analysis of capacity and produc-
tion of major types of packages in Indonesia, including (but not
limited to) those identified in para. 3 above; identify the
regionaal structure for each of the main packaging products.
(ii) List the major producers of raw materials used for packaging in
Indonesia. Relate the capacity and the output of these indus-
tries to the quantity and quality demands of the packaging
industry.
(iii) Provide details of imports and exports of both raw materials and
final packages, by main segments, as these may affect the supply
of packaging in Indonesia.
(iv) List the major producers of packaging in Indonesia, providing
details of their size, ownership, structure, geographical loca-
tion, etc.
(v) Prepare an assessment of packaging development in selected
industrialized countries and compare the state (technological
developments, including package design and manufacture, size,
efficiency, etc.) of Indonesian packaging materials and package
producers.
(c) Review of the Demand Side
(i) Prepare a statistical analysis of the major users of packaging
in Indonesia, by type of industry and type of package.
(ii)  Prepare an input/output matrix of producer/user industries to
explain the relationships between suppliers and users of product
groups.



- 13S -                      ANNEX 4-B
Page 12
(iii)  Identify the choice criteria of the main users of packaging
(technological specifications, consumer preferences, price,
transportation costs, etc.).
(iv) Analyze the use of packaging for domestic commerce in Indonesia.
Identify weaknesses in the quality, supply or design of packag-
ing for domestic use, and attempt to quantitatively assess the
impacts of shortcomings in these areas, in particular the cost
of damages due to improper packaging.
(v)  Assess the quality of packing machinery in users' plants.
Determine whether the availability, design or other aspects of
this machinery contributes to problems in packaging.
(vi) Develop statistics showing the extent to which Indonesian pack-
ages are used to package export products, and the specific vol-
umes/quality of imported packaging to package export products.
Identify the impact of packaging on export volumes and price
realization on the various market segments.
(vii)  Discuss the continuing evolution of package design and manufac-
ture, and assess likely future developments which would be sig-
nificant in any long-term perspective for packaging development
in Indonesia.
(d)  Constraints and Favorable Factors to Development.  From the foregoing
qualitative and quantitative analysis of supply and demand, identify
all major constraints which contribute to inadequacies and ineffi-
ciencies in Indonesian packaging, as well as favorable factors which
have contributed to the success of some enterprises. The following
list suggests some possible contributing factors, but should be sup-
plemented by the findings of woe consultant:
Policy Environment
-    resource allocation system
-    pricing policies
-    export incentives
Technology
-    quality of raw materials
t - lack of access to evolving technology
-    existence/adequacy of product standards
-    testing and quality control
-    quality of packaging equipment
-    availability and utilization of local technology
Materials Availability
-    constraints on supply of imported materia:.s
-    constraints on supply of domestic materials



- 139 -                       ANNEX 4-B
Page 13
Finance and Credit
-    availability of investment finance
-    terms of trade credit
Marketing
-    availability of market information
-    dissemination of product information
Institutional
-    existing institutional facilities supporting the subsector
Managerial
-    organizational structure of the industry
-    management information systems and cost control
Manpower and Trainina
-    availability of adequately skilled workers
-    facilities for training
Infrastructure
-    geographical location of suppliers and users
-    transport system
- organization of distribution andlor wholesale storage and handling
E. Development of a Subsectoral Strateav
7.       The information collected above should provide an adequate basis for
the analytical components of the study which follow. The consultant should
prepare a strategy for short- and long-term development of Indonesia's packag-
ing industry, coherent with the local economic and financial environment.
This strategy will first, overcome the policy and operational constraints
which exist at present, and second, leave in place an industrial structure
which is readily able to adapt to the changing needs of the future. The
strategy should cover the immediate needs of the industry, for the period to
1992, which will form the basis of the priority areas for action (para. 8),
and should also provide a longer perspective to 2000 by identifying the steps
which need to be taken to ensure the long-term eff-cient and competitive
development of the industry.
F. Priority Areas for Action
8.       A major component of the short-term subsectoral strategy will be the
identification of priority areas for investment which may include:
(a) investments to improve the availability and quality of basic raw material
supplies; (b) investments to improve the availability and quality of special-
ized packaging materials (e.g., complex films); (c) investments in new
equipment for the production of packages; (d) investments in packing equipment



- 140 -              ~~~ANNEX 4-B
- 140 -                       Page 14
in the user's plant; and/or (e) investments in machinery to produce packaging
equipment. Priority areas for action may also include the provision of tech-
nical assistance for improving market orientation, and technological knowhow
in the areas of package design, manufacture, use and distribution, as well as
institutional strengthening.
9.       The consultant will prepare a detailed program of recommended prior-
ity actions, and develop preliminary estimates of the costs and benefits of
each component of this program.
G. Regulatorv and Incentive Recommendations
10.      The consultant will have identified the extent to which the existing
regulatory and incentive environment contributes to the present problems of
the packaging industry. Based on this analysis, the consultant will propose
measures for Government consideration which will not only remove these con-
straints, but also guide the future efficient development of the subse:tor.
H. Time Schedule and Reporting
11.      It is expected that the study can be contpleted in a total of six
months. A progress report covering the information collection aspects of the
study (para. 6) will be expected after two months, and an interim presentation
and review meeting at that time will be scheduled in order to review progress
in the work, and to develop preliminary recommendations concerning the cover-
age for the proposed subsectoral strategy, the priority areas for action, and
the regulatory and incentive framework. A second review meeting will be
scheduled five months from the inception of the study, to review proposed
recommendations before the report is finalized. The consultant will work with
and provide on-the-job training to a counterpart team to be appointed by MOI
for the duration of the study.



- 141 -
ANNEX S
Page 1
INDONESIA
INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Technical Assistance Component
Training of ParticiRatina Financial Institutions' Staff
1.       Background.  The experience and quality in credit evaluation and
subproject appraisal varies among the twelve participating financial institu-
tions (PFIs).V/ For most of these PFIs, credit evaluation entails an overall
review of the financial and organizational background of the enterprise
involving some financial analysis; economic evaluation and environmental
impact assessment are not normally included as part of PFIs' subproject
appraisal. For most of the PFIs, particularly the small private commercial
banks, experience in term lending for industry is limited since the main focus
of their lending activity is in the short term.  PDFCI and UPPINDO are the
PFIs with term lending experience and their subproject appraisal guidelines
include both financial and economic analysis.
2.       The scope and depth of training programs in the PFIs range as widely
as the relative size of the twelve PFIs. The larger state commercial banks,
as in the case of Bank BNI and BRI, have recently engaged the services of
international consultants to design massive training programs aimed at train-
ing all staff within the institution. Expatriate consultants work together
with staff in the training department of these banks to develop a comprehen-
sive training curriculum following the concept of "training-the-trainers".
The bank's own instructors are initially trained by the expatriate consultants
and later these same instructors train staff in other departments and in the
branches. These training programs are designed to include several modules or
phases; each of these is made up of a series of 2-3 week courses covering
various topics such as data management and accounting, credit analysis and
administration, term lending, project financing, loan decision making and
credit management skills. Training in most of the other PFIs, is provided in-
house through a series of seminars and lectures conducted by training depart-
ments and are designed primarily for new recruits and junior credit officers
on basic aspects of accounting, credit and management. From time to time,
guest speakers are invited from among their own management, from Bank
-Indonesia or from universities to speak on specific banking topics.
Additionally, middle to senior staff occasionally participate in banking
seminars and workshops sponsored by other banks, universities or banking
2 Bank Bumi Daya (BBD), Bank Dagang Negara (BDN), Bank Ekspor Impor
Indonesia (BEII), Bank Negara Indonesia 1946 (Bank BNI), Bank Rakyat
Indonesia (BRI), Bank Bali, Bank Duta, Bank Niaga, Bank Umum Nasional,
Bank Pembangunan Indonesia (BAPINDO), Private Development Finance
Company of Indonesia (PDFCI) and Usaha Pembiayaan Pembangunan Indonesia
(UPPINDO).



- 142 -
ANNEX 5
Page 2
institutes such as LPPI (Indonesian Banking Development Institute) and IPPM
(Management Development and Training Institute).
3.       Notwithstanding the above, training for the staff at the twelve PFIs
is geared mostly towards new staff and junior credit officers, with emphasis
on accounting, marketing, management and basic credit and financial concepts.
The existing training programs at the PFIs do not cover financial analysis in
great detail and virtually none include economic appraisal and environmental
impact assessment. Under the proposed Bank loan, appraisal of subproject for
financing will require the PFIs to conduct a thorough financial and economical
analysis of the proposed investment. This should cover details on the back-
ground, current activities, organizational and management systems of the
enterprise, a description of the restructuring measures to be undertaken by
the enterprise, project description, cost estimates and information on finan-
cing and procurement. Additionally, the appraisal requirements would make it
necessary for the PFIs' to conduct an assessment of the impact of the proposed
investment on the natural environment, and the facilities and measures taken
or to be taken, as part of the investment, in order to comply with the exist-
ing environmental laws and regulations.
4.       Training of PFIs' staff on how to conduct financial and economic
appraisals, including environmental impact assessments, especially for indus-
trial restructuring investments, would be essential to the effective implemen-
tation of the credit component of the proposed Project. In addition, the
training program will also include some understanding of, and therefore, a
better appreciation of industry characteristics such as production inputs,
scope of operation, technological choices and key environmental considera-
tions. Currently, where a technical appraisal is necessary, the PFIs rely
solely on recommendations from feasibility studies prepared by consultants
which have been contracted by the enterprise. Estimates provided by the PFIs
show that about 250 PFIs' staff members will require training in improving
their appraisal skills. Depending on individual PFI experience with the Bank,
the training content would need to include also familiarization with Bank
procedures.
5.       Objectives of Trainine Program.  The main goal of the proposed train-
ing program is to strengthen the subproject appraisal and supervision capabil-
ity of existing staff at the twelve PFIs, with specific reference to term-
lending for industry. The program will focus on financial, economic, market-
ing, technical, natural environment, and management aspects of subproject
appraisal, as well as on essential matters related to project supervision.
6.       While the proposed training program is targeted at staff of the
twelve PFIs who will be responsible for the appraisal and supervision activi-
ties related to the proposed industrial investments, it is anticipated that
the skills and techniques acquired by participants of the training program
will be passed on to their colleagues through their daily work interaction,
thus, leading to the overall improvement of appraisal and supervisory capaci-
ties of the PFIs.



- 143 -
AMSE 5
Page 3
7.       Training Program Content.  The training curriculum will cover, in
depth, a range of methodologies applicable to project appraisal and supervi-
sion, as detailed below:
(a) A review of appraisal coverage to include: existing enterprise oper-
ations (management and organizational systems), markets and market-
ing, project design, selection of production technology and arrange-
ments for investment implementation, environmental impact assessment,
project costs, procurement and disbursement procedures, financial,
economic and risk analysis;
(b) A review of financial analysis techniques to include: cash flow
analysis, capital budgeting, projection techniques dealing with reve-
nue, production costs and inflation, finlancial rate of return and
sensitivity analysis;
(c) A review of economic analysis to include: adjustments for taxes,
shadow-pricing of inputs and outputs, economic rate of return and
sensitivity analysis;
(d) Environmental impact assessment of projects, to include industrial
pollution, overview of pollution control techniques, analysis of
enterprise environmental control plans; and
(e) A review of project supervision techniques, including a review of the
role of the PFIs in project supervision, including reporting require-
ments, and supervision of physical implementation and procurement.
8.       It is estimated that about 250 PFIs' staff will participate in the
training program which will span over three years, with two courses to be
conducted each year. The duration of each course will be two weeks, although
some adjustments could be made, depending on the experience of the
participants. Due to the urgent need for such training, an initial training
course will be conducted by Bank staff prior to the effectiveness of the pro-
posed Bank loan. This will serve to provide key staff in the PPIs with the
skills and techniques on project financial, economic and environmental analy-
sis in subproject appraisal, especially for those PFIs using retroactive
financing.
9.       Participants will be nominated by each PFI, from middle to senior
level officers with at least three years of experience in loan appraisal
approval or supervision experience in the credit/loan marketing department.
It would be desirable that participants have a university degree in a relevant
discipline such as business administration, accounting, economics, marketing,
although backgrounds in other disciplines such as engineering, mathematics and
physical sciences will be adequate also.
10.      The Program would include one or a combination of the following:
formal lectures, selected readings, case studies, group discussions, simula-
tions, exercises and tests. Individual as well as group work will be empha-
sized. At the end of the program, each participant will have applied each
concept or "tool" at least once in some form of exercise and have received
feedback on his understanding and success in application. More time will be



- 144 -
ANEX 5
Page 4
devoted to the market and technical aspects of project appraisal because in
the Bank's experience with PFIs in previous loans (EDP I and EDP II), submis-
sions to the Bank for review and approval reflect analytical weaknesses on
these aspects.
11.      The program will introduce a framework for decision analysis which
enables credit analysts to systematically formulate decision criteria and
evaluate options for all types of decisions. This process facilitates the
evaluation of decisions in various aspects of project appraisal. As part of
the training program, simulated appraisal of a subproject will be made where
the working teams will present the results to a "Board" for approval. It is
anticipated that the review and presentation techniques will be taught to
enable the participants to carefully explain the important aspects of the
analysis and to defend their recommendations. Depending on the extent of
computer usage by the participants in their respective institution, the pro-
gram will introduce, as required, a computer model for use in project evalua-
tion.
12.      Organization.  In order for this training program to be implemented
effectively and successfully it is essential that a agency or institute
already established in Indonesia and experienced in development banking will
be entrusted with its implementation. The Indonesian Banking Development
Institute (LPPI) is the foremost banking development institute in the country
and has, over the years, played a pivotal role in providing training and sup-
port to the development of the banking industry in the Indonesia. It has an
ongoing training curriculum in various banking and related disciplines and has
a core of experienced staff and instructors drawn from local banking experts,
supported from time to time by expatriate consultants. Besides its excellent
reputation as a banking development institute in providing training programs,
LPPI is well equipped with lecture rooms, teaching aids and residential facil-
ities. The Bank has also enjoyed a long and satisfactory association with
LPPI which, in the past, has been the site for several training programs sup-
ported under previous Bank loans; most recently, the training seminar provided
under the Second Export Development Project (Loan 2979-IND) was conducted at
LPPI in July 1988, with the close cooperation of LPPI staff. For the training
program under the proposed loan, LPPI will plan, coordinate and implement the
program, assisted by short-term consultants, as required. LPPI will provide
the required facilities such as classrooms, equipment, and room and board.
LPPI will coordinate with the PFIs, on the selection of trainees for each
course.
13.      As the implementing institution, LPPI will review and assess the
quality of the course through interviews with participants and trainer(s) and
recommend adjustments to be in_zrporated in future courses, as deemed neces-
sary, to make the program more effective.
14.      LPPI will prepare annual training programs and budgets, in consulta-
tion with the PFIs, which will be submitted to the Bank for review and
approval. It is recommended that after the first year of project implementa-
tion and after two training courses have been conducted, to undertake a pro-
gram review to assess the course results and make specific recommendations for
the next courses.



- 145 -
Page 5
15.      Staffing.  To ensure the effective preparation of the program, it is
proposed that LPPI appoints a qualified and experienced trainer as head of the
program. Short-term consultants would be internationally recruited and would
be responsible for assisting LPPI in the overall organization of the program,
preparation of syllabus and materials for the courses and setting up a review
process. Lecturers would be existing LPPI staff or staff to be recruited
locally with senior-level experience on project evaluation methodologies.
16.      Cost and Financing.  Total estimated costs for a three-year training
program will be about US$450,000. This estimate includes all fees and related
expenses for the trainers, costs of LPPI's facilities and other operating
costs related to training materials, and contingencies. The table below shows
a breakdown of the estimated cost. It is proposed that the Bank loan would
finance 100% of the training program cost.
ESTIMATED COST OF TRAINING PROGRAM
(US$)
Local     Foreign      Total
Consultants (short-term)                           -     50,000     50,000
Facilities and Operating Costs (LPPI)       120,000    168,000    288,000
Program Promotion, Development and           10,000           -     10,000
Monitoring
Haterials and Software                             -     36,000     36,000
Computer Hardware                                  -     30,000     30,000
Base Cost                                 130,000    284,000    414,000
Price Contingencies                        10,000      26,000     36,000
Total Cost                                140.000    310.000    450.000
17.      LPPI will charge to participants from PFIs a fee that recovers a rea-
sonable amount of the total cost of providing such training but in no case at
levels accounting for less than 75% of such cost.
18.      Benefits of Training Program.  The principal benefit under the proposed
training program will be improved subproject appraisal capability of the twelve
PFIs' in the proposed Project. Specifically, the training should enable the
staff of the PFIs to effectively apply specific techniques learned for apprais-
ing the long-term viability of industrial projects to be financed by the PFIs
and be able to present results of appraisal in a manner that is acceptable to
the approving authority in the respective PFI. It is also expected that the
experience of the participants will filter through the institution and will
contribute to reducing the incidence of bad projects due to deficient appraisal
and thus to an overall healthier portfolio.



- 146 -                                 ANX
Page 1
INDONESIA
INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Key Implementation Indicators
Action                             Responsibility           Target Date
A.  Loan Effectiveness                 Government/Bank          August 1989
B.  Investment Conmonent
(a)  Signing of SLAs: MOF and      MOF; BI; SCBs;          May 1989
BI; MOF and SCBs; MOF         BAPINDO
and BAPINDO
(b)  Signing of OLAs: BI and       BI; PCBs; NBFIs         May 1989
PCBs; BI and NBFIs
(c)  BAPINDO to appoint Senior     BAPINDO                 not later than
Banking and Financial                                 August f1, 1989
Advisor
(d)  BAPINDO to adopt Long-term    BAPINDO                 not later than
Development Strategy and                              March 31, 1990
Implementation Plan
C. Technical Assistance Component
(a) Institutional Strengthening
- Set up Centers Network      BPPI/BBLM               July 1989
- Selection and appoint-      BPPI/BBLM               July 1989
ment of Consultants
- Start-up Standards Pre-     MOI Center for          July 1989
paration, Promotion       Standardization
and Monitoring
- Prepare Training            BPPI/BBLK               September 1989
Program on Standards
(b) Technical Services
- Establish TSGs              BPPI                    April 1989
- Selection and appoint-      BPPI                    June 1989
ment of local staff
- Selection and appoint-      BPPI/TSG                October 1989
ment of consultants       Managers/PTKS
(c) Training of PFIs' staff
- Financial Arrangement       BI/LPPI                 May 1989
- Selection and appoint-      LPPI                    August 1989
ment of consultant



ANNEX 6
- 147 -                                 Page 2
Action                              Responsibility           Target Date
D. Studies Comionent
(a)  Appointment of counter-        MOI/DGs                  May 1989
part teams
(b)  Selection and appoint-         MOI/DGs                  September 1989
ment of consultants
(c)  Start of studies               Consultant               October 1989
(d)  Completion of studies          Consultant               April 1990



- 148 -                              ANNEX 7
Page 1
INDONESIA
INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Formula for Calculation of Relending Rate from the Government to
Participating Financial Institutions (PFIs)
1.       The interest rate payable by all PFIs to the Government on funds out
of the Bank loan will be a variable rate per annum equal to the average
weighted interest cost of the PFIs' loanable funds arising out of their
customer deposits (i.e., excluding free funds from government and parastatal
agencies) over a six-month period. This rate will be determined according to
the following formula and adjusted every six months:
I -  (116) [   2        To             Ri~~t    t    t[  t [    t
Definitions
t      .    the last day of each of the most recent six months prior to an
Interest Period for which BI has consolidated data on the deposit
base of the PFIs 1/
ri     -    interest rate payable on PFIs' demand deposits, at time t
r4     -    interest rate payable on PFIs' time deposits, at time t
ri     -    interest rate payable on PFIs' savings deposits, at time t
Dt     =    the amount of PFIs' demand deposits, at time t
Tt     -    the amount of PFIs' time deposits, at time t
St     a    the amount of PFIs' savings deposits, at time t
MDt    -    minimum average balance of PFIs' demand deposits outstanding
during month immediately preceding time t
RI     -    reserves on time deposits of PFIs, at time t
Ri     -    reserves on savings deposits of PFIs, at time t
Re     -    reserves on demand deposits of PFIs, at time t
I      .    interest rate applicable on the Subsidiary Loan (from the Borrower
to all PFIs) for each interest period.
1/ In this formula, PFIs do not include BAPINDO, PDFCI and UPPINDO.



- 149 -                              ANAEX 7
Page 2
2.       Notvlthstanding the above cost-of-funds formula, the relending rate
will not be less than the interest rate on the Bank loan plus a margin of
1.75Z. -



- 150 -
ANNME 8
INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Estimated Disbursement Schedule for Bank Loan /a
(US$ million)
Bank fiscal        Semester          Cumulative Disbursements
year and semester      Amount             Amount        Percent
Fr 90
First             2.5                2.5              1
Second            1.5               11.0              4
FY 91
First            49.0               60.0             21
Second           50.0              110.0             39
First            40.0              150.0             53
Second           40.0              190.0             67
.FY 93
First            25.0              215.0             76
Second           25.0              240.0             85
FY94
First            22.0              262.0             92
Second           22.0              284.0            100
/a Closing Date: June 30, 1994.



- 151                              ANNEX 9
INDONESIA
INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Selected Documents Available in the Proiect File
A.   Reports and Studies on the Industrial Sector and Subsector
A.1   Government of Indonesia Policy Reform Packages, 1983-88
A.2   Engineering Subsector Project, IMG Consultants Pty. Litd. for the
Ministry of Industry, Sydney, 1985 and 1987 (7 volumes)
A.3   Textile Industry Study, Gherzi Textile Organization, for the
Ministry of Industry, Zurich, February 27, 1987 (2 volumes)
A.4   Indonesia - World Bank Subsector Report - The Pulp and Paper
Subsector, World Bank, December 1985
A.5   Development Prospects for the Engineering Industries, World Bank,
September 1981
A.6   Indonesia - Strategy for Economic Recovery, World Bank Report,
May 5, 1987
A.6   Indonesia - Adjustment, Growth and Sustainable Development, World
Bank Report, May 2, 1988
B.   ReDorts and Studies on the Prolect
B.1   Proposals for Industrial Strengthening and Technical Services for
the Engineering, Pulp and Paper and Textile Subsectors, Ministry of
Industry, May 1988
B.2   Participating Financial Institutions - Annual audited and others
reports, December 31, 1987 and June 30, 1988
B.3   Training Program, B.E. Gooi, December 1988
B.4   Engineering Industries:  Institutional Strengthening and Technical
Services, H. Sethi, December 1988
B.5   Indonesia, Steel Subsector Review, E. Mangan, February 1989
C.   Working Paipers
C.A   Capital Cost Estimates, Appraisal Mission, September 1988
C.2   Questionnaires on Investment Pipeline, Jakarta, September 1988
C.3   BKPM Investment Pipeline, Jakarta, September 1988
C.4   PFIs Investment Pipeline, Jakarta, September 1988



