Page  1
                                                   CONFORMED COPY
                                              LOAN NUMBER 3040 IND
                (Industrial Restructuring Project)
                              between
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                                and
         PRIVATE DEVELOPMENT FINANCE COMPANY OF INDONESIA
              USAHA PEMBIAYAAN PEMBANGUNAN INDONESIA
                        Dated June 1, 1989
                                              LOAN NUMBER 3040 IND
              NON-COMMERCIAL BANKS PROJECT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated June 1,  1989 between the INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR  RECONSTRUCTION  AND   DEVELOPMENT   (the  Bank)  and  PRIVATE
DEVELOPMENT  FINANCE  COMPANY  OF   INDONESIA  (PDFCI)  AND  USAHA
PEMBIAYAAN PEMBANGUNAN INDONESIA (UPPINDO).
     WHEREAS (A)  by  the  Loan  Agreement  of  even date herewith
between the Republic of Indonesia (the Borrower) and the Bank, the
Bank has agreed to lend to  the Borrower an amount in various cur-
rencies equivalent  to  two  hundred  eighty-four  million dollars
($284,000,000), on the terms and  conditions set forth in the Loan
Agreement, but only on condition that PDFCI and UPPINDO each agree
to undertake such obligations toward the  Bank as are set forth in
this Agreement; and
     (B)  by on-lending agreements to  be  entered into between BI
and PDFCI and UPPINDO, part  of  the proceeds of the Loan provided
for under the Loan Agreement  will  be made available to PDFCI and
UPPINDO on terms and conditions set forth in the PDFCI and UPPINDO
Page  2
On-lending Agreements; and
     WHEREAS PDFCI and  UPPINDO,  in  consideration  of the Bank's
entering into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, have agreed to
undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                            Definitions
     Section 1.01.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several terms defined in the  Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this
Agreement and in the  General  Conditions  as  so defined have the
respective meanings therein set forth.
                            ARTICLE II
                     Execution of the Project;
          Management and Operations of PDFCI and UPPINDO
     Section 2.01. PDFCI and  UPPINDO  declare their commitment to
the objectives of the Project  as  set  forth in Schedule 2 to the
Loan Agreement, and, to this  end,  shall  carry out Part A of the
Project and conduct  their  operations  and affairs, in accordance
with sound financial standards  and  practices, with qualified and
experienced  management  and  staffing   in  adequate  number  and
qualifications, and in accordance with their Charters, as the case
may  be,  and  shall  provide,  promptly  as  needed,  the  funds,
facilities, services and other  resources  required  for Part A of
the Project.
     Section 2.02.  (a)  PDFCI  and  UPPINDO  each undertake that,
unless the Bank shall otherwise  agree, Sub-loans shall be made in
accordance with the procedures and on the terms and conditions set
forth or referred to in the Schedule to this Agreement.
     (b)  PDFCI and  UPPINDO  each  shall  exercise  its rights in
relation to each Restructuring  Investment  in  such manner as to:
(i)  protect  the  interests  of  the  Bank  and  of  the relevant
Participating  Financial   Institution;   (ii)   comply  with  its
obligations  under  this  Agreement  and  the  relevant On-lending
Agreement; and (iii) achieve the purposes of the Project.
     Section 2.03. PDFCI  and  UPPINDO  each  shall  carry out the
obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and
9.09 of the  General  Conditions  (relating  to  insurance, use of
goods and  services,  plans  and  schedules,  records and reports,
maintenance and land  acquisition)  in  respect  of  Part A of the
Project.
     Section 2.04. PDFCI and  UPPINDO  each shall duly perform all
its obligations under the relevant On-lending Agreement. Except as
the Bank shall otherwise agree,  PDFCI  and UPPINDO shall not take
or concur in any action which  would have the effect of assigning,
amending,  abrogating  or   waiving  their  respective  On-lending
Agreement or any provision thereof.
     Section 2.05.  (a)  PDFCI  and  UPPINDO  each  shall,  at the
request of the Bank, exchange  views  with the Bank with regard to
the progress of the Project,  the performance of their obligations
under  this  Agreement  and   under  their  respective  On-lending
Agreement and other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
     (b)  PDFCI and UPPINDO  shall  furnish  to  the Bank all such
information as the  Bank  shall  reasonably request concerning the
expenditures of  the  proceeds  of  the  Sub-loans, the Industrial
Enterprises, the Restructuring Investments and the administration,
operations and financial condition of PDFCI and UPPINDO.
     (c)  PDFCI and UPPINDO shall promptly  inform the Bank of any
Page  3
condition which  interferes  or  threatens  to  interfere with the
progress of Part  A  of  the  Project,  the  accomplishment of the
purposes of the Loan, or  the  performance by PDFCI and UPPINDO of
their respective obligations under  this Agreement and under their
On-lending Agreement.
     Section 2.06. Except as the  Bank and PDFCI and UPPINDO shall
otherwise agree,  PDFCI  and  UPPINDO  each:  (a)  shall not sell,
lease, transfer or otherwise  dispose  of  any  of its property or
assets, except in the ordinary  course  of business; and (b) shall
take all action necessary to  maintain its corporate existence and
right to carry  on  its  operations  and  to acquire, maintain and
renew all rights, powers,  privileges  and franchises necessary or
useful in the conduct of its business.
     Section 2.07. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, PDFCI
and UPPINDO  shall  use  the  proceeds  accrued  to  them from the
repayment of the principal  of  Sub-loans for further relending to
Industrial Enterprises for Sub-loans  on  the terms and conditions
set forth in  the  Schedule  to  this  Agreement (except for those
relating  to  the  Bank's  approval  of  Sub-loans)  and  with due
consideration to their respective  obligations under the PDFCI On-
lending Agreement and UPPINDO On-lending Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 3.01.  (a)  PDFCI  and  UPPINDO  each  shall maintain
procedures and records adequate to monitor and record the progress
of the Project and of each Restructuring Investment (including its
cost and the benefits to  be  derived  from  it) and to reflect in
accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting practices
the operations and financial condition of PDFCI and UPPINDO.
     (b)  PDFCI and UPPINDO each shall:
          (i)  have their records,  accounts  and financial state-
               ments (balance  sheets,  statements  of  income and
               expenses and  related  statements)  for each fiscal
               year  audited,   in   accordance  with  appropriate
               auditing   principles   consistently   applied,  by
               independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank,  as  soon  as available but in
               any case not later  than  nine months after the end
               of each  such  year:  (A)  certified  copies of its
               financial statements for  such  year as so audited,
               and (B) the report of  such audit by said auditors,
               of such scope and in  such detail as the Bank shall
               have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information concern-
               ing said records, accounts and financial statements
               as well as the audit thereof as the Bank shall from
               time to time reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account  were  made  on  the  basis of statements of
expenditure, PDFCI and UPPINDO each shall:
          (i)  maintain, in accordance with  paragraph (a) of this
               Section, separate  records  and accounts reflecting
               such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, until at least one  year after the Bank has
               received the audit  report  for  the fiscal year in
               which the last withdrawal from the Loan Account was
               made,  all  records  (contracts,  orders, invoices,
               bills,  receipts  and  other  documents) evidencing
               such expenditures;
Page  4
        (iii)  enable the Bank's  representatives  to examine such
               records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such separate  accounts are included in
               the annual audit  referred  to  in paragraph (b) of
               this Section and that  the report thereof contains,
               in respect of  such  separate  accounts, a separate
               opinion by said auditors as to whether the proceeds
               of the Loan withdrawn  in  respect of such expendi-
               tures were used  for  the  purposes  for which they
               were provided.
     Section 3.02. PDFCI  and  UPPINDO  each  shall, in their term
lending operations, take such steps as shall be necessary to cover
themselves against foreign exchange risk.
     Section 3.03. PDFCI  and  UPPINDO  each  shall, commencing on
their fiscal year 1989 and thereafter, maintain a collection ratio
of not less than 80% on all Sub-loans and other lending operations
made  by  PDFCI  and  UPPINDO  under  Prior  Loan  Agreements. For
purposes of this Section  the  terms: (a) "collection ratio" means
total cash  collection  in  the  last  twelve  month  period  as a
percentage of amounts past  due  at  the  start of the period plus
billings  of  current  amounts   due,   net  of  amounts  due  but
rescheduled;  and  (b)  "Prior  Loan  Agreements"  means  the Loan
Agreements entered into between the  Republic of Indonesia and the
Bank of even date herewith  (Loan  No. 3041-IND), as well as those
dated January 28, 1977  (Loan  No.  1363-IND), and August 24, 1988
(Loan No. 2979-IND), and  the Development Credit Agreement entered
into between  the  Republic  of  Indonesia  and  the International
Development Association dated  November  2,  1973 (Credit No. 436-
IND), as the case may be.
     Section 3.04. (a) Except  as  the Bank shall otherwise agree,
UPPINDO and PDFCI, each, commencing  on their fiscal year 1989 and
thereafter, shall not incur any  debt,  if after the incurrence of
such debt  their  respective  ratio  of  debt  to  equity shall be
greater than 7 to 1.
     (b)  For purposes of this Section:
          (i)  The term "debt"  means  any indebtedness of UPPINDO
               and PDFCI maturing by its  terms more than one year
               after the date on which it is originally incurred.
         (ii)  Debt shall be deemed  to  be  incurred: (A) under a
               loan  contract  or  agreement  or  other instrument
               providing for such debt  or for the modification of
               its terms of payment on  the date of such contract,
               agreement or instrument; and  (B) under a guarantee
               agreement, on the date  the agreement providing for
               such guarantee has been entered into.
        (iii)  The term "equity" means the  sum of the total unim-
               paired paid-up  capital,  subordinated  loans under
               terms  and  conditions  satisfactory  to  the Bank,
               retained earnings and reserves of UPPINDO and PDFCI
               not allocated to cover their specific liabilities.
         (iv)  Whenever for the purposes  of this Section it shall
               be necessary to value, in  terms of the currency of
               the Borrower,  debt  payable  in  another currency,
               such valuation shall be  made  on  the basis of the
               prevailing lawful rate  of  exchange  at which such
               other currency is, at  the  time of such valuation,
               obtainable for the purposes of servicing such debt,
               or, in the absence of such  rate, on the basis of a
               rate of exchange acceptable to the Bank.
      Section 3.05. In order to monitor and evaluate semi-annually
the performance criteria set  forth  in  Sections 3.03 and 3.04 of
this Agreement, PDFCI  and  UPPINDO  each  shall maintain adequate
Page  5
procedures and records satisfactory to the Bank.
                            ARTICLE IV
                    Effective Date; Termination
                    Cancellation and Suspension
     Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
     Section 4.02. This Agreement and  all obligations of the Bank
and of PDFCI and UPPINDO thereunder shall terminate on the date on
which the Loan Agreement  shall  terminate  in accordance with its
terms, and  the  Bank  shall  promptly  notify  PDFCI  and UPPINDO
thereof.
     Section 4.03.  All  the  provisions  of  this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
                             ARTICLE V
                     Miscellaneous Provisions
     Section 5.01. Any notice or  request required or permitted to
be given or made  under  this  Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by  this  Agreement  shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be  deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall  be  delivered  by  hand  or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the  party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or  made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at  such  other  addresses  as  such party shall have
designated by notice to  the  party  giving  such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for Reconstruction
            and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                    Telex:
               INTBAFRAD                       440098 (ITT)
               Washington, D.C.                248423 (RCA) or
                                                64145 (WUI)
    For PDFCI:
          Private Development Finance
            Company of Indonesia
          Jl. Abdul Muis 60
          Jakarta, Indonesia
          Cable address                     Telex:
               BEASWASTA                       46778 PDFCI IA
    For UPPINDO:
          Usaha Pembiayaan Pembangunan Indonesia
          Jl. H. R. Rasuna Said Kav C-19
          Jakarta, Indonesia
                                            Telex:
                                               46343 UPPINDO IA
     Section 5.02. Any action  required  or permitted to be taken,
and any documents required or permitted to be executed, under this
Page  6
Agreement on behalf of PDFCI  and  UPPINDO or by PDFCI and UPPINDO
on behalf of the Borrower  under  the Loan Agreement, may be taken
or executed by its President Director,  or by such other person or
persons as their Board  of  Managing  Directors shall designate in
writing,  and  PDFCI  and  UPPINDO   shall  furnish  to  the  Bank
sufficient  evidence  of  the   authority  and  the  authenticated
specimen signature of each such person.
     Section 5.03.  This  Agreement  may  be  executed  in several
counterparts, each of which shall  be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                        INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                        By /s/ Attila Karaosmanoglu
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                              Asia
                        PRIVATE DEVELOPMENT FINANCE COMPANY OF
                        INDONESIA
                        By /s/ Abdul Rachman Ramly
                                         Authorized Representative
                        USAHA PEMBIAYAAN PEMBANGUNAN INDONESIA
                        By /s/ Abdul Rachman Ramly
                                         Authorized Representative
                             SCHEDULE
                 Terms and Conditions of Sub-loans
1.   Sub-loans shall have a maximum  repayment period of 15 years;
including  grace  period,  if  any,   and  interest  rate  at  the
prevailing  market  rate   for   similar   lending  operations  in
Indonesia.
2.   Without limitation to the proviso set forth in paragrah 3 (a)
of Schedule 1 to  the  Loan  Agreement, no expenditures for goods,
civil works or  services  required  for a Restructuring Investment
shall be eligible for financing  out  of  the proceeds of the Loan
unless:
     (a)  the Sub-loan  for  such  Restructuring  Investment shall
have been approved by  the  Bank  and such expenditures shall have
been made not earlier than ninety  days prior to the date on which
the Bank  shall  have  received  the  application  and information
required under paragraph 4 (a) of this Schedule in respect of such
Sub-loan; or
     (b)  the Sub-loan  for  such  Restructuring  Investment shall
have been a free-limit Sub-loan  for which the Bank has authorized
withdrawals from the Loan Account and such expenditures shall have
been made not earlier than ninety  days prior to the date on which
the Bank shall have received  the request and information required
Page  7
under paragraph 4 (b) of  this  Schedule  in respect of such free-
limit Sub-loan. For the  purposes  of  the Loan Agreement and this
Agreement,  a  free-limit  Sub-loan  shall  be  a  Sub-loan  for a
Restructuring Investment in an  amount  to  be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan which shall  not exceed the sum of $1,500,000
equivalent when added to any other outstanding amounts financed or
proposed to be financed out of  the  proceeds of the Loan for such
Restructuring Investment;  provided,  however,  that regardless of
their amount, the first two Sub-loans  made or proposed to be made
by PDFCI and UPPINDO shall be subject to the Bank's approval.
3.   Except as the Bank  shall  otherwise agree, PDFCI and UPPINDO
each shall not  make  any  Sub-loan  in  an  amount: (a) below the
equivalent  of  $250,000,  and  (b)  exceeding  the  equivalent of
$10,000,000, or in an  amount  which  would exceed such limit when
added to the  amount  of  all  other  Sub-loans  made for the same
Restructuring Investment out of the proceeds of the Loan.
4.   (a)  When presenting a Sub-loan (other than a free-limit Sub-
loan) to the  Bank  for  approval,  PDFCI  and  UPPINDO each shall
furnish to the Bank an application,  in a form satisfactory to the
Bank,  together  with:  (i)   a   description  of  the  Industrial
Enterprise  and  an  appraisal  of  the  Restructuring Investment,
including  a  description  of  the  expenditures  proposed  to  be
financed out of the proceeds of  the Loan; (ii) the proposed terms
and  conditions  of  the   Sub-loan,  including  the  schedule  of
amortization  of  the  Sub-loan;  (iii)  an  environmental  impact
analysis of the Restructuring Investment together with a survey to
identify existing environmental  impact  and proposed solutions to
ameliorate such impact;  and  (iv)  such  other information as the
Bank shall reasonably request.
     (b)  Each request by PDFCI  and  UPPINDO for authorization to
make withdrawals from the Loan  Account in respect of a free-limit
Sub-loan  shall  contain:  (i)   a   summary  description  of  the
Industrial Enterprise and  the Restructuring Investment, including
a description of the expenditures  proposed  to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan; and (ii) the terms and conditions of the
Sub-loan, including the schedule of amortization therefor.
     (c)  Applications and requests  made  pursuant  to the provi-
sions of sub-paragraphs (a)  and  (b)  of  this paragraph shall be
presented to the Bank on or before June 30, 1992.
5.   Sub-loans shall be made  on  terms  whereby PDFCI and UPPINDO
each  shall  obtain,  by  written  contract  with  the  Industrial
Enterprise or by other appropriate legal means, rights adequate to
protect  the  interests  of  the   Bank  and  PDFCI  and  UPPINDO,
including, in the case of any Sub-loan the right to:
     (a)  require  the  Industrial  Enterprise  to  carry  out and
operate  the  Restructuring  Investment  with  due  diligence  and
efficiency and in accordance  with  sound technical, financial and
managerial standards and to maintain adequate records;
     (b)  require that: (i) the goods, civil works and services to
be financed out of the proceeds  of the Loan shall be purchased at
a reasonable price,  account  being  taken  also of other relevant
factors  such  as,  in  the  case  of  goods,  time  of  delivery,
reliability and availability  of  maintenance facilities and spare
parts therefor, and, in the  case  of civil works and services, of
their quality and the  competence  of  the parties rendering them;
and (ii)  such  goods,  civil  works  and  services  shall be used
exclusively in the carrying out of the Restructuring Investment;
     (c)  inspect, by itself  or  jointly  with representatives of
the Bank, if the Bank shall  so request, such goods, works, plants
and constructions and installations, as  the case may be, included
in the Restructuring  Investment,  the  operation thereof, and any
relevant records and documents;
     (d)  require that: (i)  the  Industrial Enterprise shall take
Page  8
out and maintain with responsible insurers such insurance, against
such risks and in such amounts,  as shall be consistent with sound
business practice; and (ii) without  any limitation upon the fore-
going, such insurance shall cover hazards incident to the acquisi-
tion, transportation and  delivery  of  goods  financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan  to  the  place  of  use or installation, any
indemnity thereunder  to  be  made  payable  in  a currency freely
usable by the  Industrial  Enterprise  to  replace  or repair such
goods;
     (e)  obtain all such  information  as  the  Bank or PDFCI and
UPPINDO shall reasonably request relating  to the foregoing and to
the administration,  operations  and  financial  conditions of the
Industrial Enterprise and to the  benefits  to be derived from the
Restructuring Investment; and
     (f)  suspend  or  terminate  the   right  of  the  Industrial
Enterprise to the use of the  proceeds of the Loan upon failure by
such Industrial Enterprise  to  perform  its obligations under its
contract with PDFCI and UPPINDO.
6.   Except as the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree,  to qualify for
obtaining a Sub-loan, an Industrial Enterprise shall demonstrate:
     (a)  that its long-term  debt:equity  ratio  shall not exceed
70:30; that the current ratio shall not be less than 1.2; and that
the debt-service cover ratio shall not be less than 1.5; and
     (b)  that the Restructuring Investment for which the Sub-loan
is being requested shall:
          (i)  be in the engineering, pulp and paper, and textiles
               subsectors and  conform  with  the  definition of a
               Restructuring    Investment    provided    for   in
               Section 1.02 (oo) of the Loan Agreement;
         (ii)  be financed, by  not  less  than  30%  of its total
               cost, from  the  own  resources  of such Industrial
               Enterprise;
        (iii)  have a financial and economic rate of return of not
               less than 15%; and
         (iv)  satisfy  environment   guidelines  and  regulations
               existing in Indonesia.
