Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                              LOAN NUMBER 3040 IND
                (Industrial Restructuring Project)
                              between
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                                and
                    BANK PEMBANGUNAN INDONESIA
                        Dated June 1, 1989
                                              LOAN NUMBER 3040 IND
                     BAPINDO PROJECT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated June 1, 1989, between the INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and BANK PEMBANGUNAN
INDONESIA (BAPINDO).
     WHEREAS (A)  by  the  Loan  Agreement  of  even date herewith
between the Republic of Indonesia (the Borrower) and the Bank, the
Bank has agreed to lend to  the Borrower an amount in various cur-
rencies equivalent  to  two  hundred  eighty-four  million dollars
($284,000,000), on the terms and  conditions set forth in the Loan
Agreement, but only on  condition  that BAPINDO agree to undertake
such  obligations  toward  the  Bank  as  are  set  forth  in this
Agreement; and
     (B)  by  a  subsidiary  loan  agreement  to  be  entered into
between the Borrower and BAPINDO, part of the proceeds of the Loan
provided for under the  Loan  Agreement  will be made available to
BAPINDO  on  terms  and  conditions   set  forth  in  the  BAPINDO
Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
Page  2
     WHEREAS BAPINDO, in consideration of the Bank's entering into
the Loan Agreement with the  Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                            Definitions
     Section 1.01.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several terms defined in the  Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this
Agreement and in the  General  Conditions  as  so defined have the
respective meanings therein set forth.
                            ARTICLE II
                     Execution of the Project;
               Management and Operations of BAPINDO
     Section  2.01.  BAPINDO   declares   its  commitment  to  the
objectives of the Project as set  forth  in Schedule 2 to the Loan
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out Part A of the Project
and conduct its operations  and  affairs, in accordance with sound
financial standards and practices,  with qualified and experienced
management and staffing in adequate number and qualifications, and
in accordance with its Governing  Law, and shall provide, promptly
as needed, the  funds,  facilities,  services  and other resources
required for Part A of the Project.
     Section 2.02. (a)  BAPINDO  undertakes  that, unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, Sub-loans shall  be made in accordance with
the procedures  and  on  the  terms  and  conditions  set forth or
referred to in the Schedule to this Agreement.
     (b)  BAPINDO shall exercise  its  rights  in relation to each
Restructuring Investment in  such  manner  as  to: (i) protect the
interests of  the  Bank  and  of  BAPINDO;  (ii)  comply  with its
obligations under this Agreement  and  the BAPINDO Subsidiary Loan
Agreement; and (iii) achieve the purposes of the Project.
     Section 2.03. BAPINDO  shall  carry  out  the obligations set
forth in Sections 9.04,  9.05,  9.06,  9.07,  9.08 and 9.09 of the
General  Conditions  (relating  to  insurance,  use  of  goods and
services, plans and  schedules,  records  and reports, maintenance
and land acquisition) in respect of Part A of the Project.
     Section 2.04. BAPINDO shall  duly perform all its obligations
under the BAPINDO Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement.  Except as the Bank
shall otherwise agree, BAPINDO  shall  not  take  or concur in any
action  which  would  have  the  effect  of  assigning,  amending,
abrogating or waiving the BAPINDO Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any
provision thereof.
     Section 2.05. (a) BAPINDO shall,  at the request of the Bank,
exchange views with the Bank  with  regard  to the progress of the
Project, the performance of  its  obligations under this Agreement
and under the BAPINDO Subsidiary  Loan Agreement and other matters
relating to the purposes of the Loan.
     (b)  BAPINDO shall furnish to  the  Bank all such information
as the Bank shall  reasonably  request concerning the expenditures
of the proceeds of the  Sub-loans, the Industrial Enterprises, the
Restructuring Investments and  the  administration, operations and
financial condition of BAPINDO.
     (c)  BAPINDO shall promptly inform  the Bank of any condition
which interferes or threatens  to  interfere  with the progress of
Part A of the Project,  the  accomplishment of the purposes of the
Loan, or the performance by  BAPINDO of its obligations under this
Agreement and under the BAPINDO Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Page  3
     Section 2.06. Except as the  Bank and BAPINDO shall otherwise
agree, BAPINDO: (a) shall  not  sell, lease, transfer or otherwise
dispose of any of its  property  or assets, except in the ordinary
course of business; and  (b)  shall  take  all action necessary to
maintain  its  corporate  existence  and  right  to  carry  on its
operations and to acquire, maintain  and renew all rights, powers,
privileges and franchises necessary  or  useful  in the conduct of
its business.
     Section 2.07.  Except  as  the  Bank  shall  otherwise agree,
BAPINDO shall use the proceeds accrued to it from the repayment of
the principal of  Sub-loans  for  further  relending to Industrial
Enterprises for Sub-loans on the terms and conditions set forth in
the Schedule to this Agreement  (except  for those relating to the
Bank's approval of Sub-loans)  and  with  due consideration to its
obligations under the BAPINDO Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
                        Financial Covenants
     Section  3.01.  (a)  BAPINDO  shall  maintain  procedures and
records adequate to monitor and record the progress of the Project
and of each Restructuring  Investment  (including its cost and the
benefits to be derived from it)  and to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained sound  accounting practices the operations
and financial condition of BAPINDO.
     (b)  BAPINDO shall:
          (i)  have its records, accounts and financial statements
               (balance sheets, statements  of income and expenses
               and  related  statements)   for  each  fiscal  year
               audited, in  accordance  with  appropriate auditing
               principles  consistently  applied,  by  independent
               auditors acceptable to the Bank;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank,  as  soon  as available but in
               any case not later  than  nine months after the end
               of each  such  year:  (A)  certified  copies of its
               financial statements for  such  year as so audited,
               and (B) the report of  such audit by said auditors,
               of such scope and in  such detail as the Bank shall
               have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information concern-
               ing said records, accounts and financial statements
               as well as the audit thereof as the Bank shall from
               time to time reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account  were  made  on  the  basis of statements of
expenditure, BAPINDO shall:
          (i)  maintain, in accordance with  paragraph (a) of this
               Section, separate  records  and accounts reflecting
               such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, until at least one  year after the Bank has
               received the audit  report  for  the fiscal year in
               which the last withdrawal from the Loan Account was
               made,  all  records  (contracts,  orders, invoices,
               bills,  receipts  and  other  documents) evidencing
               such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Bank's  representatives  to examine such
               records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such separate  accounts are included in
               the annual audit  referred  to  in paragraph (b) of
               this Section and that  the report thereof contains,
               in respect of  such  separate  accounts, a separate
Page  4
               opinion by said auditors as to whether the proceeds
               of the Loan withdrawn  in  respect of such expendi-
               tures were used  for  the  purposes  for which they
               were provided.
     Section 3.02. BAPINDO shall,  in its term lending operations,
take such steps  as  shall  be  necessary  to cover itself against
foreign exchange risk.
     Section 3.03. BAPINDO shall, commencing on March 1, 1990, and
thereafter, maintain a collection ratio  of not less than 77.5% on
its lending operations  and  a  loan  arrears  ratio not to exceed
7.5%. For purposes  of  this  Section  the  terms: (a) "collection
ratio" means total cash collection in the last twelve month period
as a percentage of amounts  past  due  at  the start of the period
plus billings of current amounts  due, net of amounts rescheduled;
and (b)  "loan  arrears  ratio"  means  arrears  on  principal and
interest over three  months  due  as  a  percentage of total loans
outstanding. For purposes of  this Section, BAPINDO shall maintain
procedures and records  satisfactory  to  the  Bank to monitor and
evaluate the said performance criteria semi-annually.
     Section  3.04.   BAPINDO   shall   be   eligible  to  request
withdrawals from the Loan for Sub-loans, up to an aggregate amount
of $20,000,000, upon  BAPINDO  furnishing evidence satisfactory to
the Bank that its collection ratio and loan arrears ratio, as such
terms are defined in Section 3.03  of this Agreement, shall not be
less than 72.5%  and  not  to  exceed  7.5%, respectively. BAPINDO
shall be eligible to  request  withdrawals  from the Loan for Sub-
loans in excess of the  aggregate  amount of $20,000,000 and up to
BAPINDO's allocation of the proceeds of the Loan, once BAPINDO has
furnished evidence satisfactory  to  the  Bank  that  shows it has
reached the collection ratio  and  loan arrears ratio provided for
in Section 3.03 of this Agreement.
     Section 3.05. (a) Except  as  the Bank shall otherwise agree,
BAPINDO, commencing  with  its  fiscal  year  1989 and thereafter,
shall not incur any debt,  unless  its net revenues for the fiscal
year immediately preceding the  date  of  such incurrence or for a
later  twelve-month  period  ended  prior  to  the  date  of  such
incurrence, whichever is the greater, shall be at least 1.25 times
the estimated maximum debt service requirements of BAPINDO for any
succeeding fiscal year on all  debt of BAPINDO, including the debt
to be incurred.
     (b)  For the purposes of this Section:
          (i)  The term "debt"  means  any indebtedness of BAPINDO
               maturing by its terms more  than one year after the
               date on which it is originally incurred.
         (ii)  Debt shall be deemed  to  be  incurred: (A) under a
               loan  contract  or  agreement  or  other instrument
               providing for such debt  or for the modification of
               its terms of payment on  the date of such contract,
               agreement or instrument; and  (B) under a guarantee
               agreement, on the date  the agreement providing for
               such guarantee has been entered into.
        (iii)  The  term  "net   revenues"  means  the  difference
               between:
               (A)  the sum of  revenues  from all sources related
                    to  operations  adjusted  to  take  account of
                    BAPINDO's interest rates in effect at the time
                    of the  incurrence  of  debt  even though they
                    were not  in  effect  during  the twelve-month
                    period to which  such  revenues relate and net
                    non-operating income; and
               (B)  the sum of all  expenses related to operations
                    including       administration,       adequate
Page  5
                    maintenance, taxes  and  payments  in  lieu of
                    taxes,    but    excluding    provision    for
                    depreciation, other non-cash operating charges
                    and interest and other charges on debt.
         (iv)  The  term  "net  non-operating  income"  means  the
               difference between:
               (A)  revenues from  all  sources  other  than those
                    related to operations; and
               (B)  expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu
                    of  taxes,  incurred   in  the  generation  of
                    revenues in (A) above.
          (v)  The  term  "debt  service  requirements"  means the
               aggregate amount  of  repayments (including sinking
               fund payments, if any)  of,  and interest and other
               charges on, debt.
         (vi)  Whenever for the purposes  of this Section it shall
               be necessary to value, in  terms of the currency of
               the Borrower,  debt  payable  in  another currency,
               such valuation shall be  made  on  the basis of the
               prevailing lawful rate  of  exchange  at which such
               other currency is, at  the  time of such valuation,
               obtainable for the purposes of servicing such debt,
               or, in the absence of such  rate, on the basis of a
               rate of exchange acceptable to the Bank.
     Section 3.06.  Except  as  the  Bank  shall  otherwise agree,
BAPINDO, commencing  with  its  fiscal  year  1989 and thereafter,
shall take all such  action  as  shall  be  necessary to ensure an
interest cover ratio of not  less  than 1.5 times. For purposes of
this Section the term "interest  cover ratio" means cash generated
by operations (gross cash  income  less administrative and general
expenses and income tax) divided by total interest on borrowings.
     Section 3.07. By August 31,  1989,  or such other date as the
Bank shall otherwise agree,  BAPINDO  shall retain the services of
an  advisor  whose   qualifications,   experience  and  terms  and
conditions of employment  shall  be  satisfactory  to the Bank for
purposes of advising BAPINDO's management on banking and financial
matters, including the preparation and implementation of BAPINDO's
long  term  development  strategy  and  implementation  plan. Such
advisor  shall  be  selected  in  accordance  with  principles and
procedures  satisfactory  to  the   Bank   on  the  basis  of  the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and
by the World Bank as  Executing  Agency"  published by the Bank in
August 1981.
     Section 3.08. By March 31,  1990,  or  such other date as the
Bank  shall  otherwise  agree,  BAPINDO  shall  adopt  a long-term
development strategy and implementation  plan, satisfactory to the
Bank, and, thereafter, implement such plan.
                            ARTICLE IV
                    Effective Date; Termination
                    Cancellation and Suspension
     Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
     Section 4.02. This Agreement and  all obligations of the Bank
and BAPINDO thereunder shall  terminate  on  the date on which the
Loan Agreement shall terminate  in  accordance with its terms, and
the Bank shall promptly notify BAPINDO thereof.
     Section 4.03.  All  the  provisions  of  this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
Page  6
                             ARTICLE V
                     Miscellaneous Provisions
     Section 5.01. Any notice or  request required or permitted to
be given or made  under  this  Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by  this  Agreement  shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be  deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall  be  delivered  by  hand  or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the  party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or  made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at  such  other  addresses  as  such party shall have
designated by notice to  the  party  giving  such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for Reconstruction
            and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                    Telex:
               INTBAFRAD                       440098 (ITT)
               Washington, D.C.                248423 (RCA) or
                                                64145 (WUI)
    For BAPINDO:
          Bank Pembangunan Indonesia
          P.O. Box 140
          Jakarta, Indonesia
          Cable address:                    Telex:
               BAPINDO                         61577-BPINKB
               Jakarta
     Section 5.02. Any action  required  or permitted to be taken,
and any documents required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of  BAPINDO  or  by  BAPINDO  on behalf of the
Borrower under the Loan Agreement, may be taken or executed by its
President  Director,  or  by  such  other  person  or  persons  as
BAPINDO's Board of Managing  Directors shall designate in writing,
and BAPINDO shall furnish to  the  Bank sufficient evidence of the
authority and the  authenticated  specimen  signature of each such
person.
     Section 5.03.  This  Agreement  may  be  executed  in several
counterparts, each of which shall  be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                        INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                        By /s/ Attila Karaosmanoglu
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                              Asia
Page  7
                        BANK PEMBANGUNAN INDONESIA
                        By /s/ Abdul Rachman Ramly
                                         Authorized Representative
                             SCHEDULE
                 Terms and Conditions of Sub-loans
1.   Sub-loans shall have a maximum  repayment period of 15 years,
including  grace  period,  if  any,   and  interest  rate  at  the
prevailing  market  rate   for   similar   lending  operations  in
Indonesia.
2.   Without limitation  to  the  proviso  in  paragraph  3 (a) of
Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement, no expenditures for goods, civil
works or services required for a Restructuring Investment shall be
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan unless:
     (a)  the Sub-loan  for  such  Restructuring  Investment shall
have been approved by  the  Bank  and such expenditures shall have
been made not earlier than ninety  days prior to the date on which
the Bank  shall  have  received  the  application  and information
required under paragraph 4 (a) of this Schedule in respect of such
Sub-loan; or
     (b)  the Sub-loan  for  such  Restructuring  Investment shall
have been a free-limit Sub-loan  for which the Bank has authorized
withdrawals from the Loan Account and such expenditures shall have
been made not earlier than ninety  days prior to the date on which
the Bank shall have received  the request and information required
under paragraph 4 (b) of  this  Schedule  in respect of such free-
limit Sub-loan. For the  purposes  of  the Loan Agreement and this
Agreement,  a  free-limit  Sub-loan  shall  be  a  Sub-loan  for a
Restructuring Investment in an  amount  to  be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan which shall  not exceed the sum of $1,500,000
equivalent when added to any other outstanding amounts financed or
proposed to be financed out of  the  proceeds of the Loan for such
Restructuring Investment;  provided,  however,  that regardless of
their amount, the first two Sub-loans  made or proposed to be made
by BAPINDO shall be subject to the Bank's approval.
3.   Except as the Bank  shall  otherwise agree, BAPINDO shall not
make any  Sub-loan  in  an  amount:  (a)  below  the equivalent of
$250,000, and (b) exceeding  the  equivalent of $10,000,000, or in
an amount which would exceed  such  limit when added to the amount
of all other Sub-loans made  for the same Restructuring Investment
out of the proceeds of the Loan.
4.   (a)  When presenting a Sub-loan (other than a free-limit Sub-
loan) to the Bank for approval,  BAPINDO shall furnish to the Bank
an application, in a form satisfactory to the Bank, together with:
(i) a description of the Industrial Enterprise and an appraisal of
the  Restructuring  Investment,  including  a  description  of the
expenditures proposed to be  financed  out  of the proceeds of the
Loan; (ii) the  proposed  terms  and  conditions  of the Sub-loan,
including the schedule of  amortization  of the Sub-loan; (iii) an
environmental  impact  analysis  of  the  Restructuring Investment
together with a survey  to  identify existing environmental impact
and proposed solutions to  ameliorate  such  impact; and (iv) such
other information as the Bank shall reasonably request.
     (b)  Each  request  by  BAPINDO  for  authorization  to  make
withdrawals from the Loan Account  in respect of a free-limit Sub-
loan shall contain: (i)  a  summary  description of the Industrial
Enterprise  and   the   Restructuring   Investment,   including  a
description of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan;  and  (ii)  the  terms and conditions of the
Page  8
Sub-loan, including the schedule of amortization therefor.
     (c)  Applications and requests  made  pursuant  to the provi-
sions of sub-paragraphs (a)  and  (b)  of  this paragraph shall be
presented to the Bank on or before June 30, 1992.
5.   Sub-loans  shall  be  made  on  terms  whereby  BAPINDO shall
obtain, by written contract  with  the Industrial Enterprise or by
other appropriate  legal  means,  rights  adequate  to protect the
interests of the Bank and  BAPINDO,  including, in the case of any
Sub-loan the right to:
     (a)  require  the  Industrial  Enterprise  to  carry  out and
operate  the  Restructuring  Investment  with  due  diligence  and
efficiency and in accordance  with  sound technical, financial and
managerial standards and to maintain adequate records;
     (b)  require that: (i) the goods, civil works and services to
be financed out of the proceeds  of the Loan shall be purchased at
a reasonable price,  account  being  taken  also of other relevant
factors  such  as,  in  the  case  of  goods,  time  of  delivery,
reliability and availability  of  maintenance facilities and spare
parts therefor, and, in the  case  of civil works and services, of
their quality and the  competence  of  the parties rendering them;
and (ii)  such  goods,  civil  works  and  services  shall be used
exclusively in the carrying out of the Restructuring Investment;
     (c)  inspect, by itself  or  jointly  with representatives of
the Bank, if the Bank shall  so request, such goods, works, plants
and constructions and installations, as  the case may be, included
in the Restructuring  Investment,  the  operation thereof, and any
relevant records and documents;
     (d)  require that: (i)  the  Industrial Enterprise shall take
out and maintain with responsible insurers such insurance, against
such risks and in such amounts,  as shall be consistent with sound
business practice; and (ii) without  any limitation upon the fore-
going, such insurance shall cover hazards incident to the acquisi-
tion, transportation and  delivery  of  goods  financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan  to  the  place  of  use or installation, any
indemnity thereunder  to  be  made  payable  in  a currency freely
usable by the  Industrial  Enterprise  to  replace  or repair such
goods;
     (e)  obtain all  such  information  as  the  Bank  or BAPINDO
shall reasonably request  relating  to  the  foregoing  and to the
administration,  operations  and   financial   conditions  of  the
Industrial Enterprise and to the  benefits  to be derived from the
Restructuring Investment; and
     (f)  suspend  or  terminate  the   right  of  the  Industrial
Enterprise to the use of the  proceeds of the Loan upon failure by
such Industrial Enterprise  to  perform  its obligations under its
contract with BAPINDO.
6.   Except as the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree,  to qualify for
obtaining a Sub-loan, an Industrial Enterprise shall demonstrate:
     (a)  that its long-term  debt:equity  ratio  shall not exceed
70:30; that the current ratio shall not be less than 1.2; and that
the debt-service cover ratio shall not be less than 1.5; and
     (b)  that the Restructuring Investment for which the Sub-loan
is being requested shall:
          (i)  be in the engineering, pulp and paper, and textiles
               subsectors and  conform  with  the  definition of a
               Restructuring    Investment    provided    for   in
               Section 1.02 (oo) of the Loan Agreement;
         (ii)  be financed, by  not  less  than  30%  of its total
               cost, from  the  own  resources  of such Industrial
Page  9
               Enterprise;
        (iii)  have a financial and economic rate of return of not
               less than 15%; and
         (iv)  satisfy  environment   guidelines  and  regulations
               existing in Indonesia.
