CIRCULATING COPY
lO1BE RETURNED TO REPORTS DESK
Report No. 986a-FIJ FILE COPY
Appraisal of the Sugar Development Project
REURN TO
March 9, 1976                                                          REPORTS Da-,7< 
East Asia and Pacific Projects Department                                     WITHIN
Irrigation and Area Development Division                                   ONE  weF
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00                  Fiji Dollar (F$) 0.85
F$1.00                   US$1.17
US$1 mAiUion             F$854,000
F$1 milion               US$1,171,500
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES - ENGLISH SYSTEM
1 inch (in)              =    25.40 milimeters
1 foot (ft)              =    0.305 meters
1 mile (mi)              -    1.609 kilometers
1 acre 2(ac)2            =    0.405 hectares
1 mile  (mi )            =    2.590 kilometers
1 pound (lb)                  0.454 kilograms
1 hundredweight (cwt)    =    50.80 kilograms
1 long ton (ton)         =    1,016 kilograms
1 mile/hour (mph)             0.447 meters/second
1 ft /minute (cfm)            0.472 liters/second
1 horsypowe5 (hp)        =    745.7 watts 3
1 yard  (yd )            =    0.765 meters
1 gallon (gal)           =    4.546 liters
INITIALS AND ACRONYMS
CSR       -    Colonial Sugar Refining Company Limited of Australia
DID       -    Drainage and Irrigation Division of MAFF
DPVII     -    Development Plan VII (1976-1980)
FDB       -    Fiji Development Bank
FSC       -    Fiji Sugar Corporation Limited
MAFF      -    Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Forests
PWD       -    Public Works Department
NLDC      -    Native Land Development Corporation Limited
NLTB      -    Native Land Trust Board
SPSM      -    South Pacific Sugar Mills Limited (Predecessor to FSC)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
FIJI
APPRAISAL OF THE SUGAR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSION. .................................. -  i
I.   INTRODUCTION  ..*..       ..........    ................            1
II.   BACKGROMN  .....................................     1
General ..................................    I
The Agricultural Sector ................................   1
The Sugar Industry .....................................   2
Institutions .................... s*...... 6.....0....    3
Land Tenure and Farm Size .4....... ................   4
Project Formulation ........ . ....... .  ... .............    5
III.   THE PROJECT AREA         .........................                   7
General ................................ *      ................   7
Climate ........... .*..... 0-.6. 09........ ......    7
Seaqaqa Settlement ................ ........ ......   7
Drainage Improvement .....................   9
IV.   THE PROJECT .....         .......... .......... .  .......... ...   10
General ....................... .. ...... . .10
Seaqaqa Settlement ...............................     11
Status of Engineering ..................            .............  12
Implementation .........  ...... .           ......................  13
Cost Estimates            .................... 13
Financing .................................   15
Procurement . ....        .   .. .          ..................  16
Disbursements        ............. ........ . ...   18
Accounts and Audit ................ . ........ ....  18
Environmental Effects ......... ......................  18
V.   ORGANIZATION AND MANAGENENT . ........... . ...............  19
Seaqaqa Settlement  .......................  .O ......  ..  19
Drainkage Improvement ............ ......................   20
Supporting Agricultural Services .......................  21
Monitoring Benefits ... ........ .......... ........... ...    22
Cost and Benefit Recovery . * ...............................  23
This document has a restricted distribution and may be,used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-2-
Page No.
VI.   PRODUCTION, MARKET PROSPECTS, PRICES AND
FARM INCOMES .... ..................................   25
Production ....................................   25
Market Prospects .       .............. .....26
Prices .    .    ........................ .................  26
Farm Incomes                 ..... 27
VII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION .28
VIII.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION         .....   29
ANNEXES
1.   Climatic Data
2.   Seaqaqa Settlement
3.   Drainage Improvement
4.   Cost Estimates
5.   Equipment List
6.   Estimated Schedule of Expenditures and Disbursements
7.   Production, Farm Operating Costs and Farm Budgets -
Seaqaqa Settlement
8.  Production, Farm Operating Costs and Farm Budgets -
Drainage Improvement
9.   Cost and Benefit Recovery
10.   Economic Analysis
CHARTS
Implementation Schedule No. 15164
Seaqaqa Settlement - Management Organization No. 15154 (2R)
Seaqaqa Settlement - Organization for Road Construction No. 15155 (3R)
Drainage Improvement - Organization for Drainage and Irrigation
Division No. 15156 (R)
Seaqaqa Settlement - Calendar of Farm Operations No. 15157 (2R)
MAPS
Project Location No. 11851
Seaqaqa Settlement Area No. 11852



FIJI
APPRAISAL OF THE SUGAR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSION
1.        The Government of Fiji has requested Bank assistance in financing
a Sugar Development Project, which would increase sugarcane production by
completing an ongoing settlement scheme at Seaqaqa (pronounced "Seang-gang-
ga") on the island of Vanua Levu and by improving drainage on low-lying
coastal sugarcane lands on Viti Levu and Vanua Levu. The settlement part
of the project would consist of land clearing and the establishment of
sugarcane on about 8,000 ac of rolling, scrub- and forest-covered land;
construction of a sugar tramline extension, main road improvements and
farm access roads; sites and services for a new township; and loans from
the Fiji Development Bank for the purchase of tractors, farm implements, sugar-
cane transport vehicles and first year subsistence to the settlers.  The drain-
age improvement part of the project would include reconstruction of seawalls
with tidal gates; improvement of internal drains on 26,400 ac of sugarcane
land; photogrammetric mapping; and procurement of vehicles and construction of
offices.
ii.       The Government gives high priority to agricultural growth and
increased sugar production for export. A related objective is increased
participation of native Fijians in commercial agriculture. To increase
production the Government has adopted a dual approach to improving the
efficiency of land use by encouraging farmers to bring unused land into
production and by restoring the productivity of high potential coastal
land where drainage has deteriorated. In support of the Government's new
priorities, the Fiji Sugar Corporation began an investment program in
1973 to increase sugar output. Part of this program involves an increase
in the annual capacity of the Lambasa mill on Vanua Levu by 25,000 tons.
To meet this increase the Government and the Corporation began the settle-
ment of about 800 farmers, half of Indian descent and half native Fijian,
to produce 200,000 tons of sugarcane per year on largely uncultivated land
at Seaqaqa, about 25 miles west of the mill. Investigations have also
shown that a further 200,000 tons of sugarcane could be produced annually
by reconstructing seawalls and improving internal drainage in coastal areas
where saltwater intrusion and waterlogging have led to falling yields.
iii.      Total project cost is estimated at F$22.2 million (US$26.0 million)
of which US$12.0 million, or approximately 46%, would be in foreign exchange.
The Bank would finance the foreign exchange component. A subsidiary loan
agreement would provide for the on-lending of US$6.0 million from the Gov-
ernment to the Fiji Development Bank on the same terms as the Bank loan
except that the Government would bear the foreign exchange risks. Since the
Seaqaqa settlement is an ongoing project, it is proposed that expenditures
incurred beginning January 1, 1976 would be eligible for Bank assistance,
with the exception of earthworks for the tramline extension, for which retro-
active financing to September 1975 is proposed. About US$550,000 of retro-
active financing would be involved, including US$350,000 for the tramline.



- ii -
iv.       Earthworks for the tramline extension (US$0.8 million) are being
carried out under contract awarded in September 1975 after international
competitive bidding in accordance with Bank Group guidelines for procure-
ment. The award was reviewed by Bank staff. To maintain the project's
momentum and ensure that cane transport does not become a bottleneck to the
realization of project benefits, it would be appropriate to include these
works in the project as well as to provide retroactive financing. Fiji
Sugar Corporation staff would construct bridges and install the rails using
materials already on hand. Civil works for land clearing (US$1.7 million),
seawall reconstruction and internal drainage improvements (US$4.5 million)
would be carried out under contracts awarded after local competitive bidding.
The small, scattered nature of these works makes them unsuitable for inter-
national competitive bidding. The same would apply to construction of the
main, farm access and township roads (US$5.4 million), and since it is ex-
pected that the local contracting industry would be fully extended with other
ongoing and anticipated work, these roads would be constructed by force ac-
count. Equipment for road construction and maintenance (US$1.8 million) would
be procured in accordance with local procedures. International competitive
bidding would not be warranted because of the small number and diversity of
items involved, the desirability of standardization with existing equipment
and the advantage of existing service arrangements with local suppliers.
Tractors and farm implements (US$0.6 million) would be purchased after local
shopping by borrowers with credit provided by the Fiji Development Bank.
Three specially designed cane transport vehicles (US$0.2 million) would be
purchased for the 1976 harvest. Procurement arrangements for ten more such
vehicles (US$0.7 million) would be determined after review by the Government
and the Bank of the perforamnce of the equipment.
V.        Implementation would take five years.  The two parts of the proj-
ect would be carried out independently under the overall direction of the
Permanent Secretary for Agriculture, Fisheries and Forests. For the Seaqaqa
settlement, he would be chairman of a central coordinating committee respon-
sible for policy in the settlement area. A Project Manager appointed by
and reporting to the Permanent Secretary would be responsible for the settle-
ment; the Public Works Department would be responsible for constructing and
maintaining project roads, and the Drainage and Irrigation Division of the
Department of Agriculture in conjunction with local Drainage Boards would
be responsible for drainage improvement.
vi.       At full development, annual incremental sugarcane production from
the project is expected to be 330,000 tons. Resulting raw sugar exports
of 41,000 tons would earn US$13.1 million a year in foreign exchange. The
project would benefit some 3,400 sugarcane farmers and their families, or
17,000 people, plus about 500 new township residents. It would create 3,500
agricultural jobs during the six-month crushing season and 800 jobs during
the slack season. Annual per capita incomes in the settlement area would
increase from about US$200 at present, compared with a national per capita
GDP in 1974 of US$640, to US$800 after repayment of project loans, or about



- iii -
90% of anticipated per capita GDP in 1985 of US$875. Per capita incomes of
US$520 to US$590 for farmers affected by poor drainage would increase to
US$870 with the project.
vii.      The cost of the Seaqaqa settlement comes to about US$15,500 per
family of five, including the residents of the proposed new township. The
high cost is due largely to the heavy investments required in road and rail
infrastructure to move large amounts of a heavy, bulky commodity over un-
favorable terrain in a short time. Excluding the cost of the tramline,
the main road and the township, and considering only the settler/farmers
as beneficiaries, the cost per family would be just over US$10,000. Further
excluding the credit elements, which would be fully repaid over five years,
the cost per family would be US$8,500. The settlement would bring settlers
up to the income level of sugarcane farmers elsewhere in Fiji. The cost per
family in the drainage improvement areas would be much lower -- US$3,200 for
the entire investment or US$2,100 excluding seawall reconstruction, which
the Government considers a national responsibility.
viii.     The economic rate of return on all project investments combined
and for each part of the project separately would be about 20%. Under a
number of adverse assumptions, the rate of return on each part of the
project would still exceed 13%.
ix.       The proposed project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$12.0 mil-
lion, with a 20-year maturity including a grace period of five years. The
borrower would be Fiji.






FIJI
APPRAISAL OF THE SUGAR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Fiji has requested Bank assistance in financing
a Sugar Development Project. The project would increase sugarcane production
by completing an ongoing settlement scheme at Seaqaqa (pronounced "Seang-
gang-ga") on the island of Vanua Levu and by improving drainage on low-lying
coastal sugarcane lands on Viti Levu and Vanua Levu.
1.02      The project was identified by a Bank mission in September/October
1974 and prepared by the Government of Fiji with assistance from the FAO/IBRD
Cooperative Program. This report is based on the findings of an appraisal
mission, which visited Fiji in July/August 1975, composed of Messrs. R.L.P.
Harris (Bank), W.F.L. Bright and D.E.M. Fiennes (Consultants).
II. BACKGROUND
General
2.01      Located in the South Pacific about 3,200 km northeast of Sydney,
Australia, Fiji is a small country isolated from the main centers of world
population and trade. The 300 islands of the Fiji Group are scattered over
90,000 mi2 of ocean, but their total land area is only about 3,000 mi2. Of
the 100 or so permanently inhabited islands, the two largest, Viti Levu and
Vanua Levu, account for 90% of the total land area and more than 90% of the
population. Total population is 564,000 (1974) of which 42% are Melanesians,
locally called "Fijians," 50% are of Indian descent and 8% are Chinese, whole
or part Europeans and other races. During the past decade Fiji has achieved
a remarkable reduction in its population growth rate from 3.3% per year in
the 1956-65 period to 1.8% in 1974, largely due to a successful family plan-
ning program. Real GDP per capita grew at 4.9% annually from 1965 to 1973
and reached US$640 in 1974 at current prices. 1/
The Agricultural Sector
2.02      The Fiji economy has traditionally relied upon agriculture with
sugar and copra the main sources of cash income, supplemented by a large
subsistence economy. Some 60% of the population is supported by farming in
part or in whole. Despite Fiji's generally good overall growth performance
during tne past decade, output in agriculture, fisheries and forestry has
1/   Government of Fiji, Bureau of Statistics, Current Economic Statistics,
April 1975.



-2-
remained stagnant. As a result, the sector's share of GDP fell from over 40Z
in the early 1960's to 25% in the early '70s. The imbalance between agri-
culture and the rest of the economy has led to increasing rural-urban population
drift and growing imports of food items such as rice, dairy and beef products.
2.03      After sugar (para 2.04), coconuts are the second most important
commercial and export crop in Fiji. They are grown mainly by Fijians in
Vanua Levu, Taveuni and the outer islands of the Lau Group (Map 11851).
There is a small but potentially important livestock and dairy industry on
the wet, windward side of Viti Levu supplying the domestic market. Rice is
also grown on the main islands, mostly by Indians as a subsistence crop.
Fijian subsistence agriculture accounts for about 40% of agricultural output
and is generally found in the interior of the islands and on coastal land
not occupied by cane or coconuts. It consists mainly of root crops grown
under an extensive system of land rotation. Inshore fishing is traditional
among Fijians and forests are also an important resource.
The Sugar Industry
2.04      Sugar is Fiji's largest industry, contributing 10% of GNP and 70%
of export earnings; it is the country's largest employer, with about 30,000
direct employees. Sugarcane occupies a contract area of about 165,000 ac,
or 37% of Fiji's productive land, of which about 70% is harvested each year.
Sugarcane is grown mainly in alluvial areas of western Viti Levu and north-
ern Vanua Levu. It is estimated that, based on topography, soils and the
level and distribution of rainfall, sugarcane yields over the whole cane
area of Fiji, should average 24 ton/ac harvested compared with an actual
average yield of about 20 ton/ac. Production reached a peak of 394,000 tons
of raw sugar in 1968 but fell steadily from 355,000 tons in 1970 to 269,000
tons in 1974 due to bad weather in some years, increasing salt water intrusion
along the coast, waterlogging in low-lying areas and poor field management.
About 25,000 tons are sold domestically and the remainder is exported, mainly
to the U.K.
2.05      Sugarcane farming developed in Fiji in the late nineteenth century
and was initially characterized by plantation management and wage labor,
including a large number of Indians on indenture contracts. With the end of
indentured immigration in 1916 and the collapse of the sugar market in 1920,
the plantation system became financially unviable and was transformed into
the tenant and small farm system which persists today. Under this system,
individual growers typically lease 10-12 ac farms and provide cane for the
mill under contract. Today 85% of the sugarcane area is farmed by the
descendants of the Indian laborers and 13.5% by Fijians, mainly on leases from
the Native Land Trust Board (para 2.10). The remaining 1.5% of the cane
area is farmed on an estate basis by FSC or by a small number of smallholders
of other races.
2.06      By 1926 the Colonial Sugar Refining Co. Ltd. of Australia (CSR)
was the sole miller in the country. Four of its five original mills, at
Lambasa, Lautoka, the Rarawai mill at Mba and the Penang mill at Raki Raki,
are still in operation. In 1962, following a growers' strike and contract



-3-
dispute, CSR formed a subsidiary company, South Pacific Sugar Mills Ltd.
(SPSM), to take over operation of the four mills. SPSM became a public
company in 1964 and CSR offered to sell shares in the company to Fiji resi-
dents, but was only able to sell about 2% of the issued capital. In 1969
Lord Denning was appointed as an independent authority to settle another
contract dispute. His award, which the Government adopted in 1970 as the
basis for a new ten-year contract between SPSM and the sugarcane growers,
was generally welcomed by the growers but was unacceptable to CSR. Agree-
ment was therefore reached in early 1971 on terms for the Government to buy
CSR's interest in SPSM. The sale became effective on April 1, 1973 and the
name of the company was changed to the Fiji Sugar Corporation Ltd. (FSC).
FSC, which now has a statutory monopoly to manufacture raw sugar in Fiji,
has maintained a technical and marketing arrangement with CSR which is due
to expire after March 31, 1976. Arrangements have been made, however, for
CSR to continue to provide technical assistance to FSC in certain critical
areas. The Government has also established a wholly owned company, Fiji
Sugar Marketing Co. Ltd, which has a tripartite marketing agreement with
FSC and CSR whereby CSR will remain the sole marketing agent for Fiji export
sugar until March 31, 1977. An assurance was obtained that FSC would continue
to maintain appropriate arrangements to ensure technical and marketing ef-
ficiency. On the field side, FSC provides inputs on credit, research, ex-
tension services, controls pests and diseases and organizes harvesting and
transport of cane to mill.   The FSC Board reports to the Minister of Agri-
culture, Fisheries and Forests who may, after consultation, give the Board
directions on general matters of policy.
2.07      Financially, FSC (and its predecessor, SPSM) has remained modestly
profitable and has been able to maintain annual dividend payments and provide
for expansion after meeting current expenditures and corporate tax obliga-
tions. The average net profit after tax from 1968 to 1974 was F$1.5 million,
or 6.7% of average shareholders' equity. For the same period, the return
on total assets employed averaged 4.6%, while dividends received by share-
holders averaged 7.1%. Although FSC's profitability might be considered low
by the standard of private companies in the industry, this results from
political pressure to maximize the growers' share of sugar sale proceeds (para
6.05) rather than from any inefficiencies of operation. Since the Government
owns 98% of the shares, low or even no dividends could be justified as re-
flecting the Government's intention to make rural life more attractive. On
the other hand, care must be taken to ensure that FSC has sufficient resources
in the future to meet its current obligations and provide for replacement,
modernization and expansion to maintain its competitive position in the world
sugar market.
Institutions
2.08      In addition to FSC, a number of other institutions provide services
to farmers in sugarcane areas. The Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and
Forests (MAFF) is responsible for all agricultural development activities in
Fiji including research and extension for all crops other than sugarcane.
The Drainage and Irrigation Division (DID) of the Ministry's Department of



- 4 -
Agriculture is responsible for irrigation in rice producing areas and reha-
bilitation and improvement of drainage works and seawalls throughout the
country. DID works in conjunction with seven statutory Drainage Boards
set up to maintain and improve drainage works in defined areas.
2.09      The Public Works Department (PWD) is responsible for construction
and maintenance of all roads in Fiji down to country road standard. Its
Roads and Airfield Division, headquartered in Suva, provides designs while
the Operations Division, through its Divisional Roads Engineers in each geo-
graphical division, constructs and maintains the works.
2.10      The Native Land Trust Board (NLTB) is a statutory authority which
administers all native land on behalf of its Fijian owners (para 2.12-2.13).
The Native Land Development Corporation (NLDC) is a wholly-owned subsidiary
of NLTB recently formed to implement NLTB's new policy to become actively
involved in the development of native lands, both rural and urban.
2.11      The Fiji Development Bank (FDB) is an independent statutory author-
ity, wholly owned by the Government with the duty to promote the economic
development of Fiji within the framework of the Government's general economic
plans, policies and priorities. It has an authorized capital of F$8 million
(US$9.5 million) and a paid-up capital of F$4.6 million, wholly contributed
by the Fiji Government. Total borrowings as of June 30, 1975 were F$3.5
million including F$1.0 million disbursed from an Asian Development Bank
loan of US$2.0 million approved in 1973. The rest of its borrowings are
from various local financial institutions.
Land Tenure and Farm Size
2.12      Some 83% of Fiji's total land area or about 3.8 million ac is owned
communally by over 6,000 Fijian land owning units called "mataqali". 1/ About
10% of this "native land" is reserved for the exclusive use of Fijians, while
the remainder may be used by members of any race with the consent of the
mataqalis. Other land is either freehold (10%) or Crown Land (7%).
2.13      Native land may be leased but not sold.  Fiji Indians own less than
2% of the land but farm some 450,000 ac of the best land in the country,
including most of the sugarcane land, under leases from NLTB, the Crown or
freehold owners. FSC only awards sugarcane contracts to farmers with freehold
ownership or individual leases, and not to mataqalis. Therefore Fijians as
well as Indians must secure agricultural leases, mostly from NLTB, in order
to grow sugarcane. NLTB leases include provision for good cultivation and
soil conservation practices. Maximum rent is 6% of the unimproved value of
the land subject to reassessment every five years. NLTB may retain 25% of
the value collected as a service fee; the remainder goes to the owning
mataqali for distribution among its members.
1/   Pronounced "ma-tang-ga-li".  There are other types of group registra-
tion but the mataqali is by far the most important.



2.14      Agricultural leases are subject to the Agricultural Landlord and
Tenant Ordinance, which provides that leases for seasonal crops operate for
a minimum of t9n years with two extensions, subject to a claim of greater
hardship bg the owner. In practice the minimum term has become the stand-
ard, and has led some observers to conclude that the land tenure system dis-
courages investment in and maintenance of improvements to the land, encourages
land "mining" and generally hampers agricultural productivity. Land tenure
is a major political and social issue in Fiji which the leaders of both the
Fijian and Indian communities have been trying to solve since before inde-
pendence. NLTB has stated publicly that it would consider granting standard
30-year leases for seasonal crops if the Agricultural Landlord and Tenant
Ordinance were appropriately changed. Proposed changes to the Ordinance are
currently before Parliament and the Council of Chiefs, and one of the results
is likely to be a major increase in the standard term of agricultural leases.
2.15      Although the small farm leasehold pattern was established over
50 years ago, prohibition against subdividing leasehold land through inherit-
ance or sale without official consent has prevented the evolution of a large
number of small, fragmented holdings, so common in many countries. Farm size
distribution is therefore quite uniform within the cane growing areas, al-
though the average contract area for Indians (11.1 ac) is larger than that
for Fijians (7.7 ac) due to generally better production performance. Despite
the uniform farm size distribution, however, population pressure in some
areas has led to a situation where two or more related families commonly
live on and cultivate one farm.
Project Formulation
2.16      In its Development Plan VII (1976-1980) (DPVII), the Government
gives high priority to improving the performance of agriculture. A major
thrust of this strategy is to improve the attractiveness of agricultural
occupations and to increase the participation of native Fijians in commercial
agriculture. The basic objectives of the plan are to increase agricultural
output both for export and domestic food consumption; to create rural em-
ployment opportunities; to raise farm incomes; and to improve the quality
of rural life relative to that in urban areas.
2.17      As a major departure from the preceding plan which gave the sugar
industry a passive role, during DPVII sugar is expected to play a dominant
part in Fiji's overall development. A major expansion program is underway
to open new lands for sugarcane production, to reclaim lands on which produc-
tion has fallen due to poor drainage, and to raise productivity on existing
cane lands. Programs other than for sugar include the establishment of es-
tates on native land to increase the participation of the mataqalis in commer-
cial agriculture, the development of good agricultural land for settlement,
diversification into priority crops and livestock, and improved marketing,
handling and distribution facilities.
2.18      In support of the Government's new priorities, FSC began an invest-
ment program in 1973 to increase annual sugar production to 400,000 tons by



-6-
1980 and to modernize export handling facilities. Part of this program in-
volves an increase in the annual capacity of the Lambasa mill on Vanua Levu
from 65,000 to 90,000 tons, compared with actual 1974 production of about
45,000 tons. The expansion is being funded by FSC and work is proceeding
on schedule with estimated completion by 1979. To meet this increase the
Government and FSC initiated the settlement of about 800 farmers, half Indian
and half Fijian, to produce 200,000 tons of sugarcane per year on a contract
area of 12,000 ac at Seaqaqa, about 25 miles west of Lambasa. Seaqaqa is the
only remaining large, uncultivated area in Fiji both climatically suited to
growing sugarcane and accessible to an existing mill and port. However, other
similar areas could be developed for sugarcane if major investments are made
to expand mill capacity, or for other crops which may prove agronomically and
commercially feasible. Besides increasing sugar production, the objectives
of the settlement are to encourage Fijian participation in commercial agri-
culture and to establish a viable community based on the production of sugar-
cane at Seaqaqa. The lessons learned at Seaqaqa would be applicable to
future attempts to increase the productivity of native land elsewhere in the
country, and to further involve Fijians in modern agriculture.
2.19      Investigations have also shown that a further 200,000 tons of
sugarcane could be produced annually by reconstructing seawalls and improv-
ing internal drainage on some 26,400 ac of low-lying coastal land. The areas
affected by poor drainage contain some of the highest potential sugarcane land
in Fiji, on which production has been falling for the last 10 or 15 years due
to failure to maintain the water control structures. Drainage improvement is
an obvious high priority investment which would yield quick returns; failure
to arrest the deterioration of these areas would result in continued declines
in production.
2.20      In formulating this first Bank-assisted project in the agriculture
sector, the Government and Bank staff had three main considerations: (a)
the priority of the project in its sectoral context; (b) the time required
to identify and prepare a suitable project; and (c) the nature of the Bank's
contribution. On the first two grounds it was decided that the project should
be in the sugar industry, because of its central role in the DPVII strategy
and because a number of activities suitable for Bank assistance were already
in progress or at an advanced stage of planning. Within the sugar industry
it was decided that the Bank could contribute most to increased cane production
which would directly benefit the small growers, while FSC would concentrate
its resources on mill expansion, improved handling facilities, other infra-
structure improvements and improved extension services throughout the industry.
The proposals for Bank assistance would meet about 40% of the planned 100,000
ton increase in annual sugar production, while the remaining 60% would come
from other investments financed by FSC. In addition, at the same time it was
decided to identify and prepare a project to help small farmers outside the
sugar industry. Such a project has been identified and the Government is
proceeding with preparation, assisted by the FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program and
Bank staff.



III. THE PROJECT AREA
General
3.01      The project would consist of two separate components to be carried
out in different kinds of areas with different investment needs. In the
first component, farmers are being settled to grow cane on a single tract
of largely unused land. The area is currently covered by forest and scrub
and possesses little physical infrastructure. In the second component,
coastal land which has been cultivated with sugarcane for many years has
lost productivity due to saltwater intrusion and impeded drainage. The
areas so affected are scattered along the northern and western coasts of the
two main islands, mainly on Viti Levu. They have good internal infrastructure
and are connected to existing mills by an efficient transportation system
(Map 11851).
Climate
3.02      Fiji has a tropical oceanic climate with two well-defined seasons,
being relatively dry from May to October and wet from November to April. The
prevailing easterly to southeasterly winds and the mountainous topography of
Viti Levu and Vanua Levu give rise to higher average rainfall on the southern
and eastern sides of the main islands. The northern and western coastal
plains, where the project areas are located, are in the rain shadow, which
is more pronounced on Viti Levu than on Vanua Levu. Mean annual rainfall
in the dry zones ranges from 70 to 90 in, with 75% falling in the six wet
months. The rainfall pattern also shows wide variation from year to year.
Mean temperatures range from 740 to 81°F with little daily or monthly varia-
tion (Annex 1). The islands are affected by periodic cyclones, but damage
is seldom serious.
Seaqaga Settlement
3.03      The settlement area covers some 40,000 ac on the Seaqaqa plateau
of Mathuata province about 25 mi west of Lambasa, between the Ndreketi river
and the north coast of Vanua Levu (Map 11852). There is currently only one
small village in the area, Nanduri, about five mi north of the settlement.
It is incapable of providing necessary services and a new town would be
established as part of the project.
3.04      The area consists of rolling to hilly land crossed by small streams,
lying about 250-500 ft above sea level. About half the area is of moderate
slope suitable for cultivation. Another 25% could be developed for citrus
or other tree crops with suitable soil conservation measures, while the
remainder must be kept under forest. Most of the soils at Seaqaqa where
sugarcane would be grown are red latosolic clays and clay loams. As a result
of high rainfall, they are strongly leached, acid and deficient in nutrients.
Except in a few areas, they are moderately deep and free-draining but erodible
and of poor water retention capacity. They will need careful management
and heavy fertilizer applications to yield satisfactorily.



-8-
3.05      Before 1974 the area was sparsely settled by about 150 Indian
and 50 Fijian families whose production was limited to subsistence crops.
In the last two years some 400 families, of whom about 250 are Indian and
150, Fijian, have been settled and 4,000 ac have been cleared and planted
with sugarcane, using mechanical cultivation methods. An estimated 34,000
tons of cane were harvested during the 1975 crushing season from about 1,900
ac planted in 1974. Yields were quite variable but averaged about 18 ton/ac.
In addition to sugarcane, each farm is being planted with about 1 ac of
mixed citrus and 0.1 ac of pineapples for the local market. Subsistence
rice, root crops and vegetables would be grown on small plots, mainly by
women and children during the slack season, as is common throughout the
sugar industry. The proposed farming activities could be handled by a
smallholder settler and his family, using mechanical cultivation and sup-
plementing family labor during the crushing season with hired labor which
is available in the Lambasa area and from the outer islands. Agricultural
practices and production at Seaqaqa are described in Annex 2.
3.06      The transportation network at Seaqaqa is currently inadequate to
handle the 200,000 tons of cane expected from the area annually by 1980. A
sugar tramline built and operated by FSC extends from the Lambasa mill to
a terminal at Wailevu. From there the gravel-surfaced main road goes to
Tambia, proceeds along the coast to Nanduri, climbs to the Seaqaqa plateau
at Korovuli and continues west through the project area. The coastal road
is steep, narrow and winding and presents a definite hazard to cane trans-
portation, particularly at night and in wet weather. Less than 10 mi of
farm access roads had been built by mid-1975. Transport from the field to
pickup points on the main road is by rail truck on trailers pulled by farm
tractors. Road vehicles then carry the cane trucks to the Wailevu tramline
terminus.
3.07      During the 1975 crushing season cane transport between delivery
points and the terminus ran into difficulties and delays because of the type
of transport equipment used. The existing lorries only carried three cane
trucks and were not provided with either winches or hydraulic gear to facili-
tate loading the trucks. The Project Manager, after a visit to Australian
sugar areas, has developed with the assistance of a specialized equipment
producer specifications for a six-axle semi-trailer suitable for Seaqaqa
conditions. Three of these vehicles, each carrying five cane trucks, would
be tested on a pilot basis during the 1976 crushing season commencing in May.
About 65,000 tons of cane are estimated to be available from Seaqaqa during
the season which would allow for a good test of the equipment. Experience
with the semi-trailers would be reviewed by the Government and the Bank in
September 1976 to determine the suitability of the equipment, the responsi-
bility for operation and maintenance of a fleet of such vehicles and the
procurement procedures for 1977 and subsequent years (para 4.22).
3.08      All land in the project area is native land.  Settlers are each
being given NLTB agricultural leases, and to encourage land improvement,
NLTB and the local mataqalis have agreed to a uniform 30-year term as an
exception to the normal practice of ten-year leases (para 2.14). Farms are



- 9 -
being laid out with a minimum of 15 and an average of 25 ac of arable land.
Because of the hilly terrain, farm blocks have been averaging about 50 ac
gross to ensure these amounts. Rent (para 2.13) is set initially at F$7.50/
ac of sugarcane and F$0.50/ac for other land, subject to reassessment after
five years. Settlers build houses on their own holdings using their own
local building materials and galvanized roofing sheet provided by FSC. Due
to topographic and soil differences, the potential income from the 15 ac
on each farm to be developed for cane would be about the same as that from
a 10-ac coastal cane farm (para 6.08). The 10 ac of arable reserve would
be available for future development for sugarcane, subject to milling
capacity, or for other crops which might prove technically feasible and
commercially viable. In either case it is expected that additional family
members would informally move onto the Seaqaqa farms to benefit from the
eventual expansion in cultivated area.
Drainage Improvement
3.09      The drainage improvement areas include 20,100 ac or 20% of the
total sugarcane land in the Lautoka, Rarawai and Penang mill areas of Viti
Levu, and about 6,300 ac or 10% of the total cane area in the Lambasa mill
area of Vanua Levu (Map 11851). The areas are close to major towns, have
a good road system, much of which is bitumen-surfaced, and are served by
FSC's sugar tramline system.
3.10      The areas are low-lying and flat.  Some were originally mangrove
swamp covered by sea water and were reclaimed at the turn of the century by
the construction of seawalls and tidal gates. The rest are barely above high
tide level. The soils are alluvial and are potentially among the best in
Fiji. They have yielded well in the past and, with restoration of water
control, should yield well in the future.
3.11      Areas affected by poor drainage fall into two distinct types.  In
the first, the protective seawalls, tidal gates and associated drainage systems
have fallen into disrepair and the areas behind the seawalls are affected by
saltwater intrusion and waterlogging. About 11,000 ac are affected, of
which 3,400 ac have gone completely out of production. In the second type,
higher land in flat valley bottoms farther inland is waterlogged due to
deterioration of the internal drainage systems and siltation caused by run-
off from the upstream catchments. About 17,400 ac are affected, of which
2,600 ac have gone out of sugarcane and are being cultivated under rice or
left fallow for grazing. About 2,000 ac of the second category have already
been improved, leaving 15,400 ac for improvement under the project.
3.12      In the drainage improvement areas, sugarcane is generally grown
as a monoculture. Cultivation is mainly by bullocks but tractors are being
used increasingly, particularly for first plowing before the rains begin.
Yields in these areas are potentially in excess of 30 ton/ac due to flat
topography and good soils, but actual yields now average only 18 ton/ac
harvested due to poor management, particularly on Fijian farms, and poor



- 10 -
drainage. Total cane production from the drainage improvement areas is
currently about 350,000 tons per year. Agricultural practices and produc-
tion are described in Annex 3.
3.13      No details are available on crops other than sugarcane.  Some
paddy is grown mainly as a subsistence crop, often on land out of cane
production due to drainage problems, or after a final ratoon crop of cane.
Paddy yields are low, averaging about 0.75 ton/ac. Limited areas of vege-
tables, mainly for home use, are also grown.
3.14      Transportation of cane to the mills is generally by rail, although
road transport has to be used in some areas remote from FSC's tramline. As
is true throughout Fiji, cane transport costs for rail are borne by the mil-
ler while those for road are borne by the grower. Most of the main roads
are bitumen-surfaced. Field transport is generally by rail truck on portable
lines pulled by bullocks. The service is adequate and no improvement would
be necessary under the project.
IV. THE PROJECT
General
4.01      The proposed project would consist of two parts, both of which are
aimed at increasing sugar production for export and raising the incomes of
cane farmers. The first part would complete the ongoing settlement scheme
at Seaqaqa while the second would improve drainage on low-lying coastal
sugarcane lands. Project works are described in detail in Annexes 2 and 3
and summarized in the following paragraphs. Project components would include:
(a) Seaqaqa Settlement
(1) clearing of about 8,000 ac of scrub and forest-covered
land for planting sugarcane;
(2) provision of housing material, land preparation, inputs
up to first harvest and first year subsistence loans for
about 400 new settlers;
(3) construction of a 6.5 mi sugar tramline extension from
Wailevu to the foot of the Seaqaqa plateau at Tambia;
(4) construction and upgrading of about 17 mi of main roads
from Tambia to the western edge of the project area at
Vunimako;
(5) construction of about 117 mi of farm access roads
to serve each farm;



- 11 -
(6) provision of sites and services for a new township
at Seaqaqa;
(7) construction of a road maintenance sub-depot at
Seaqaqa township;
(8) loans from FDB to individual settlers and NLDC for the
purchase of tractors, farm implements and sugarcane
transport vehicles; and
(9) procurement of road construction and maintenance
equipment.
(b) Drainage Improvement
(1) reconstruction of about 22.5 mi of seawalls with tidal
gates;
(2)  improvement of internal drains serving about 26,400 ac
of sugarcane land;
(3) photogrammetric mapping of the drainage areas on Viti
Levu; and
(4) procurement of vehicles and construction of offices.
Seaqaga Settlement
4.02      The Seaqaqa settlement was begun in 1974 and will eventually
involve 800 farmers on a contract area of 12,000 ac. By mid-1975 some 400
farmers had been settled and 4,000 ac had been cleared and planted to sugar-
cane. Another 400 families would be settled in the area under the project
on the same terms as those already settled, and a further 8,000 ac of cane
would be developed.
4.03      Owing to the broken nature of the land, much of which is too steep
for sugarcane, a much larger area than 12,000 ac must be opened up so that
each settler can be given a block of at least 15 ac suitable for growing
cane. The opportunity is therefore being taken to plan and implement the
comprehensive development of the whole plateau as a new community based
economically on sugar with the possibility of other crops later. A new
township is being built to serve the area. It is expected that about 100
families (500 people) would eventually reside there permanently. Initial
facilities are being provided for about one-third that number, who will be
directly associated with the project, with room for expansion as required.
FSC's sugar tramline is being extended to the base of the plateau at Tambia,
from where a new main road would be built to the eastern edge of the set-
tlement area at Korovuli, thereby shortening the present steep and winding
coastal route. From there the existing main road would be upgraded, fed by
new access roads to each farm.



- 12 -
4.04      Half the settlers would be Fijian and half Indian.  Selection is
made by a committee comprising the Seaqaqa Project Manager (para 5.02), the
Northern Divisional Planning Officer, the Manager of the Native Land Trust
Board (Lambasa), the chief executive officer of the Mathuata Provincial
Council and a representative of the mataqalis in the settlement area. For
primarily social reasons, priority is given to (a) farmers living in the area,
(b) evictees of native or Crown Land, (c) persons chosen by native landowners
and (d) sons of local farmers with uneconomic sized holdings. In the case
of other applicants, preference is given to those (e) between 21 and 45 years
of age, (f) with the necessary farming knowledge and skills, (g) having no
other source of income, (h) coming from an economically depressed area as a
result of land pressure, (i) willing to live on their own farms and (j) with
no other land.
4.05      One of the objectives of the Seaqaqa settlement is to involve
native Fijians more actively in sugarcane and other commercial agricultural
activities. To this end, NLDC would operate 37 of the 400 farms allocated
to Fijians in one block as a nucleus estate covering about 1,600 ac gross
(including 1,200 ac suitable for sugarcane), of which 200 ac were under cane
as of mid-1975. NLDC would also operate a tractor hire and cane transport
business at Seaqaqa, with a maintenance workshop, and would develop the new
Seaqaqa township.  NLDC's main objectives would be to train Fijians as cane
farmers on the estate; to develop the most profitable field operational
techniques applicable to smallholder cane farmers; to set a standard of
agricultural excellence, including soil conservation measures; to train
Fijians to operate tractors and cane transport equipment so that they can
play their full part in the settlement either as NLDC employees or as inde-
pendent operators alongside Indian contractors; and to provide economic
and social services for the farming community through the development of
Seaqaqa township, while giving Fijians a roughly equal opportunity to
provide those services. Finally, NLDC would have the power to take over
and maintain under its estate management the farms of any settlers who fail
as smallholders, until they or their successors are adequately trained on
the estate. An assurance was obtained that NLDC would consult with the
Bank before undertaking any major expansion of the area under its estate
management through the takeover of unsuccessful farms, or before distributing
any part of the existing estate to individual smallholders.
Status of Engineering
4.06      At the time of appraisal, land clearing at Seaqaqa was carried out
on an hourly plant hire basis under FSC's supervision following land capability
studies and subdivisional surveys by the Department of Agriculture and NLTB.
FSC has since engaged a local consulting firm to measure plant output and
to determine the best methods of land clearing by contract. This information
would form the basis for drawing up specifications to be incorporated in
tender documents for project works.
4.07      PWD has surveyed the alignment of the Tambia-Korovuli main road
and its Roads and Airfield Division is proceeding with design for road works
and bridges according to Main Road Standards (Annex 2), to be completed by
the end of 1975. Designs would be reviewed by Bank staff during project



- 13 -
supervision. The farm access roads are set out on the ground in the course
of subdivision. Construction is carried out to PWD Country Road Standards
(Annex 2) without further design work.
4.08      NLDC is coordinating the overall layout of the new Seaqaqa township
with the Directorate of Town and Country Planning, and has engaged a local
consulting firm to assist with engineering and design work. Township roads
would be built to PWD Country Town Standards. Water supply would be pumped
from the Ndreketi river and the design includes storage, treatment, gravity
feeding and reticulation. The consultants are coordinating design of the
electricity supply with the Fiji Electricity Authority, which would provide
the distribution system.
4.09      DID has completed detailed designs for 1,800 ac of improved drain-
age and associated seawalls at Wailevu. The Division is expected to com-
plete the detailed survey of a further 1,600 ac on Vanua Levu and the de-
tailed design of 2,000 ac on Viti Levu by the end of 1975. Further survey
and detailed design work must await mapping of the drainage areas on Viti
Levu and agreement from the local Drainage Boards to carry out specific works
as part of the DID's annual work program (para 5.09).
Implementation
4.10      Land clearing and first year farm development at Seaqaqa have been
proceeding at the rate of about 2,000 ac per year and would continue at that
rate until completion by the end of 1979. Although the easiest areas were
cleared and planted first, it is expected that the increased difficulty of
clearing land under denser cover would be offset by increased efficiency of
operations as time goes on. Construction of the tramline extension began
in September 1975 and is scheduled to be completed by August 1976 (para 4.18).
Construction and upgrading of the main road at Seaqaqa would take two years
beginning January 1976, while farm a5ceis roads would be constructed over four
years beginning January 1976 to keep pace with land clearing; all land rights
required for road construction have already been obtained. Credit for
tractors, farm implements and cane transport vehicles would be coordinated
with the demand for contract services at Seaqaqa and spread over four years.
Seaqaqa township development would be carried out over two years beginning
mid-1976. Seawall reconstruction would take four years and internal drain-
age improvements, five years beginning April 1976 (Chart 15164).
Cost Estimates
4.11      Total project costs are estimated at US$26.0 million, of which
US$12.0 million or 46% is foreign exchange. Base costs were estimated using
January 1976 prices and would cover all expenditures beginning January 1976,
except for the tramline extension which would be covered from September 1975.
For the Seaqaqa settlement, land clearing and farm development costs are
based on the cost of similar work already carried out in the area. The
tramline extension estimate is based on the winning bid for earthworks (para
4.19), and FSC estimates for track laying. Road costs are based on PWD
standards and unit rates, and prices for construction equipment quoted for



- 14 -
1976 delivery. Tractor and cane transport costs are based on local prices
quoted for 1976. Township development costs are based on NLDC estimates.
Costs for seawall reconstruction and internal drainage improvement are based
on quantities obtained from detailed design of an 1,800 ac sample area and
unit rates updated to January 1976. Physical contingencies of 10% for the
Seaqaqa settlement and 20% for the drainage improvements are related to the
degree of investigations completed to date. Costs due to expected price
increases amount to about 20% of total project costs and assume the following
annual inflation rates:
Annual Inflation Rate (%)
1976    1977-79      1980
Civil Works            14        12          10
Equipment and Services 10         8           7
4.12      Details of the project costs are presented in Annex 4 and are
sumarized below:
Foreign
Local Foreig   Total   Local Foreign  Total Exchange
 ---- (F$ million)---   ---(US$ million)---       %
Seaqaqa Settlement
Land Clearance & Farm
Development               1.1     0.7     1.8     1.3      0.8     2.1     38
Tramline Extension       0.6      0.3     0.9     0.7      0.4     1.1     36
Roads                    2.4      3.4     5.8     2.8      3.9     6.7     58
Tractors & Cane Trans-
port                   0.4      0.9     1.3     0.4      1.1     1.5    73
Township Development     0.5      0.3     0.8     0.6     0.4      1.0    40
Engineering, Supervision
& Adm.                 0.9       -      0.9     1.1      -       1.1     -
Sub-total             5.9      5.6    11.5     6.9      6.6    13.5    48
Drainage Improvement    /
Seawall Reconstruction 0.9        0.8     1.7      1.0     0.9     1.9    47
Internal Drainage         1.3     1.0     2.3     1.5      1.2     2.7     44
Engineering, Super-
vision & Adm.          0.3       -      0.3     0.4       -      0.4     -
Sub-total             2.5      1.8     4.3     2.9      2.1     5.0     42
Base Cost Estimate          8.4     7.4    15.8      9.8     8.7    18.5    47
Physical Contingencies      1.1     0.9     2.0      1.3     1.1     2.4     46
Expected Price Increases   2.5      1.9     4.4      2.9     2.2     5.1     43
Total Project Cost   12.0    10.2    22.2    14.0    12.0    26.0    46
/a   Includes mapping, offices and vehicles.



- 15 -
Financing
4.13      Funds for carrying out the project would come from four sources.
The proposed Bank loan of US$12.0 million (F$10.2 million) would finance
the full foreign exchange costs. To finance the local costs, the Govern-
ment would provide US$7.3 million (F$6.2 million) out of annual budget
appropriations, while FDB would provide US$6.0 million (F$5.2 million)
and FSC would provide US$0.7 million (F$0.6 million), each from its own
resources.
4.14      A subsidiary loan agreement would provide for the on-lending of
US$6.0 million (F$5.2 million) from the Government to FDB on the same terms
as the Bank loan, except that an assurance was obtained that the Government
would bear the foreign exchange risks. FDB would further lend that amount
plus the equivalent of US$6.0 million of its own resources, (a) to Seaqaqa
settlers for land clearing and first year farm development and subsistence;
(b) to FSC for the tramline extension; (c) to settlers, other contractors
and NLDC for tractors, farm equipment and cane transport vehicles; (d) to
NLDC for its estate and Seaqaqa township development; and (e) to Drainage
Boards for internal drainage improvements. An assurance was obtained that
the Government would make arrangements satisfactory to the Bank to ensure
that FDB has sufficient funds for carrying out its responsibilities under the
project. The Government would use the remainder of the Bank loan (US$6.0 mil-
lion) plus its own resources to finance the roads at Seaqaqa, seawalls and
tidal gates.
4.15      Since the Seaqaqa settlement is an ongoing project, it is proposed
that expenditures incurred beginning January 1, 1976 would be eligible for
Bank assistance, with the exception of the earthworks for the tramline ex-
tension, for which retroactive financing to September 1975 is proposed
(para 4.18).  About US$550,000 of retroactive financing would be involved,
including US$350,000 for the tramline.
4.16      The cost of land clearing, farm development and annual inputs
at Seaqaqa would be borne initially by FSC. For each settler, FDB would
reimburse PSC for all development costs up to first harvest, and for land
clearing costs in subsequent years, and would debit the settler's account
by the same amount. The Project Manager (para 5.02) would certify the
physical progress and cost of land clearing and first year farm development,
and settlers would sign an agreement with FDB to reimburse FSC on their
behalf, before the transaction takes place. In order to administer the loans,
as well as to provide additional credit to settlers, FDB proposes to open
a new branch office at Seaqaqa township.
4.17      FDB recently raised its interest rate on agricultural loans from
9% to 10%, compared with an expected annual inflation rate of 7%. In May
1974, the Government decided to subsidize certain agricultural loans in order
to stimulate agricultural development and help redress urban-rural income
imbalances. Eligible farmers pay an interest rate of 4% to 6% and the Govern-
ment pays the difference between the farmer's rate and FDB's current lending
rate. Seaqaqa settlers, in common with other sugarcane farmers for similar



- 16 -
type loans, would be eligible for FDB loans at subsidized interest rates for
land clearing and first year farm development. Loans for the purchase of
farm tractors are also generally eligible for an interest rate subsidy. How-
ever, since it is expected that only the more successful settlers would apply
for tractor loans, and in order not to distort relative factor prices and
overly encourage a capital intensive technology to develop at Seaqaqa, an
assurance was obtained that tractor loans under the project would be at FDB's
normal interest rate for agricultural loans. FDB's terms for lending under
the project would be as follows:
(a) loans to Seaqaqa settlers for land clearing and preparation,
roofing sheets, inputs up to first harvest and first year
subsistence loans would be at 4% for a maximum of ten years,
including a grace period not exceeding three years;
(b) loans for purchase of tractors would be at 6% for a maximum
of ten years;
(c) loans to settlers and other contractors for farm equipment
and cane transport vehicles would be at 10% for not more
than ten years;
(d) loans to NLDC for estate development, farm equipment, cane
transport vehicles and township development would be at
10% with different maturities as agreed between FDB and
NLDC, maturities would not exceed 20 years;
(e) the loan to FSC for the tramline extension would be at
10% for 20 years; and
(f) loans to Drainage Boards for internal drainage improvements
would be at 10% for ten years.
A proposed condition of effectiveness of the loan would be that a subsidiary
loan agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, had been concluded between the
Government and FDB. Draft terms of the agreement have been finalized by the
Government and discussed with the Bank.
Procurement
4.18      Civil works for the various components of the project would be car-
ried out under arrangements that would maximize the use of local contractors,
while still getting the work done on time and without overextending their
capabilities. Foreign contractors have been uncompetitive because of the
relatively small size of the works and the remoteness of the country. The
lowest foreign bid for the tramline earthworks (para 4.19) was 65% above the
successful local bid. Civil works for land clearing, seawall reconstruction
and internal drainage improvements would be executed by local contract and
would keep local contracting capability fully engaged. The road components
of the project would be implemented by PWD force account, which does all
similar road work. The road equipment financed under the project, with an



- 17 -
estimated residual value of US$650,000, would be used by PWD to complete the
transinsular road from Lambasa to Savusavu now under construction and for
other high priority road works under DPVII.
4.19      Earthworks for the tramline extension (US$0.8 million) are being
carried out under contract awarded after international competitive bidding
in accordance with Bank Group guidelines for procurement. After Bank
review, the contract was awarded in September 1975 to a local construction
firm which had the necessary qualifications and was the lowest bidder.
Retroactive financing would be appropriate to maintain the project's momen-
tum and ensure that cane transport does not become a bottleneck to the
realization of project benefits. Bridges on the tramline would be con-
structed by FSC staff, who would also install sleepers, ballast and rails
using materials already on hand.
4.20      Civil works for land clearing (US$1.7 million), seawall reconstruc-
tion and internal drainage improvements (US$4.5 million) would be carried out
under contracts awarded after competitive bidding in accordance with local
procedures, which have been reviewed by Bank staff and are acceptable. Con-
tracts for land clearing would be unlikely to exceed US$100,000 each. The
largest contract for seawalls and internal drainage would be about US$400,000,
while most such contracts would be around US$100,000. The small, scattered
nature of these works makes them unsuitable for international competitive
bidding. There is adequate competition and foreign firms would be eligible
to participate in the bidding.
4.21      Civil works for the roads at Seaqaqa (US$5.4 million) and for township
development (US$0.4 million) would be carried out by PWD force account. The
small amount of main road construction and improvement and the scattered nature
of the farm access roads makes them unsuitable for international competitive
bidding. In addition, past experience with international competitive bidding
for roads in Fiji has shown that foreign bids have been considerably higher
than the cost of PWD force account work, due to the size and location of the
country and the difficulty of mobilization. It is expected that the local
contracting industry would be fully extended with land clearing, seawall
reconstruction and internal drainage improvements under the project, as well
as other ongoing development work in Fiji, and would therefore be incapable
of carrying out the road works on time.
4.22      Equipment for construction and maintenance of roads at Seaqaqa, and
for electricity and water supply (US$1.8 million) would be procured after
local shopping in accordance with local procedures, which have been reviewed
by Bank staff and are acceptable. International competitive bidding for such
equipment would not be warranted because of the small number and diversity
of items involved, the desirability of standardization with existing PWD equip-
ment and the advantage of existing servicing arrangements with local suppliers.
A detailed equipment list is given in Annex 5.
4.23      Tractors and farm implements (US$0.6 million) for use in the Seaqaqa
settlement area would be purchased after local shopping by borrowers with



- 18 -
credit to be advanced by FDB. There are enough local suppliers to ensure
adequate competition and after-sale service. All items would be certified by
the Seaqaqa Project Manager as being required for the project. Three special-
ly designed cane transport vehicles (US$0.2 million) would be purchased from
the supplier. Procurement arrangements for ten more such vehicles (US$0.7
million) would be determined after review by the Government and the Bank
(para 3.07).
4.24      Photogrammetric mapping (US$0.1 million) would be carried out by
the Lands Department.
Disbursements
4.25      The Bank loan would reimburse the Government for expenditures
falling into two general categories -- those financed through FDB (US$6.0
miUion) and those financed directly by Government departments (US$6.0
million). Disbursements would be made at the rate of 100% of foreign ex-
change cost for directly imported equipment, 70% of total cost for imported
equipment procured locally and 45% of certified monthly progress payments
or expenditures for civil works. It is expected that disbursements would
be completed by December 31, 1981, approximately one year after the end of
all construction. An estimated schedule of expenditures on the project, a
semi-annual disbursement schedule and the proposed allocation of loan pro-
ceeds are given in Annex 6.
Accounts and Audit
4.26      Assurances were obtained that the Government would set up a sepa-
rate Treasury account for the project for disbursement of all Government
and Bank funds; that MAFF, PWD, and FDB would each set up separate accounts
for their respective parts of the project which the Permanent Secretary,
Finance would combine into a single consolidated account; that the Govern-
ment's Auditor General or other auditors satisfactory to the Bank would be
employed to audit the consolidated project account annually; and that the
Permanent Secretary, Finance would send the audited account, together with
the auditor's comments, to the Bank within four months of the close of each
financial year. The accounts for FDB would include experience on loan re-
coveries and would extend until all loans under the project have been repaid.
In addition, FDB, NLDC and FSC would submit their overall audited accounts
to the Bank annually through the Permanent Secretary, MAFF. Information
on the experience of Drainage Boards in collecting drainage rates (para 5.07
and 5.21) would be included in monitoring indicators (para 5.17).
Environmental Effects
4.27      There is no schistosomiasis or malaria in Fiji.  Filariasis is
under control and its eradication is the object of a current public health
campaign. The disease is most prevalent in swampy areas of Vanua Levu and
parts of Viti Levu, and drainage improvements under the project should help
reduce its incidence. Enteric diseases are common among children. The
Medical Department with UNDP assistance is carrying out a program to provide



- 19 -
20,000 water seal toilets over four years to improve sanitation in rural
areas.
4.28      The major potential environmental hazard from the project is soil
erosion in the Seaqaqa settlement area, due to a combination of highly ero-
dible soils, intense rainfall and irregular topography. However, all
agencies involved in the scheme are acutely aware of the problem and are
taking adequate measures to ensure that excessive erosion does not occur.
NLTB agricultural leases provide sufficient legal restrictions against
improper land use, and the Seaqaqa Project Manager is empowered under the
leases to enforce these restrictions. Bank staff have reviewed the soil
erosion control standards and they are adequate. Field observations indi-
cate that they are being enforced in the settlement area.
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
5.01      The Permanent Secretary, MAFF would be responsible for project
implementation. The two parts of the project would be carried out independ-
ently under his overall direction.
Seaqaga Settlement
5.02      The management organization for the Seaqaqa settlement is shown
in Chart 15154(2R). The Permanent Secretary, MAFF would be chairman of
a central coordinating committee responsible for policy in the settlement
area. The committee would include national level representatives of FSC,
NLTB, NLDC, FDB, PWD, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Fijian Af-
fairs and Rural Development, together with the chairman of the local co-
ordinating committee (para 5.04) and the Project Manager. Responsibility
for implementing the settlement would rest with a Project Manager who would
be appointed by and report to the Permanent Secretary. A qualified and
experienced FSC employee seconded by CSR under the technical services
agreement (para 2.06) has been filling the role of Project Manager since the
settlement's inception, and his contract has been extended at least until the
end of March 1977. If he decides to leave then, there would be enough time
to find and train a suitable replacement. An assurance was obtained that the
Government would continue to employ a person, with qualifications, experience,
powers and responsibilities acceptable to the Bank, as Seaqaqa Project Manager.
5.03      On the field side the Project Manager would have two principal
subordinates - a Cane Development Officer provided by FSC and an Agricul-
tural Officer provided by the Department of Agriculture for other subsistence
and commercial crops. The Cane Development Officer would control the ex-
tension staff, set up and manage farm accounts, and organize the harvest
and transport of cane. He would also direct a Land Clearance Unit to carry
out all land clearing under contract. The local consulting firm employed
by FSC (para 4.06) would be attached to the Land Clearance Unit to prepare
tender documents, supervise the work and prepare monthly progress certifi-
cates. The Project Manager would award all contracts.



- 20 -
5.04      The Project Manager would coordinate other project activities
such as survey, road construction and social services through a local coor-
dinating committee chaired by the Commissioner, Northern Division. The local
committee would contain division level representatives of all departments
and agencies involved in the project, as well as a representative of the
mataqalis in the area and the chief executive officer of the Mathuata Pro-
vincial Council.
5.05      A PWD construction unit under the Department's Northern Divisional
Engineer (Chart 15155(3R)) would construct project roads by force account.
An assurance was obtained that PWD would employ a road engineer, with
qualifications, experience, powers and responsibilities acceptable
to the Bank, whose primary responsibility would be to head the unit.
The project would include a road maintenance sub-depot at Seaqaqa township
which would serve as a construction camp during the implementation period.
An assurance was obtained that PWD would adequately maintain all project
roads, and that the Government would provide all funds required for
the purpose.
Drainage Improvement
5.06      The Permanent Secretary would carry out the drainage improvement
part of the project through DID in conjunction with local Drainage Boards
(para 2.08). DID would carry out all construction and maintenance of
seawalls and internal drains by contract. The Division would finance sea-
wall reconstruction from its own budget and would act as agent for the
Drainage Boards for construction of internal drains and all operation and
maintenance.
5.07      There are seven Drainage Boards empowered under the Drainage
Ordinance to maintain, improve and construct drainage works, enter into
contracts, control livestock, conduct surveys and undertake other matters
relating to drainage works. The Boards have the power to levy drainage
rates which, together with any grants, are paid into a Drainage Fund. In
sugarcane areas, drainage rates may be collected by FSC by deduction from
cane payments. The Boards would apply to FDB for loans to finance construc-
tion of internal common user drains, and would collect drainage rates from
beneficiaries to repay these loans as well as to finance O&M of both seawalls
and internal drains (para 5.21).
5.08      With its central headquarters and functionally oriented field
units, DID is now geared primarily to carrying out rice irrigation projects;
drainage work is limited to a small design unit based in Lautoka. To fulfill
its increased drainage responsibilities under the project, DID is in the pro-
cess of setting up and staffing a Central Design Office at headquarters and
two regional offices in the Northern and Western Divisions (Chart 15156(R)).
5.09      The Principal Engineer, Drainage and Irrigation would have overall
responsibility for drainage improvement work to be carried out under the
project. He would be responsible for coordinating planning, survey and design



- 21 -
work and for drawing up annual work programs. To maintain a continuous flow
of work, an assurance was obtained that, not later than three months before
the start of ezch financial year, DID would prepare an annual work program
for drainage improvement, having obtained agreement from the respective
Drainage Boards to carry out the proposed works.
5.10      Divisional Engineers would head the regional offices and would be
responsible for all irrigation and drainage works within their divisions.
They would be supported by the Central Design Office for survey, major
design and contract administration services. The two Divisional Engineer
posts have already been established, but they are still vacant; they are
expected to be filled by April or May 1976. Assurances were obtained that
the regional offices would be set up and suitably staffed, and that suitably
qualified and experienced engineers, with powers and responsibilities ac-
ceptable to the Bank, would be appointed to fill the Divisional Engineer
positions, before any contract work on the drainage improvement part of the
project is carried out.
Supporting Agricultural Services
5.11      FSC is responsible for sugarcane research and runs a well organized
experiment station at Lautoka covering plant breeding and variety testing,
agronomy, and diseases and pests. Cane breeding and variety testing are on a
par with the other recognized breeding stations of the world. The three main
varieties currently grown in Fiji--Ragnar, Waya and Mali--have the advantages
of disease resistance, high sucrose content and good milling qualities, but
they are not high yielding. New varieties are therefore being developed,
which have higher yields but maintain the advantages of the traditional
varieties. The station has recently introduced proven commercial varieties
into the breeding program and this holds promise of producing new varieties
quickly. The agronomy section takes soil and leaf samples from each field
and analyzes them to determine fertilizer needs. Strategically placed ex-
periments are laid out periodically to confirm the results. The station's
pathologist screens varieties for disease resistance and is in charge of
testing fungicides and herbicides. In conjunction with the entomologist he
is studying the factors affecting the development of leaf hoppers which are
the vector of Fiji disease. Biological control of the vector is carried
out by Tytthus mundulus. The entomologist is also studying beetle borers
and hornets in association with the Commonwealth Institute of Biological
Control. The station has done some work in cultivation but more effort is
needed, particularly on the time of planting, land preparation operations
and the value of the trash blanket.
5.12      FSC has just established a small research station at Seaqaqa to
concentrate on new technical developments specifically adapted to the
settlement area. Work is currently being carried out to determine specific
fertilizer recommendations based on detailed soil analysis supported by
leaf analysis of first plantings. Research would also be carried out on the
use of washed coral sand to neutralize soil acidity and the cumulative ef-
fects of acidic fertilizers.



- 22 -
5.13      The Department of Agriculture runs a research station at Seaqaqa
for crops other than sugarcane, which provides farmers with seeds and
planting materials for subsistence food crops. Experimental work has been
carried out on citrus with encouraging results, and proven planting material
is available. To date, farmers have been encouraged to plant 1 ac of mixed
citrus and 0.1 ac of pineapple per farm for the local fresh fruit market.
Trials have also been conducted on a number of other crops.
5.14      FSC maintains a strong field staff to assist farmers with manage-
ment practices, and to control disease. Through approval and treatment of
seed cane and a vigorous program of finding, removing and destroying diseased
cane, FSC has virtually eliminated Fiji disease and downy mildew, and main-
tains a close watch to prevent their recurrence. There are a number of
other diseases of minor importance. Pests are not a problem except rats in
some areas near rivers. The Government permits the use of anticoagulant
poisons as a control measure. The field organization also organizes the
harvest and transport of cane to mill. The cane growing areas are currently
divided into 33 sectors, each under the responsibility of a field officer
who is primarily concerned with harvesting and transport. Each field of-
ficer controls a farm advisor who visits farmers and advises on field prac-
tices. There is one farm advisor to about 500 farmers. Extension work is
concentrated on inexperienced and less successful Fijian farmers and Indians
with specific problems.
5.15      In the special case of Seaqaqa, where the problems of new settle-
ment and a large number of inexperienced farmers will have to be faced, a
denser coverage of farm advisors would be required, particularly during the
development period. In addition to sugarcane, the farm advisors would also
help settlers to establish small subsistence food plots and limited plantings
of citrus and pineapples with planting materials and inputs provided through
the Department of Agriculture.  An assurance was therefore obtained that FSC,
with seconded staff from the Department of Agriculture as required, would
provide one farm advisor for not more than 100 settlers during the first
four years of the project, and that the Government would consult with the
Bank before reducing the farm advisory staff in the settlement area thereafter.
Under this formula a total of eight farm advisors would be required.
5.16      FSC provides cane farmers with seed cane, fertilizers and advances
for the cost of harvesting by gangs and transportation of cane from the field
to delivery points. The amount advanced is recovered as a first charge
against the grower's share of sugar sale proceeds.
Monitoring Benefits
5.17      A monitoring unit would be set up in the Economics, Planning and
Statistics Division of MAFF, which reports directly to the Permanent
Secretary. It would be responsible for monitoring such aspects of the
project's progress as deployment of farm advisors, pace of land clearing
and farm development, progress of drainage improvement, yield progression,
farm incomes, loan repayment and drainage rate collections. The unit would



- 23 -
work closely with FSC, which routinely collects most of the necessary data,
and would conduct supplementary surveys as required.
Cost and Benefit Recovery
5.18      Annex 9 examines the implications for public revenues and project
beneficiary incomes and incentives of the Government's proposed cost recovery
policies for various project components. The analysis is presented in terms
of three indices which are defined as follows:
(a) Cost Recovery Index: the ratio of incremental direct
PaYments for the project by all project beneficiaries
to incremental project construction, operation and
maintenance costs;
(b) Benefit Recovery Index: the ratio of incremental direct
payments for the project by a typical farm family to in-
cremental income accruing to the family before paying
project charges; and
(c) Rent Recovery Index: the ratio of incremental direct
payments for the project by a typical farm family to
incremental "project rent" accruing to the family before
paying project charges, where "project rent" is defined
as incremental income as in (b) less the value of family
labor, management costs and allowances for uncertainty.
All project charges, costs and benefits are measured at present values dis-
counted at 10% annual rate of interest over the period of repayment and in
terms of constant 1975 prices. It is assumed that there would be no incre-
mental payments of general taxes due to the project. The numerical results
are summarized in the following table:
Cost         Benefit         Rent
Recovery       Recovery      Recovery
Index         Index         Index
-----------%----------------
Seaqaqa settlement           27-53           34           100+
Drainage Improvement         46-78          25-46          62-100+
5.19      For the Seaqaqa settlement, the analysis was limited to land
clearing, first year farm development and farm access roads.  The main
road would be part of the national highway system and all users including
the settlers and township residents would be subject to Fiji's normal road
user charges. The cost of the tramline extension would be borne by FSC
from its share of sugar sales. The cost of tractors and cane transport
vehicles would be fully recovered from FSC, individual purchasers and NLDC at
an interest rate of 10%. The cost of township development would be borne by
NLDC, which would operate as a commercial developer and would recover its



- 24 -
full investment costs from township residents. Progress on NLDC cost re-
covery would be followed up during project supervision.
5.20      Settlers would repay FDB directly for the full cost of land
clearing and first year farm development over an average of five years and a
maximum of seven years at 4% interest beginning in year four. Many farmers
settled during the first two years have been repaying their loans more
quickly due to the high sugar prices of 1974 and 1975, and FDB would continue
to encourage all settlers to do so. Assuming an average eight year maturi-
ty the annual payment in nominal terms would be about F$72 (US$84)/ac of
sugarcane. FSC would collect the repayments for FDB as a deduction from
sugarcane proceeds. Indirectly, beneficiaries would repay part of the cost
of access road construction and maintenance through user charges in the form
of tractor license fees and fuel taxes. For the 8,000 ac to be developed
under the project, comparing loan repayments and road user charges paid by
settlers to the cost of land clearing, farm development and farm access roads,
the cost recovery index is 27%. Comparing loan repayments to land clearing
and farm development costs alone, the cost recovery index is 53%. For a
typical 50 ac farm with 15 ac of sugarcane, comparing loan repayments with
incremental net farm income over the first eight years of the project gives
a benefit recovery index of 34%. After subtracting incremental family labor
and management costs and an allowance for uncertainty, the rent recovery
index is around 100%.
5.21      For the drainage improvement part of the project, the Government
proposes to reconstruct seawalls as a national expenditure which would not
be recovered from beneficiaries. Farmers would repay the full cost of
internal common user drains over ten years at 10% interest and the 0 & M
cost of seawalls and drains through a drainage rate (para 5.07). Analysis
indicates that a drainage rate of about F$25 (US$30)/ac in nominal terms
would be needed. Since the current upper limit for drainage rates in Fiji
is F$15/ac, an assurance was obtained that Drainage Boards would be em-
powered to levy drainage rates in the project areas sufficient to recover
the full cost of common user drains over ten years at 10% interest, plus
the full cost of operating and maintaining seawalls and drains. With the
proposed drainage rates, the recovery index for all drainage improvement
costs would be 46%, and for internal drainage alone, the cost recovery index
would be 78%. Tne benefit recovery index for a 10-ac farm would range from
25% to 46%, depending on whether the farm is now affected by saltwater in-
trusion as well as impeded drainage. After subtracting incremental family
labor and management costs and an allowance for uncertainty, the correspond-
ing rent recovery index ranges from 62% to about 100%.
5.22      The analysis indicates that for both the settlement and drainage
improvement areas, the proposed charges represent a reasonable contribution
to project costs and would be within the beneficiaries' ability to pay.
These charges would capture 34% of incremental cash income from Seaqaqa
settlers and 25%-46% of incremental cash income from beneficiaries of drain-
age improvement. Although the rent recovery indices are largely subjective,



- 25 -
they do indicate that after allowances are made for the value of family
labor, farm management and the uncertainty of future income streams, little
or nothing in the way of project "rent" would remain with the beneficiaries
during their period of loan repayment. It is therefore unlikely that
farmers would be willing to participate in the project if higher rates were
charged.
VI. PRODUCTION, MARKET PROSPECTS, PRICES AND FARM INCOMES
Production
6.01      Production from the Seaqaqa settlement area is presented in Annex 7.
On a typical 50-ac farm with 15 ac of sugarcane, land clearing and farm
development would proceed at 5 ac per year for the first three years.
Replanting would be carried out on 3 ac in each succeeding year so that
by year seven the rotation would stabilize at 3 ac of plant cane planted
and 9 ac of ratoons cultivated each year, and the annual harvested area
would be 12 ac. Cane would be grown under natural rainfall conditions
and would therefore be subject to moisture stress in the dry season,
particularly from June to September. However, irrigation is not a viable
solution at this time. Extension agents would emphasize limiting the
number of ratoons to three, and yields are assumed to average 20 ton/ac
harvested for plant cane and three ratoons. Total production would reach
243 tons per farm at full development, and production from the 8,000 ac
to be developed under the project would be 130,000 tons per year.
6.02      Production from the drainage improvement areas is presented in
Annex 8. Two 10-ac farm models representing farms with saltwater intrusion
and those with restricted internal drainage are considered. In the first
type it is assumed that 3 ac are now out of production and under saltwater,
7 ac are under cane and five ratoons are taken off. Seawalls and internal
drains would be repaired in year one and the farm advisor would work with
the farmer to reduce the number of ratoons to three. After at least five
years of leaching the farmer could begin planting cane on the reclaimed
part of his farm. The total area planted would reach 10 ac in year eight
and the rotation would stabilize in year twelve with 2 ac of plant cane
planted and 6 ac of ratoons cultivated each year. The annual harvested
area would be 8 ac per farm, average yields would increase from 20 ton/ac
harvested at present to 26 ton/ac at full development, and production
would increase from 120 to 208 tons. The farm model with restricted
drainage would show a similar development pattern. Starting Out with
2.3 ac out of cane production at present, after six years the farm would
reach the same level of full development production as the saltwater intru-
sion model. Aggregating these results over the 26,400 ac drainage improve-
ment area, total cane production would increase from 346,000 tons at present
to 549,000 tons at full development in year 16, or an increment of some
200,000 tons annually.



- 26 -
Market Prospects
6.03      The incremental annual production from the entire project at full
development of 330,000 tons of cane, or 41,000 tons of raw sugar, represents
an increase of some 15% above current production. About 160,000 tons of
the incremental cane production would be crushed at FSC's Lambasa mill.
This in addition to an expected 60,000 ton increase from the 4,000 ac
already developed at Seaqaqa would satisfy the mill's newly expanded capa-
city (para 2.18). The three mills on Viti Levu currently all have excess
capacity and would have no difficulty in crushing the additional 170,000
tons of cane expected from the drainage improvement areas on that island.
6.04      It is assumed that domestic demand would grow slowly and that
practically all of the additional output would be exported. Even if
400,000 tons were available for export due to the project plus other
possible improvements in the sugar industry, Fiji would remain a marginal
producer in the world market. The Bank's commodity analysts consider the
market outlook for sugar to be favorable, and predict overall supply
shortages at least through 1985. Factors responsible for this situation
after 1980 include a shortage of processing capacity and the high capital
cost of new capacity, currently estimated at more than US$1,000 per ton
of rated sugar output capacity. Fiji has well developed export markets
for her sugar. As one of the parties to the African, Pacific and Caribbean
Countries Agreement of 1974, Fiji enjoys special access to the EEC market,
specifically the U.K., where 55% of her export sugar is currently sold. In
addition, Fiji has contracts with other buyers, mainly in Southeast Asia
and the South Pacific region.
Prices
6.05      The estimated fob price per ton of Fiji export sugar for the full
year 1975 is F$375 (US$446). After subtracting certified deductions for the
costs of various regulatory and supervisory bodies, export duties (2%),
stablilization fund levy, marketing and research costs, F$365 per ton would
remain for distribution between growers and the miller. The percentage
distribution is determined on an industry-wide basis and is the same for all
growers throughout Fiji. The ten-year contract of 1970 (para 2.06) specified
65% for the growers and 35% for the miller. Claiming that FSC was making
"iexcess profits," the growers in 1973 demanded that the split be changed to
80:20. A 1974 report to the Independent Chairman of the sugar industry showed
that an 80:20 split would clearly undermine FSC's financial position, and
recommended a 2:1 split as being equitable to both parties and reflective of
the situation in other sugar producing countries today. 1/ The decision to
enact a 70:30 split became effective as of the 1975 crushing season. This
would provide a gross return to growers of F$255/ton of sugar or F$32/ton of
cane at mill (Annex 10).
1/   United Nations Development Advisory Team (UNDAT). Report to the Inde-
pendent Chairman on a Study of the Fiji Sugar Industry. Suva, December
1974, especially pp. 142-159.



- 27 -
6.06      With the same 70:30 split, the Bank's commodity price forecast of
US$314/ton (F$264/ton) in 1985 would give an at-mill price of F$22/ton cane,
which was used throughout the project life for the financial analysis. For
the economic analysis, the use of a shadow exchange rate gives an economic
farm gate price of F$25/ton (Annex 10). Where growers are assumed to use road
transport as in the case of Seaqaqa settlers, transport costs were treated
as part of farm operating costs. For farmers served by rail, FSC would pay
the at-mill price at the railhead, as is the usual practice.
6.07      In the face of expected falling world sugar prices, the 70:30 split
may not give FSC enough revenue to maintain an acceptable financial position.
The Independent Chairman and the Government should therefore review the
financial situation of both the growers and FSC annually in the light of
world market price developments so that the division of proceeds permits an
equitable sharing of benefits and burdens and does not undermine the future
viability of the industry, which would hurt both parties. Even with a 65:35
split in 1985, the farm gate price would be more than F$20 per ton cane,
which would give growers sufficient financial incentives and still give an
acceptable economic rate of return on the proposed project (para 7.03).
Farm Incomes
6.08      Farm models have been prepared for a typical 50-ac settlement farm
with 15 ac of sugarcane at Seaqaqa, and for two different 10-ac sugarcane
farms in the drainage improvement areas. The estimated present farm incomes
and those projected at full development are presented in Annexes 7 and 8
and summarized below:
Area                 Farm Size       Present  Repayment Period  After Repayment
    D _ _ _ _ _ _    (US$)
Seaqaqa Settlement       50 ac with
15 ac cane        1,000   3,210-3,750           4,010
Saltwater Intrusion      10 ac             2,600   2,180-4,270            4,350
Restricted Drainage      10 ac             2,960   2,220-4,250            4,350
/a   Rounded to nearest US$10.
6.09      Farmers in the Seaqaqa settlement area would realize the greatest
relative and absolute income gains from the project. Although the informa-
tion is limited, indications are that family incomes of subsistence farmers
in the area before the settlement and that of other settlers would be below
US$1,000. The farm income analysis indicates that during the first year, net
family income from settlement activities would be US$560 (Annex 7). A subsist-
ence allowance of F$400 (US$480) would therefore be needed to help tide the
settler over the first year. This would be provided by FSC in cash and/or
kind and added to the FDB establishment loan, as has been the practice to date
in the Seaqaqa settlement. During the loan repayment period (years three



- 28 -
through eight), family income would be between US$3,210 and US$3,750; there-
after it would equal US$4,010, or just over US$800 per capita for a family
of five. This compares to an estimated GDP per capita in 1974 of US$640
(para 2.01), which would reach US$875 by 1985 at 3% annual growth rate. The
settlers would also establish subsistence food plots as time goes on and
would receive a small cash income supplement from the local sale of citrus
and pineapple.
6.10      Per capita incomes of US$520 to US$590 for sugarcane farmers
affected by poor drainage are currently slightly below the national average
but would increase to US$870 with the project at full development, or roughly
equal to the expected GDP per capita in 1985. Such farmers also typically
have subsistence food plots which they cultivate during the slack season.
The improvements would place these farmers on a par with the bulk of Fiji's
coastal sugarcane farmers whose lands are not affected by poor drainage.
6.11      The cost of the Seaqaqa settlement comes to about US$15,500 per
family of five, including the residents of the proposed new township. The
high cost is due largely to the heavy investments required in road and rail
infrastructure to move large amounts of a heavy, bulky commodity over
relatively unfavorable terrain in a short period of time. Excluding the
cost of the tramline as the miller's responsibility, the main road as
part of the national highway system and the township which would be paid
for by the new residents, and considering only the settler/farmers as
beneficiaries, the cost per family would be just over US$10,000. Further
excluding the credit elements, which would be fully repaid by farmers over
five years, the cost per family would be US$8,500. Family incomes in the
settlement area with the project would still be below the expected national
average GDP per capita in 1985 and the incomes of typical coastal cane
farmers (para 6.09-6.10). The cost per family in the drainage improvement
areas would be much lower -- US$3,200 for the entire investment or US$2,100
excluding seawall reconstruction, which the Government considers a national
responsibility.
VII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
7.01      The primary objective of the project is to expand sugar production
for export. A secondary objective is to increase native Fijian participation
in commercial agriculture. Some 3,400 sugarcane farmers and their families,
or 17,000 people, plus an expected 500 township residents, would benefit
directly from the project. The project would increase sugarcane production
by clearing and developing 8,000 ac of largely unused land; it would provide
the necessary farm machinery, vehicles and transport facilities to produce
the crop and carry it to the mill; it would provide township facilities to
serve the settlement community; and it would rehabilitate about 26,400 ac
of coastal cane lands. The project would create some 3,500 agricultural
jobs during the six-month crushing season (June-November) and would increase
the demand for labor by about 800 jobs during the slack season. Sufficient



- 29 -
labor would be available in both the settlement and drainage improvement areas
from farmers' families, seasonal local labor and seasonal migrant labor from
the outer islands.
7.02      The economic analysis is presented in Annex 10.  The settlement
and drainage improvement parts of the project were analyzed separately
since they would be carried out in two distinct areas by different organi-
zations and would benefit different groups of people. Within each part,
however, a separate or incremental analysis of the various project components
was not appropriate since each part constitutes an integrated package.
Assuming a 30-year evaluation period, a farm gate price for sugarcane of
F$25/ton, a shadow exchange rate of US$1.05=F$1.00 and a shadow wage rate
for all incremental farm labor of F$6/man-day during the crushing season and
F$3/man-day during the slack season, the economic rates of return would be
20% for the Seaqaqa settlement and 20% for the drainage improvements. The
economic rate of return for all project investments combined would also be
20%.
7.03      In evaluating the settlement, the costs of the tramline extension,
the township development and half of the main road improvements have been
excluded, since they would generate separate benefits other than those from
increased sugarcane production, as discussed in Annex 10. If the full costs
of these items are included and benefits remain unchanged, the rate of return
would still be 12%. The rates of return show modest sensitivity to cost
overruns and the assumptions made concerning the level and timing of agri-
cultural benefits. Even under the most adverse cases tested, namely a 20%
increase in construction costs and a 25% decrease in benefits, the rate of
return on each part of the project would still exceed 13%.
7.04      At full agricultural development, annual sugar export earnings
due to the project would amount to US$13.1 million at the forecast world
market price fob Lautoka/Lambasa (in terms of 1975 constant prices) of
US$314/ton. After deducting the incremental cost of imported fertilizers,
the net foreign exchange earnings would be about US$12.0 million per year.
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
8.01      During negotiations, agreement with the Government was reached on
the following principal points:
(a)  the Government would continue to employ a person, with
qualifications, experience, powers and responsibilities
acceptable to the Bank, as Seaqaqa Project Manager (para 5.02);
(b)  PWD would employ a road engineer, with qualifications, ex-
perience powers and responsibilities acceptable to the
Bank, to head the constrtuction unit for Seaqaqa settlement
roads as his primary responsibility (para 5.05);



- 30 -
tc) regional offices of DID would be set up and suitably staffed;
and that qualified and experienced engineers, with powers and
responsibilities acceptable to the Bank, would be appoint-
ed as Divisional Engineers to head these offices, before any
contract work on the drainage improvement part of the project
is carried out (para 5.10);
(d) FSC, with seconded staff from the Department of Agriculture
as required, would provide an adequate number of farm ad-
visors for the Seaqaqa settlement area (para 5.15); and
(e) Drainage Boards would be empowered to levy drainage rates
in the drainage improvement areas sufficient to recover
from project beneficiaries the full cost of common user
drains over ten years at 10% interest, plus the full cost
of operating and maintaining seawalls and common user drains
(para 5.21).
8.02      The conclusion of a subsidiary loan agreement between the Govern-
ment and FDB, satisfactory to the Bank, would be a condition of effective-
ness of the proposed loan (para 4.17).
8.03      The proposed project would be suitable for a Bank loan of US$12.0
million, with a 20-year maturity including a grace period of five years. The
borrower would be Fiji.



FIJI
SUGAR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Climatic Data
Mean Rainfall ()             Years   Jan    Feb    Mar   Apr    May    Jun    Jul    Au       Sep    Oct    Nov    Dec Annual
Lambasa                      45   12.99  14.41  14.41   8.39   4.80   2.09   1.88   1.81   2.80   3.58   5.98  10.12  83.3
Lautoka                      34    8.94  114.06  11.89   6.18   4.41   2.09   2.o4   3.23   2.20   3.23   4.25   7.20  69.7
Penang                       55   11.61  14.80  13.39   9.68   5.20   2.72   2.01   2.99   2.52   3.39   5.20   9.09  82.6
Suva                         47   11.26  12.05  14.76  12.80  lo.o4   6.50   5.20   8.07   7.56   8.50   9.88  11.97 118.6
Rainfall Probability
at Seaqaqa Forest
Station (in)                  13
90%                                8.13  10.69   9.17   5.55   0.68   0.40   0.53   0.22   1.51   2.58   3.55   7.16
60%                               14.66  18.01  19.44  11.06   3.72   2.33   1.55   2.17   3.30   5.18   8.02  13.40
50%                               17.32  21.00  21.59  11.24   3.72   3.60   1.55   2.48   3.37   5.83   9.54  15.19
Percentage of Droughts
at Seaqaqa Forest
Station of 26 to 31
days (%)                      13     __     __      __     --   50.9  38.2   43.9 \145.2  15.4   7.4          --    --
Mean Temperature (OF
Lambasa                           79.9  80.0  79.7  78.9  77.2  75.8   74.6  75.2  76.4  77.6  78.4   79.4   77.8
Nandi                             80.7  80.6  80.1  79.2  76.9  75.5   74.1   74.7  76.1  77.3  78.5  79.8  77.7
Relative Humidity (%)
Lambasa                           78      81    82    82       79     79     76     71     69     67      69     71     75
Nandi                             75      78     80     80     77     79     76     71     69      66     67     69     74
Sunshine (Average Hours)
Lambasa                          149    148    169    168    195    176    205    208    187    177    179    185   2146
Nandi                            205    178    184    194    208    208    216    238    211    224    221    220   2507
Suva                             179    154    155    157    156    136    144    154    137    160    169    197   1898
Lambasa, Lautoka, Penarg and Nandi are representative of the Drainage Improvement areas.  In all these areas,
sugarcane has been grown satisfactorily for many years.  Records of rainfall at the Seaqaqa agricultural re-
search station are available for only 8 years. Though the period is too short for sure comparison, the
seasonal pattern is the same as at Lambasa, 25 mi away on the coast, with a higher mean annual rainfaIl of
88.8 in.  The rainfall probabilities shown for Seaqaqa Forest Station, higher and wetter than the settle-
ment area, are based on 13 years' recording and are indicative only.



ANNEX 2
Page 1
FIJI
SUGAR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Seagaga Settlement
Agricultural Practices and Production
1.        The proposed calendar of farm operations is shown in Chart 15157(2R)).
It provides for full tractor cultivation during the dry season, followed by
planting and harvest of the plant cane crop after 13 to 14 months. Replant-
ing would take place after three ratoons, followed by a year of fallow or
under legume, unless the price/yield/cost ratios indicate a change. liar-
vesting would be done in the traditional manner by gangs of cane cutters
(para 3). Some operations such as planting in mechanically prepared fur-
rows, supplementary weeding and spreading of fertilizer and cane trash (for
ratoons) are suitable for family labor and would be carried out by hand.
2.        Cane would be grown under natural rainfall conditions and is there-
fore subject to moisture stress in the dry season, particularly from June to
September. However, irrigation is not a practical solution. Recommended fer-
tilizer applications for plant cane are 7 cwt/ac sulphate of ammonia (21-0-0),
5 cwt/ac superphosphate (0-19-0) and 1 cwt/ac muriate of potash (0-0-58). With
these applications and reasonable management, yields between 20 and 25 ton/ac
for Ragnar and Mlali, the two varieties being used so far, have been obtained.
However, in the few cases where farmers have applied smaller amounts, yields
have been much lower. For ratoons, 6 cwt/ac sulphate of ammonia and 2 cwt/ac
superphosphate are recommended. For purposes of project analysis, yields
have been taken as 24 ton/ac for plant cane, 22 ton/ac for first ratoon, 19
ton/ac for second ratoon and 16 ton/ac for third ratoon, or an average of
20 ton/ac harvested at full project development. Assuming an average five
year rotation in which 12 ac are harvested on each 15 ac farm each year, to-
tal annual production from the 12,000 ac settlement area at full project de-
velopment would be 194,000 tons, and incremental production from the 8,000
ac to be developed under the project would be 130,000 tons (Annex 7).
3.        As is normal practice in Fiji, harvesting would be carried out by
gangs working to a schedule laid down by FSC. The harvesting season varies
from 24 to 30 weeks, roughly from May through October, sometimes extending
into December. Gangs are composed mostly of farmers and members of their
families, supplemented by casual labor from the neighborhood or sometimes
from other islands. National statistics show that on average, 60% of gang
members are drawn from farmers and their families and 40% from outside.
The size of gangs varies, although FSC aims at a gang size of about 20,
with 15 men working each day, seven days a week, allowing for time off.
Each gang cuts and loads 4,000 to 5,000 tons a year in about 150 working



ANNEX 2
Page 2
days, or about 30 tons a day. Cane is loaded onto rail trucks, each carry-
ing about 3 tons, requiring 10 trucks a day per gang.
Project Components
4.        Land Clearing and Farm Development.  As of the end of 1975, some
600 farm blocks out of the planned 800 had been surveyed and allocated to
settlers, and 400 of these had been occupied and partly developed to sugar-
cane. Survey and subdivision of the remaining 200 blocks would be done
by NLTB surveyors in cooperation with a field officer from the Ministry
of Agriculture, Fisheries and Forests (MAFF) specialized in land classifi-
cation. A total of 8,000 ac would be cleared under the project - 3,000 ac
on the 200 newly subdivided farms and 5,000 ac remaining to be cleared on
the 600 farms already allocated. In addition, the project would finance
farm development up to first harvest for the 400 settlers who had not
established farms by the end of the 1975 planting season (200 newly sub-
divided plus 200 previously subdivided but not developed).
5.        Land clearing is carried out mechanically using bulldozers.  It
is estimated that 14% of the area remaining to be cleared is under scrub,
43% under medium forest and 43% under heavy forest. After felling, the
timber, which does not have commercial value, is windrowed and burned.
The area is single ripped and any stumps and roots removed. Farm develop-
ment consists of double plowing, double harrowing and furrowing using
wheeled tractors, as well as provision of seed cane, fertilizers and other
inputs. Settlers are also provided with galvanized iron sheet for building
their own houses. The program for land clearing and farm development is as
follows:
-Year---------- Total                 Total
Item            Pre-project   1976   1977   1978   1979 Project  Settlement
-ac_____-----------------ac----------------------------
Survey and Subdivision  30,000    10,000    -         -      -   10,000   40,000
Land clearing-light       2,000        400    300    200    200  1,100    3,100
-medium      1,200       800    850    900    900  3,450    4,650
-heavy        800        800    850    900    900  3,450    4,250
Total           4,000     2,000  2,000  2,000  2,000  8,000   12,000
Farm development          4,000      2,000  2,000  2,000  2,000  8,000   12,000
6.        Tramline Extension.  The sugar tramline serving the Lambasa mill
currently extends as far as Wailevu (Map 11852).  Part of the project would
be to extend the tramline westward a distance of about 6.5 mi to the foot
of the Seaqaqa plateau at Tambia. Earthworks for the extension are being



ANNEX 2
Page 3
carried out by contract and comprise the formation of a subgrade using
cut and fill. The roadway would be 16 ft wide. Embankments would be of
compacted fill with side slopes of 1.5:1. Side slopes in cut sections
would vary from 1:4 (rock only) to 1:1 (clay only). The works also include
construction of side drains, culverts of various sizes with inlet and out-
let structures, minor realignment of access tracks and roadways and the
relocation of a few minor buildings.
7.        Roads.  Road construction would be carried out by a Public Works
Department (PWD) road construction unit stationed at Seaqaqa under force
account with equipment to be procured under the project. The unit would
be headed by a qualified and experienced road engineer under PWD's Divi-
sional Engineer, Northern, and would be staffed as indicated in Chart 15155(3R).
8.        The existing main coastal road from Tambia along the coast and
up the Seaqaqa plateau to Korovuli could not accommodate the heavy volume
of cane traffic which the project would generate. The project would there-
fore include construction of a new section of main road from the new tram-
line terminus at Tambia to Korovuli following the best route in terms of
distance and terrain (Map 11852). The new road would cover 7.3 mi and be
built to PWD main road standards (Table 1). It would link up at Korovuli
with the existing main road through the project area to Vunimako, and would
eventually form a section of the transinsular road across Vanua Levu from
Savusavu to Lambasa, now under construction. One major bridge on the new
road would be constructed at the same time as the road works (Chart 15164).
Traffic density by 1978 would exceed 500 vehicles per day during the crushing
season and the new road, as well as 1.6 mi of the existing road from Korovuli
to Seaqaqa township, would be tarmac 1/ surfaced. The remaining 8.1 mi of
main road through the settlement area from Seaqaqa township to Vunimako
would be upgraded to gravel surfaced main road standard.
9.        About 125 mi of access roads would be required to serve each of
the 800 farms in the settlement area. Of this, 8 mi have been completed
by PWD to country road standards and the remaining 117 mi would be constructed
to the same standards under the project (Table 1). Major earthworks would
be carried out by motor scrapers and bulldozers. Fill would be compacted
in 6-in layers using sheepsfoot and grid rollers towed by wheeled tractors.
After grading, the gravel running course would be sprSad and compacted. PWD
estimates Shat earth moving would amount to 17,000 yd of compacted fill
(21,250 yd excavated from bank) per mi. In the absence of survey data,
project cost estimates assume one box culvert (5 ft x 5 ft) and 3 pipe cul-
verts per mi.
10.       A maintenance sub-depot would be established at Seaqaqa township
consisting of offices and a workshop with vehicle pits and stores. During
the construction period, the depot would serve as a construction camp as
1/   Penetration macadam.



A'NNEX 2
Page 4
well as a base for maintaining completed roads. Afterwards a maintenance
unit consistirg of one road foreman, four operators, ten drivers and 20
laborers, under a part-time road supervisor, would maintain all project
roads using two graders, one loader, one bulldozer, five dump trucks and one
flatbed truck to be left at the sub-depot. The remainder of the construction
equipment with a residual value estimated at US$650,000 would be used by
PWD to complete the transinsular road from Lambasa to Savusavu now under
construction (Map 11851), or for other high priority road construction work
under DPVII. The additional equipment would replace similar equipment which
is expected to wear out over the next five years and is not expected to sig-
nificantly enhance PWD's long term force account construction capability.
Tne annual operating cost (including salaries and wages) of the maintenance
unit is estimated to be F$110,000 (US$130,000) or about F$820 (US$975)/mi/year.
11.       Tractors and Cane Transport.  Tractors at Seaqaqa would be used
for two primary purposes: transport of cane from the field to pickup points
on the main road, and field operations. It is estimated that 75 farm trac-
tors (65 hp) would be required at Seaqaqa, or one for just over ten farms.
Fifty of these would be for harvesting and in-field transport while 25 would
be for field operations which coincide with the harvest season. All tractors
would be fully employed during the crushing season. Twenty-five tractors had
been purchased for use in the settlement area by the end of 1975, leaving 50
for financing under the project.
12.       Cane transport vehicles would be used to collect loaded cane
trucks at pickup points along the main road and deliver them to the Tambia
railhead. It is estimated that 17 cane transport vehicles (12-ton) would
be needed to carry the 200,000 tons of cane an average distance of 12 mi
to the railhead, working two, eight-hour shifts a day, six days a week
over a 24-week crushing season. Three vehicles had been purchased by the
end of 1975, leaving 14 to be financed under the project.
13.       To ensure roughly equal participation in all aspects of the
project between Fijians and Indians, the Native Land Development Corpora-
tion (NLDC) would own and operate up to half the tractors and transport
vehicles, and would train Fijians in their use. NLDC would also operate
a garage, service station and workshop to maintain and repair the tractors
and cane transport vehicles in the Seaqaqa area.
14.       The Fiji Development Bank (FDB) would provide loans to individuals
or to NLDC to buy their own tractors or cane transport vehicles from local
suppliers. To be eligible for financing under the project, all such pur-
chases would have to be certified by the Seaqaqa Project Manager as being
required for the project.
15.       Township Develo,ent.  All Seaqaqa settlers would live in indi-
vidual houses built on their farms. Hiowever, a centrally located township
would be built to provide various economic and social services such as
banlks, schools, a market area, shops, health facilities, churches, temples,
cemeteries, etc. It is expected that the township itself would initially



ANNEX 2
Page 5
comprise some 100 families, or about 500 people, of whom about one-third
would be directly associated with the project, in addition to the sugar-
cane farmer-settlers. NLDC is responsible for developing the new township.
The Corporation would operate as a commercial developer and would recover
its investment costs from township residents. The township area has been
set aside as a separate subdivision and has been declared a Town Planning
Area by the Minister for Urban Development. The Director of Town and Coun-
try Planning has also indicated formal provisional approval of a town plan.
16.       The township development part of the project would consist of the
installation of basic sites and services comprising roads, community areas,
water supply, stormwater drainage, electricity supply and a workshop for
tractors and cane transport vehicles. Township roads totaling about 1.2
mi would be constructed in commercial, residential and industrial areas
according to PWD country town standards. Bulk excavation would be provided
for shaping of ground in the industrial area, school grounds and playing
fields, bus stations, market, etc. Water would be pumped from the Ndreketi
river and storage, filter, treatment plant and reticulation would be pro-
vided. Soil tests have shown that a system of septic tanks would be adequate
for the township, thereby eliminating the need, at least during the development
phase, for a sewerage system and treatment plant. Electricity would be sup-
plied from a 100 kVA generator and the Fiji Electricity Authority would install
the distribution system.
Cost and Implementation
17.       The total cost of the Seaqaqa settlement including physical con-
tingencies and costs due to expected price increases is estimated to be
US$17.4 million, of which US$8.4 million would be foreign exchange (Annex 4).
The works would be carried out over four years beginning January 1976 with
the exception of the tramline extension which has already begun and is sched-
uled for completion by August 1976 (Chart 15164).
18.       The cost of the entire settlement comes to about US$15,500 per
family of five, including the residents of the proposed new Seaqaqa town-
ship. The high cost is due largely to the heavy investments required in
road and rail infrastructure to move large amounts of a heavy, bulky com-
modity over relatively unfavorable terrain in a short period of time. Ex-
cluding the cost of the tramline as the miller's responsibility, the main
road as part of the national highway system, and the township which would
be paid for by the new residents, and considering only the settler/farmers
as beneficiaries, the cost per family would be just over US$10,000. Further
excluding the credit elements, which would be fully repaid by farmers over
five years, the cost per family would be US$8,500.
19.       For project roads, unit base costs including engineering and super-
vision are estimated to be about US$100,000/mi for construction of main roads,
US$70,000/mi for tarmac surfacing and US$18,000/mi for upgrading existing
gravel surface main roads. Construction of one major bridge would cost an
estimated US$380,000. Newly constructed farm access roads would cost about
US$23,000/mi.



ANNEX 2
Table 1
Fiji
SUGAR DEVELOPWENT PROJECT
Road Design Standards
Main Roads      Country Roads
Design speed (mph)                      50               20
Pavement width (ft)                      24              12
Shoulder width (ft)                       5               5
Formation width (ft)                     38              24
Minimum horizontal radius (ft)          150              108
Stopping sight distance (ft)            240              240
Maximum gradient (%)                     10             12.5
Surface                             compacted       compacted
gravel or      gravel
tarmac



ANNEX 3
Page 1
FIJI
SUGAR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Drainage Improvement
Background
1.        The areas affected by poor drainage are scattered along the
northern and western coasts of Viti Levu and Vanua Levu (Map 11851) and
fall into two distinct types. The first lies just inland from the coast
and consists of about 11,000 ac of former mangrove swamp reclaimed at
the end of the century, where coastal bunds and outfall structures have
fallen into disrepair and the area is affected by saltwater intrusion and
flooding. About 3,400 ac of this land has gone completely out of produc-
tion and on the remaining 7,600 ac, average yields have declined about
8-10 ton/ac. The second category is further inland and covers about
17,400 ac of land above sea level, where the internal drainage system has
deteriorated due to lack of maintenance and siltation from runoff upstream
in the catchment area. Of the total affected area, about 2,600 ac have
gone out of sugarcane production and are used for rice or left fallow as
pasture. On the remainder, average yields are down about 5 ton/ac.
2.        Works would be carried out to rehabilitate and improve drainage
on the entire 28,400 ac. About 2,000 ac around Lambasa were rehabilitated
by the Drainage and Irrigation Division (DID) during 1975 and the remaining
26,400 ac would be included in the project. Most of the works would be
on Viti Levu where drainage would be improved on 20,100 ac or 20% of the
total sugarcane land in the Lautoka, Rarawai and Penang mill areas. This
is made up of four main areas and a number of smaller ones extending from
Raki Raki in the north to Singatoka in the southwest of the island, a
distance of about 120 mi. On Vanua Levu the proposed improvements would
be concentrated around Lambasa and would include about 6,300 ac (excluding
the 2,000 ac rehabilitated by DID in 1975) or 10% of the total cane area
in the Lambasa mill area (Table 1 and Map 11851).
Agricultural Practices and Production
3.        Unlike the Seaqaqa settlement area, farmers are already growing
cane in the drainage improvement areas and, apart from drainage improvement,
no major change in agricultural practices would be attempted. Aside from
minor freehold and Crown land areas, cane farmers, both Indian and Fijian,
hold agricultural leases from the Native Land Trust Board (NLTB). Leases
are normally for ten years, twice renewable, and most leases are for farms
between 10 and 15 ac. Farmers receive cane contracts from the Fiji Sugar
Corporation (FSC) which in the past have generally been for 10 ac, but which



ANNEX 3
Page 2
have recently been increased to 15 ac, where land is available, due to the
improved world market situation for sugar.
4.        Traditionally, land is prepared and planted in February and March,
during the wet season, and cane is harvested in May through November of the
following year. Multiple ratooning is carried out with up to five or six
ratoons being taken off. In the improved drainage areas, extension workers
would emphasize reducing the number of ratoons to three. The land is cul-
tivated by plows, scarifiers and harrows drawn by tractors, horses or bul-
locks. Nearly all Indian growers own draft animals and those who own tractors
do plowing on a custom hire basis for others as well as on their own farms.
Most cultivation is still done by bullocks, although tractors are becoming
more common.
5.        The three main cane varieties currently planted, Ragnar, Waya and
Mali, have advantages of disease resistance, high sucrose content and good
milling qualities; they are not, however, high yielding. Seed cane areas
are inspected by FSC inspectors and effective roguing has almost eliminated
the two main diseases, downy mildew and Fiji disease. Fertilizers are sup-
plied through FSC which has an efficient distribution service. Timing and
amounts of application vary, although about 5 cwt/ac of a 3:1 sulphate of
ammonia and superphosphate mixture appears most common. Weeds in the rows
are generally hoed by hand.
6.        Harvest time is from May to November and about 80% of the cane
is cut unburnt, although the percentage of burnt cane has been increasing
in recent years. Cane cutting is done by gangs composed of farmers and
casual laborers. The amount of work involved for the farmer is roughly
equivalent to what he would have to do if he cut the cane on his own farm
single-handed. The gang, which may include Fijians as well as Indians,
elects a sirdar or foreman who directs operations under the general super-
vision of the FSC field officers. This cooperative effort saves time and
also has the social value of mixing the two communities. After the cane
is cut it is loaded on 3-ton rail trucks which are hauled into the fields
on portable lines by bullocks. The loaded trucks are then hauled to the
main tramway line for conveyance to the mill by FSC locomotives.  Some of
the cane grown in remote areas is delivered to the mill by road.  After
harvest the remaining cane trash is burned and the cane is molded up by
moldboard plow and bullocks.
7.        UNDAT 1/ has estimated that, based on considerations of soil types
and rainfall level and distribution, cane yields should average 33 ton/ac
on flat land (0-3% slope). Since the drainage improvement areas are flat
and have favorable soils for growing sugarcane, average yields in excess of
1/   United Nations Development Advisory Team (UNDAT).  "Report to the
Independent Chairman on a Study of the Fiji Sugar Industry," 1974,
pp. 10-11.



ANNEX 3
Page 3
30 ton/ac should be obtained. However, due to drainage problems and water-
logging as well as poor management, particularly on Fijian farms, average
yield is only about 18 ton/ac harvested, with production of about 350,000
tons over the 26,400 ac to be improved under the project. Without the
project the situation would undoubtedly deteriorate further. With the proj-
ect it is assumed that the average yield would increase to 26 ton/ac har-
vested, or about 20% below the potential yield on flat land. At the same
time the harvested area would increase from 17,000 ac to 21,000 ac. Pro-
duction from improved drainage and farm management would therefore increase
to about 550,000 tons, or an increment of some 200,000 tons of cane per year
(Annex 8).
Project Works
8.        Photogrammetric Mapping.  Existing mapping of the drainage areas
on Vanua Levu, carried out by consultants for FSC, is adequate for planning
and preliminary designs. Field surveys would, however, be necessary for
final designs. The drainage areas on Viti Levu have not been mapped to the
required detail, and some 50,000 ac would be mapped under the project by
the Lands Department at a scale of 1:10,000.
9.        Design and Construction.  Design would be done by DID's central
design office and works would be constructed by local contractors supervised
by the Division Engineers and their works supervisors in the Northern and
Western divisions. To facilitate detailed field surveys, design and con-
struction supervision, the project would provide offices for the Division
Engineers and their staffs at Lambasa and Lautoka and procurement of eight,
four-wheel drive vehicles for their use.
10.       Seawall Reconstruction.  Reclaimed areas are protected by 22.7
mi of seawalls, of which 2.4 mi are on Vanua Levu and 20.3 mi on Viti Levu.
The walls, which are in fair to very poor condition, were constructed in
mangrove areas from fill obtained from borrow drains immediately behind
them. Most of the existing embankments have suffered considerable damage
from burrowing shellfish. The shellfish (Thalassina anamola) feed on organic
matter in the mangrove mud, where they burrow to depths of 3 ft. They do not,
however, burrow in compacted clays or earth fill containing little or no or-
ganic matter.
11.       Because of the shellfish problem, new embankments would be built
to minimize damage from burrowing and reduce the need for maintenance. A
cutoff trench would first be dug on the seaward face of the existing wall.
The trench would then be filled and the new wall constructed outside the
existing embankment with compacted, non-organic earth fill from outside the
vicinity of the walls. The existing embankment would be partly incorporated
as the landward toe of the new one. Excess material would be bulldozed into
the original borrow drains, which serve no purpose. The new seawalls would
have side slopes of 3:1 and a top width of 12 ft. A 10 ft wide road, sur-
faced with 6 in of compacted gravel, would be built on top of the walls.



ANNEX 3
Page 4
The seawalls would have a 3 ft freeboard above high spring tide level.
The normal tidal range is about 4 ft.
12.       Tidal outfall structures would consist of Armco culverts through
the seawalls, equipped with vertically hung, lock-type, timber tidal gates
in the inside headwalls. Sufficient discharge structures would be provided
in each drainage basin to evacuate the runoff from 10 in of rain in three
days. This is equivalent to the one-in-five-year probable 24-hour rainfall
on the catchments and would be adequate to prevent damage to the sugarcane
crop.
13.       Internal Drainage Improvement.  The project would involve cleaning
and re-excavating about 430 mi of main and secondary drains and clearing out-
falls to enable on-farm drains to discharge adequately. Where necessary,
parts of the drainage system would be realigned. Main drains to tidal out-
falls exist in most cases but secondary drains in the 3,400 ac out of pro-
duction are no longer effective. It would be necessary to excavate the sec-
ondary drains in these areas. A typical secondary drain would be 4.5 ft deep
with a 3 ft bottom width and 1.5:1 side slopes.
14.       On-farm drains totalling about 910 mi in length would be excavated
and maintained by the farmers. The work would involve about 25 man-days for
construction and five man-days maintenance annually for the average 10-ac
farm.
Cost and Implementation
15.       The cost of drainage improvement including physical contingencies
and costs due to expected price increases is estimated to be US$8.3 million,
of which US$3.6 million would be foreign exchange (Annex 4). The total cost
comes to US$3,200 per family of five and US$2,100 per family excluding the
seawall rehabilitation, which the Government considers a national respon-
sibility. The works are scheduled for execution over five years beginning
February 1976 (Chart 15164). Unit construction costs are summarized in
Table 2.



ANNEX 3
Table 1
FIJI
SUGAR DEVELOPME   PROJECT
Drainage Improvement Areas
In Production   out of cane    Total      Average
Mill Area            with reduced    Production      Area       Farm
yields _                    Affected   Size
Lautoka
Lautoka                 3,190            780           3,970      9.7
Niandi                  2,300           330            2,630     10.2
Singatoka               2,730           400            3,130     10.0
Sub-total             8,220         1,510            9,730     10.0
Rarawai
Mba                     4,960            200           5,16o     10.1
Tavua                   1,680         1,210            2,890     11.1
Sub-total             6,640         1,410            8,o50     10.4
Penang                    2,270            60            2,330     11.3
Larnbasa                  5,230         3,o60            8,290 1/  11.1
TOTAL                22,360         6,040 2/        28,400 1/ 10.4
1/  Includes 2,000 ac improved by DID in 1975 outside the project.
2/ Includes 3,400 ac of saltwater intrusion and 2,600 ac with poor
internal drainage.



ANNEX 3
Table 2
FIJI
SUGAR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Drainage Improvement Cost Summary 1/
Quantity     Unit    Rate      Total Costi!       Cost/ac2/
(U-S$    (US$ '000)         (US$)
SEA.WALL CONSTRUCrION
Seawalls                          22.7       mi       40,750         925             85
Tidal Gates
3-Barrel Culverts                5          No      57,000         285
Single-Barrel Culverts          25           "      18,800         470
Sub-total                                                        755             70
Total - Seawall Construction                                     1,680
INTERNAL DRAINAGE
Excavation
Reclamation Area 3/          11,000        ac         72           790             70
Drainage Improvement Area4/ 15,400           "        42           650             40
Sub-total                                                      1 ,440
Structures                ,,
Field access structures -        90         No     3,700           335              12
Drops, road crossings, etc.      90          "   10,400            935             35
Sub-total                                                      1,270
Total - Internal Drainage                                        2,710
1/ Source: Sample area prepared by DID and mission estimates.
2/  Seawall construction only protects the 11,000 ac reclamation area*Costs rounded
to nearest US$10.
3/ Cost based on 80 yd3/ac @ US$0.90/yd3.
IT/ Cost based on 65 yd3/ac @ US$0.65/yd3.
_Y One field access structure to 300 ac.



ANNEX 4
FIJI                                                                Table 1
SUGAR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cost Estimate
Foreign
Local      Foreign       Total           Local      Foreign       Total           Exchange
Local      F$ '000 ------ _ -_           ----------US$  000 ---------             E
1. SEAQAQA SETTLEMENT
A.  Land Clearing (8,000 ac)                      860          550       1,410           1,010          640       1,650              39
B.  Farm Development (400 farms)                  210          140         350             250          160         410              39
C.  Wailevu-Tambia Tramline (6.5 mi)
(a)  Earthworks                              320          310         630             370          370          740              50
(b)  Track,Bridges & Collection Points  330               -           330             390          -            390              -
Sub-total                               650         310          960             760          370       1,130              33
D.  Roads
(a)  Construction Equipment                  300        1,200       1,500             350        1,410       1,760               80
(b)  Access Road Construction                820          730       1,550             960          850        1,810              47
(117 mi)
(c)  Main Road Construction 1/             1,270        1,340       2,610           1,490        1,570       3,060               51
(d)  Maintenance Depot                        30           50           80              30          60           90              67
Sub-total                            2,420        3,320       5,740           2,830        3,890        6,720              58
E.  Cane Transport Vehicles                       200          580         780             230          680         910               75
F.  Tractors, Trailers & Implements               130          360         490             150          420         570              74
G.  Township Development
(a)  Roads                                   260          200         460             300          240          540              44
(b)  Water Supply & Sewerage                 100           70         170              120          80          200              40
(c)  Electricity Supply                       20           50           70              20          60           80              75
(d)  Community Facilities                     60           10          70               70          10           80              12
(e)  Workshop                                 20           40          60              30           40           70              57
Sub-total                               460         370          830             540         430          970              44
H.  Engineering, Supervision & Adm.               970          -           970           1,130          -         1,130               -
Sub-total A to H                     5 900        56630      116530            66900       6,590       13,490              49
T.  Contingencies
(a)  Physical 10%                            590          560       1,150             690          660       1,350               49
(b)  Expected Price Increases 2/           1,460        1,140       2,600           1,710        1,330       3.040               44
Sub-total I                          2,050        1,700        3,750           2,400       1,990        4,390              45
Total Seaqaqa Settlement                   7,950        7,330      15,280           9,300        86580       17;880              48
2.  DRAINAGE IMPROVEMENT
A.  Photogrammetric Mapping                        90          -            90              100         -            100              -
B.  Offices                                        40           30          70              50           30           80              37
C.  Vehicles                                       10           40          50               10          50           60              83
D.  Seawall Reconstruction                        710         730        1,440             830          850       1,680               51
E.  Internal Drainage                           1,280       1,030        2,310           1,500        1,210       2,710               45
F.  Engineering, Supervision & Adm.               380          -           380             450          -           450               -
Sub-total A to F                                          25140                            2,140        5,080              42
G.  Contingencies
(a)  Physical 20%                            500          360         860              580         430       1,010               43
(b)  Expected Price Increase 2/            1,010          730       1,740           1,180          850       2,030               42
Sub-total G                          1,510        1,090        2,600           1,760       1,280        3,040              42
Total Drainage Improvement                 4 020        2 920       6 940           4 700        3 420        86120              44
TOTAL PROJECT COST                        11,970       10250                       14 000       125000       26,000              46
1/  Main road construction would consist of 7.3 mi of new construction and 9.7 mi of upgrading.  Of the total 17 mi, 8.9 mi
would be tarmac surfaced.
2/ Expected price increases are based on the following annual inflation rates:
1976       1977-79       1980
Civil Works                       14%          12%         10%
Equipment and Services            10%           8%          7%



FIJI
SUGAR DEVELOPMIET PROJECT
Expected Price Increases
i976      1977      1978       1979       1980        Tbtal
Seaqaqa Settlement
1.  CivlI Works (US$1000)                        3,400     3,355      2,255     1,700        -         10,71-0
Annual Inflation Rate (%)                       14        12        12         12        -
Expected Price Increases,(US$'000)             240       700       800        890        -          2,630
2.  Equipment and Services (US$'000)             2,665       785       405        275        -          41,130
Annual Inflation Rate (%)                       10         8         8          8        -
Expected Price Increases (US$'000)             130       110         90        80        -            410
3.  Total Before Price Increases (uS$o000)       6,065     4,140      2,660     1,975        -         14,840
Total Expected Price Increases (US$'000)       370       810       890        970        -          3 0O4
Total Seaqaqa Settlement (US$O000)         6b,435      4,90      3-,55      2,945                 17Br8
Drainage Improvement
1.  Civil Works (US$'000)                        1,380     1,180     1,195      1,325       870         5,930
Annual Inflation Rate (%)                       14        12        12         12        10
Expected Price Increases (US$'000)              95       240        415       680       590         2,020
2.  Equipment and Services (US$'000)               100        60         -         _         _            160
Annual Inflation Rate (%)                       10         8         -         -         _
Expected Price Increases                         5         5         -         -         -             10
3. Total Before Price Increases (US$'000)        1,480     1,220     1,195      1,325       870         6,090
Total Expected Price Increasers (US$1000)    100         245       415        680      590          2,030
Total Drainage Improvement (;S$'000)         1,5            0    1          2,00   1,46            b 120
Total Expected Price Increases (US$o000)       470     1,055     1,305      1,650      590          5,070
c1-I
PI 
S



ANNEX 5
FIJI                              Table 1
SUGAR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Equipment List
Unit       Total
Item                               Quantity      Cost        Cost
------US$ ------
A. Road Oonstruction Plant 1/
Motor Scraper 475 hp                       2       187,000      374,000
Bulldozer     200 hp                       2       114,000      228,000
Bulldozer     140 hp                       2        82,000      164,000
Bulldozer      75 hp                       2        45,000       90,000
Grader        125 hp                       2        64,000      128,000
Loader        100 hp                       2        48,500       97,000
Dump truck      6 yd3                     10        13,500      135,000
Flatbed truck with hoist, 7 ton            2        13,000       26,ooo
Mobile crusher and screens                 1       128,000      128,000
Sheepsfoot roller                          2        16,000       32,000
Grid roller                                2        17,000       34,000
4 wheel drive tractor                      2        14,500       29,000
Trailer, 3 ton                             1         2,000        2,000
Compressor, 250 cfm with tools             3        13,500       41,000
Pump, 3 in                                 2         2,000        4,000
Pump, sump                                 2         1,500        3,000
Fuel bowser 2,000 gal                      1        12,000       12,000
Mobile Workshop                            1        44,000       44,000
Concrete mixer 7/5                         2         2,500        5,000
Bar Cutter and Bender                      2         2,500        5,000
Vibrator                                  4          1,250        5,000
Pickup                                     2         7,000       14,000
Spares 10%                                                      160,000
Sub-total                                                 1,760,000
B.  Cane transporters, 13.5 ton 2/            13         70,000     910,000
C.  Tractors, Trailers and Implements 2/
Tractors,      65 hp                      50         8,300      415,000
Single Truck Trailers                     25         3,360       84,oo0
3-disc Plow                               40           850       34,000
Disc Harrow                               40           550       22,000
9-tine tiller                             10           500        5,000
Rotovator      60 in                     10          2,000       20,000
Sub-total                                                   580,000
Equipment for Seaqaqa Township
D.  Diesel Generators, 100 kVA                 1        30,000       30,000
Workshop Bquipment, lump sum                                     40,000
Sub-total                                                     70,000
E.  Vehicles for DID
Station Wagon 4 x 4                        8         7,500       60,000
TOTAL                                                     3,380,000
1/ After the completion of road construction this equipment will be used by PWD
- for similar construction work elsewhere in Fiji with the exception of the
following plant to be left at the Seaqaqa sub-depot for road maintenance:
2 graders, 1-75 hp bulldozer, 1 loader, 5 dump trucks and 1 flatbed truck.
2/  Additional to 25 tractors and three cane transporters which have already
been purchased for use at Seaqaqa.



FIJI
SUGAR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Expenditures 1/
Total
Cost       FY 76         FY 77         FY 78        FY 79         FY 80        FY 81
--------------------------------- (us$T 1oo)------)--
Seagaqa Settlement
Land Clearing                      2,200        260           560          560           580           260           -
Farm Development                     460        120           230           110            -            -
Wailevu-Tambia Tramline             1,260       920           340            -             -             -
Roads                              8,140      1,720         2,890        1,700         1,220           610           -
Cane Transport                       900        200           300          200           200            -
Tractors, Trailers and
Implements                         640        120           260          260            -             -
Township Development               1,240         -            620          620             -            -
Sub-total                      14,840      3,340         5,200        3,450         1,980           870           -
Drainage Improvement
Offices and Vehicles                 180        -             180           -             -              _
Seawall Reconstruction             2,260        370           870           290          290           440           -
Internal Drainage                  3,650        200           530           770        1,020           860           270
Sub-total                       6, 090       570         1,580        1,060         1,310         1,300           270
Total Before Price Increases      20,930      3,910         6,780        4,510         3,290         2,170           270
Expected Price Increases           5,070        190           860        1,170         1,370         1,280           200
Total Project Cost             26,000      4,100         7,640        5,680         4,660         3,450           470
1/  Expenditure categories include  supervision and administration costs for civil works and physical contingencies.  *
2/  IBRD Fiscal Years.
I-Jo'



ANNEX 6
Table 2
FIJI
SUGAR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
IBRD Fiscal Year                            Accumulated Disbursements
and Semester                                US$ '000 Equivalent
Fiscal Year 1977
1st                                             1,300
2nd                                             2,900
Fiscal Year 1978.
1st                                             6,000
2nd                                             7,100
Fiscal Year 1979
1st                                             8,700
2nd                                             9,700
Fiscal Year 1980
1st                                            10,400
2nd                                            11,200
Fiscal Year 1981
1st                                            11,500
2nd                                            11,800
Fiscal Year 1982
1st                                            12,000
Closing Date: December 31, 1981



ANNEX 6
Table 3
FIJI
SUGAR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Proposed Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Costs                     Proposed
Total       Foreign               Loan
Category 1/                                                --------      (US$ million)-------------
I. Civil Works
A. Through Fiji Development Bank
1. Seaqaqa Settlement
(a)  Land Clearing                               1.7           0.6
(b)  Farm Development                            0.1            -
(c)  Tramline Extension                          1.0           0.4
(d)  Township Development                        0.9           0.3
(e)  Expected Price Increases 2/                 1.1           0.4
2. Drainage Improvement
(a)  Internal Drainage                           2.7           1.2
(b)  Expected Price Increases 2/                 1.3           0.5
B. By Government Directly
1. Seaqaqa Settlement
(a)  Roads                                       5.0           2.4
(b)  Expected Price Increases 2/                 1.5           0.7
2. Drainage Improvement
(a)  Seawall Reconstruction                      1.7           0.9
(b)  Expected Price Increases 2/                 0.8           0.4
Sub-total                              t7.8           7.8                 7.8
Disbursement will be at 45% of total expenditure.
II. Equipment
A. Through Fiji Development Bank
1. Seaqaqa Settlement
(a)  Farm Development                            0.3           0.1
(b)  Tractors, Trailers, and Implements          0.6           0.4
(c)  Cane Transport Vehicles                     0.9           0.7
(d)  Township Development                        0.1           0.1
(e)  Expected Price Increases 2/                 0.2
B. By Government Directly
1. Seaqaqa Settlement
(a)  Roads                                       1.8           1.4
(b)  Expected Price Increases 2/                 0.2           0.1
2.  Drainage Improvement                            0.1           0.1
Sub-total                              4.2           3.0                   3.0
Disbursement will be at 100% of foreign expenditure for directly imported equipment or 70% of total expenditure
for imported equipment procured locally.
III. Unallocated
Physical Contingencies                              2.4           1.2                   1.2
(Engineering, Supervision & Admin. )               (1.6)           -
TOTAL                                  26.           12.0                 12.0
1/ See Annex 4, Table 1
2/ See Annex 4, Table 2



ANNEX 7
Page 1
FIJI
SUGAR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Production, Farm Operating Costs and Farm Budgets-Seagaga Settlement
1.        Agricultural practices in the settlement area are described in
Annex 2. This Annex estimates sugarcane production, farm costs and incomes
for typical settlers.
2.        Table 1 shows the production plan over time of a 50-ac farm at
Seaqaqa with 15 ac of sugarcane. Land clearing and farm development would
proceed at 5 ac per year for the first three years. It is assumed that the
farmer would replant 3 ac of his worst cane beginning in year four and would
continue this cycle until year seven, at which time the rotation would
stabilize at 3 ac of plant cane planted and 9 ac of ratoons cultivated each
year. FSC's extension agents would emphasize limiting the number of ratoons
to three.  The annual harvested area would be 12 ac.
3.        The assumption that replanting bezins in year 4 rather than allow-
ing the first plant cane to grow for a full three ratoons implies lower
production and higher farm operating costs in years four through seven.  It
is based on field observations at Seaqaqa that many existing settlers have
low yielding cane on part of their initial plantings due to poor soils, in-
adequate fertilizer applications or other farm management problems. The
assumption therefore seems realistic.
4.        Yields are assumed to be 24 ton/ac for plant cane, 22 ton/ac for
first ratoon, 19 ton/ac for second ratoon and 16 ton/ac for third ratoon,
or an average of 20 ton/ac harvested at full development, and are consistent
with field observations. Total production per farm with these area and yield
assumptioins would be 243 tons at full development.
5.        Table 2 presents total sugarcane production from the 8,000 ac to
be developed under the project. At full development in year eight, incre-
mental production is estimated to be about 130,000 tons.
6.        Table 3 presents crop production costs per ac at both financial
and economic prices while Table 4 shows monthly labor requirements per farm.
Table 5 shows the cash flow projection for a typical settler with no sugar-
cane developed prior to the project. Investment cost would be F$1,370 in
year one for land clearing, survey charges and housing materials, and F$860
in years two and three for land clearing. Farm development costs would be
F$875 for each of the first three years. The farmer would receive a loan
from the Fiji Development Bank (FDB) in years one, two and three covering
all investment costs. The first year's loan would also include farm



ANNEX 7
Page 2
development costs and a F$400 subsistence allowance so that the farmer's
net cash flow in year one roughly equals his pre-project income from other
sources. Farmers would repay these loans over five years at 4% interest
beginning in year four. Payments would amount to about F$1,080 each year in
nominal terms and are shown in Table 5 in terms of 1975 constant prices.
Cash income would be from the sale of sugarcane plus earnings as a member
of a cane harvesting gang, estimated at F$600 per crushing season regardless
of production on his own farm. Net cash flow would increase from F$840
pre-project and F$870 in project year one to F$2,700 - F$3,150 (depending
on the proportion of plant cane and various ratoons) during the loan repayment
period and would be F$3,400 per year after the loan is repaid. Although there
will be deviations in practice between this typical case and actual farm
situations due to differences in land clearing costs, yields, cash inputs,
etc., the analysis shows that in general, farmers would be able to repay
their loans from FDB on the proposed terms, would have no problems in cover-
ing subsistence needs, and would have an adequate financial incentive to
participate in the project.
7.        Table 6 presents total farm operating costs for the 8,000 ac
/-project area at economic prices for use in estimating net benefits for the
economic analysis (Annex 10). -



FIJI
SUGAR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Seagaqa Settlement
Sugarcane Production - 50 ac Farm with 15 ac Sugarcane
Year
Pre-project    1      2     3      4     5      6    7-30    Yield
(ton/ac)
Area (ac)
Plant Cane (Planted)             -         5      5     5      3     3      3      3         -
Plant  cane (Cut)                -         -      5     5      5     3      3      3        24
lst ratoon                       -         -      -     5      5     5     3       3        22
2nd ratoon                       -         -      -     -      2     4     5       3        19
3rd ratoon                       -          -    _     _      _     _       1      3        16
Total Area Planted            -         5    10    15    15    15    15        15
Total Area Harvested          -         -      5    10    12    12    12       12
Production (tons)
Plant Cane                       -         -   120   120   120    72    72        72
1st ratoon                       -         -      -   110   110   110    66       66
2nd ratoon                       -         -      -     -    38    76    95       57
3rd ratoon                       -                             -     -    16      48
Total                         -         -   120   230   268   258   249    243
9 X
1-3



FIJI
SUGAR DEVa4PM0ENT PROJECT
Seaqaqa Settlement
Sugarcane Production with the Project 1/
('000 tons)
pre-                                   Year
Project       1       2        3       4       5       6        7       8-30  2/
Project Area (8,000 ac)
First 2,000 ac              -            -     48.0    44.0    38.0    38.4    35.2    30.4        25.6
Second 2,000 ac             -            -      -      48.o    44.0    38.0    38.4    35.2        30.4
Third  2,000 ac             -            -      -       -       48.0    44.0    38.0    38.4       35.2
Fourth 2,000 ac              -           -      _       -        -      48.0    44.0    38.0       38.4
TOTAL                   -            -     48.0    92.0   130.0   168.4   155.6   142.0       129.6
1/ Assumes 2,000 ac cleared and planted each year for four years. Each 15 ac farm would be developed over
three years at the rate of 5 ac/year (Table 1). Replanting would begin in year four and 80% of the area
would be harvested each year thereafter. Yields are assumed to be 24 ton/ac for plant cane, 22 ton/ac
for first ratoon, 19 ton/ac for secand ratoon and 16 ton/ac for third ratoon. The average yield per ac
harvested at full development would be 20 ton/ac.
2/ Repeat cycle.
CD
N) _3



MRnEX 7
Table 3
FIJI
SUGAR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Seaqaga Settlement
Crop Production Costs
Future With Project
Cash Inputs (F$/ac)
Financial      Economic
Plant Cane
Land Preparation  1/                                   24            27
Seed Cane  2/                                          45            51
Fertilizer - Development period  3/                     82           93
(Fertilizer - Recurrent period)  5/                   (55)          (62)
Cultivation                                            12            12
Other                                                  12            12
Sub-Total-Development period                       175           195
-(Recurrent period)                     (148)          (164)
Ratoons
Fertilizer - Development period 4/                      60            68
(Fertilizer- Recurrent period)  El                    (34)          (38)
Oultivation                                            10            10
Other                                                    4            4
Sub-Total-Development period                        74            82
-(Recurrent period)                       (48)          (52)
Harvesting 5/                                              80            80
Transport to Tambia railhead -                            40             45
Labor Inputs (man-days/ac)
Plant Cane                                                        19
Ratoons                                                            7
(Harvesting) 7/                                                   (14)
1/  8 hours plowing, harrowing and furrowing @ F$3/hour (financial) and F$3.4/hr
(economic).
2/  1.75 tons @ F$26/ton (financial) and F$29/ton (economic).
3/ 7 cwt sulphate of ammonia (21-0-0), 5 cwt superphosphate (0-19-0) and 1 cwt
muriate of potash (0-0-58). Prices are based on actual farm gate prices in
mid-1975 and Bank commodity price forecasts to 1985, and are as follows
(F$/cwt).
Fertilizer         Development Period              Recurrent Period
(First 3 years)               (Year 4 and later)
Financial   Econoric           Financial   Economic
(21-0-0)            8.47       9.57                4.5o       5.o8
(0-19-0)            4.28      4.84                 3.25       3.67
(o-o-58)            8.29       9.37                7.00       7.91
4/  6 cwt sulphate of ammonia and 2 cwt superphosphate.
7/  F$ 4/ton x 20 ton/ac average yield at full development.
El F$ 2/ton (financial) and F$2.26/ton (economic) x 20 ton/ac average yield
at full development.
7/  Costed as a cash input.



ANNEX 7
Table 4
FIJT
SUGAR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Seagaqa Settlement
Monthly Labor Requirements for 50 ac Farm with 15 ac Sugarcane-I
Jan  Feb  Mar  A         May  June  July  Aug  Sept  Oct  Nov  Dec   Total
Plant Cane (3 ac)
Planting!                          -     -                            18    -      -    -           18
Weeding and Fertilizing-/   15   6    -    -         -    -      -     -    -      6    6    6      39
Ratoons (9 ac)                   9   -    -    -       -    -      9     -   18      9    9    9      63
General (15 ac)                  -   3    3    -       -           -     -    -      -    -    -       6
Harvesting (12 ac) 3/            -   -    -    -    16   26    26    26   26    26   15    -    162
TOTAL                   24   9    3    -    16   26    35    44   44    41   31   15    288
l/  At full project development.  The farm is assumed to be on a 5-year rotation of 3 ac plant
cane, 3 x 3 = 9 ac ratoons and 3 ac fallow or under legumes.  No labor is allowed for the
legume crop.  Tractors will be hired for field operations as follows:
Land Preparation (3 ac)            - 24 hours
Cultivation of Plant Cane (3 ac) -  9 hours
Cultivation of ratoons (9 ac)    - 18 hours
Fallow/Legume (3 ac)               - 12 hours
Total                 63 hours
2/ With use of tractors for major operations, planting, fertilizing and the remaining weeding
would not require adult male labor.
3/ Assumed to be carried out by gangs composed 60% of farmers and family members and 40% of outside
cutters. See Annex 2, para 3.



FIJI
ANNEX 7
SUGAR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                      Table 5
Seacaga Settlement
Cash Flow Projections for 50 ac Farm with 15 ac Sugarcane
(F$)
Year
Pre-          1           2          3           4           5           6            7           8            9-30
I.   Cash Inflow                                       Project 1/
Sugarcane Sales  2/                        (1)     840             -        2,640      5,060       5,896        5,676       5,478       5,346        5,346         5,346
Harvesting in Gang  3/                               -             600        600        600          600         600         600          600         600           600
Gross Farm Income                                    -             600      3,240      5,660       6,496        6,276       6,078       5,946        5,946         5,946
FPB Loan
Investment  4/                                    -           1,370         860        860         -            -           -           -           -              -
Farm Development   /                              -              875        -          -
Subsistence Allowance  6/                         -              400        -          -
Interest Capitalized  7/                          -              105        145        185                            -                  -
Total Inflow                          (2)      840          3,350       4,245      6,705       6,496       6,276       6,078        5,946       5,946          5,946
TI. Cash Outflow
Investment Cost
Land Clearing  8/                                 -              860        860        860
Survey Charges  9/                                -              350        -          -
Housing  1/                                       -              160
Sub-Total Investment Cost             (3)       -           1,370         860        860
Farm Development Cost  11/                (4)       -              875        875        875
Annual Production Cost
Cultivation of Ratoons  12/                        -              -          370        370         336          432         432         432          432           432
Replanting  13/                                   -      -                  -          -           444          444         444         444          444           444
Harvesting & Transport  14/                       -              -          720      1,380       1,608        1,548       1,494       1,458       1,458          1,458
Rent  15/                                         -              130        130        130         130          130         242         242          242           242
Sub-Total Production Cost             (5)       -             130      1,220       1,880       2,518       2,554       2,612        2,576       2,576          2,576
Interest Capitalized  7/                          -              105        145        185         -            -           -           -           -
Debt Service  16/                                 -                       _-           -           823          769         718         672          627          -
Total Outflow                         (6)       -           2,480      3,100       3,800       3,341       3,323       3,330        3,248       3,203          2,576
III. Net Cash Flow (2) - (6)                    (7)      840            870      1,145       2,905       3,155       2,953       2,748        2,698       2,743          3,370
Incremental Net Cash Flow  17/                      -               30        305      2,065       2,315        2,113       1,908       1,858        1,903         2,530
IV.  Financial Benefit/Cost
Benefit  18/                              (8)       -            (840)      1,800      4,220       5,056        4,836       4,638       4,506        4,506         4,506
Cost (3) + (4) + (5)                      (9)       -            2,375      2,955      3,615       2,518        2,554       2,612       2,576        2,576         2,576
Net Benefit (8) - (9)                                -          (3,215)   (1,155)        605       2,538        1,714       1,772       1,930        1,930         1,930
V.   Financial Rate of Return: 33%
1/   Net cash flow from non-sugarcane sources roughly estimated at F$840.
2/   Production from Table 1 @ F$22/ton.
3/   One full-time adult gang member per family, 1.5 tons/man-day x 100 days x F$4/ton cut and loaded.
4/   1007 of (3).
5/   1007, of (4) in first year.
6/   Advance from  FSC in first year incorporated in FDB loan.
2/   During the first three years, interest is capitalized at 4% annual interest.
_/   5 ac/year-14% lightbush @ F$65/ac, 43% medium bush @ F$130/ac and 43% heavy bush Cd F$250/ac = F$172/ac.
9/   50 ac @ F$7/ac.
10/   Include 20 sheets galvanized iron.  Other materials and labor to be provided by the farmer.
11/   Land preparation, seed cane, fertilizer, cultivation and other costs for development period from Table 3, 5 ac/year @ FS175/ac.
12/   Five year rotation, 9 ac of ratoons each year at full development.  Financial costs from Table 3 total F$74/ac for development period and F$48/ac
for recurrent period.
13/   Five year rotation, 3 ac of replanting each year beginning to year 4.  Financial costs from Table 3 total F$148/ac.
14/   F$6/ton financial cost.
15/   Sugarcane area, F$7.50/ac for first 5 years, F$15/ac thereafter; for other land, F$0.50/ac, 75% would go to the owning mataqali and 25% to NLTB.
16/   An equal sum amortization over 5 years beginning in year 4 on F$4,365 in principal and FP435 in capitalized interest, discounted at 77. annual
interest for expected general inflation.
17/   (7) in each year minus (7) pre-project.
T8/   (1) in each project year minus (1) pre-project.



FIJI
SUGAR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Seagaga Settlement
Farm Operating Costs -/
(F$ '000)
Unit                                         Year                                2/
Production Costs                          Cost   Pre-project   1      2       3        4       5        6       7      8-30-
(F$)
First 2,000 ac
Plant cane - development period   195/ac         -       390    -        -        -       -        -       -       -
Plant cane - recurrent period      164'ac        -        -      -       -       263                              263
Ratoons - development period        82/ac        -        -    164      164.      -       -        -       -       -
Ratoons - recurrent period          52/ac        -        _      _-               -       83       83      83      -
Sub-total                             -       390   164      164     263       83      83       83     263
Second 2,000 ac                                     -         -    390     164      164     263       83      83       83
Third 2,000 ac                                      -         -     -      390      164     164      263      83       83
Fourth 2,000 ac                                     -         -     -       -       390     164      164     263       83
Total  Production Costs                        -        390   554     718      981     674      593     512     512
Harvesting and Transport Costs         6.26/ton       -         -    300      576     814   1.054      974     889      812
Total Farm Operating Costs                            -        390   854   1294   1.795   1.728   1.57   1.401   1,324
1/  Based on Tables 1, 2 and 3 at economic prices.   Excludes the cost of farm labor other than for harvesting.
2/  Repeat cycle.



ANNEX 8
Page 1
FIJI
SUGAR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Production, Farm Operating Costs and Farm Budgets - Drainage Improvement
1.        Agricultural practices in the drainage improvement areas are
described in Annex 3. This Annex estimates sugarcane production, farm costs
and incomes for typical farmers.
2.        Table 1 shows the production plan over time of a 10-ac farm with
saltwater intrusion initially.  It is assumed that 3 ac are now out of pro-
duction and under saltwater, which is the average for the 11,000 ac area as
a whole.  Seven ac are under cane and five ratoons (or more in some cases)
are taken off.  Seawalls and internal drains would be repaired in year one.
At the same time, the extension agent would work with the farmer to reduce
the number of ratoons to a maximum of three.  During the slack season the
farmer would repair his on-farm drains and would bund the saline land behind
the seawalls to hasten leaching. After three years of leaching, he could
plant a salt-tolerant variety of paddy on the landward part of the reclaimed
area and extend the planted area seaward year by year. The value of the paddy
crop would be less than 2% of the income from sugarcane, and has been disre-
garded in the farm income analysis. After another two years he could begin
planting sugarcane. The total area planted would reach 10 ac in year eight
and the rotation would stabilize in year twelve with 2 ac of plant cane
planted and 6 ac of ratoons cultivated each year. The annual harvested
area would be 8 ac. Average yields would increase from 20 ton/ac harvested
at present to 26 ton/ ac at full development, and production would increase
from 120 tons to 208 tons.
3.        Table 2 shows a similar progression for a 10-ac farm with re-
stricted drainage initially. An average of 2.3 ac are out of cane produc-
tion at present due to waterlogging and are either left fallow or sown
to paddy. The value of the paddy crop would only add about 10% to farm
income before the project, and would not affect the analysis or conclusions
significantly. It has therefore been disregarded. Internal common user
and on-farm drains would be rehabilitated in year one and the number of
ratoons would be reduced over time from five or more at present to three
at full development. It is assumed that the rotation would stabilize in
year six with 2 ac of plant cane planted and 6 ac of ratoons cultivated
each year. The annual harvested area would be 8 ac. Average yields would
increase from 21 ton/ac harvested at present to 26 ton/ac at full development,
and production would increase from 140 tons to 208 tons.
4.        Table 3 presents total sugarcane production with the project for
the entire 26,400 ac project area. Production would increase from 346,000



ANNEX 8
Page 2
tons cane at present to 549,000 tons at full development in year 16, or an
increment of some 200,000 tons annually. Without the project, it is likely
that production from these areas would decline more than it has already.
5.        Table 4 presents crop production costs per ac at both financial
and economic prices while Table 5 shows monthly labor requirements per farm,
assumed to be the same for the entire area. Tables 6 and 7 show cash flow
projections for farms with saltwater intrusion and restricted drainage,
respectively, over the life of the project. The results are similar and
are discussed here for the case of saltwater intrusion only. Investment
cost would be F$1,200 in year one for internal drainage improvement. It
is assumed that the Government would bear the cost of repairing seawalls
at the same time. Drainage Boards would finance the internal drainage im-
provements with loans from FDB, which they would repay over ten years at
10% interest. The Drainage Boards would levy a drainage rate on farmers
in their areas to cover these loan repayments plus the cost of operating
and maintaining the seawalls and common user drains, estimated at F$6/ac.
Payments per farm would amount to F$195 in nominal terms each year for ten
years for debt service and F$60 each year in terms of 1975 constant
prices for the life of the project for O&M costs. The total drainage rate
is presented in Table 6 in terms of 1975 constant prices. Cash income would
be from the sale of sugarcane plus harvesting as a gang member. Net cash
flow would increase from F$2,1S0 before the project to F$3,590 in the last
year of repayment and F$3,660 after the repayment period.  The analysis
shows that farmers would be able to pay the proposed drainage rates and
still realize substantial financial benefits.
6.        Finally, Table 7 presents total farm operating costs for the
26,400 ac project area at economic prices for use in estimating net bene-
fits for the economic analysis (Annex 10).



FIJI
SUGAR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Drainage Improvement
Sugarcane Production - 10 ac Farm with Saltwater Intrusion
Year
Pre-project      1         2        3        4        5'       6        7        8         9     10      11      12-30
Area Planted to Sugarcane (ac)
5th ratoon                           1.0         0.5       -        -        -        -        -        -         -        -      -       -        -
Plant cane (planted)                 1.0         1.5        1.5     1.5      1.5      1.5      2.0      2.5       2.5      2.0    2.0    2.0       2.0
Plant cane (cut)                     1.0         1.0       1.5      1.5      1.5      1.5      1.5      2.0       2.5      2.5    2.0    2.0       2.0
1st ratoon                           1.0         1.0       1.0      1.5      1.5      1.5      1.5      1.5       2.0      2.5    2.5    2.0       2.0
2nd ratoon                           1.0         1.0       1.0      1.0      1.5      1.5      1.5      1.5       1.5      2.0    2.5    2.5       2.0
3rd ratoon                           1.0         1.0       1.0      1.0      1.0      1.0      1.5      1.5       1.5      1.0    1.0    1.5       2.0
4th ratoon                           1.0         1.0       1.0      0.5      -        -        -        -         -        -      -       -        -
Total area planted                 7.0         7.0       7.0      7.0      7.0      7.0      8.0     9.0      10.0    10.0   10.0   10.0    10.0
Total area harvested               6.0         5.5       5.5      5.5      5.5      5.5      6.0     6.5       7.5      8.0    8.0    B.0        8.0
I/      1/        1/       2/       2         /       2
Other Arable Land (ac)                   3.0C/       3.0-    3.0-/    3.0-/   3.0-    3.02/   2.O-'   1.07/    -             -       -       -       -
Average Yield (ton/ac)                  20           21       22       23      24       25       25       25        25       25      25     25       26
Production  (tons)                     120          116     121      126      132      138      150      162       188      200    200    200       208
1/ Unused due to salt water.
2/  Unused or under salt-tolerant paddy after seawalls are repaired and land is bunded and leached for 3 years.  Paddy production
would add about 2% to the value of gross farm income in years 4 through 7 (Table 6).  It would not affect the analysis or
conclusions significantly. Sugarcane planting would begin year 5 on the landward part of the area and would take 3 years to                                H
cover the entire reclaimed part of the farm.



FIJI
SUGAR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Drainage Improvement
Sugarcane Production - 10 ac Farm with Restricted Drainage
Year
Pre-project       1        2       3        4        5      6-30
Area Planted to Sugarcane (ac)
5th ratoon                          1.1          -        -        -       -        -         -
Plant cane (planted)                1.1          2.2      3.4      2.0     2.0      2.0       2.0
Plant cane (cut)                    1.1          1.1      2.2      3.4     2.0      2.0       2.0
1st ratoon                          1.1          1.1      1.1     2.2      3.4      2.0       2.0
2nd ratoon                          1.1          1.1      1.1      1.1     2.2      3.4       2.0
3rd ratoon                          1.1          1.1      1.1      1.1     0.4      0.6       2.0
4th ratoon                          1.1          1.1      1.1      0.2     -        -         -
Total area planted                7.7          7.7    10.0    10.0    10.0    10.0        10.0
Total area harvested              6.6          5.5      6.6     8.0      8.0      8.0       8.0
Other Arable Land (ac)!/                2.3          2.3     -        -        -       -         -
Average  Yield (ton/ac)                21           22      23       24       25      25        26
Production (tons)                     139         121      152      192     200      200       208
1/ Unused due to waterlogging or under paddy. Paddy production -would add about 10% to the value
of gross farm income before the project (Table 7). It would not affect the analysis or
conclusions significantly.
m x
a11 M



FIJI
SUGAR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Drainage Improvement
11
Sugarcane Production With the Project
('000 tons)
Pre-                                                              Year
Project    1         2        3       4        5        6        7        8        9       10       11       12       13       14       15      16-30
Saltwater Intrusion (11.000 ac)
First 5,000 ac                      60.0    58.0    60.5    63.0    66.0    69.0    75.0    81.0    94.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   104.0   104.0   104.0   104.0   104.0
Second 1,300 ac                     15.6    15.6    15.1    15.7    16.4    17.2    17.9    19.5    21.1    24.4    26.0    26.0    26.0    27.0    27.0    27.0    27.0
Third 1,700 ac                      20.4    20.4    20.4    19.7    20.6    21.4    22.4    23.5    25.5    27.5    32.0    34.0    34.0    34.0    35.4    35.4    35.4
Fourth 1,500 ac                     18.0    18.0    18.0    18.0    17.4    18.2    18.9    19.8    20.7    22.5    24.3    28.2    30.0    30.0    30.0    31.2    31.2
Fifth 1,500 ac                      18.0    18.0    18.0    18.0    18.0    17.4    18.2    18.9    19.8    20.7    22.5    24.3    28.2    30.0    30.0    30.0    31.2
Sub-total                       132.0   130.0   132.0   134.4   138.4   143.2   152.4   162.7   181.1   195.1   204.8   212.5   222.2   225.0   226.4   227.6   228.8
Restricted Drainage (15,400 ac)
First 2,000  ac                     27.8    24.2    30.4    38.4    40.0    40.0    41.6    41.6    41.6    41.6    41.6               .        .        .        .        .       41.6
Second 3,100 ac                     43.1    43.1    37.5    47.1    60.0    62.0    62.0    64.5    64.5    64.5    64.5               .        .        .        .        .       64.5
Third 3,500 ac                      48.7    48.7    48.7    42.4    53.2    67.2    70.0    70.0    72.8    72.8    72.8               .        .        .        .        .       72.8
Fourth 3,500 ac                     48.7    48.7    48.7    48.7    42.4    53.2    67.2    70.0    70.0    72.8    72.8               .        .        .        .        .       72.8
Fifth 3,300 ac                      45.9    45.9    45.9    45.9    45.9    39.9    50.2    63.4    66.0    66.0    68.6    .                   .        .     .           .       68.6
Sub-total                       214.2   210.6   211.2   222.5   241.5   262.3   291.0   309.5   314.9   317.7   320.3               .        .        .        .        .     320.3
TOTAL                                  346.2   340.6   343.2   356.9   379.9   405.5   443.4   472.2   496.0   512.8   525.1   532.8   542.5   545.3   546.7   547.9   549.1
INCREMENTAL                                      -5.6    -3.0    10.7    33.7    59.3    97.2   126.0   149.8   166.6   178.9   186.6   196.3   199.1   200.5   201.7   202.9
1/  Production per 10 ac farm from Tables I and 2, multiplied by areas improved each year.



FIJI                                 AM- EX 8
Table 4
SUGAR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Drainage Improvement
Crop Productior1 Costs
Present and
Future with Project
Cash Inputs (F$/ac)
Financial          Economic
Plant Cane
Land Preparation 1/                                  18                  18
Seed Cane  2/    -                                   45                  50
Fertilizer - Development Period 3/                   37                  42
(Fertilizer - Recurrent Period) 7/                  (21)                (24)
Cultivation                                          12                  12
Other                                                12                  12
Sub-total - Development period                124                134
- (Recurrent period)              (108)               (116)
Ratoons
Fertilizer - Development Period 3/                   37                  42
(Fertilizer - Recurrent Period) 37                    (21)               (24)
Cultivation                                          10                  10
Other                                                  4                  4
Sub-total - Development Period                 51                 56
- (Recurrent Period)               (35)                (38)
Harvesting 4/104                                                        104
Labor Inputs (man-days/ac)
Plant Cane                                                    45
Ratoons                                                       16
(Harvesting) 5/                                               17
1/  In March, 2 plowings and 2 harrowings by bullock @ 3 days/ac; in April, 1 furrowing
@ 3 days/ac. Excludes cost of driver.
2/  1.75 tons @ F$26/ton (financial) and F$20/ton (economic).
7/  5 cwt of a 3:1 sulphate of ammonia (21-0-0) and superphosphate (0-19-0) mixture.
Prices are based on actual farm gate prices in mid-1975 and Bank commodity price
forecasts to 1985, and are as follows (F$/cwt):
Fertilizer               Development Period            lecurrent Period
(First 5 years)             (Year 6 & Later)
Financial  Economic           Financial Economic
(21-0-0)                   8.47       9.57               4.5o     5.o8
(0-19-0)                   4.28       4.84               3.25     3.67
4/  F$4/ton x 26 ton/ac average yield at full development.
5/ Costed as a cash input.



FIJI
SUGAR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Drainage Improvement
Monthly Labor Requirements for 10 ac Far 1/
Jan  Feb  Mar  A     May  June  July   ug  Sept  Oct  Nov  Dec   Total
Plant Cane (2ac)
Land Preparation2/           -    -    24    6    -    -        -     -    -      -    -   -       30
Planting                     -    -      -   12    -    -       -     -    -      -    -   -       12
Inter-row Cultivation        -    -      -    -    -    6       -     6    6      -    -   -       18
Weeding and Fertilizing       -    -     -    -    -    9       -     6    9      6    -   -       30
Ratoons (6 ac)                  -    -     -    -    -   12    24    12   12    12   24   -          96
General (10 ac)                 3    3     -    -    -    -       -     -    -      -    -   -        6
Harvesting (8 ac)               -    -     -    -   15   24    24    24   24    24   15   -         150
TOTAL                      3    3    24   18   15   51    48    48   51    42   39   -          342
1/  At full project development.  No distribution is made between farms originally affected by
saltwater intrusion and those affected by restricted internal drainage only. The farm is
assumed to be on a 5-year rotation of 2 ac plant cane, 3 x 2 = 6 ac ratoons and 2 ac fallow
or under legumes. No labor is allowed for the legume crop. All operations are carried out
by bullock team or hand labor.
2/ In March, 2 plowings and 2 harrowings @ 3 days/ac; in April, 1 furrowing @ 3 days/ac.
u1O



ANNEX 8
Table 6
FIJI
SUGAR DEVELOPMENT  PROJECT
Drainage ImRrovement
Cash Flow Projections for 10 ac  Farm with Saltwater Intrusion
(F$)
Pre-                                            Year
Proiect      1       2        3        4      5       6      7       8       9      10   11-30
I. Cash Inflow 1
Sugarcane Sales-                      (1)   2,640    2,552   2,662   2,772   2,904  3,036  3,300  3,564  4,136  4,400  4,576  4,576
Harvesting in Gang=2/                          600      600      600      600     600    600    W00    600    600    600    600    600
Gross Farm Income                           3,240    3,152   3,262   3,372   3,504  3,636  3,900  4,164  4,736  5,000  5,176  5,176
Loan 3'                                        -      1,200      -        -       -       -       -      -       -       -      -       -
Total Inflow                      (2)   3,240    4,352   3,262   3,372   3,504  3,636  3,900  4,164  4,736  5,000  5,176  5,176
II.  Cash Outflow
Investment Cost-/                     (3)     -       1,200      -       _                - _       _       _      _       _
Annual Production Cost
Planting & Replanting5/                     124       186      186     186      186    186    216    270    270    216    216    216
Cultivation of Ratoons61                    255       230      204     204      204    204    158    158    175    192    210    210
Harve tingz7/                               480       464      484     504      528    552    600    648    752    800    800    832
Rent8'                                      200       200      200     200      200    200    200    200    200    200    200    200
Sub-Total Production Cost        (4)   1,059    1,080   1,074   1,094   1,118  1,142  1,174  1,276  1,397  1,408  1,426  1,458
Drainage Rate
Debt Service-91                                       182      170     159      149    139    130    121    113    106         99    -
06M Chargel0/                               -          60       60      60       60      60     60      60      60     60      60      60
Sub-Total Drainage Rate                   -         242      230     219      209    199    190    181    173    166    159         60
Total Outflow                    (5)   1,059    2,522   1,304   1,313   1,327  1,341  1,364  1,457  1,570  1,574  1,585  1,518
II.  Net Cash Flow:  (2)-(5)                (6)   2,181    1,830   1,958   2,059   2,177  2,295  2,536  2,707  3,166  3,426  3,591  3,658
Incremental Net Cash Flow                              (351)   (223)   (122)       (4)   114    355    526    985  1,245  1,410  1,477
IV.  Financial Benefit/ Cost
Incremental BenefitMM                 (7)               (88)      22      132     264    396    660    924  1,496  1,760  1,936  1,936
Incremental Costl3/                   (8)             1,221       15       35      59      83    115    217    338    349    367    399
Incremental Net Benefit:  (7)-(8)  (9)               (1,309)       7       97     205    313    545    707  1,158  1,411  1,569  1,537
V.  Financial Rate of Return:  33%
1/  Production from Table 1 @ F$22/ton.
2/  One full-time adult gang member per family, 1.5  tons/man-day x 100 days x F$4/ton cut and loaded.
3/  100% of (3).
41  Cost of internal drainage improvement borne by Drainage Boards of F$120/ac, including physical contingencies.  Excludes the
cost of on-farm drains and bunding of saline land for leaching, assumed to be done by family labor off-season.
5/  Areas fron Table 1.  Financial costs from Table 4 total F$124/ac for the first five years and F$108/ac thereafter.
6/ Areas from Table 1. Financial costs from Table 4 total F$51/ac for the first five years and F$35/ac thereafter.
7/ Production from Table 1 @ F$4/ton cut and loaded.
8/  F$20/ac.  75% would go to the owning mataqali and 25% to NLTB.
9/  An equal sum amortization over ten years on F$1,200 Ei principal, discounted at 7% annual interest for expected general inflation.
10/  Total cost of operating and maintaining seawalls and internal common user drains of F$61ac.
11/  (6) in each project year minus (6) pre-project.
12/  (1) in each project year minus (1) pre-project.
13/  (3) plus (4) in each project year minus (4) pre-project.



ANNEX 8
Table 7
FIJI
SUGAR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Drainage Improvement
Cash Flow Projections for 10 ac Farm
with Restricted Drainage
(F$)
Pre-                                            Year
Project     1        2      3       4      5       6      7       8      9      10    11-30
I.  Cash Inflow   l                     (1)   3,058    2,662   3,344  4,224  4,400  4,400  4,576    .           .      .            4,576
Sugarcane Sales-  2/                         600      600      600    600    600    600    600    .                               600
Harvesting in Gang-                       -   -    -  -  -  -                                                                    __
Gross  Farm Income                        3,658    3,262   3,944  4,824  5,000  5,000  5,176            .          .       .    5,176
Loan-/                                       -      1,000      -      -       -      -       -                                     m
Total Inflow                      (2)   3,658    4,262   3,944  4,824  5,000  5,000  5,176    *           .      *      .    5,176
II. Cash Outflow
Investment Cost4-                   (3)     -       1,000      -      -      -       -      -       -      -       -      -       -
Annual Production Cost
Planting & Replanting5/                  136       273     422    248    248    248    216    .         .       .              216
Cultivation of Ratoons6/                 280       224     224    235    306    306    210              .       .              210
Harvgmting7/                             556       484     608    768    800    800    832               .      ,       .      832
Rent-=                                   200       200      200    200    200    200    200    .         .      .              200
Sub-Total Production Costs    (4)   1,172    1,181   1,454  1,451  1,554  1,554  1,458    .            .       .      .    1,458
Drainage Rate
Debt Service 9/                          -         152      142    133    124    116    108    101       95      88     83      -
O&M Charge'o/                             _         60       60     60     60      60     60    .        .      .               60
Sub-Total Drainage Rate                 -         212     202    193    184    176    168    161    155    148    143          60
Total Outflow                  (5)   1,172    2,393   1,656  1,644  1,738  1,730  1,626  1,619  1,613  1,606  1,601  1,518
III.  Net Cash Flow:  (2)-(5)             (6)   2,486    1,869   2,288  3,180  3,262  3,270  3,550  3,557  3,563  3,570  3,575  3,658
Incremental Net Cash Fl,1_/                         (617)   (198)   694    776    784  1,064  1,071  1,077  1,084  1,089  1,172
IV.  Financial Benefit/Cost
Incremental Benefitl2/              (7)              (396)    286  1,166  1,342  1,342  1,518    .          .      .       .    1,518
Incremental Costl3/                 (8)             1,009      282    279    382    382    286    .         .      .       .      286
Incremental Net Benefit:  (7)-(8) (9)              (1,405)       4    887    960    960  1,232    .         .      .       .    1,232
V. Financial Rate of Return:  49%
1/  Production from Table 2 @ F$22/ton.
2/ One full-time adult gang member per family, 1.5 tons/man-day x 100 days x F$4/ton cut and loaded.
3/  100% of (3).
4/ Cost of internal drainage improvement borne by Drainage Boards of F$100/ac, including physical contingencies. Excludes the
cost of on-farm drains, assumed to be done by family labor off-season.
5/ Areas from Table 2.  Costs from  Table 4 total F$124/ac for the first five years and F$108/ac thereafter.
6/  Areas from Table 2.   Costs from Table 4 total F$51/ac for the first five years and F$35/ac thereafter.
2/ Production from Table 2 @ F$4/ton cut and loaded.
8/  F$20/ac.  75% would go to the owning mataqali and 25% to NLTB.
9/  An equal sum amortization over 10 years on F$1,000 in principal, discounted at 77 annual interest for expected general
inflation.
10/  Total cost of operating and maintaining seawalls and internal common user drains of F$6/ac.
11/  (6) in each project year minus (6) pre-project.
12/  (1) in each project year minus (1) pre-project.
13/  (3) plus (4) in each project  year minus (4) pre-project.



FIJI
SUGAR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Drainage Improvement
Farm Operating Costs-1/
(F$ '000)
Year
Pre-project      1       2       3      4       5       6       7      8       9      10      11      12     13      14      15   16-30
Production Costs
a. Saltwater Intrusion (11,000 ac)
First 5,000 ac
Plant Cane                                 67        100    100    100    100    100    116    145    145    116    116    116    116    116    116                       116
Ratoons                                   141        126    112    112    112    112         86     86      96    104    114    114    114    114    114           .      114
Sub-Total                               208        226    212    212    212    212    202    231    241    220    230    230    230    230    230                .     230
Second 1,300 ac                               54         54      59      55      55     55      55      53      61     63      57      60      60     60      60              60
Third 1,700 ac                                71         71      71      77      72     72      72      72      69     79      82      75      78      78     78      .       78
Fourth 1,500 ac                               62         62      62      62      67     64      64      64      64     61      69      73      66      69     69      .       69
Fifth 1,500 ac                                62         62      62      62      62     67      64      64      64     64      61      69      73      66     69      .       69
Sub-Total Saltwater Intrusion           457        475    466    468    468    470    457    484    499    487    499    507    507    503    507                .     507
b.  Restricted Drainage (15,400 ac)
First 2,000 ac
Plant Cane                                 29         59      91      54     54      54      46      46     46      46      46      .       *       *      *               46
Ratoons                                    61         49      49      52      67     67      46      46      46     46      46      .       .       .      .       .       46
Sub-Total                                90        108    140    106    121    121         92     92      92      92      92      .       *      *       *       *      92
Second 3,100 ac                              140        139    168    216    162    186    186    143    143    143    143             .       .       .       .      .      143
Third 3,500 ac                               157         157    157    189    244    184    211    211    161    161    161            .       .       .       *       *     161
Fourth 3,500 ac                              157        157    157    157    189    244    184    210    210    161    161             .       .       .       .      .      161
Fifth 3,300 ac                                148        148    148    148    148    178    230    172    198    198    151            .       .       .       .       .     151
Sub-Total Restricted Drainage           692        709    770    816    864    912    903    828    804    755    708             .       .      .       .       .      708
Total Production Costs                     1,149      1,184  1,236  1,284  1,332  1,382  1,360  1,312  1,303  1,242  1,207  1,215  1,215  1,211  1,215                .   1,215
Harvesting  Costs                                 1,385      1,362  1,373  1,428  1,520  1,622  1,774  1,889  1,984  2,051  2,100  2,131  2,170  2,181  2,187   2,192 2,196
Total Farm Operating Costs                        2,534      2,546  2,609  2,712  2,852  3,004  3,134  3,201  3,287  3,293  3,307  3,346  3,385  3,392  3,402   3,407 3,411
Incremental Farm Operating  Costs                               12      75    178    318    470    600    667    753    759    773    812    851    858    868               873   877
1/  Based  on Tables 1, 2, 3 and 4 at economic prices.  Excludes the cost of farm labor other than for harvesting.
Co co



ANNEX 9
Page 1
FIJI
SUGAR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cost and Benefit Recovery
1.        This Annex examines the implications for public revenues and
project beneficiary incomes and incentives of the Government's proposed cost
recovery policies for various project components. Since the project would
not provide irrigation water, efficiency of water use would not be an issue
in determining appropriate project charges.
2.        In determining the extent of cost recovery and its relation to
benefits, three indices have been used which are defined as follows for the
present project:
(a) Cost Recovery Index: the ratio of incremental direct payments
for the project by all project beneficiaries to incremental
project construction, operation and maintenance costs.
(b) Benefit Recovery Index: the ratio of incremental direct pay-
ments for the project by a typical farm family to incremental
income accruing to the family before paying project charges.
The Benefit Recovery Index as defined above gives no feeling for how much
of the incremental income due to the project it would be feasible or equita-
ble to recover, since it ignores the value of family labor, management costs
and uncertainty associated with farmers' efforts to achieve these incomes.
Therefore the analysis also considers the
(c) Rent Recovery Index: the ratio of incremental direct payments
for the project by a typical farm family to incremental
"project rent" accruing to the family before paying project
charges, where "project rent" is defined as incremental income
as in (b) less the value of family labor, management costs
and allowances for uncertainty.
The upper limit of the Rent Recovery Index is 100% but it would normally
be less than that because of political difficulties, tax disincentives and
costs of collecting taxes. Rent is a difficult concept to measure in
practice, but an attempt is made to determine reasonable quantitative
estimates of its various components based on qualitative considerations.
3.        All project charges, costs and benefits are measured at present
values discounted at 10% annual rate of interest over the period of repay-
ment and in terms of 1975 constant prices. Costb are net of taxes and other



ANNEX 9
Page 2
transfer payments. It is assumed that there would be no incremental payments
of general taxes due to the project.
Seagaga Settlement
4.        As in the farm budget analysis (Annex 7), only one farm size is
considered, which represents the typical Seaqaqa settler on a 50-ac lease-
hold, of which 15 ac would be developed under the project for growing sugar-
cane. Although there will undoubtedly be departures from this norm as time,
goes on, such departures are not predictable at this time, and are not ex-
pected to be large in any case due to milling limi'tations for additional
sugarcane and technical and marketing constraints for other crops.
5.        The cost recovery analysis is limited to land clearing, first year
farm development and farm access roads. The main road would be part of the
national highway system and users including the settlers and township resi-
dents would be subject to Fiji's normal road user charges. Other project
costs would be fully recovered from project beneficiaries in the following
manner:
(a)  The cost of the tramline extension would be borne by the
Fiji Sugar Corporation (FSC), either from its own resources
or by a loan from the Fiji Development Bank (FDB) to be
repaid over 15 years at 10% interest. As is the case
throughout Fiji, the miller would bear the total cost of
rail transport from its share of sugar proceeds.
(b) The cost of tractors and cane transport vehicles would be
borne by FSC, individual purchasers or the Native Land Development
Corporation (NLDC). Loans from FDB would be repaid over
five years (or as otherwise agreed between FDB and its
borrowers) at 10% interest.
(c) The cost of township development would be borne by NLDC
either from its own resources or by loans from FDB to be
repaid at 10% interest with maturities as agreed between
FDB and NLDC. As developer, NLDC would recover its invest-
ment from township residents through various rental, sale
and service agreements.
6.        The direct charge against project beneficiaries would be levied
as repayment of FDB loans for land clearing, first year farm development and
first year subsistence. The proposed terms are eight year maturity including
three years' grace at 4% annual rate of interest. Collections would be made
by FSC as a deduction from sugarcane proceeds. Indirectly, project bene-
ficiaries would repay part of the public cost of farm access road construction
and maintenance through road user charges in the form of license fees and
fuel taxes, either for their own tractors or through hourly hire rates. 1/
1/   The license fee for farm tractors is F$5/year and the tax on diesel fuel
as of mid-1975 was F$0.19/Ral. Farm tractors are exempt from import duty.



ANNEX 9
Page 3
7.        Table 1 presents cost recovery indices for two different cases.
In the first, the costs of land clearing, first year farm development and
farm access road construction and maintenance are compared to debt service
plus license and fuel taxes for farm tractors used for cultivation, in-field
transport and transport of cane from field to pickup points on the main
road. The resulting cost recovery index is 27X, which is to some extent an
understatement of cost recovery since the farm access roads would be used by
other vehicles, particularly buses, which would pay user charges. In the
second case, the cost of constructing and maintaining the farm access roads
and road user charges are both omitted. The resulting cost recovery index
is 53%, reflecting the direct subsidy element of 47% of land clearing and
first year farm development cost in the Government's interest rate policy
for agricultural development loans.
8.        As shown in Table 1, the typical settler's incremental cash income
from the project at full development would be F$1,930 (US$2,300), or F$390
(US$460) per capita, compared with per capita income of roughly US$200 at
present. Debt service payments in years four through eight would allow the
farmer sufficient cash flow (Annex 7, Table 5) and yield a benefit recovery
index of 34%. In computing project rent, incremental family labor was
evaluated at F$6/man-day during the crushing season and F$3/man-day during
the slack season as in the economic analysis (Annex 10). The value of farm
management was taken as 102 of incremental net farm income at full develop-
ment and an uncertainty allowance of 10% of incremental net farm income was
assumed. The resulting rent recovery index is over 100%. Although, this
figure is merely approximate, it does indicate that the proposed project
charges are about as high as farmers could reasonably be expected to pay.
Drainage Improvement
9.        As in the farm budget analysis (Annex 8), two types of farms are
considered, representing areas now affected by saltwater intrusion and
those affected by restricted internal drainage only. The Government proposes
to reconstruct protective seawalls and tidal gates as a national expenditure
which would not be recovered from beneficiaries. Construction of internal
common user drains would be the responsibility of local Drainage Boards who
would borrow funds for the purpose from FDB. Repayment would be over ten
years at 10% interest, and would be recouped from beneficiary farmers in the
Drainage Board areas through a drainage rate. The drainage rate would also
include provision for the operation and maintenance of seawalls and tidal
gates as well as internal drains. If farmers fail to pay drainage rates
after notification by the Drainage Boards, FSC is empowered to deduct that
amount from cane proceeds. Table 2 shows that the proposed charges would
give a cost recovery index of 46% for seawalls and internal drainage combined,
and 78% for internal drainage only.
10.       Benefit and rent recovery indices have been computed for both
saltwater intrusion and restricted drainage areas. The results are similar
and this discussion will therefore be limited to the saltwater intrusion



ANNEX 9
Page 4
case. As shown in Table 2, incremental net farm income from the project at
full development would be F$1,537 (US$1,830) per family or F$307 (US$365)
per capita, compared with a per capita income of US$590 at present. The
proposed drainage rate would gife a benefit recovery index of 46%. In com-
puting the rent recovery index, the same percentage for incremental family
labor and an uncertainty allowance were assumed as for Seaqaqa (para 8).
The resulting rent recovery index is again over 100%, indicating that farmers
would most likely be unwilling to participate in the project if higher rates
were charged.
Conclusions
11.       Table 3 summarizes the results.  For the Seaqaqa settlement,
the proposed charges yield a cost recovery index between 27% and 53% and
a rent recovery index in excess of 100%. For the drainage improvement
areas, the proposed drainage rates imply a cost recovery index of 78% for
internal common user drains and 46% for both seawalls and drains, and rent
recovery indices of 62% to over 100%. Although the rent recovery indices
as computed are subject to a wide range of error, they do indicate that the
proposed project charges are about as high as farmers would be willing to
pay. These rates would capture 34% of incremental cash income from Seaqaqa
settlers and 25%-46% of incremental cash income from beneficiaries of
drainage improvement. The proposed rates therefore represent a reasonable
contribution to project costs, and would appear to be just within the bene-
ficiaries' ability and willingness to pay.



ANNEX 9
Table 1
FIJI
SUGAR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cost and Benefit Recovery
Seaqaqa Settlement
Cost Recovery - 8,000 ac project area
A                             B
Case 1/                       Case 2/
Year         Cost 3/    Recovery 4/        Cost 5/    Recovery 6/
- --------------(F$ '000)--______________
1          1,530            7             500             0
2             950          14             530             0
3          1,030           21             590             0
4             940         131             480           110
5            -220         226               0           205
6             100         308               0           287
7             100        379                0           358
8             100         356               0           335
9             100         255               0           234
10             100         167               0           146
Cost Recovery  Index         27%                           53%
Benefit Recovery - 50 ac farm with 15 ac sugarcane
Incremental Net    Incremental F#rm    Incremental Farm          Uncertaint{    Project                  12/
Year     Farm Income i/        Labor Cost        Management Cost  9/    Allowance -/  Rent II/    Recovery -
1           -970                 200                    190                 -100        -1,260             0
2           -295                 400                    190                   -30          -855            0
3         -1,465                 600                    190                   150           525            0
4           2,538                600                    190                   250         1,498          823
5          2,282                 600                    190                   230        1,262           769
6           2,026                600                    190                   200         1,036          718
7          1,930                 600                    190                   190           950          672
8          1,930                 600                    190                   190           950          627
Benefit Recovery Index: 34%
Rent Recovery Index:  112%
1/  Land clearing, farm development and access  roads.
2/ Land clearing and farm development.
3/ Cost of land clearing, first year farm development and access road construction and maintenance.
4/  Debt service payments for land clearing and first year farm development, plus vehicle license fees and
POL taxes for tractors aggregated over the settlement area.
5/  (3) above less the cost of constructing and maintaining farm access roads.
6/ (4) above less vehicle license fees and POL taxes for farm tractors.
7/ Sugarcane sales less farm development (years 2 and 3) and annual production costs from Annex 7, Table 5,
less pre-project income.
8/  Incremental farm labor except for harvesting evaluated at F$6/man-day during the crushing season and
F$3/man-day during the slack season.
9/  10% of incremental net farm income at full development.
10/ 10% of incremental net farm income.
11/  Incremental net farm income less the sum of incremental farm labor and management costs and
uncertainty allowance.
12/ Debt service payments from Annex 7, Table 5.



ANNEX 9
Table 2
FIJI
SUGAR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cost and Benefit Recovery
Drainage Irprovement
Cost Recovery - 26,400 ac project area
Year                Cost A-       Cost B2/       Recv.r
----- -- (F $ ' 00)  ------------
1                1,702            462             164
2                1,028            698             248
3                1,230            820             342
4                1,230            850             421
5                1,198            818             490
6                  158            158             468
7                  158            158             448
8                  158            158             429
9                  158            158             411
10                  158            158             394
11                  158            158             317
12                   158           158             273
13                   158           158             228
14                   158           158             190
Cost Recovery
Index:           46%            78%
Benefit Recovery   10 ac farm with saltwater Intrusion
Incremental t7t Incremental family Incremental Farm Uncertainty Projeg7
Year    Farm Income-        Labor Cost5/    Management Cost6/ AllowanceZ/   Rent-   Recovery-:
-                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~(F$)-
1           -109              144                 150               -10        -393       242
2              7               19                 150                -         -162       230
3             97                19                150                10         -82       219
4            205                19                150                20          16       209
5            313               19                 150                30         114       199
6            545              173                 150                50         172       190
7            707              276                 150                70         211       181
8          1,158              325                 150               120         563       173
9          1,411              272                 150               140         849       166
10          1,569              321                 150               150         948       159
Benefit Recovery Index:  46%
Rent Recovery Index: 175%
Benefit Recovery - 10 ac farm with restricted drainage
Incremental Y¶s; Incremental fTmily Incremental Farm  Uncertainty  Project
Year    Farm Income_        Labor Cost5       Manaeement Cost6/ Allowance Z      Rent8i/  Rorl'
1            -405             209                 120               -40         -694      212
2               4             382                 120                -          -498      202
3             887             112                 120                90          565      193
4             960             248                 120               100          492      184
5             960             248                 120               100          492      176
6           1,232             248                 120               120          744      168
7           1,232             248                 120               120          744      161
8           1,232              248                120               120          744      155
9           1,232             248                 120               120          744      148
10           1,232             248                 120               120          744      143
Benefit Recovery Index: 25%
Rent Recovery Index: 62%
1/  Seawalls and internal common user drains - construction, operation and maintenance.
2/  Construction of internal common user drains plus operation and maintenance of seawalls and
internal drains.
3/  Drainage rate aggregated over the project area.
41  Incremental sugarcane sales less incremental annual production costs from Annex 8, Table 6.
51  Incremental family labor except for harvesting evaluated at F$6/man-day during the crushing
season and F$3/man-day during the slack season.
6/  10% of incremental net farm income at full development.
71 10% of incremental net farm income.
8/  Incremental net farm income less the sum of incrementalfamily labor and farm management costs
and uncertainty allowance.
9/  Drainage rate from Annex 8, Table  6.
10/ Incremental sugarcane sales less incremental annual production costs from Arnex 8, Table 7.
11/ Drainage rate fram Annex 8, Table 7.



FIJI
SUGAR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cost and Benefit Recovery Summary 1/
Cost Recovery    Benefit      Rent       Average Income with the
Index        Recovery    Recovery    Project after RepaZment 2
A       B       Index       Index      Per Family  Per Capita
________________ ()_ ---   ----------    --------   (US )-----
Seaqaqa Settlement         27      53        34         100+        4,010         800
Drainage Improvement       46      78        -           _
Saltwater Intrusion      -       -         46         100+        4,350         870
Restricted Drainage      -       -         25          62         4,350         870
G-DP per capita (1974): US$640 3/
1/ From Tables 1 and 2.
2/ From Annex 7, Table 5 and Annex 8, Tables 6 and 7.
3/  Source:  Government of Fiji, Bureeu of Statistics, Current Economic Statistics,
April 1975, T?ble 3.
IO s



AiNEX 10
Page 1
FIJI
SUGAR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic AnalYsis
1.        The Seaqaqa settlement and drainage improvement parts of the proj-
ect have been analyzed separately since they would be carried out in two
distinct areas by essentially different organizations and would benefit dif-
ferent groups of people. Within each part, however, a separate or incremental
analysis of the various components would not be appropriate since each part
constitutes an integrated package which would not yield the expected benefits
if one or more components were missing. For example, the sugarcane product-
ion at Seaqaqa could not be processed on time without the proposed transport
improvements, and the reconstruction of seawalls would not be beneficial
without improvement of the internal drains behind them. On the other hand,
the analysis of the Seaqaqa settlement does not attempt to quantify benefits
other than those from increased cane production, which would result from the
investments in infrastructure and township development.
Seagaga Settlement
2.        Costs.  Investment costs are taken as the full costs of land clear-
ing, farm development, farm access roads and half the cost of main road
construction and improvement. The costs of the tramline extension would be
borne by the Fiji Sugar Corporation (FSC) and would generate benefits in the
form of increased revenues for the Corporation from the miller's share of
sugar proceeds. Half the main road costs have been excluded since at least
half the traffic on the improved section, once the new transinsular road
to Savusavu is completed, would be other than that related to the production
and transport of sugarcane at Seaqaqa. Township development costs have been
excluded since the township residents would benefit from and pay the Native
Land Development Corporation (NLDC) for the facilities. The costs of
tractors and cane transport vehicles have been treated as part of farm pro-
duction costs in evaluating project benefits. O&M costs are included for
the main and access roads. All costs include physical contingencies and
are net of taxes and other transfer payments.
3.        Foreign Exchange.  Due to the existence of import taxes and
quantitative restrictions, the official exchange rate understates the value
to the economy of foreign exchange used in carrying out the project and
earned by incremental sugar exports. In the absence of detailed information
needed to compute specific conversion factors, the standard conversion



ANNEX 10
Page 2
factor (SCF) for Fiji using the Squire - van der Tak approach 1/ is estimated
at about 0.88 for the three years 1971-73. This ratio implies a shadow
exchange rate of US$1.05 - F$1.00, which was used in the economic analysis.
4.        Employment and Labor Costs.  Labor requirements per 15-ac cane
farm are presented in Annex 7. No distinction is made between family and
hired labor. The bulk of employment would be created during the crushing
season (June-November) and would consist mostly of harvesting. At full
development, harvesting would require about 86,000 man-days of labor over
the entire 8,000 ac to be developed under the project, or about 860 seasonal
jobs. Due to the way harvesting is organized in gangs under FSC direction
(Annex 2), harvest labor has been treated as a cash production cost at the
peak season market wage of F$6/man-day. An additional 40,000 man-days (400
jobs) would be required during the crushing season for other farm operations,
and 27,000 man-days (270 jobs) would be needed during the slack season. This
additional labor was priced at F$6/man-day during the crushing season and
at half that amount during the slack season to reflect the reduced availability
of productive employment during that season. More than enough labor would
be available from project farm families, other labor from Lambason and
farms in the Seaqaqa vicinity, and seasonal labor from the outer islands.
It should be noted that at F$6 (US$7.2)/man-day, Fiji is a relatively high
wage society (about twice the estimated full employment rural wage rate
in Korea).
5.        Benefits.  Benefits are defined as the incremental net return
to the project area after deducting the cost of incremental farm labor other
than for harvesting. Expected sugarcane yields, production, and production
costs are shown in Annex 7. The farm gate prices for sugarcane used in
the financial and economic analyses are based on the situation in Fiji as
of mid-1975 and the Bank's world market price forecasts, and are presented
in Table 1. Table 2 summarizes the benefits from the settlement at fuln
development.
1/  L. Squire and H.G. van der Tak; Economic Analysis of Projects; Balti-
more and London, The Johns Hopkins University Press, 1975. The formula
used to estimate the SCF was:
X + M
M(l + TaxM) + X(l - TaxX)
where
M = value of merchandise imports cif
X = value of merchandise exports fob
TAXM   - weighted average rate of taxes on imports
TAXX   = weighted average rate of taxes on exports
The variable normally included in this equation to estimate the tariff
equivalent of quantitative restrictions was omitted as the necessary
information on tariff restrictions is not available in the Bank.



ANNEX 10
Page 3
6.        Development Period.  According to the project implementation
schedule, 2,000 ac would be cleared and planted to sugarcane each year for
four years beginning in 1976. Each 15-ac farm would be developed over three
years in 5-ac increments. Under the recommended pattern of plant cane and
three ratoons, production would stabilize at the full development level in
year eight.
7.        Economic Rate of Return.  Using the foregoing assumptions and
discounting project costs and benefits over a 30-year evaluation period, the
economic rate of return is estimated to be 20% (Table 3).
8.        Sensitivity Analysis.  Several of the assumptions made in the
economic analysis have been varied in order to examine their impact on the
rate of return. The results are presented in Table 4. If the full costs
of the main road improvements, tramline extension and township development
are included and benefits are unchanged, the rate of return would be 12%.
Under a number of adverse assumptions the rate of return would exceed 13%.
Drainage Improvement
9.        Costs.  Investment costs are taken as the full costs of seawalls
and internal drainage, including mapping, offices and vehicles for the
Drainage and Irrigation Division (DID) and the imputed cost to farmers of
improving on-farm drains. 0& M costs are included for the seawalls, common
user internal drains and the imputed cost of maintaining on-farm drains.
All costs include physical contingencies and are net of taxes and other
transfer payments.
10.       Foreign Exchange.  Foreign exchange costs and earnings are con-
verted to local currency equivalents at a shadow exchange rate of US$1.05 -
F$1.00 as for the Seaqaga settlement (para 3).
11.       Employment and Labor Costs.  Labor requirements per 10-ac cane
farm are presented in Annex 8, Table 5. Labor costs are evaluated in the
same way as the Seaqaqa settlement (para 3). At full development, harvesting
would require an increment of about 135,000 man-days of labor over the 26,400
ac to be improved, or about 1,350 seasonal jobs. An additional 90,000 man-
days (900 jobs) would be required during the crushing season for other farm
operations and 55,000 man-days (550 jobs) would be needed during the slack
season.
12.       Benefits.  Benefits are defined as for Seaqaqa (para 4).  Expected
yields, production and production costs are shown in Annex 8. Table 2
summarizes the benefits from drainage improvement at full development.
13.       Development Period.  According to the project implementation
schedule, the entire 26,400 drainage improvement area would be completed
over five years beginning in 1976. For the areas now affected by saltwater



ANNEX 10
Page 4
intrusion, sugarcane would be planted only after reclamation and leaching for
at least five years. Given the anticipated yield progression for plant cane
and three ratoons, production from the 11,000 ac with saltwater intrusion
would stabilize in year 16. For the areas with restricted internal drainage
only, sugarcane could be planted on the entire area immediately after drain-
age is restored. Production from the 15,400 ac so affected is expected to
stabilize after ten years.
14.       Economic Rate of Return.  Using the foregoing assumptions and
discounting project costs and benefits over a 30-year,evaluation period,_
the econoric rate of return is estimated to be 20% (Table 3).
15.       Sensitivity AnalYsis.  Several of the assumptions have been varied
to examine their impact on the rate of return. The results are presented
in Table 4. In all of the cases tested the rate of return exceeded 13%.
Total Project
16.       Combining the cost and benefit streams from the basic analysis
of both parts of the project, the overall economic rate of return would be
20%.



FIJI
SUGAR DEVEloOPMENT PROJECT
Prices for Sugar., 1975 and 1985 l/
(F$ or US,$/ton at 1975 constant-pri7ces)
1975                                           1985
F$/ton           us$/tn                  F$/ton               US$/ton
Economic 2/  Financial 32~F-ooi /  Financial 3/                           -
Export price fob Lautoka/Lambasa            1425          375           1446          299           2614           3124
Less Certified Deductions 14/               -10           -10           -12           -10           -10            -12
A-vailable for Distribution                 U5             653mm 
Growers, Share (70%)                        290           255           3014          202           178            23U
Sugarcane equivalent price at mill or
railhead (8:1 conversion ratio)            36            32            38            25            22             26
1/   Based on actual situation in Fiji as of mid-1975 and IBRD Report No.8114, Price Forecasts for
Major Primary Commodities., July 1975.
2/   Based on shadow exchange rate of F$l.00-US$1.05
3/ 'Based on official exchange rate of F$l.00"US$1.17
14/ Costs of the Sugar Board, Advisory Council, Independent Chairman., Vice-Chairman and Accountant,
export duty (2%), stabilization fund levy., marketing costs (0.67%) and research (F$1-2/ton).
CD



FIJI
SUGAR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Analysis - Net Value of Production at Full Project Development
Net Return to Project Area   Incremental         Less Cost of        1/    Incremental Net
Without Costing Farm Labor   Net Return   Incremental Farm Labor-   Value of Production
(F$ '000)             (F$ '000)           (F$ '000)             (F$ '000) (US$ '000)
Without      With
Project    Project
Seaqaqa Settlement            958 2/      2,874 3/         1,916 4/            320                   1,596       1,675
Drainage Improvement        6,121 5/    10,316 5/          4,195 5/            700                   3,495       3,670
1/  Excluding harvest labor which is treated as a cash farm operating cost at the peak season market wage.  The
difference in the remaining farm labor requirement between "with" and "without" project conditions is costed
at the peak season wage of F$6/man-day during the crushing season (June-November) and at F$3/man-day during
the rest of the year.
2/ Net return from the 4,000 ac developed by end 1975 at full development.
3/ Net return from the full 12,000 ac under sugarcane in the settlement area.
4/ From Annex 7, Tables 2(production evaluated at F$25/ton) and 6.
5/ From Annex 8, Tables 3 (production evaluated at F$25/ton) and 8.
'Ii 



ANNEX 10
Table 3
FIJI
SUGAR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Costs and Benefits 1/
(US$ '000)
Seagaqa Settlement    Year                                                Costs                                           Benefits 2/
Capital 3/                         0 & M 4/       Total
Land           Farm           Access         14 Main
Clearing    Develppment        Roads        Road
1         380           190             1,160        1,280         10            3,020            -490
2         420           190               450          930         20            2,010             190
3         480             0               450            0         50              980             800
4         530             0               450            0         90            1,070           1,190
5           0             0                 0            0        140              140           2,770
6           0              0                0            0        140              140           2,100
7           0             0                 0            0        140              140           1,920
8-30          0             0                0            0        140              140           1,680
Economic Rate of Return: 20%
Drainage Improvement  Year                                                  Costs                                          Benefits 5/
Capital 31                         0 & M 6/       Total
Seawalls 71      Co.mon           On-farm
User Drains       Drains
1         1,390              470              50                      0          1,910            -360
2            370             700              30                     50          1,150            -470
3           460              800              40                     80          1,380            -370
4            420             800              40                    120          1,380             -50
5           420              730              40                    160          1,350             330
6              0               0               0                    200            200           1,190
7              0               0               0                    200            200           1,870
8              0               0               0                    200            200           2,410
9              0               0               0                    200            200           2,840
10              0               0               0                    200            200           3,150
11              0               0               0                    200            200           3,310
12              0               0               0                    200            200           3,520
13              0               0               0                    200            200           3,590
14              0               0               0                    200            200           3,620
15              0               0               0                    200            200           3,640
16-30            0               0               0                    200            200           3,670
Economic Rate of Return: 20%
Total Project             Economic Rate of Return: 20%
1/ Rounded to nearest US$10,000.
2/ Incremental gross value of production from Annex 7, Table 2 @ F$25/ton minus incremental farm operating costs from Annex 7,
Table 6 minus incremental farm labor cost except for harvesting. Includes US$500,000 in year five for the residual value
of road construction equipment.
3/ Excludes taxes and includes engineering, supervision and administration.
4/ The cost of maintaining farm access roads plus half the cost of maintaining the main road.
5/ Incremental gross value of production from Annex 8, Table 3 @ F$25/ton minus incremental farm operating costs from Annex 8,
Table 8 minus incremental farm labor cost except for harvesting.
61 F$6/ac for O0M of seawalls and common user drains plus the imputed cost of maintaining on-farm drains.
7/ Includes mapping, offices and vehicles.



ANNEX 10
Table 4
FIJI
SUGAR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Sensitivity Analysis
Economic Rate
of Return
Seagaqa Settlement
1.  Benefits decreased by 25%                                     15
2.  Benefits delayed by two years                                 15
3.  Construction costs increased by 20%                           17
4.  Combination of (2) and (3)                                     13
5.  Including the full costs of main road improvements,
tramline extension and township development                   12
6. Official exchange rate                                         17
7. All incremental farm labor valued at peak season wage
of F$6/man-day.                                               19
8.  Combination of (6) and (7)                                    16
Drainage Improvement
1.  Benefits decreased by 25%                                     16
2.  Benefits delayed by two years                                  16
3.  Construction costs increased by 20%                            18
4.  Combination of (2) and (3)                                     15
5.  Official exchange rate                                         17
6. All incremental farm labor valued at peak season wage
of F$6/man-day                                                18
7. Combination of (5) and (6)                                     15



FIJI
SUGAR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SEAQAQA SETTLEMENT
Organization for Road Construction
PERMANENT
SECRETARY
FOR WORKS
'I"
DEPUTY
SECRETARY
GOVErNMENT              ,|                                                                    OOPERATIONADSAND
GOVERNMENT             WATER SUPPLY               DIVISION                                         AIRFIELD
ARCHITECT              AND SEWAGE             (CONSTRUCTION)                                      D
zJz(
| DIVISIONAL ROADS                                         I
ENGINEER         _      __ _        _       _    _ 
I    INORTHERN)          jnnn -r -r --- 
SUPPLY CLERK                                     _IE
FINANCIAL
CONTROL                                 I       ECT
CLERKPRJC
SUPERVISOR                  SUPERVISOR                 SUPERVISORL
ROADS                    STRUCTURES                  MECHANICAL
SURVEY    1      [ LEADING HAND              1 LEADING HAND                   LEADING HAND
ASURVE               |   EARTHWORKS &            I BRIDGES & CULVERTS              MECHANICAL
ASSISTANT      [     ~DRAINAGE                                               MEHNIA
CHAINMEN
(SETTING OUT)
CONTROL
_ _ _= _ _M  COORDINATION
World Bank-15155(3R)






FIJI
SUGAR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
DRAINAGE IMPROVEMENT
Organization for Drainage & Irrigation Division
[   PERMANENT SECRETARY,
MAFF
DIRECTOR OF AGRICULTURE
ASSISTANT DIRECTOR
DRAINAGE & IRRIGATION
PRINCIPAL ENGINEER
| DRAINAGE & IRRIGATION l
HEADQUARTERS          |  DRAINAGE  I           NORTHERN          I DRAINAGE  I             WESTERN           |  DRAINAGE              CENTRAL
UNIT                  |  BOARDS                DIVISION             BOARDS                 DIVISION          I  BOARDS
L -- -r-  I                                         J      11                      L-----
L-----'                                   _,_                                         ___
I                PERSONNEL                 I                PERSONNEL
£     - _  __M     Divisional Engineer     L    M  M   * (As for
I |    Assistant Engineer           * _ _    m_    Northern Division)
_   _  -   2 Works Supervisors
MECHANICAL            SURVEY            DESIGN         I       Survey Assistant
SECTION               OFFICE ]          OFFICE         |       Draftsman/Tracer
Design
Engineer        -Control
(Drainage                                           *                  m -      Coordination
Improvement)
*           UI                                  I
L mm  m    _m  _  mm           m        m                                                                 World 8ank-1S156(RJ






FIJI
SUGAR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SEAQAQA SETTLEMENT
Calendar of Farm Operations
J      F      M      A      M      J      J      A      S      0      N       D
LAND CLEARING
LAND PREPARATION 
PLANTI NG/REPLANTI NG                                            -      -
CULTIVATION
HARVEST - PLANT CANE
1st RATOON
2nd RATOON                                            -       -
3rd RATOON
MEAN RAINFALL (IN)         16.9           17.9
15.6                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~YEAR
88.8
11.9
J      F      M      A      M      J      J      A      S      0       N      D
World Bank-1515712R)






FIJI
SUGAR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
Years             1975                  1976                 1977                  1978                 1979                  1980
WORK ITEM                       Quarters   1st  2nd  3rd  4th  1st  2nd  3rd  4th  1st  2nd  3rd  4th  1st  2nd  3rd  4th  1st 2nd  3rd  4th  1st  2nd  3rd  4th
SEAQAQA SETTLEMENT
Land clearing (8000 ac)                                                                             I _    _    _    _    _   _    _    _    _    _    _    _    _ 
First year farm development 1400 farms)
Tramline extension (6.5 mi I
Roads -  Procurement of equipment
-  Main road, construction (7.2 mi I                                _          _           _     _
upgrading (8.1 mi I
tarmac surfacing (8.8 mi I
-  Access roads, construction (117 mi I                                   _   _    _
Procurement of cane transport vehicles
Procurement of tractors & farm equipment
Township development                                                                 _    _    _    _    _    _    _    _
DRAINAGE IMPROVEMENT
Photography  Mapping
Photogrammetric mapping
Office construction
Procurement of vehicles
Seawall reconstruction (22.7 mi i                                            .
Internal drainage (26,400 ac)                           _ _ _                                      I     _                 _  _  _  _     _ _    _                            ±
World Bank-15164






FIJI
SUGAR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SEAQAQA SETTLEMENT
Management Organization
PERMANENT SECRETARY, MAFF mmm}    mmmmmmmmmmm     CENTRAL COORDINATING COMMITTEE
CHAI9MAN - PERMAANENT SECRETARY, MAFF.
NL.OC                  NLTE                   FSC         -mmimmmmm                PROJECT MANAGE          m            iin mm mn-    OA  ORDINATING COMMITTEE
NL                        PER UNDE  LEASC   *_ _____SES|  PROJECT MANAOEH   | ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~ ~ ~SEAQA            CHAIRMAN - COMMISSIONER, NORTHERN DIVISION
|           - t~~A    POWERS UNDER LEASES        
IL~~~~
mm  m   T-UIIhEI4 m - - -                                                                                     7
NLDC                  NLTBNE  VELOPMENT                                                                                                                     AGRICULTJRAL OFFICER
SFAOAOA               SEAOAOA                   I                 OFrICER (FSCI                                                                               (DEPT OF AGRICULTURE)
_ =_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~UACN                                                                                FOOD CROPS
_}< R E D ITi            ACCOUNTS    ]    [ 3           g        |~~~~CL  HARVESTiNGE       ADVISORS    |                                                      EAM
FA I'NTEN N-E
I                                   LEASES
~~~~~~ mm mm  m - -  - m -mm - -m - m  inmmmmmm -                                                    FARMERS
|  ESTATE               TRANSORT               TOWNSHI
PRINCIPAL CONTROL FOR
FDB= Fij, Develop-rt B.kn                                                                                SUGARCANE DEVELOPMENT
FSC= Flji S.,., C-rp-rsciol World Bank-151E412R)
MAFF= Ministry of Agtrialture,
Fisher,es and Forests                                                                              CONTROL
NLDC=Nati.e Land Development Corporalton
NLTB=Natioe Laud Trust Bea-                                                            --I-M-_  I=mCO   COORDINATION






.___________________,____________________________                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        IBRD   11851
; ;:: Q 178'                                                       I;:                                                               00  f17 U:  :V9~  Ig0 SO- j,dv Pf ~197                                '                V  NOVEMBER 1975
S,A4QAOA SETtEMENTAREA
V.,                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Koraka  AM
NAN.gNUU, ~~ ~~~aN,MBASA Mll
IL  Nalraann*V
Nes0re   8        =                           N R   T  H         Ddrekl a-  L..                    V           5N
, 3   O   _   :  L                   _Ml',r                    gorSVSD,                                      /NA
C,9.                                                                                                                               Noindi          Naenl                     bwaiee    MEeoaino
9.27                                                     f f  902   ::       Ri        dlNdomo             q                                                                    v       - TAVEUNI I
17                                                                                       N,n,b,ura 
.,NAVllIJ:I'T ID'                                                                                                                                                                             
, W VVA                                                                                                                                                                                   N ;  0 i   , g  |    0 00  $   (   i   .- t  t   0  0 kOID  ,         uANINA  BRAiAVO
KORO                                .
IANG~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AG 
LA X ,v                                            ,   0                                      /            0 ., 0EAS* E RN                                                             DI VIS                           _N
OVALALI                                                                                                                   THITHIA
t.to                            ~~~~~~NGAU                                                      IJ
<   t _   a  z<   @s    ,  X UtofQ                   i              D                  NGAU                                                         F I J I                                    NAYAU                                 lew~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~F IJ 
Sugor Development Project
PROJECT LOCATION
Seaqaqo Settlement Area
o     IV   20    30   40    so    60    70   sO
I                     T''  V I B j M7ENVr A rj                                                 K       E                                               Main roads
z   S                                                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KILOMEtERV
;   Ct   I                                                                 S         IS (0 $ 00   .r''  O J  la  2  30  4,0    a              -   --  TranInnnslor road under constraVtVVn(Opproelmate alignmentn)l
00                                                                             MILES                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Rivers
VATOL'L 1E79                                                                                                                                                     Proposed drainage improve.ent areas
U.J                                                                                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Snowalls
50        }       _'  l a O'           lee'                                   0~~TM~=  11 6 CI-  Internal drainage
e-l   ::   -   L:   :  FIJI     DrainagE Board area boundaries
"'0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FJ                                                                                                        Mangrove swannps
)0' ¢  *0'                                                                                U :: Q  ;, CoLed   7a   * Sugar mIlls                                                     G
.LJ     ,                                                          A U S T R A L I A                                                           ''      Division boundaries 
0                                      OWlS                                                                                                            P '   0  r Nra- ,,  - -    -- rovince boundare                                        O
I9                                              '                            ,         i,   .                                                   Sdney           .rIOA_                                                                                                                             19'
, KANDAV J                                             N!EW                                                                                                                                                         FLANi
ZEALAND                  AT*
178'10                                                                  4'10'e'10                                                                                                                     179'






IBRD 11852
Z1700'                               179'05'                               J790' HY                                75                                    17205'0        /           J            17925'                                179°30'                                NOVEMBER 1975
P  A  C     F I C-                   0  C. . A  N                                                                                                                                                                                                           FZ  I J 
Sugar Development Project
'-9   .  /  <,       /SEAQAQA SETTLEMENT AREA
MATHUATA-1-WAi/    (1MQthU0f0-i-W0i  SOS                                                                                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Proposed sugar tramline extension
New main road, tarmac surface
'Upraded main road, tarmac surface
Nombuona _~,,duri                       Kor-voL   I L"'                                                                                                                                              . Upgraded main road, gravel surface
NovakaSorn u                                                                                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~New farm access roads
---Main fransmsuolar road unader conlstruction
sea ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6~~~~~~~~dbua ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(approximate alignmenf)
Nakam-.--,--r Existing sugar tramrlines
~~~~~'liurua           '-'~~gum                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Existing main roads
-                                                     \rails andhs                                                                                                                                                                                      fro  ; P   A   C   j  jcks C   C   E  A-h
79'07                                179'05'                                                                                              n 179110'  9> |   :179015'   ;\   179020'   X,2To SOvusoRv 17s-                         >       Rivers and sfreams
0~~~1~~~5, ~~~AL                      Seagago  research station
~~~unima                                                                                                                                                                      E~~~~~~~~~~~    Sugar mill
-000'   Alfitudes ir feel
Soo                       f,              0                                                                                                 ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-  -  -  Province boundary
Pr                                                                                                                                                                        2   3   4   5   6    700    10~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 1 2       
I  -*~~~~~~~~                         -'-                    1~~~~~~~~,                                                                                                                                                                   MILES
A I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5 ,/)                                                                                                                                                                                                 16'35'-
NalesnangatfI7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   I  ~~~~~~pir'~~~~~~(  ' I  I  \  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                 iZO'30                                  170'05'~~~~~~~~~~7T0  793
Nu                              V-7"f~aou                                                                                                                                                                                                      6           
E                                                                               ivousrian, P~aheeasa    I                                                                                                                                              ,absa -            NUA LEVU               9
J ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IiLEV')                                                                                                           C'5 E
-16'4d                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   16 i'40'        -Si'                              
It ~ ~    ~     ~     ~     oaof7l                                                                     TSVJCSJi52                                                                 'mt



