Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 16758-BR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROGRAM
RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT - MARANEAO
October 23, 1997
Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development
Sector Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of May 9, 1997)11
Currency Unit = Real (R$)
R$1.06 = US$1.00
US$1.00 = R$1.06
R$1.06 million = US$1 million
FISCAL YEAR
(State of Maranhao)
January 1 to December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
The metric system has been used throughout the report.
Appraisal mission
Vice President        Shahid Javed Burki
Country Director     Gobind T. Nankani
Sector Director      Maritta Koch-Weser
Task Manager         Luis Coirolo



GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS
APCR                  Apoio is Pequenas Comunidades Rurais
(Program of Support to Small Rural Communities under the
original Northeast Rural Development Program)
CAS                   Country Assistance Strategy
EMATER                Empresa de Assistencia Tecnica e Extensao Rural
(Technical Assistance and Rural Extension Agency)
FAO/CP                World BankfFAO Cooperative Program
FUMAC                 Conselho Municipal de Apoio Comunitario
(Municipal Community Schemes)
FUMAC-P               Fundo Municipal de Apoio Comunitario - Piloto
(Pilot Municipal Community Funds)
FUNAI                 Funda,co Nacional do Indio
(Foundation for Amerindian Affairs)
GOB                   Federal Govermnent of Brazil
(Govemo Federal do Brasil)
IBGE                  Funda,co Instituto Brasileiro de Geografia e Estatistica
(Brazilian Institute of Geography and Statistics)
IERR                  Internal Economic Rate of Return
IICA                  Instituto Interamericano de Coopera,co para a Agricultura
(Inter-American Institute for Cooperation on Agriculture)
IPEA                  Instituto de Pesquisa Economica Aplicada
(Institute of Applied Economic Research of the Ministry of
Planning of the Presidency of the Republic)
MIS                   Management Information System
(Sistema Gerencial de Informa,ces)
NCB                   National Competitive Bidding
(Licita,co Nacional)



NGO                   Non-Governmental Organization
(Organiza,co Nao-Governamental)
NRDP                  Northeast Rural Development Program
(Programa de Apoio ao Pequeno Produtor Rural do Nordeste)
O&M                   Operation and Maintenance
(Operac,o e Manutengao)
PAC                   Programa de Apoio Comunitario
(State Community Schemes)
PCU                   Project Coordinating Unit
(Unidade Coordenadora do Projeto)
POA                   Plano Operativo Anual
(Annual Operating Plan)
POLONORDESTE          Programa de Desenvolvimento Integrado do Nordeste
(Northeast Integrated Development Program)
PPR                   Physical Performance Review
SEAIN                 Secretaria de Assuntos Internacionais
(Secretariat of International Affairs of the Ministry of Planning
of the Presidency of the Republic)
SEPLAN                Secretaria do Planejamento
(State Secretariat of Planning)
SOEs                  Statements of Expenditure
(Presta,co de Contas)'
SSMP                  Sistema Simplificado do Monitoramento do Projeto
(Simplified Project Monitoring System)
TORs                  Terms of Reference
(Termos de Referencia)
UT                    Unidade Tecnica
(Technical Unit)



BRAZIL
RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT - MARANiAO
TABLE OF CONTENTS
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY ......................................................i
1. RURAL POVERTY IN BRAZIL, THE NORTHEAST AND MARANHIO .....................1
The Rural Poor and the Economy .........................................................1
Rural Poverty in the Northeast .........................................................2
Experience with Past Bank Lending .........................................................3
The State of MaranhSio .........................................................6
Main Lessons Learned from  the Northeast Rural Development Program  (NRDP) .................8
2. THE PROJECT ............................................................                                             12
Origin and Rationale for Bank Involvement ............................................................           12
Project Objectives ............................................................                                  13
Project Components .......................                                                                        13
A. Community Subprojects .......................                                                           13
B. Institutional Development .......................                                                       16
C. Project Administration, Monitoring and Evaluation .........................................     18
Project Implementation Arrangements                         ......................................... 19
Project Technical Assistance and Training Arrangements                        ................................. 22
Targeting and Graduation ..........................................                                              22
Community Subproject Cycle ..........................................                                            24
Project Costs .........................................     .                                                    27
Financing Plan .........................................      .                                                  27
Procurement .........................................       .                                                    30
Disbursements and Special Account ..........................................                                     32
Accounts and Audits ..........................................                                                   32
Environmental Aspects ............                                                                               33
Poverty Category .........................................                                                        33
Women's Participation ..........................................                                                 34
Project Benefits .........................................    .                                                  34
Economic Analysis and Fiscal Impact                         ......................................... 35
Project Risks .........................................     .                                                    36
This report incorporates the findings of an Appraisal Mission which visited Brazil between May 9 and
June 2, 1997. The mission consisted of Messrs./Mmes. Luis Coirolo (Mission Leader); Tfilio Barbosa,
Job3 Barbosa and Raimundo Caminha (LAIRE); Antonio Rocha Magalhaes (LA1BR); Loretta Sonn
(FAO-CP); and Edward Bresnyan (Consultant). It is also based on the findings of previous Bank and
Bank'FAO-CP missions consisting of Messrs./Mmes. Anna Roumani (LAIER) and Alberto Costa
(Consultant, FAO-CP). The Peer Reviewers are Klaus Deimnger (PRDDR) and Johan van Zyl
(Consultant). The Country Director is Gobind T. Nankani. The Sector Director is Maritta Koch-Weser.



TABLE OF CONTENTS
(Continued)
3. SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION   .. 38
Annexes
A.         Maranhao: A Socio-Economic Profile .............................................                                              40
B.         The Reformulated NRDP: Performance and Evaluation .............................................  47
C.         Targeting Mechanisms and Project Municipalities .............................................                                 78
D.         Institutional Development and Project Implementation .............................................                              81
E.         Technical Assistance, Training and Institutional Capacity-Building ................................ 88
F.         The FUMAC-P Pilot Program .............................................                                                       94
G.         Standard Designs and Operation and Maint enance of Subprojects .................................. 98
H.         Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation .............................................                                   102
I.         Project Costs                                                                     ............................................. 114
J.         Economic Analysis .............................................                                                              118
K.    Project Supervision .............................................                                                                127
L.         Project Operational Manual (outline) .............................................                                           130
M.    List of Documents in Project Files .............................................                                                 132
MAP: IBRD No. 28870



BRAZIL
RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT - MARANHAO
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                       The State of Maranhao
Guarantor:                     The Federative Republic of Brazil
Implementing Agency:           SEPLAN, State Government of Maranhao, through
the State Group for Special Programs (NEPE)
Beneficiaries:                 Poor rural community associations, including a
beneficiary population of some 990,000 people
(about 198,000 families)
Poverty:                       Program of Targeted Interventions. The project
employs a targeting methodology at the municipal
and community levels to reach poor rural dwellers.
Amount:                        US$80.0 million equivalent
Terms:                         Repayable over 15 years, including five years of
grace, at the Bank's standard variable interest rate
Commitment Fee:                0.75 percent on undisbursed loan balances,
beginning 60 days after signing, less any waiver
Onlending Terms:               Not applicable
Financing Plan:                 See paras. 2.43-2.44 and Annex I, Table 1.2
Economic Rate of Return:       IERRs estimated for specific types of subprojects,
ranging from 37% to over 50%, see paras. 2.61-2.64
and Annex J
Staff Appraisal Report:        Report No. 16758-BR
Map:                           IBRD No. 28870
Project Identification Number:  BR-PA-51701






BRAZIL
RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT - MARANHAO
1.   RURAL POVERTY IN BRAZIL, THE NORTHEAST AND MARANHAO
THE RURAL POOR AND THE ECONOMY
1.1   The rural and regional dimension of poverty in Brazil is well documented. About
50 percent of the Brazilian poor live in rural areas, and the incidence of poverty among the
rural population is more than double that in large cities and urban areas. Economic
instability over the past two decades was a major obstacle to redressing rural poverty, the
chief cause of which is the lack of human and physical assets in poor households. Real
economic growth fell from 9% annually in the 1970s to 2.7% in the 1980s, and for more
than a decade there was little improvement in standards of living. Economic and sectoral
policies did not provide support for sustainable investment, and as a consequence savings
fell, inflation accelerated and consumer prices increased as much as 30% a month.
Austerity programs associated with different adjustment attempts between 1986 and 1994
cut back investment for rural development, in particular for primary education, targeted
health interventions, rural roads, water supply and small farmer agricultural services.
Migration from rural areas in the 1980s and early 1990s--motivated by unemployment,
underemployment and lack of social and other services--created an enormous new burden
on urban centers, and underscored the urgency of addressing rural poverty to stem its
conversion into an urban pcverty phenomenon.
1.2   Since the introduction of the Plano Real in mid-1994, a large degree of
macroeconomic stabilization has been achieved, with the annual inflation rate reduced to a
fraction of its former level (currently around 10%-I 1% p.a.). However, in the short to
medium termi, stabilization also implies a very strong fiscal adjustment with tightening of
government expenditures, high real interest rates and, hence, a deepening of the
investment pause in the firm and rural sector. The consequences in terms of rural
employment and lack of social services continue to be serious, and clearly call for
offsetting safety net actions. While successful macroeconomic adjustment should promote
longer-term economic growth with benefits extending to rural areas, international
experience shows that targeted programs and policies for the socio-economic development
of the poor remain an essential complement to the adjustment process.



-2 -
RURAL POVERTY IN THE NORTHEAST
1.3   The Northeast has long constituted the single largest area of rural poverty in Latin
America. This Region, covering nine states and part of a tenth, accounts for 190/o of
Brazil's total land area and almost 30% of its 148 million population (1993). More than
half of all Brazilian poor, and almost two-thirds of the country's rural poor, live in the
Northeast where, according to a World Bank Poverty Assessment in Brazil, annual per
capita incomes of rural inhabitants reach only US$230 (less than one-tenth of the national
average).' Among the underlying causes of rural poverty in the Northeast are the
relatively poor resource base of large parts of the region and variable agro-climatic
conditions which make them vulnerable to drought. Skewed access to land and the virtual
absence of a functioning rural financial system for the poor are additional constraints.
Northeast agriculture is characterized by limited input use and slow rates of technology
adoption. Productivity is low, with output per farm worker less than half that of other
regions. Overall Northeast agricultural GDP growth was negligible during 1991-1994,
and was less than 1% in 1995.
1.4   About 40% of the Northeast's rural population lives in the interior semi-arid zone
characterized by poor soils and severe, cyclical and often protracted drought. The
"drought polygon" in the semi-arid region includes most of Ceara, Rio Grande do Norte,
Paraiba, Piaui and Bahia, and smaller proportions of all the other Northeastern states
except Maranhao. The remainder of the rural population lives in areas which are generally
more humid and have better soils, the coastal belt and the drought-prone transitional zone
between the coast and the semi-arid area. The rural economy revolves around food crops
including fruits and vegetables, and extensive irrigated commercial export cropping and
livestock grazing by larger farmers. As a consequence of limitations imposed by uncertain
climate and market fluctuations, the rural poor in the Northeast, comprising small farm
owners, tenants, sharecroppers and landless laborers rely on a complex of activities
including the subsistence cropping of basic foods and small-scale animal husbandry, cash
crops (mainly cotton and cashew), casual agricultural and non-agricultural work, and
remittances from family members living in cities.
1.5   Health and social indicators attest to the poor quality of life in the Northeast,
compared to the rest of Brazil. The region has: (a) a rate of chronic malnutrition of
children under five at 27% and, in the rural areas, 31%, compared to 15% nationwide; (b)
57% of households without piped water supply, reaching 91% in the rural areas,
compared to 28% nationwide; (c) 30% of households without electricity, more than
doubling to 67% in the rural areas, compared to 13% nationwide; and (d) 73% of all
households and 96% of rural households lacking access to proper sanitation facilities,
compared to 46% nationwide.2
Brazil: A Poverty Assessment Human Resources Operaions Division, World Bank, Report No.
14323-BR, June 27, 1995.
2  World Bank, June 27, 1995.



-3 -
1.6   Public investment in the Northeast in basic infrastructure --particularly in
transport, electrification and water supply-- has declined dramatically in the past 25 years
because of economic recession and fiscal crisis.3 The annual growth rate of public capital
investment in the region was 9.6% in the period 1970-80, 3.1% in 1980-90, but a minus
1.5% in 1990-94. The distribution of public investment between the Federal, State and
municipal governments, has also evolved significantly since the early 1980s. Comparing
the period 1970-80 to 1990-93, the contribution of the Federal Government to total
capital investment expenditure in the Northeast dropped from 58% to 47% while that of
municipal governments more than doubled from 90/o to 190/o. The State governments'
share remained practically constant at 33-34%. In 1994, investments by the Federal and
State Governments increased marginally to 51% and 33%, respectively, while the share of
the municipal governments dropped to around 16%. The proposed project would help
compensate for the lack of public investment expenditure in the Northeast. The project
would also reflect the shift in investment expenditure shares from the Federal Government
to municipal governments by concentrating resource allocation decisions for subproject
investments at the municipal level and by leveraging resources of municipal governments
to increase investment in poor rural areas.
1.7   The proposed project would also be a natural complement to important changes in
the political economy of Brazil that were brought about by the Federal Constitution of
1988. Fiscal resources, priority setting and program implementation responsibilities have
been increasingly decentralized from the Federal Government to the states, municipalities
and local populations. This encouraging trend should help avoid many of the financial and
managerial problems which generations of Northeast poverty programs encountered under
centralized coordination and implementation arrangements. Much of the Bank's dialogue
and lending for poverty, including in rural development, health and education, has now
shifted to the states, with the role of the Federal Government being redefined to stress
more strategic functions, such as broad policy and norm setting and financial transfer
schemes to improve equity.
EXPERIENCE WITH PAST BANK LENDiNG
1.8   The Federal and State Governments have been involved since the early 1970s in
financing projects to alleviate rural poverty in the Northeast. The World Bank has been
associated for many years with these efforts, through its financing of a series of programs
and projects, including area-specific and state rural development projects, various sectoral
operations and a regional rural development program.
1.9   Historically, rural development programs in the Northeast have coalesced around
two themes: drought relief and the integrated development of selected areas. The first
has involved emergency relief programs or projects to increase the productivity of scarce
water resources, including large public irrigation schemes. While the budgetary impact of
3  Formaco Bruta de Capital Fixo do Setor PMblico - Nordeste do Brasil: 1960-93. SUDENE, Recife,
1995.



-4-
these projects has been tremendous, their poverty effects have been limited and often
temporary. The second approach, that of integrated subregional development programs,
has included initiatives like the Sertanejo Project and the Bank-financed
POLONORDESTE projects of the 1970s and early 1980s.
1.10 POLONORDESTE. The POLONORDESTE operations concentrated on
specific nicroregions within each of the nine Northeast states and the northern part of
Minas Gerais. They were comprehensive, multisectoral projects designed to improve
agricultural efficiency, raise rural incomes and increase employment. They typically
included components for agricultural modernization (extension, research, credit,
marketing, land administration), infrastructure (rural water supply, roads and irrigation)
and social investments (education, health and community development). Many important
sectoral initiatives were first piloted under the POLONORDESTE projects: farm
management extension techniques; integrated farm unit research for small-scale
agriculture, rather than crop-based research; a wide range of land redistribution initiatives
and modern land titling technologies; educational curriculum and school calendar reforms
for rural areas; and community-based primary health care schemes.
1.11 Nevertheless, evaluation of POLONORDESTE by the Bank in the early 1980s
showed that, in the aggregate, they had only a limited impact on poverty. The micro-
regions supported by the Bank projects were relatively small areas in the context of the
whole Northeast; poverty targeting mechanisms were weak; and delivery mechanisms
relied exclusively on Federal and state bureaucracies. The Federal Government frequently
failed to provide adequate counterpart funds and delayed the release of budgeted amounts,
with damaging effects on the projects given Brazil's chronically high inflation.
Consequently, less than one-third of project funds reached intended beneficiaries, as
seriously reduced budgets were absorbed by administration and overheads.
1.12 Sectoral Loans and the Northeast Rural Development Program. These
considerations prompted the Bank and Federal Government to change strategies in the
mid-1980s. On the one hand, the lessons learned from some of the pilot efforts under
POLONORDESTE were promising, but it was felt that these needed to be expanded
geographically and supported by broader sector policy reforms, within the framework of
single-sector operations unencumbered by the coordination and implementation difficulties
of multiple components. A series of sectoral operations, such as Northeast land titling,
education, health, and irrigation, resulted in the next few years.
1.13  With respect to integrated rural development, this was still considered to be a
viable and necessary approach but, again, it was felt that the effort should be expanded
statewide in order to have a broader impact, and that the number of components should be
drastically reduced. As a result, in 1985, the Northeast Rural Development Program
(NRDP) was established to alleviate rural poverty and improve the living standards of
small farn families in the Northeast. Under this program, the Bank approved during
1985-87 individual loans for the ten states in an amount totaling US$826.7 million. But,
through 1993, with the exception of one component supporting small community projects
(known as the APCR), implementation of the NRDP lagged behind schedule and



-5-
performance in meeting basic objectives was weak. Some of the main causes were quite
similar to the causes of poor performance under the earlier POLONORDESTE projects:
chronic fiscal deficits and other macroeconomic distortions led to almost constant
counterpart funding shortages and widespread deterioration of many of the public
institutions responsible for carrying out the NRDP. The Federal Government devolved
some responsibilities to the states, but, by and large, institutional arrangements were still
highly centralized. Decision-making, administration and financing arrangements were
generally non-participatory, and the sense of project "ownership" at both state and local
levels was limited.
1.14 On the other hand, the innovative APCR community-based components (para.
1.13), which stressed community organization and relied on local planning and
implementation, were noticeably more successful. They acknowledged the expressed
needs of the communities, their poverty alleviation impact was positive, the cost per family
relatively low, and disbursement and commitment rates far exceeded those of other
components.
1.15 Reformulated NRDP. On the Bank's initiative, in 1993 the NRDP was
reformulated and transformed into a community-based development program, drawing
both on the successful experience of the APCR small community projects component and
on lessons learned with similar schemes elsewhere in Latin America, particularly the
Mexican Solidaridad program. Performance has been positive. Rural communities
participated in the identification, financing and implementation of subprojects that met
their most pressing needs, increased their sense of project ownership, and had a much
sharper focus on poverty alleviation. The reformulated NRDP covered all members of
poor rural communities and not only those with productive assets, and based on a
'matching grant" mechanism linked to beneficiary contributions towards subproject cost.
The State Governments were fully responsible for counterpart funding, and the
corresponding sense of "ownership" of the program increased over time.
1.16 Based on implementation in the approximately three years since reformulation, as
well as the earlier experience of the APCR components, certain facts are now clear. The
program generated unprecedented enthusiasm among beneficiaries and favorable multiplier
effects--with replicability evident in other programs--and mobilized additional funds from
municipalities and communities. As much as 93% of disbursements reached targeted
beneficiaries, and diversion of funds for non-intended uses was much reduced compared to
past programs. The NRDP's participatory approach induced greater community
organization and empowerment, increased transparency, and demonstrated that rural
communities can influence the allocation and use of resources at the municipal level to
alleviate poverty. Investments funded by the program were of satisfactory quality and less
costly than those executed by public agencies. While the reformulated program was not
expected to change the basic agricultural economy in the Northeast, it successfully
reached a large number of landless families and land reform beneficiaries. Several field
investigations, surveys and studies have assessed the impact of NRDP. The consensus,
from a broad sample of completed and operational subprojects, is that they have had a
positive impact on the quality of life, and in the case of productive subprojects, on



-6-
employment and incomes of beneficiaries. In so doing, the NRDP initiated a process of
local accumulation and, albeit still on a small scale, elevated the socio-economic standards
of beneficiary communities that will progressively allow them to enter formal market
channels. Additionally, the program, by providing essential infrastructure and social
services to these communities, relieved some of the budgetary burden of the Northeast
states and municipalities. A summary evaluation of the reformulated NRDP is provided in
Annex B.
THE STATE OF MARANHAO
1.17 The State of Maranhao covers a territory of 333,365 km2 making it the second
largest state in the Northeast and eighth largest in Brazil, and is bordered by the States of
Piaui, Para and Tocantins on the east, west and south, respectively. In contrast to the rest
of the region, most of Maranhao lies outside the semi-arid "drought polygon" and drought
is an infrequent phenomenon. Lying in a transition zone between the semi-arid Northeast
and the tropical Amazon, average annual rainfall ranges from 2,500 mm in the northwest
of the state, to 1,600 mm in the northeast and center, and to 1,200 mm in the south.
Reflecting this rainfall pattern, the vegetation varies from tropical forest in the northwest,
to babassu (native palm) in the central areas and to the shrublands of the cerrado
(elevated plains) in the south.
1.18 Certain indicators illustrate the socioeconomic predicament of Maranhao's 4.9
million inhabitants (1991). According to the Mapa da Fome, about half the population is
considered indigent, i.e., lacks the income to meet minimum nutritional requirements, and
three-quarters of all indigent persons are rural dwellers, the highest proportion of all the
Northeastern states. Further, a joint study by UNICEF and IBGE revealed that 91% of all
municipalities in Maranhao harbor precarious living conditions critically affecting
childhood survival. More specifically, some 61% of total heads of households (66% in
rural areas) have a monthly income less than or equivalent to one minimum wage
(currently about US$120); and illiteracy affects 32% of the total population over 14 years
of age and 39/o of the rural population (1991). About 60% of Maranhio's total
population lives in rural areas -a proportion that is considerably higher than in most other
Northeast states but down from 80% a decade earlier-- where access to basic
infrastructure and services is grossly inadequate. Some 66% of rural households lack
access to proper sanitation facilities, and 86% have inadequate access to safe water
(1991).
1.19 The high rates of indigence in a state not constrained by semi-arid and drought
conditions demonstrates the complex determinants of poverty in the Northeast. Rural
poverty in Maranhiao is closely correlated with a highly-skewed pattern of land ownership,
insecurity of land tenure and high rents which have promoted migration and generated
conflict. Agriculture is dominated by extensive livestock enterprises and the production of
traditional food and commercial crops. The rural poor are primarily smallholders,
sharecroppers and wage workers, who depend on a diverse strategy of income-generating
activities in which the subsistence production of maize, beans, manioc and rice



-7-
predominates. Access to basic services is extremely limited. Small farmers lack modem
production technology and basic infrastructure to store harvests to take advantage of
cyclical price fluctuations. Their resulting heavy dependence on middlemen for the sale of
limited surpluses depresses their returns. Family income is accordingly highly variable
with little opportunity for savings.
1.20  Amerindian Peoples. An estimated 13,600 indigenous people live in 16
Indigenous Reservations in Maranhao. All but two of these reservations (Krikati and Awa
Guaya) have to date been demarcated and registered. As in many cases of contact
between ethnic groups and national society, a pattern of ethnic deterioration has
characterized the history of such contacts in the State of Maranhao. Since the
establishment of the federal Law of the Indian in 1973, the Foundation for Amerindian
Affairs (FUNAI) has coordinated the Federal Government's efforts to protect indigenous
peoples in Brazil, providing assistance in the form of reservations, intermediation with
national society, health and education services. Political changes in the last decade have
challenged FUNAI's traditional role and prompted administrative reform of the agency.
The Federal Constitution of 1988, under Article 231, established the principle of self-
determination for indigenous peoples and their autonomy in defining the type of
relationship they wished to maintain with national society, but this Article still awaits final
ratification. The reformulated NRDP in Maranhao was instrumental in fostering the civil
autonomy of the state's indigenous population and promoting interaction with society
through the FUMAC component, which led to the consolidation of indigenous councils --
formed from independent indigenous associations-- and their assuming the role of
managers of resources destined for them. In the indigenous FUMAC Council in Barra do
Corda for example, members evaluate the viability of subproject proposals and contract
technical assistance providers for the elaboration and execution of community proposals
using culturally-attuned methods. Results have been quite positive. This methodology
and management model is particularly suited to groups of communities which traditionally
practice collective decision-making on socially relevant matters and the delegation of
powers.
1.21  State Government Strategy to Alleviate Poverty. In its strategy for sustainable
development for the period 1996-1999, the State of Maranhao focuses on reducing
inequalities in the geographic and social distribution of wealth. As part of its strategy to
alleviate poverty, the State's priorities are to: (a) provide technical and financial
incentives for small producers and entrepreneurs to contribute to employment generation;
(b) increase the supply and affordability of basic food products; (c) increase the
population's access to basic health services; (d) invest in greatly improving the social
indicators for infant mortality, illiteracy, life expectancy, sanitation and housing; (e)
systematically reduce grade repetition and school drop-out rates; (f) expand training
opportunities to upgrade the technical and professional caliber of the labor force; (g)
mobilize governmental and non-governmental organizations for the eradication of misery
and hunger in the state; (h) ensure democratic access to information as an instrument for
improving community organizations and their management capabilities; and (i) diversify
and decentralize economic activity in order to exploit the potential of local communities
and to establish more efficient methods for distributing services. The State Government is



-8-
mindful of the lessons of the reformulated NRDP, which stressed decentralization, popular
participation and administrative transparency.
1.22 Experience with Previous Bank Rural Development Projects in Maranhio.
Maranhlo's performance under Bank-financed projects prior to the 1993 NRDP
reformulation was generally consistent with that of the other Northeastern states (paras.
1.8 to 1.16). Under the POLONORDESTE program (1970s and early 1980s), the
Maranhao Rural Development Project (Loan 2177-BR) met its physical targets but
encountered implementation and disbursement delays stemming from Federal counterpart
funding and rural credit problems, combined with over-centralized project administration
and limited beneficiary participation. Nevertheless, the project did strengthen state
institutional capacity, and established services and infrastructure which lent dynamism to a
process of agricultural modernization. Under the NRDP-Maranhio up to reformulation,
overall performance did not notably improve, but the community-based rural development
methodology was successfully launched under the APCR component.
1.23 The NRDP-Maranhao project closed on December 31, 1996, after a three-month
extension of the original closing date. Under the reformulated program, Maranhao's
performance improved markedly, especially in the final year, due to strong support from
the State Government and the municipalities. Whereas loan disbursements in this state
reached only US$22.8 million during the entire implementation period of the original
NRDP (1985 to end-1993), they more than doubled in the approximately three years
ensuing reformulation (end-1993 to end-1996) to total US$57.4 million by loan closing,
leaving a balance for cancellation of US$3.8 million. Indeed, the annual rate of
disbursements after reformulation evolved dramatically, rising from US$1.2 million in
1993 to US$30.0 million in 1996. More importantly, by loan closing rural community
associations had submitted some 6,240 subproject proposals, of which about 3,100 were
implemented, benefiting 318,760 poor rural families (including 2,100 Amerindian
families), as compared to reformulation targets of 1,600 subprojects and beneficiary
families of 32,000. Some 65% of the approved investments under the reformulated NRDP
were infrastructure subprojects, 30% were productive and 5% were social subprojects.
MAIN LESSONS LEARNED FROM THE NORTHEAST RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
(NRDP)
1.24 The World Bank has 20 years of experience in supporting rural development and
poverty alleviation in Northeast Brazil, starting with the POLONORDESTE Program
(1975-84), a variety of sectoral projects and more recently with the NRDP (1985 to the
present). The NRDP, following its reformulation in 1993, focused entirely on client-
driven subproject investments implemented by the communities themselves, with
decentralized project management at the state and municipal levels and more transparent
decision-making and accountability for project performance. Implementation has provided
important lessons for the proposed project (see Annex B for further details):
(a)   Decentralization of fiscal and investment decision-making from Federal to
state and local governments ensures more efficient project administration.



-9-
Decentralization of resource allocation and investment decisions to
municipalities and communities should be accompanied by a dearly defined
and well-disseminated system of incentives and penalties to discourage the
misuse of fimds;
(b)   Poverty-targeting mechanisms should be simple, explicit and
monitorable; be based on objective criteria; foster transparency and
muinimize political interference in project resource allocation; and ensure
that project resources do reach the poorest communities;
(c)   Participation in the financing of subprojects generates a sense of
ownership and a willingness to share responsibility for the future operation
and maintenance of project investments. Beneficiary participation in the
selection, execution, supervision and financing of project investments
ensures that investments respond to true, perceived needs, generates cost
savings and increases accountability at the local level; the organization of
poor communities heightens their awareness of available programs and
services, facilitates their participation and increases subproject cost-
effectiveness;
(d)   Sustainability of project investments has greater potential when the
municipalities and communities contribute to subproject financing in a cost-
sharing arrangement and when there is increased beneficiary participation.
For example, the participatory process introduced in the pilot Municipal
Council component (FUMAC) of the reformulated NRDP ensured better
selection and prioritization of subprojects by beneficiaries. Sustainability is
also promoted when communities themselves assume greater
responsibilities and continue to voice their demands in a concrete fashion to
influence public investment expenditure at the local level;
(e)   A widely disseminated and carefully designed information campaign is
essential to ensure transparency and proper knowledge of the program's
objectives and contents by all potential beneficiaries;
(f)    Technical assistance should be accessible to rural communities to enable
them to identify, prepare and implement their own subprojects, thereby
augmenting their capacity to compete for investment funds. Technical
assistance should also be targeted to weaker municipalities to improve their
planning, management and financial capacity; and, the quality of the Project
Coordinating Unit (PCU), whether it provides technical assistance directly
or through partner entities, is a critical factor in project success and may
entail the contracting of local and/or international organizations to
strengthen its institutional capacities;
(g)   Standardization of subproject documents, technical designs and unit
costs simplifies the subproject preparation and evaluation process,



-10-
facilitates the procurement of goods and works, prevents overdesign and
improves the quality of subprojects, thereby encouraging greater
participation by poorer communities and reducing bottlenecks in the
subproject cycle;
(h)   Supervision, both during and after subproject implementation, is an
indispensable determinant of success and sustainability. It has to be
reinforced at all levels and involve local entities closest to the communities,
particularly Municipal Councils and NGOs;
(i)    A user-friendly monitoring and evaluation system facilitates the
subproject evaluation process, provides feedback and necessary
information to improve targeting and efficiency, and is an essential
management and planning tool. Project design should pay careful attention
to baseline studies as the springboard for well-designed M&E and for ex-
post financial and economic evaluation of productive subprojects;
j)    Productive subprojects financed in a social context should be subject to
rigorous selection, preparation, technical assistance and supervision.
Eligible productive investments should be those which provide services for
a large number of community members; whose collective use is regulated
by strict operational guidelines (regulamento de uso); and for which
operation and maintenance is assured by charging adequate user fees to
both association members and non-members; and
(k)   Dissemination of "best practices", such as experiences with NGOs in Rio
Grande do Norte, EMATER in Minas Gerais and with FUMAC Councils
in Paraiba, through exchanges of information among Technical Units, at
training seminars and workshops, can hasten learning and reward
innovation.
1.25 The design of the proposed Maranhao Rural Poverty Alleviation Project has taken
into account these lessons, which are consistent in many respects with lessons learned
elsewhere in Latin America and other regions with similar community-based development
programs. The project will expand the FUMAC approach and initiate a pilot municipal
funds program (para. 2.7), to promote decentralization of decision-making and resource
allocation to municipal and community levels, to relieve the administrative logjam resulting
from state intervention in the minutiae of subprojects, and to further encourage municipal
cost-sharing of subprojects. The project will employ a poverty targeting methodology
based on a series of poverty-related criteria at the municipal, community and beneficiary
levels, and backed by a strong system of operational checks and balances to thwart
mistargeting and misappropriation of resources. As a condition of loan effectiveness, an
improved monitoring and evaluation system will be adopted to reinforce the targeting
mechanism and to strengthen the management of the subproject cycle (paras. 2.31-2.40).
Equally important, for simplicity and efficiency in subproject preparation, evaluation and
supervision, the Project Operational Manual will establish standard subproject designs,



technical and financial parameters, and cost indicators for the most frequently requested
subprojects. In addition, funds for technical assistance to rural communities and
municipalities will be facilitated, to actively promote the organization of the poorest areas
to enable their participation, foster community capacity and empowerment, and encourage
the active participation ofNGOs and local grassroots organizations. Finally, greater
emphasis on supervision by the PCU and local entities of community subprojects to be
funded by the project will be supported with a larger share of Bank financing of the costs
related to this activity. This would not only secure the quality of project investments but
also ensure that implementation bottlenecks, if any, are quickly resolved so as to allow
smooth and successful operation of the subprojects.



- 12-
2.   THE PROJECT
ORIGIN AND RATIONALE FOR BANK IVOLVEMENT
2.1   The proposed project is based on the positive results of the reformulated Northeast
Rural Development Program (NRDP). Evaluation by the Brazilian Government, FAO/CP
and the World Bank has confirmed that this program, itself the cuhnination of two decades
of expenence, succeeded in introducing an effective model for rural poverty alleviation in
the Northeast. After field-testing the NRDP model for more than three years, the
Northeast State Governments are developing new projects which would expand its
coverage. The proposed project in Maranhao would be one of the third group of follow-
on operations,- succeeding the Rural Poverty Alleviation Projects for Bahia, Ceara and
Sergipe, which were approved by the Board on June 29, 1995, and similar projects for
Pernambuco, Rio Grande do Norte and Piaui, approved on December 12, 1996.
2.2   Poverty in certain segments of the population, especially in the Northeast and its
rural areas, continues to be a preoccupation of the Brazilian administration. Because of
the high incidence of poverty in the Northeast, this region is a priority for public
development programs. The cornerstone of the Federal Government's effort to combat
poverty and hunger is the Comunidade Solidlria program, started in early 1995 as a
broad framework for the coordination of rural and urban poverty programs and projects
and focusing on municipalities where poverty is most severe. Implementation is
decentralized, stressing community self-help and local empowerment, and concentrating
on four main themes: rural development, income and employment generation, food and
nutrition, and urban services. The proposed Maranhao Rural Poverty Alleviation Project
is fiflly consistent with this strategy, parts of which draw heavily on the Bank-supported
NRDP experience in Northeast Brazil (paras. 1.12-1.16).
2.3   The project is also fully supportive of the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy
(CAS) for Brazil, discussed by the Board on June 12, 1997. The new CAS highlights
poverty reduction as the central objective of the Bank's assistance efforts in Brazil.
Regional development is targeted as a major means of achieving this objective, with high
priority for the Northeast, a region selected under the Bank's Strategic Compact for
enhanced support of rural development. Overall, the Bank will seek stronger sustainability
of the poverty projects, including increased cost recovery, project designs that increasingly
target development of the poor and not only poverty relief, and stronger financial
commitment from the municipal and state governments where these projects would be
implemented. The design of the proposed project also followed some of the
recommendations of the previous CAS and its Progress Report (discussed by the Board
on June 20, 1996), in particular that policy dialogue and lending should be directed to the



- 13 -
states --whose role is fundamental in the provision of infrastructure and social services-
and that the Bank should support efforts to decentralize and shift expenditure and
implementation responsibilities from the Federal Government to the states, municipalities
and local communities. Finally, in accordance with CAS support for Government's
macroeconomic and structural reforms, the proposed loan will include funds for technical
assistance to help the State of Maranhao to further identify and implement appropriate
reform programs to improve its fiscal situation. The proposed project will be an important
element in meeting the Bank's main objective in Brazil. As the principal donor engaged in
a sustained, long-term partnership with the Brazilian Government to address rural poverty
issues in the Northeast, the Bank is particularly well placed to support this next phase of
development initiatives for Maranhao.
PROJECT OBJECTlVES
2.4   The project would assist the State Government of Maranhao to alleviate rural
poverty and its consequences by: (a) providing basic social and economic infrastructure,
and employment and income-generating opportunities for the rural poor; (b) decentralizing
resource allocation and decision-making to local levels by supporting community-based
municipal councils and beneficiary associations in investment planning and
implementation; (c) leveraging resources mobilized at the community and municipal levels;
and (d) deepening the creation of social capital that was initiated by the reformulated
NRDP. The project is expected to lay groundwork for, and consolidate, participatory
institutions and processes at the municipal and community levels. The project would
ensure that funds reach the poorest municipalities and communities, and would expand the
successful strategy of decentralization and participation tested under the reformulated
NRDP.
PROJECT COMPONENTS
2.5   The proposed project would include three main components, as follows:
(a) Community Subprojects (US$95.0 million or 90% of total base cost), which would
support small-scale investments selected and subsequently operated and maintained by the
beneficiaries themselves; (b) Institutional Development (US$7.4 million or 7% of total
base cost), which would provide all implementing entities and communities with technical
assistance and training to increase their capacity and improve implementation of the
project; and (c) Project Administration, Supervision, Monitoring and Evaluation (US$3.1
million or 3% of total base cost), which would finance project coordination and activities
to provide feedback on project performance and impact.
A. Community Subprojects
2.6   The project would provide matching grants to rural community associations to
finance small-scale subprojects (up to US$50,000 each) identified by these groups as
priority investments that would improve community well-being. Subprojects would be of
many types, broadly classified as infrastructure (such as rural electrification, local road



-14-
improvements and water supply), social (e.g., health-related house improvement, day care
centers, school or health post rehabilitation) and productive subprojects (such as small-
scae community agro-processing, communal tractors and minor irrigation schemes).
Subproject selection is demand-driven and based on community preferences. The project
would establish a negative list of subproject types ineligible for financing and, for
productive subprojects in particular, additional and rigorous eligibility criteria.4
Subproject proposals would observe standard documentation and technical, economic,
environmental and sustainability criteria established in a detailed Project Operational
Manual, which sets forth procedures and guidelines for implementation. The Operational
Manual, based on the manual already in use for the reformulated NRDP project, will
reflect the lessons learned during the past three years of implementation. During appraisal,
agreements were reached on the needed improvements to the NRDP Operational Manual.
During negotiations, the Bank reviewed a complete revised draft of the Operational
Manual, and assurances were provided by the Borrower that all project components and
subprojects would be executed in accordance with the Project Operational Manual (para.
3. l(a)). Adoption of the Operational Manual would be a condition of loan effectiveness
(para. 3.2(a)).
2.7   The identification, preparation and implementation of all subprojects financed
under the project will be the responsibility of the beneficiary rural communities (see paras.
2.31 to 2.40 for a detailed description of the community subproject cycle). Three different
delivery mechanisms will distinguish how the subprojects are approved and the respective
financing arranged:
(a)    State Community Schemes (PAC). PAC was the original subprojects
component of the reformulated NRDP. Under PAC, rural communities
submit their subproject investment proposals directly to the State Project
Coordinating Unit (PCU). The PCU screens, approves and releases funds
for subprojects, interacting directly with the beneficiary communities. It is
expected that up to US$33.3 million equivalent, or 32% of total base costs,
would be invested under this subcomponent over the five-year project
implementation period;
(b)   Municipal Community Schemes (FUMAC). FUMAC was tested and
proven successful under the reformulated NRDP. In FUMAC, decision-
makdng on subproject approval is delegated by the State to project
Municipal Councils, composed of community members and representatives
of civil society and municipal authorities. The Municipal Councils
4  Eligible productive subprojects would be those which provide services which benefit a large number
of community members and for which a fee is charged for operation and maintenance. Productive
subprojects, as with infiasucture and social subprojects, must be property of the association as a
whole and not of select members. For each type of productive subproject, a set of operational
guidelines (regulamnento de uso), developed by the PCU, would be provided to the association and
must be adopted. In addition, each subproject proposal must identify the source of technical
assistance for subproject implementation and subsequent operation.



- 15-
prioritize the demands presented by rural communities through local
consensus-building and approve subprojects, within an indicative annual
budget, for financing by the PCU. The selection process would be the
basis of targeting in the project since the communities themselves, through
their participation in the project Municipal Councils, determine where
project resources can best be applied based on their first-hand knowledge
of local investment needs. It is expected that at least US$54.1 million
equivalent, or 51% of total base costs, would be invested under this
subcomponent.
(c)   Pilot Municipal Community Funds (FUMAC-P). This new
subcomponent would be a pilot variant of FUMAC, in which selected
Municipal Councils would prioritize and approve subprojects submitted by
rural communities and then would finance them within the context of an
annual budget, which the State PCU would delegate to the Municipal
Councils to manage themselves. This annual budget envelope would be
allocated to the Municipal Councils according to a distribution formula,
based on clear and measurable criteria, such as rural population and
previous year's performance, for implementation of an Annual Operating
Plan (POA - Piano Operativo Anual) prepared by each Municipal Council
and approved by the PCU. The Municipal Council would transfer funds to
beneficiary associations to finance approved community subprojects. It is
expected that at least US$7.6 million equivalent, or 7% of total base costs,
would be invested under this subcomponent.
2.8   Each subcomponent represents a greater degree of decentralization of decision-
making and resource allocation responsibilities. Moving from PAC to FUMAC to
FUMAC-P, the control over project investment planning becomes increasingly local and
rural communities gain greater voice through their representation on the Municipal
Council as well as through their participation in its decisions. This institutionalization of
the participatory process would protect it from political fluctuation, and would eventually
lead to stronger partnerships between communities and Municipal Councils and their
respective municipal governments in determining the use of public resources.
2.9   Given the overwhelmingly positive response to FUMAC under the reformulated
NRDP, it is expected that the need for the PAC subcomponent would diminish over the
course of project implementation, with the FUMAC and FUMAC-P subcomponents
gradually expanding. The continued existence of PAC would facilitate participation in the
project of those communities within municipalities which lack either the capacity or the
political will to adopt the FUMAC or FUMAC-P approach. When a municipality is well
organized and receptive to participatory decision-making processes, it enters FUMAC, a
Municipal Council is formed and resource allocation decisions are made at the local level.5
5  Under the refornulated NRDP in Maranh3o, 26 FUMAC Municipal Councils were formed. These
Councils will continue as FUMAC Councils under the proposed project or may be upgraded to
FUJMAC-P Councils.



-16-
Once the Municipal Council demonstrates effectiveness in prioritization of demands and
subproject supervision and a capacity to manage resources, the municipality is promoted
from FUMAC to FUMAC-P, and henceforth the actual resources are administered at the
local level by the Municipal Council based on locally-determined investment planning.
Flexibility would be built into the project to reallocate funds among subcomponents to
accommodate the expansion of FUMAC and FUMAC-P.
2.10 In compliance with Brazilian law, beneficiaries must form legally-constituted civil
associations in order to be eligible to receive financing under the project. Disbursements
to the beneficiary associations would occur through agreements (convenios) with the PCU
and/or project Municipal Councils. During appraisal, understandings were reached on
draft model agreements between the PCU, Municipal Councils and community
associations for the implementation of community subprojects under the FUMAC,
FUMAC-P and PAC subcomponents. The final model agreements would form part of the
Project Operational Manual. Beneficiary associations would contribute to subproject
costs, either in cash, kind or labor, and would be responsible for the operation and
maintenance (O&M) of the investments. The minimum level of contributions expected
from the beneficiaries, municipalities and the State Government would be specified in a
cost-sharing matrix in the Project Operational Manual.
B. Institutional Development
2.11 The Institutional Development component (US$7.4 million or 7% of base costs)
will finance appropriate technical assistance and training in order for each group
participating in project implementation to acquire the capabilities needed to effectively
carry out its responsibilities, as well as the contracting of other entities to assist the PCU
in monitoring, supervision and evaluation tasks (see Annex D). The project will
consolidate participatory institutions and processes at the municipal and community levels
through the community subproject approach, described above, in which well-organized
communities with sound, carefully prepared proposals are provided with financial support
for investments, and in which FUMAC Municipal Councils which demonstrate effective
decision-making capacity are promoted to FUMAC-P and rewarded with their own
investment budget.
2.12 To encourage this process and to accompany the decentralized implementation
framework of the project, technical assistance and training would be provided for the
beneficiary associations, Municipal Councils, and the PCU, as well as other participating
entities (Annex E). For example, to derive optimal benefits from subproject investments,
the beneficiary associations will need accessible support for community organization and
subproject preparation and execution, as well as for training in operation and maintenance
techniques. The project Municipal Councils will require assistance to orient their decision-
making on resource allocation among community investments and, in the FUMAC-P pilot
program, to create capacity for investment planning and financial administration. In
addition to providing or making available from other sources a wide range of technical and
managerial advice to the project Municipal Councils and beneficiary associations, the PCU



-17-
will need training to enhance its own project coordination and supervision skdlls. Also,
because the fiscal situation of the State affects both project implementation and state
counterpart funding, technical assistance at the state level is needed to analyze issues
surrounding the reform of the State and to identify measures to improve the State's
capacity to address the inherent causes of its fiscal deficit situation. The instruments for
achieving this capacity building would include a combination of workshops, technical
exchanges, on-site training, and more traditional technical assistance, drawing upon local
expertise within the state --local extensionists, technical consultants, universities, NGOs,
and other local service providers-- as well as national and international technical assistance
agencies. To this effect, the component would finance consultant services, training
materials and courses, seminars, workshops, and related operational costs.
2.13 The implementation of the institutional development component would be
decentralized, and the provision of and accountability for technical assistance and training
would occur increasingly at the local level. In particular, project Municipal Councils will
play a critical role in overseeing the capacity-building activities for community associations
in their jurisdictions. Municipal Councils, provided with model terms of reference
prepared by the PCU, would contract technical assistance based on programs agreed with
the PCU, which would then release funds for that purpose. Institutional development
activities can be broadly categorized into five areas: (a) mobilization assistance and
training for participating communities. Organized and contracted by the PCU and
Municipal Councils, assistance would be provided for the organization and strengthening
of community associations, identification of viable investments, subproject preparation,
and operation and maintenance of investments; (b) capacity-building programs for
Municipal Councils. Organized by the PCU, the programs would include intensive
training on the role of Municipal Councils, guidelines of the Operational Manual,
subproject evaluation and supervision and related topics such as environmental assessment
of subprojects for each Municipal Council under the project, as well as participatory
planning and financial management training for FUMAC-P Councils; (c) specialized skills
training for all participating entities. Based on needs, expert advice and "on-the-job
training" by local providers would be contracted by the PCU, Municipal Councils and
groups of community associations, in areas such as the use of standard designs,
monitoring techniques, and financial administration as well as technical support (e.g., for
groups of community associations on water use); (d) technical assistance for State reform.
The Secretariat of Planning (SEPLAN), through the PCU, will have access to technical
assistance funds (US$0.5 million or less than 1% of base costs) for consultant services and
studies required for administrative and other state reforms. During appraisal, agreements
were reached with the State on the content and implementation arrangements for this
Technical Assistance subcomponent; and (e) workshops and seminars for the Municipal
Councils and beneficiary associations, to exchange experience under the project. These
"best practice" exchanges could also extend to seminars joining all PCUs of the ten
Northeastern states to disseminate successful experiences across states.



- 18-
C. Project Administration, Monitoring and Evaluation
2.14 This component (US$3.1 million, or 3% of total base costs) would support overall
project coordination and supervision and would help to strengthen the effectiveness and
quality of project operations. It would finance the incremental operating costs of the
PCU, for overall coordination of project activities, and a statewide information campaign
to disseminate information about the project and its guidelines to all potential beneficiary
communities, to increase awareness, transparency and participation. For this campaign,
the project would finance: (a) local technical assistance in the design and development of
the campaign; and (b) the implementation costs, including posters, leaflets, radio spots and
videos. The preparation of a statewide information campaign acceptable to the Bank.
would be a condition of loan effectiveness (para. 3.2(b)).
2.15 Given the importance of supervision to the overall impact of the program, project
supervision (Annex K) will be intensified under the project and, accordingly, will be
allocated half of the component's resources (US$1.6 million, or about 1.5% of base
costs). Project supervision will provide the PCU with the necessary information on
project performance to make managerial decisions, such as the provision of technical
assistance or training, the correction of departures from project guidelines, and the
promotion of project municipalities from FUMAC to FUMAC-P. In line with the
decentralized implementation of the project, the responsibilities for project supervision at
the state and local levels will correspond to the PCU and the project Municipal Councils,
respectively. Supervision activities to be financed under the project include operational
expenses for field visits and subcontracted services from NGOs and other participating
agencies.
2.16 This component would also finance the establishment of a monitoring system,
including the maintenance and use of a Management Information System (MIS). To
function as an efficient management tool, the project MIS (Annex H), originally designed
under the NRDP, would be improved and made more user-friendly and performance-
oriented. It would contain key technical, financial and socio-economic information on
subprojects, as well as cost and other physical indicators. MIS-generated project reports,
including monthly disbursement reports and semi-annual progress reports, would facilitate
subproject tracking and generate appropriate feedback on project performance. Project
performance and impact indicators would be regularly updated to take stock of project
implementation and included in the semi-annual progress reports. A Project
Implementation Plan and a matrix of Project Performance Indicators were finalized and
agreed at appraisal. In addition to financing operating costs for monitoring activities, the
project would finance experts in information technology and project management: (a) to
imnprove the MIS; and (b) to coilect and analyze data on cost indicators and physical
parameters from the most frequently approved types of subprojects, so as to calculate a
range of values for these indicators and to adjust subproject eligibility criteria accordingly.
These adjustments would then be incorporated into the Project Operational Manual.



- 19 -
2.17 Finally, the project would finance consultant services to develop and implement
studies to evaluate the impact of the subprojects and provide feedback to improve project
operations: (a) annual physical performance reviews, to assess the quality and
sustainability of common types of subprojects financed by the project, including reviews of
community-based procurement; (b) an implementation review, carried out at the rnid-term
of project implementation, which would include beneficiary consultations to generate an
evaluation of project performance and impact as perceived by the ultimate beneficiaries;
and (c) a comprehensive impact evaluation, which would include a baseline evaluation to
establish indicators of socio-economic impact and a final evaluation of the project using
these indicators. Annex H contains a detailed description of the studies to be financed
under the project.
2.18 During negotiations, assurances were provided by the Borrower that: a project
information and monitoring system, with reports and format agreed with the Bank, would
be maintained throughout the project period. The Bank would receive monthly
information on disbursements of project funds and semi-annual reports on subproject
activities and performance of project investments on July 31 and January 31 of each year
(para. 3.1(b)); a baseline impact evaluation study would be completed within one year of
loan effectiveness, a mid-term review would be carried out in the third year of the project,
and a full impact evaluation would be executed at project completion (para. 3.1(b)). The
establishment, by the State. of effective project monitoring and evaluation arrangements
would be a condition of loan effectiveness (para. 3.2 (c)).
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS
2.19 Project Coordinating Unit. The Secretariat of Planning (Secretaria do
Planejamento - SEPLAN) of the State of Maranhao would implement the project through
the PCU, represented by the Nuicleo Estadual de Programas Especiais (NEPE), renamed
in a recent (April 1997) Governor's decree that increased its autonomy and revised its
organizational structure, in line with the State's decentralization strategy for the public
sector. The PCU is the focal point for project administration and for communication with
the Bank and the State Government. It is also the project's principal liaison for the
Municipal Councils and for those community associations located in PAC municipalities.
Under the proposed project, the PCU will shed some of the executive responsibilities that
it held under the reformulated NRDP, delegating these to Municipal Councils and other
participating entities at the local level, and will concentrate on its monitoring, technical
assistance and supervision responsibilities.
2.20 The Maranhao PCU has a long experience in rural development, having
implemented the POLONORDESTE and NRDP projects as Technical Unit. The PCU
(NEPE) is an autonomous entity that is directly linked to the State Secretary of Planning
and is overseen by a Consultative Council, chaired by the Planning Secretary and
composed of representatives of the State Secretariats of Environment, Science and
Technology, and Agriculture as well as the State University of Maranhao, with the
Director of NEPE acting as Executive Secretary for the Council. The Director is assisted



-20 -
by a Legal Advisory Group, a general Administrative and Financial Support Department
and a Physical and Financial Implementation Department, under which work four closely
interrelated Divisions, in charge, respectively, of subproject orientation and selection;
monitoring and evaluation; appraisal; and technical assistance and training. Under the
proposed project, NEPE will keep this structure although the Physical and Financial
Implementation Department will take on a more important planning function that will be
translated onto its name (see Organizational Chart in Annex D). As the PCU's staff is
limited (36 technical and 22 administrative staff) and concentrated in Sao Luis, all
technical assistance, training and supervision tasks under the project will be contracted to
other service providers, i.e., NGOs, university and other private specialists, as well as
other public agencies like EMATER (see Annex E). In the field, the PCU will link up with
these service providers through 11 "regional agents" (Agentes Regionais da Unidade
Tecnica - ARUTs), also to be contracted. In keeping with the State's administrative
reform program, the ARUTs will use existing offices of EMATER or other public
agencies located in 11 strategically important regions in the state (see Annex C), rather
than new facilities that the PCU would have to establish and maintain.
2.21  The PCU's principal tasks under the project would include: (a) project planning
and coordination at the state level through the preparation of POAs, including the
consolidation of POAs by FUMAC-P Councils, and monitoring activities through
maintenance of the project's MIS; (b) promoting the project and encouraging participation
of potential beneficiary communities, NGOs and private sector entities; (c) preparing
project implementation reports and organizing evaluation exercises; (d) ensuring timely
and adequate provision of loan and state counterpart funds; (e) appraising and approving
all PAC subproject proposals; (f) entering into subproject agreements with community
associations (PAC) and Municipal Councils (FUMAC) and into POA-based agreements
with FUMAC-P Municipal Councils, to transfer subproject funds and monitor their use;
(g) overseeing all monitoring and supervision activities under the project to ensure
compliance with project guidelines and to improve the quality of subprojects and project
interventions; (h) ensuring that environmental guidelines for subproject approval and
implementation are followed; (i) providing technical assistance to the FUMAC and
FUMAC-P Municipal Councils; 0) preparing statements of expenditure (SOEs) and
applications for reimbursement; and (k) ensuring that procurement, disbursement and
auditing procedures applicable to the Bank loan are followed.
2.22 Assurances were provided by the State of Maranhao at negotiations that proposed
POAs and budgets satisfactory to the Bank would be furnished to the Bank in October of
each year; that the Bank would receive a copy of the final plan and budget as soon as they
are approved by the Borrower's Legislative Assembly; and that adequate counterpart
funding would be made available for the project in a timely manner by the State (para.
3.1(c)). Approval oftargets for any given year will be contingent upon performance in the
previous year, including a thorough analysis of the actual demand from communities, of
subproject costs actually observed, and of the number of uncompleted subprojects.



- 21 -
2.23 Project Municipal Councils. Municipal Councils are the key entity for the
targeting of project benefits and the allocation of resources under the proposed project.
By their nature as open and representative bodies which build consensus on priorities, the
project Municipal Councils instill transparency into the decision-making process for
FUMAC and FUMAC-P investments. The Councils would comprise representatives
from: (a) rural communities, civil groups and organizations such as NGOs, religious
organizations and rural labor unions; and (b) publicly-elected representatives and
municipal government officials. While the composition of these Councils may vary from
one municipality to another, representatives from rural communities and civil society
would make up at least 80%/ of the Councils' membership. The PCU would participate in
the Councils in an advisory capacity.
2.24 The Councils would receive, prioritize and approve subproject proposals from the
beneficiary associations during regularly scheduled meetings which are widely publicized
and which the public is encouraged to attend. The Councils would deliberate and
prioritize the subproject proposals presented according to their determination of the needs
of the different communities, based on criteria such as the level of poverty and the existing
infrastructure of each community in relation to the rest of the municipality; the type of
subproject to be financed and its potential to improve the quality of life of the beneficiary
population; and the demonstrated participation of the beneficiary community in the
identification of the subproject and its commitment to the operation and maintenance of
the subproject. Decisions to approve subprojects would be made by majority of votes and
based on pre-established technical criteria and/or standard designs. Detailed criteria, rules
and procedures for the Municipal Councils' structure and operations are included in the
Project Operational Manual.
2.25 The Municipal Councils would be entrusted with the following responsibilities: (a)
promoting the project in their areas; (b) facilitating assistance to the communities for
organizational strengthening and subproject preparation and execution; (c) prioritizing,
through local consensus-building, community subproject proposals and reviewing them for
approval or rejection; and (d) monitoring and supervising the implementation of approved
subprojects. Under FUMAC, the Municipal Councils will present subprojects which they
have approved to the PCU for financing; under FUMAC-P, the Councils will themselves
be responsible for managing the funds allocated to them and signing the subproject
agreements with the respective beneficiary associations (Annex F). Under FUMAC and
FUMAC-P, the Municipal Councils foster partnerships among the community
associations, the municipal governments and the State Government to share the costs of
the subprojects and therefore leverage the loan funds to finance increased numbers of
subprojects.
2.26 Community Associations. Community associations are the foundation of project
implementation. These associations are responsible for formulating ideas for subprojects
and submitting these proposals to the Municipal Councils (under FUMAC and FUMAC-
P) or the PCU (under PAC) for approval. Once a subproject has been approved, the
community association enters into a legally binding agreement with the PCU and/or
Municipal Council through which the funds to implement the subproject are passed to the



-22 -
association. The association is responsible for all procurementand record-keeping during
the implementation of the subproject, as was practiced successfully in the reformulated
NRDP. Beneficiary associations contribute to subproject costs, either in cash, kind or
labor, and are responsible for the operation and maintenance of the investments.6
PROJECT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND TRAiNNG ARRANGEMENTS
2.27  Technical assistance and training to beneficiaries is an indispensable input to
successful and sustainable subproject investments. Technical assistance and training
would be provided to beneficiary communities via two mechanisms (see Annex E): (a) the
institutional development component (paras. 2.11-2.13); and (b) a percentage of
subproject costs allocated to technical assistance in subproject preparation. The
institutional development component provides flexibility and is not tied to any particular
subproject(s), so that communities can receive assistance even prior to subproject
preparation and after subproject completion. The component also allows for savings
because of economies of scale at the local level, since assistance can be contracted for
several communities at once (e.g., retainer contracts for operating expenses of local
extensionists). Finally, the operation of the component is decentralized and encourages
local-level accountability. Municipal Councils will be responsible for applying resources
from the component toward assistance to communities in their jurisdictions and all
technical assistance and training agents hired by the Municipal Councils or by the PCU and
approved by the Councils (in FUMAC) would be held accountable to the Councils for
their performance.
2.28 Complementary to the institutional development component, each community
association has the option of directing up to 8% of the cost of each subproject to hire
technical assistance and training support tailored to the particular subproject. A proposal
for the use of this percentage would be included in the subproject application. In addition,
because technical assistance should extend into the operation and maintenance period of
their subprojects, particularly for productive subprojects, community associations should
include technical assistance among the expenditures to be financed out of O&M funds
maintained by each association. As part of their regular supervision efforts, the PCU and
the Municipal Councils would monitor the frequency and quality of technical assistance
and training provided to beneficiaries.
TARGETING AND GRADUATION
2.29 Beneficiary targeting would occur at three levels: (a) geographically by poverty
level and other characteristics of the municipality; (b) geographically within municipalities
to target rural settlements and communities; and (c) community-based selection of poor
beneficiaries and particularly vulnerable groups by the project Municipal Councils.
Targeting at the first and second levels defines the project area. The project area includes
all municipalities outside of the metropolitan region of Sao Luis, the state capital. Project
6 Beneficiary associations may request assistance from the PCU for procurement under subprojects.



- 23 -
beneficiaries, however, include only those rural communities located in settlements of less
than 7,500 people, resulting in a project target population of about 1.8 million people.
Thus the target population lives in small, more isolated rural areas with greater
representation of the rural poor. The third and principal level of targeting is community-
based. Increased decentralization of subproject selection through the expanded FUMAC
and FUMAC-P programs will further strengthen the project's capacity to reach the most
needy communities in the project area. The Municipal Councils' prioritization process is
the basis of targeting in the project since the communities themselves, through their
majority participation in the Councils, determine where project resources will best be
applied based on their first-hand knowledge of community socio-economic conditions and
local investment needs. The clear and transparent rules and procedures for the Councils'
functioning, are also important for targeting poor beneficiaries at the lowest level. The
effectiveness of the targeting methodology in directing project benefits to the poor would
be assessed through the project monitoring system and through annual performance
reviews and the implementation review (Annex H). Details on targeting mechanisms are
included in Annex C. During appraisal, agreements were reached with the State of
Maranhao on these targeting mechanisms; these understandings would be reflected in the
final Project Operational Manual.
2.30 Graduation of Communities and Municipalities. The demand-driven
community development model presented in the proposed project is expected to increase
the income-generating capacity and standards of living in the beneficiary communities.
Because project resources will be targeted to the poorest rural communities, certain
communities with better socio-economic standing relative to others would gradually
receive fewer investment resources during the course of project implementation. These
communities, able to leverage a critical mass of subprojects and other benefits from this
and previous Bank-financed and other projects, would gain access to other sources of
financing and reach a point where a "safety net" is no longer necessary. In order to
formalize this process, the proposed project would introduce a community graduation
strategy whereby those communities with demonstrated capacity for sustainable asset-
accumulation (savings), adequate social and economic infrastructure and community
organization, would progressively be charged a higher cost-sharing percentage (para.
2.45) and then eventually cease to be eligible for project matching grants (see Annex C).
To make this determination, profiles of beneficiary communities would be developed and
would include information on benefits from the reformulated NRDP and other public
programs, existing infrastructure and access to social services, indicators of
accumulation/savings (e.g., farm animals and equipment) and other indicators of
community well-being. The information would be collected from subproject proposals
submitted by the communities, incorporated into the MIS, and regularly updated through
monitoring and supervision exercises (see Annex H). The point at which a community
would provide a higher counterpart contribution and the subsequent "take-off' point, the
point at which a community would graduate from the project, would be estimated at the
end of the second year of the project, based on a study comparing community profiles and
indicators from the baseline impact evaluation. Using this analysis, the PCU (for PAC)
and the Municipal Councils (for FUMAC and FUMAC-P), with the support of the PCU,



- 24 -
would graduate those communities having reached the "take-off' point. As communities
graduate, those municipalities with fewer eligible communities would gradually receive
less funding for subprojects and, concurrently, would graduate from the program as well.
During appraisal, agreements were reached with the State of Maranhao on a community
graduation strategy; these understandings would be reflected in the final Project
Operational Manual.
COmmuNry SUBPROJECT CYCLE
2.31  Mobilization. The critical juncture in the community subproject cycle is the initial
stage when communities mobilize existing associations or form new associations which
can then benefit from the project. At the outset of and throughout the project, a publicity
campaign, carefully programmed and targeted to participating communities by the PCU to
create a level playing field for access to project funds, would disseminate information
about the project and its procedures to stimulate demand from potential beneficiaries
across the state. Some communities already have significant levels of organization, either
traditionally or from previous development projects in the area, and are poised to benefit
immediately from the project. However, for those less organized communities, the
project, through its institutional development component, would actively extend
mobilization assistance through the services of NGOs or accredited state agents (e.g.,
EMATER extensionists) who know the communities well and can serve as catalysts for
organization. These NGOs or accredited agents would mobilize the communities and
provide them with technical assistance for identifying and prioritizing their needs and
demands, preparing subprojects and forming associations, in order that all communities in
the project area can participate in project benefits. Through the MIS and regular
supervision, the PCU and project Municipal Councils would monitor the ex-post
allocation of project benefits, which would then facilitate targeting assistance to those
municipalities which had not yet received support.
2.32 Prionrtization and Preparation. Beneficiaries submit proposals for subproject
investments based on priority needs of their communities. Standard documentation for
subproject proposals, developed by the PCU, would be distributed to the beneficiary
associations to facilitate the subproject preparation and screening process. To ensure the
quality of the investments financed and to provide guidance to the beneficiaries when
preparing subprojects, the Project Operational Manual would contain standardized
technical designs, including simple environmental guidelines and cost parameters (e.g.,
cost per physical unit or per beneficiary) for the most frequent types of investments.
Beneficiary associations may request technical assistance for more sophisticated or less
common subproject types.
2.33 Various standard designs already exist. They would be updated under the project
and, depending on community demand, others could be developed for frequently
requested types of investments (Annex G). In some cases, specialists would be contracted
to prepare the designs, based on terms of reference agreed with the Bank. In others, the
PCU would gather and adapt existing designs (e.g., for pipes or box culverts, retaining



-25 -
walls, fords, and decks of bridges) and make them available to the Municipal Councils and
associations. Standard designs will include the following considerations, where
appropriate: (a) engineering aspects; (b) technical, financial and economic feasibility; (c)
operation and maintenance; (d) recommendations on environmental impact; and (e) social
demand. This process will be facilitated by the ongoing Rural Poverty Alleviation Projects
in Bahia, Ceari and Sergipe, and by the fact that other Northeast States are be developing
similar projects. Hence, there will be considerable scope for dissemination and exchange
of designs among the professionals of the Maranhao PCU and the other State PCUs.
2.34 Appraisal. The appraisal of community subprojects would be carried out by the
Municipal Councils (under FIMAC and FUMAC-P) or the PCU (under PAC). The
appraisal procedures would take into account: (a) compliance with the project's guidelines
and eligibility criteria, including those related to the technical, environmental and cost
specifications contained in the Project Operational Manual; (b) the beneficiary
association's commitment to provide the required contribution and to take full
responsibility for the execution, operation and maintenance of the investments to be
funded; and (c) in the case of an association which has already benefited from other
subprojects, assessment of past performance. Using standardized cost indicators,
reasonable costing for subproject implementation would be ensured. Departures from
standard designs would have to be fully justified in the subproject proposal for review by
the Municipal Councils and/or the PCU, as would proposed investments which fall outside
the range of standardized costs.
2.35 Financing. In order to disburse funds for subproject implementation, agreements
(convenios) would be signed: (a) under FUMAC, between the PCU, the Municipal
Council and the beneficiary association for subproject funding and implementation; (b)
under FUMAC-P, between the Municipal Council and the association, for subproject
funding and implementation, and between the PCU and the Municipal Council for release
of project funds; and (c) under PAC, between the PCU and the beneficiary association for
subproject funding and implementation. Such agreements would spell out the terms and
conditions for the funding, execution, ownership, operation and maintenance of the
approved subprojects (para. 2.10). The final model agreements would form part of the
Project Operational Manual.
2.36  Subproject Supervision. Direct supervision and administration of the subprojects
are carried out by a community-elected Supervision and Control Committee (Annex D),
which oversees subproject execution, including contracting. This Committee of 3 to 4
persons is comprised of subproject beneficiaries, both members of the association and non-
members within the community. The PCU, the Municipal Councils or other contracted
groups, would visit the subproject sites during subproject execution to liaise with the
Supervision Committee and monitor physical and financial progress. The PCU would
have overall responsibility for supervision of the entire subproject cycle through the
project MIS (Annex H), which would track subproject progress from initial submission to
completion, and through accounting and auditing arrangements.



- 26 -
2.37 Operation and Maintenance (O&M). Community associations would bear the
responsibility for O&M for all investments, as specified in the convenio for release of
project funds. These associations may request technical assistance to develop O&M
programs and techniques. Experience to date under the NRDP has been positive with
respect to O&M of investments when local communities have a strong sense of ownership.
2.38 Operational Checks and Balances. Operational checks and balances, included in
the Project Operational Manual, would promote transparency and accountability in the use
of project funds. Increased decentralization of resources and decision-making to
beneficiary associations and Municipal Councils, with only ex-post control by the State
through audit of accounts and supervision and monitoring by the PCU, is central to the
project strategy. However, this advancement would be accompanied by operational
disincentives, based mainly on education/joint problem solving and, as a last resort,
penalties, to deter potential departures from project guidelines such as misappropriation,
mistargeting, lack of participation or improper O&M. Positive incentives for adherence to
project guidelines and or superior performance include the promotion of Municipal
Councils from FUMAC to FUMAC-P and, in FUMAC-P, a potential increase in the
Councils' budget envelope.
2.39 Project Monitoring and Supervision. Analysis of implementation will depend
on a database of subproject information from the project MIS, created under the
reformulated NRDP and to be improved under the project (para. 2.16). Inputs to the
database would be made from a standard data sheet at key stages of the subproject cycle
(e.g., identification, appraisal, procurement and disbursement. See also Annex H).
Periodic processing of the database information will permit the monitoring of the
characteristics and evolution of project implementation. The PCU, together with project
Municipal Councils, will be responsible for meeting and reporting on the project
performance indicators (para. 2.16). The Bank's Recife Office would monitor project
performance indicators through the MIS, which the Recife Office will maintain and update
on a regular basis with inputs from the states, and through review of monthly
disbursement summaries. The Recife Office will also supervise subproject implementation
progress on a sample basis in the field (see Annex K for Supervision Plan).
2.40 Project Operational Manual. The NRDP Operational Manual (Annex M) would
be adjusted and expanded to reflect the need for fine-tuning and additions based on recent
experience. Agreements were reached with the State during appraisal on the following
points to update and/or include in the Manual: (a) indicative quantitative and qualitative
targets to be tracked with the Project MIS; (b) the project area and the criteria used to
select the municipalities included in the project area; (c) the initial distribution of
municipalities among the three components (FUMAC, FUMAC-P and PAC) and the
criteria for future redistribution; (d) guidelines for the pilot component (FUMAC-P); (e)
arrangements for institutional strengthening and project administration, monitoring and
evaluation; (f) the PCU's new structure and additional technical support agreements with
other state agencies and non-governmental organizations; (g) FUMAC and FUMAC-P
Municipal Councils' composition, responsibilities and modus operandi, notably in relation
to FUMAC-P; (h) clear identification and description of responsibilities of beneficiaries



- 27 -
and municipalities in the implementation of subprojects; (i) guidelines for environmental
assessment of subprojects; (j) model agreements to be signed between the PCU, the
Municipal Councils and beneficiary associations; (k) new standard agreements between the
PCU and the FUMAC-P Municipal Councils and between the FUMAC-P Municipal
Councils and the beneficiary associations; (1) standard forms for proposals to be submitted
by potential beneficiaries; (m) the cost-sharing matrix for the various types of subprojects;
(n) the fund release mechanism to beneficiaries for FUMAC-P; (o) operational incentives
and penalties; (p) monitoring arrangements, including a new classification of the various
categories of subprojects; (q) standard project designs and their role in the appraisal of
proposals submitted by beneficiaries; (r) a revised standard form of acceptance of
completed works (ata de recebimento); and (s) targeting mechanisms and a community
graduation strategy.
PROJECT COSTS
2.41  The total project cost, calculated in May 1997 prices and including contingencies,
is estimated at US$106.7 million. Foreign exchange costs are estimated to be US$22.9
million, equivalent to about 21% of total project cost. The baseline cost is estimated at
US$105.5 million, and contingencies at US$1.2 million. Contingencies are low because
they apply only to the two components of institutional development (except for costs
associated with technical assistance for state reform) and project administration,
supervision, monitoring and evaluation. For these activities, physical contingencies of
100% and 5% have been included, as well as annual price increases averaging 2.4% for
local and foreign costs (both expressed in US dollars). No contingency provisions have
been applied to the community subprojects component. Since the number of community
investments is not defined ex ante, it was considered preferable that any change in physical
or price attributes of subproject investments would be accommodated by a change in the
number of subprojects approved and implemented.
2.42  Investments in subprojects are expected to represent some 90% of the total base
cost (51% for FUMAC, 7% for FUMAC-P and 32% for PAC). The distribution among
different categories of subprojects, as well as the phasing of expenditures over the five-
year implementation period, are indicative only, and there would be flexibility to reallocate
funds from the PAC to the FUMAC or FUMAC-P subcomponents as Municipal Councils
gain experience.
FINANCING PLAN
2.43 The Borrower would be the State of Maranhao. The loan would be guaranteed by
the Federative Republic of Brazil. In accordance with the CAS Progress Report discussed
and approved by the Board in June 1996 as well as with the new CAS discussed by the
Board on June 12, 1997, and in reference to the strategy to be adopted for special
assistance to poor States, the State of Maranhao qualifies as a Borrower in the context of
this loan. The State Government of Maranhao has formulated and is adopting measures
for administrative and other state reforms that will improve its fiscal situation and ensure



-28 -
its capacity to contribute required counterpart funding to the project and to repay the
loan.7
2.44 The Bank loan would be repayable over 15 years, including a five-year grace
period, and would bear interest at the Bank's standard variable rate. The loan of US$80.0
million equivalent would finance about 75% of the total project cost, and would disburse
against 100% of expenditures for technical assistance, training and evaluation studies,
75% of expenditures for community subprojects, 50% of expenditures for supervision
(except salaries) and 200/o of incremental project administrative costs (except salaries) and
monitoring. The' State Government would be responsible for the remaining 25% of total
project cost, with beneficiaries and their respective municipal governments contributing to
these counterpart funds. As it consistently did under the reformulated NRDP, the State
Government of Maranhao is expected to meet its counterpart funding obligations under
the new project, which would require annual counterpart funding of less than 1.5% of the
State's capital investment budget. Beneficiaries would provide a minimum of 10% of the
total costs of community-managed investments, in cash, labor or kind, amounting to
US$9.5 million. To enable the early start-up of project activities, retroactive financing
would be provided up to a maximum of US$8 million in respect of eligible expenditures
incurred up to twelve months before loan signing, but after May 9, 1997, when the project
was appraised. In addition to training for new Municipal Councils, the State already has a
substantial pipeline of community subprojects for review and financing for which it can
utilize this retroactive financing facility. Detailed project costs and the financing plan are
presented in the table below.
7 An annex on the State of MaranhAo's fiscal situation and creditworthiness is available to the
Executive Directors upon request.



-29 -
Estimated Project Costs and Financing Plan
Estimated Costs               Local     Foreign    Total     % of Total    % of
(USS Million)                                               Baseline Costs  Foreign
A. Conununity Subprojects
L.FUMAC                        43.1       11.0       54.1       51          20
2. FUMAC-P                      6.1        1.5        7.6        7          20
3. PAC                         26.5        6.8       33.3       32          20
Subtotal                       75.7       19.3       95.0       90          20
B. Institutional Development/   4.7        2.7        7.4        7          36
Technical Assistance
C. Project Administration,      2.5        0.6        3.1        3          19
Supervision, Monitoring and
Evaluation
Total Baseline Costs           82.9       22.6      105.5       100         21
- Physical Contingencies        0.6       0.2        0.8        -          25
-Price Contingencies            0.3       0.1        0.4        -          25
Total Project Costs            83.8       22.9      106.7        -          21
Financing Plan
= State/Municipal Governments  17.2       -          17.2'      -           -
= Beneficiaries                 9.5       -           9.5       -
=IBRD                          57.1       22.9       80.0       -           -
- Total                        83.8       22.9      106.7       -          21
Including US$3.4 million in local taxes.
2.45 Cost Sharing and Sustainability. The cost estimates and average size of
community-managed subproject investments have been determined based on the
experience gained under the reformulated NRDP and the operation of its PAC and
FUMAC components. On this basis, the project is expected to finance some 3,400
community-managed subprojects over five years. Counterpart contributions by the
beneficiary communities and their respective municipal governments would be made
according to a cost-sharing matrix, which is part of the Project Operational Manual (para.
2.40). The minimum contribution of beneficiaries would be 10% --to increase for
beneficiaries from select communities as a first step toward graduation from the project--
and of municipal governments would be 5% (recommended but not required). The
relative share contributed by each community and municipal government would be based
on agreement between the two parties with the Municipal Council. As in the existing
NRDP, ownership of project facilities by the beneficiaries should enhance the sustainability
of community investments. A key element would be the establishment of sound
arrangements under the project for the provision of operating, maintenance and capital
replacement expenditures, the requirements for which would vary significantly among
types of subprojects and the availability of which would vary by municipality and
community association. The Project Operational Manual and the subproject agreements
(convenios) (para. 2.10) would contain specific guidelines concerning the funding of these
costs.



-30 -
2.46 Experience since reformulation indicates that the sustainability of the community
subprojects is generally good. Subprojects would finance relatively small investments
which can easily be maintained by the communities themselves, both technically and
financially, as demonstrated under the NRDP, even prior to the 1993 reformulation with
the APCR component (see para. 1.13). Equally important is the fact that client-driven
subprojects, identified and implemented by the communities, have demonstrated a high
degree of ownership by the beneficiary groups and their consequent willingness to
maintain project investments. Under the reformulated NRDP, commitment by each
community group for operation and maintenance was a condition for the approval of
subprojects, and formed part of the subproject agreement to be signed with the beneficiary
community. Compliance has been good and these same features are built into the
proposed project. Finally, the formation and strengthening of project Municipal Councils,
which have been piloted successfully under the reformulated NRDP and will continue
under the proposed project, stimulate grassroots participation in local development, and
thus foster longer-term project sustainability.
PROCUREMENT
2.47 Procurement for community subprojects costing the equivalent of US$50,000 or
less and procured by local communities, would be carried out mainly through direct
contracting, and under subproject agreements signed between the PCU and the
community. This procurement procedure is appropriate because most subprojects: (a)
would be small and/or implemented in scattered or remote areas and therefore it will be
difficult to obtain competitive proposals; (b) can be managed directly by rural commuunities
which will contribute to the work through the donation of unskilled labor and local
materials; (c) will be selected on the basis of willingness of the beneficiary communities to
contribute to and physically supervise their execution; and (d) would provide a vehicle for
communities to play an active role in the local development process. There may be cases
when the community lacks the capacity to make the necessary purchases of equipment and
materials. For such subprojects, the PCU would make purchases on behalf of the
communities, packaging the procurement for several subprojects whenever possible.
Procurement by the PCU would follow: (a) National Shopping procedures for goods, and
procedures acceptable to the Bank for procurement of small works under lump sum, fixed
price contracts awarded on the basis of price quotations (under US$100,000 and up to an
aggregate amount of US$2.2 million for goods and US$2.6 million for small works); or
(b) National Competitive Bidding -- NCB (over US$100,000). For NCB the standard
bidding documents agreed between the Bank and the Federal Government of Brazil will be
used. ICB is not anticipated for any goods or works under the project. Although the
costs of individual subprojects may not exceed US$50,000, the average size of the
subprojects is expected to be less than US$30,000. Approximately 680 subprojects are
expected to be implemented yearly using these procurement methods.
2.48 Prior review of procurement documentation by the Bank would be made for all
NCB contracts. Although the level of Bank prior review of procurement would be low, it
would be compensated in several ways. First, a study of procurement by community



- 31 -
contracting would be carried out during the first year of the project, under terms of
reference agreed during appraisal. Second, cost comparisons of similar subprojects would
be conducted using the project MIS (para. 2.16) in order to detect possible procurement
problems. Third, the project physical performance evaluation (Annex H) would analyze
procurement issues; and finally, during Bank supervision, random reviews would be
conducted of subprojects, including field visits and review of subproject documentation.
2.49   Consultant services to provide technical assistance and training to the beneficiary
communities, the Municipal Councils and the PCU would be procured in accordance with
Bank guidelines for the use of consultants. Contracts, short lists, and selection procedures
for technical assistance and training would receive prior review by the Bank when the
value of the contract is US$100,000 or more for consulting firms or US$50,000 or more
for individual consultants. All consultant terms of reference would be subject to Bank
prior review. During negotiations, assurances were provided by the State of Maranhlo
that: (a) the above procurement arrangements would be foliowed (para. 3.1(d)); and (b)
the study of procurement by community contracting referred to in para. 2.48 would be
carried out during the first year of the project and any agreed recommendations adopted
expeditiously (para. 3.1(d)). Procurement arrangements are summarized in the table
below.
Procurement Arrangements
(UMS million)
Procurement Method
Category                  NCB           Other          Total Cost
Community Subprojects
Small Works'                                         47.0              47.0
(under USS50,000)                                    (35.1)           (35.1)
Goods and Materials'                                 38.5              38.5
(under US$50,000)                                    (28.7)           (28.7)
Small Works                            4.7                             4.7
(over US$100,000)                     (3.5)                            (3.5)
Small Works 2                                         2.6              2.6
(over US$50,000)                                     (2.0)             (2.0)
Goods and Materials 2                                 2.2              2.2
(over US$50,000)                                     (1.6)             (1.6)
Consulting Services                                    7.8              7.8
(7.8)            (7.8)
Project Administration                                 3.9              3.9
(1.3)            (1.3)
Total                                   4.7           102.0            106.7
(3.5)        (76.5)            (80.0)
Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts expected to be financed by the Bank.
I Direct contracting.
2 Shopping



- 32 -
DISBURSEMENTS AND SPECIAL AccouNT
2.50 The proposed Bank loan would be disbursed over a period of five years. The
project is expected to be completed by December 30, 2002, and the project's Closing Date
is June 31, 2003. The disbursement period shown in the projected Disbursement Schedule
(Annex I) is shorter than the Bank's standard disbursement profile for rural development
projects in Brazil, but is in line with the recent experience under the reformulated NRDP
and with other Bank-financed social fund projects in Latin America. The allocation of
loan proceeds by disbursement category is shown in Annex I.
2.51 During negotiations, assurances were provided by the State of Maranhao that it
would open and maintain a Special Account in US Dollars in a commercial bank for Bank
disbursements (para. 3.1(e)). The authorized allocation would be US$5.3 million,
adequate to cover the expected average four-month flow of disbursements under the
project. Disbursements for all expenditures would be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure (SOEs), except for goods and works exceeding US$100,000 equivalent;
contracts with consulting firms above US$100,000 equivalent; and with individuals above
US$50,000.
2.52 The information required for the compilation of SOEs would be maintained by the
PCU in the MIS data base. All SOEs would be transmitted by the PCU to the Bank in
Washington. Simultaneously, the PCU would send to the Bank's Recife Office a copy of
SOEs and reimbursement applications submitted to the Bank in Washington, as weli as
updated information on the status of all subprojects, enabling a rapid review of subproject
eligibility. This procedure would allow the Bank and the PCU management to maintain a
cumulative account of the progress of project implementation.
2.53  The communities' contributions to subproject investments would be defined in the
agreement (convenio) between the PCU and the community association (for PAC),
between the PCU, the Municipal Council and the association (FUMAC) or between the
Municipal Council and the community association (FUMAC-P). Any contributions by
Municipal Governments would also be defined in the subproject agreements. Both
contributions would be computed as part of counterpart finance of the project. Simple,
standard records, whose format would be included in the Operational Manual, would be
completed by a designated community representative. They would be used to record cash
contributions, materials and labor inputs, and would be subject to project audit
procedures.
AccouNTs AND AUDITS
2.54 The PCU would maintain separate accounts for project expenditures, which would
be audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. The accounts of the
Municipal Councils (for the FUMAC-P subcomponent) and of the community associations
would also be subject to review by the independent auditors on a sample basis. - Finally,
independent auditors would also audit the Special Account (para. 2.51). Copies of the
audit reports would be provided to the Bank within six months of the end of each state



- 33 -
fiscal year. The audit reports would convey the auditor's opinion and comment as
necessary on the methodology employed in the compilation of the statements of
expenditure, their accuracy, the relevance of supporting documents, eligibility for
financing in terms of the project's legal agreements and standards of record keeping and
internal controls related to the foregoing. The State of Maranhao provided assurances
during negotiations that: (a) the Special Account and the project accounts would be
established, maintained and audited annually in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (b) with respect to
withdrawals on the basis of SOEs, that such audits would contain a separate opinion as to
whether the SOEs, together with the procedures involved in their preparation, support the
related withdrawals; and (c) certified copies of the audited accounts and of the auditors'
reports would be submitted to the Bank within six months of the close of each project
fiscal year (para. 3.1(f)).
ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS
2.55  The proposed project has been assigned a "B" environmental classification.
Because of their relatively small size, most PAC, FUMAC, and FUMAC-P subprojects
would not have a significant effect on the environment. The project would, however,
ensure proper environmental screening and enforcement measures, to prevent certain types
of productive or infrastructure subprojects from producing negative effects on the
environment. The Operational Manual would specify key environmental criteria and
screening and enforcement procedures to be followed.
2.56  Based on specific criteria for different subproject types, each subproject proposal
presented by the community associations would include a simple environmental
assessment in the form of a "checklist", following a standard format. For standard
subproject types, environmental screening at the subproject approval stage would be the
responsibility of the PCU and Municipal Councils. For exceptional subproject types, for
which technical standards have not been developed, the PCU would screen the subproject
proposals in detail for environmental impact, contracting technical assistance when
necessary, and this assessment and any subsequent recommendations would be
incorporated into the subproject proposal. For the FUMAC-P subprojects, the Municipal
Councils would conduct the environmental screening together with either the PCU or with
contracted technical assistance, such as NGOs. the PCU has identified expertise within the
state for technical assistance purposes and would include environmental education and
awareness as part of its training to Municipal Councils. Enforcement of environmental
criteria would be ensured via subproject supervision by the PCU and Municipal Councils.
POVERTY CATEGORY
2.57 The proposed project is part of the Bank's Program of Targeted Interventions.
Project municipalities in Maranhao were determined based on poverty-related indicators
and other key parameters (see Annex C), which will ensure that project resources reach
those municipalities which contain a high concentration of rural poor. The project's



-34 -
targeting mechanism is then centered on community-based selection, with the assumption
that local communities can best judge what their investment priorities are in each
municipality. In particular, project Municipal Councils would be charged with targeting
poor rural dwellers and especially vulnerable groups, based on criteria including the socio-
economic situation of participating communities, their level of organization and the
availability of infrastructure and services. The transparency of rules and procedures for
Municipal Councils also would facilitate targeting under the project by permitting rural
communities to monitor local resource allocation decisions. Finally, communities which
eventually are determined to have capacity for sustainable asset-accumulation (savings)
and access to adequate social and economic infrastructure, would progressively be
charged a higher cost-sharing percentage and then would be graduated out of the program
(para. 2.30).
WOMEN'S PARTIC'IPATION
2.58  The full participation of women is critical to the poverty objectives of the project.
Bank-supported operations and studies in the Northeast of Brazil show the strong
correlation between the problems and needs of rural women and those of producers and
family units in general. Responding to lessons concerning women's participation, this
project will seek to ensure that women's activities (both traditional and innovative) are
included; to support subprojects which foster maternal/child health and day care facilities
(the latter have proven invaluable under the ongoing PAC/FUMAC operations in freeing
rural women for income generating activities); to target groups and activities in which
female participation has proven constructive; to provide technical assistance for women's
subproject proposals and implementation; and to monitor women's participation in the
project and its benefits. To achieve these objectives, the Maranhao PCU intends to tailor
some of the training under the project to the specific needs of rural women, and strengthen
the role of women in the identification and selection of community investment proposals.
PROJECT BENEFRTS
2.59 The proposed project would result in an improved quality of life for some 990,000
people (198,000 families) (about 55% of the target population), by providing improved
access to water supply and other basic social and economic infrastructure and services,
and by contributing to an increase in production, incomes and employment.8 Project-
financed rural water supply and minor irrigation works will be particularly important in
reducing vulnerability to drought. Productive subprojects will provide a vehicle for
financing improvements in input use, technology and value-adding activities, thus raising
productivity and incomes. Female community members will benefit especially from
subprojects such as water supply and some productive activities and social investments
which enable rural women to seek paying jobs and contribute to increased family cash
incomes.
s Assumes 10% of the beneficiaries are "repeater' beneficiaries and benefit from more than one
subproject.



- 35 -
2.60 The proposed project will provide a safety net for some of the poorest segments of
Maranhao's rural population who will likely continue to be affected by decreased public
investments for services during the period of fiscal adjustment and macroeconomic reform.
Another important project benefit will be the creation of social capital within rural
municipalities and their communities. Municipal councils established under the project will
direct the identification and prioritization of local needs and confirm potential subproject
feasibility and compatibility with these priorities. Community resources, both financial and
in-kind, will be leveraged to achieve desired improvements in quality of life and access to
market channels. It is expected that the new project will have a similar impact on the
mobilization of additional community and municipal resources, as did the reformulated
NRDP (about 15% of resources invested under the program), and this will improve the
longer-term sustainability of investments. Project-related benefits can potentially generate
savings for state and municipal governments as well by reducing certain budgetary
obligations to rural areas, such as emergency water supply through water trucks (carros
pipa) or medical services. Finally, as a result of benefits from the project which lead to an
overall improvement in community organization and well-being and capacity to save, it is
expected that a small number of beneficiary communities will graduate from the project
and gain access to alternative sources of financing.
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS AND FISCAL IMPACT
2.61  The demand-driven nature of the project implies that communities will determine
the nature and scope of each subproject funded and that neither benefits nor costs can be
identified ex ante, thereby prohibiting estimation of an ex ante overall internal economic
rate of return. Subprojects to be funded under the proposed project would, in general, be
similar to those subprojects funded and completed under the reformulated NRDP. To
give an illustrative idea of the financial and economic results that are likely to be obtained
under the proposed project, the experience and expost results of a sample of completed
subprojects under the NRDP have been examined and presented in Annex J.
2.62  Infrastructure and social subprojects were analyzed on the basis of least cost, best
alternative criteria. First, the demand-driven nature of each subproject permits scarce
resources to flow where they are most needed, thereby improving allocative efficiency.
Community participation, under the direction of the municipal councils created under the
project, ensure that the chosen subproject is the best alternative for the local community.
Second, the use of standard technical designs, including cost parameters, for the most
common types of subprojects ensures that least cost models are adopted and decreases
search and information costs by providing communities with established patterns of
initiating and completing a subproject. Third, the contracting procedures prescribed in the
Project Operational Manual require competitive bidding on all subprojects; the community
solicits three bids for the subproject and subsequently chooses the least-cost bid. Finally,
subprojects executed by the communities themselves have been shown to be more cost
effective than if they had been undertaken by the public sector (for details and examples,
see Annex B).



-36 -
2.63 Financial and economic analyses were conducted on the following sample of
productive subprojects in MaranhMo: (a) rice mills, (b) manioc mills, and (c) communal
tractors. Financial IRRs for the subprojects evaluated all exceeded 50%. Economic IRRs
were also highly positive, ranging from 37% (tractors) to over 50% (manioc mills). The
primary factor in the difference between financial and economic IRRs is unpaid labor
required for each of the three subprojects. Various sensitivity analyses were undertaken
(e.g., by shadowing public funds), producing satisfactory IERR results.
2.64 Cost effectiveness was examined by estimation of benefit-cost ratios for each
productive subproject and investment per job created. Benefit-cost ratios range from 1.3
(tractors) to 1.8 (manioc mills). In addition, the financial sustainability of selected
productive subprojects was evaluated by examining (a) cost recovery measures undertaken
by each subproject and (b) the replacement period for initial capital equipment. In some
cases, user fees are assessed to cover O&M expenses and contribute toward the eventual
replacement of capital equipment; in others, cost recovery takes the form of subproject
revenues (e.g., goat milk and meat sales, marketed produce). For all subprojects
evaluated, cost recovery was sufficient to cover O&M expenses and replacement periods
for capital equipment were markedly less than the useful economic life of the equipment.
2.65 The fiscal impact of the project will derive from two sources: (a) cost savings
and (b) revenue generation. Experience has shown that local communities can undertake
and complete these small-scale subprojects at a lower total cost that is possible through
the public sector. For example, NRDP water supply subprojects have minimized the need
for water delivery via tanker trucks (carro pipa); based on conservative estimates, cost
savings for atl states under the reformulated NRDP due to these water subprojects range
from US$7 million in a year of normal precipitation to US$15 million in a drought year.
Surveys in many states indicate that infrastructure projects are, on average, about 30%
less expensive when implemented by the communities (i.e., demand-driven) than by
goverrnent agencies or contractors. Thus, by decentralizing toward the community level,
the state can achieve costs reductions which in turn will allow reallocation of scarce public
finance to other pressing needs. On the revenue side, the demand-driven nature of the
project precludes the ex ante estimation of fiscal revenues; however, experiences
accumulated under the reformulated NRDP can shed light on any potential changes in
public sector fiscal balances which may result from the project. Expanded commodity
production under the majority of the productive subprojects evaluated can potentially
generate additional public revenues through taxation.
PROJECT RISKS
2.66 Bank experience in Latin America and elsewhere suggests that the main sources of
risk for this type of program arise from: (a) irregular counterpart funding, which can
erode community confidence and interest in participating; (b) technical weaknesses and
inadequate supervision of large numbers of widely dispersed subprojects; (c) mistargeting
of program resources; and (d) undue political interference in subproject selection, which
often has the corollary effect of depressing local initiative and community involvement.



-37 -
The funding risk will be mitigated by several distinguishing features of the projects. The
Bank loan, which will finance 75% of total project expenditures, will be taken directly by
the State, thereby eliminating those disbursement delays previously encountered at the
Federal level and minimizing the overall counterpart funding obligation of the State. In
addition, counterpart funding responsibilities would be shared to a larger extent by the
municipalities, decreasing the relative proportion of the State's own participation, and,
unlike in the reformulated NRDP, beneficiary contributions under the proposed project
will be counted toward the global counterpart requirements. The project will also help
address the State's fiscal deficit situation with technical assistance funds for administrative
reforms, thereby reducing the risk of counterpart funding difficulties. Finally, and perhaps
most importantly, the strong sense of ownership by the State, municipalities and
communities should help to protect project counterpart finding needs during the process
of allocating scarce budget resources. The risks of overdesign and weak supervision at
the subproject level would be substantially reduced with the establishment of standard
technical designs and cost criteria for the most common types of subprojects, and a
reinforced institutional strengthening component with specific resources allocated to
technical assistance for community associations. Increased delegation of supervision
responsibilities by the PCU to Municipal Councils and contracted public and non-
goverrnental agencies, will increase supervision coverage and will minimize the risk of
mistargeting of program resources. In addition, the project design has introduced a
system of strong operational disincentives against mistargeting and other departures from
project guidelines. For instance, a community or municipality would be obligated to
redress the problem, or be cut off entirely from the program, in cases of misappropriation,
mistargeting or insufficient participation. Finally, an information campaign targeted to
potential beneficiaries and the expansion of the FUMAC and FUMAC-P programs, will
stimulate greater community participation and increase transparency in the selection of
subprojects and thereby work against negative political influence in the allocation of
project resources.



-38 -
3. SUMLMRY OF AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
3.1   During negotiations, assurances were provided by the Borrower that:
(a)   all project components and subprojects would be executed in accordance
with the Operational Manual (para. 2.6);
(1)   a project information and monitoring system, with reports and format
agreed with the Bank, would be maintained throughout the project period.
The Bank would receive monthly information on disbursements of project
funds and mid-year reports on subproject activities and performance of
project investments on July 31 and January 31 of each year; a baseline
imnact evaluation study would be completed within one year of loan
effectiveness; a mid-term review would be carried in the third year of the
project, and a full impact evaluation would be executed at project
completion (para. 2.18);
(c)   proposed POAs and budgets satisfactory to the Bank would be furnished to
the Bank in October of each year; that the Bank would receive a copy of
the final plan and budget as soon as they are approved by the Borrower's
Legislative Assembly; and that adequate counterpart funding would be
made available for the project in a timely manner by the State (para. 2.22);
(d)   (i) the indicated procurement arrangements would be followed (para. 2.49);
and (ii) the study of procurement by community contracting referred to in
para. 2.48 would be carried out during the first year of the project and any
agreed recommendations adopted expeditiously (para. 2.49);
(e)   the State would open and maintain a Special Account in US Doliars in a
commercial bank for Bank disbursements (para. 2.51); and
(0   (i) the Special Account and the project accounts would be established,
maintained and audited annually in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) with respect
to withdrawals on the basis of SOEs, that such audits would contain a
separate opinion as to whether the SOEs, together with the procedures
involved in their preparation, support the related withdrawals; and (iii)
certified copies of the audited accounts and of the auditors' reports would
be submitted to the Bank within six months of the close of each project
fiscal year (para. 2.54).



-39 -
3.2   Conditions of Loan Effectiveness would include:
(a)   adoption of the Operational Manual (para. 2.6);
(b)   the preparation of a statewide information campaign, acceptable to the
Bank (para. 2.14); and
(c)   the establishment, by the State, of effective project monitoring and
evaluation arrangements (para. 2.18).
3.3   Subject to the above agreements and conditions, the proposed project would be
suitable for a Bank loan of US$80 million equivalent at the Bank's standard variable
interest rate with a matwity of 15 years, including five years of grace.
October 23, 1997



-40 -                           Annex A
BRAZIL
RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT -
MARANHAO
A. MARANHAO: A SOCIO-ECONOMIC PROFILE
Geography and Climate
1.    With a total area of about 333,365 km2, the State of Maranhio is the second
largest state in the Northeast. It is bordered on the north by the Atlantic Ocean, and on
the west, south and east, respectively, by the states of Park, Tocantins and Piaui. In
contrast to the rest of the Northeast, most of the State lies outside the semi-arid "drought
polygon", and drought is relatively infrequent. Lying in a transitional zone between the
semi-arid Northeast and the tropical Amazon, the State has average annual rainfalls
varying from 2,200 mm in the northwest, to 1,600 mm in the northeast and center, to
1,000 mm in the south. Reflecting the rainfall pattern, the vegetation ranges from tropical
forest in the northwest, to native palm (babassu) in the central area, to the stunted
vegetation of the cerrado (elevated plains) in the south.
Demographic and Social Situation
2.    The population of the state is around 4.9 million (1991), of which 40% is urban
and 60% rural.' In the period between the two national censuses (1980 and 1991), the
population grew at around 1.9% per year, a rate commensurate with the rest of the
Northeast and Brazil overall. However, the urban population alone increased at a more
accelerated pace, growing at an average annual rate of 4.0%/o, compared with 0.7% for the
rural areas. This rapid urbanization reflects an increasing geographic concentration of
economic activity within the State. The resulting intensification of rural-urban migration
patterns, without a corresponding increase in public investment in infrastructure, has led to
a worsening of living conditions for the urban population.
3.    Aside from the strain placed on urban centers, the widespread exodus from the
countryside has also contributed to the exacerbation of poverty in the rural areas, where
opportunities for economic advancement have become increasingly limited. The
concentration of economic activity in the urban centers and in a few rural municipalities
has favored a centralization of resources which deprives most rural dwellers of an
adequate social and economic infrastructure (e.g., water supply, electricity, basic
sanitation, trash collection, housing and health and education services). In addition, a
IBGE, Census 1991.



-41-                             Annex A
concentrated landholding stucture has limited workers' access to land and generated
social conflict. Innovations in production methods have failed to reach certain areas
where outmoded technologies continue to be used. All of these factors tend to favor the
expansion of large-scale commercial farming operations in the rural areas, further
restricting the productivity and eaning potential of smallholders. This trend has generated
a cycle of poverty for many rural dwellers, whose limited production capability hinders the
performance of the agricultural sector, thus reducing the possibilities for overcoming their
situation. Empirical evidence from Brazil and elsewhere shows that small and medium-
sized family farms continueto be more efficient and provide greater employment than
large corporate farms. In the Northeast, the 1985 Agricultural Census shows that
landholdings of less than 100 ha accounted for less than 30% of area, but 40%/o of assets,
55% of production and 86% of employment; further, non-utilization of land is more
common for larger farms. The result is that in 1985, the value of production per hectare
was three times higher for farms of less than 100 ha than for those exceeding 100 ha. As
in many other states of the Northeast, public policies in Maranhao have been ineffective in
exploiting the productive potential of smallholders as a way of combating rural poverty.
4.    The severity of rural poverty in Maranhao is borne out by a range of socio-
economic indicators. According to the Mapa da Fome, 44.9% of the population is
considered indigent, with 74.4% of indigent persons located in the rural areas, the highest
proportion among all the states in the Northeast.2 In fact, as evidence of the miserable
conditions that affect the majority of the State's population, a joint study by UNICEF and
lBGE reveals that 91% of the municipalities harbor very precarious living conditions
critically affecting rates of childhood survival. Unhealthy living conditions stem in large
part from a lack of adequate infrastructure, which disproportionately affects rural areas:
86% of rural households have inadequate water supply, compared with 58% in urban
areas; 666% of rural households have no sanitary facilities, compared with 24% in urban
areas; and only 9.2% of rural households are served by some sort of trash collection.
Rural housing is grossly inadequate in many zones and contributes to a high incidence of
Chagas disease from the insect vector which lives in the walls and roofing of deteriorated
dwellings. The lack of basic education or income-generating activities that families need
to pull themselves out of poverty is also more acute among rural dwellers: 39% of the
rural population over 14 years of age is illiterate, compared with 23% of the urban
population; and 66% of rural heads of household earn less than one minimum wage
(currently estimated at US$112 per month), compared with 54% in urban areas.3
The State Economy
5.    The economy of the State of Maranhao has been characterized by concentrated
growth since the mid-1980s. Although there is no record of the geographic distribution of
2 Indigence is defined as the level of income that corresponds, at the maximum, to the value of a 'basic
fod basket" that meets a family's minimum nutritional requirements, as defined by FAO/WHO.
Source: Mapa da Fome, IPEA, March 1993.
3 IBGE, Census 1991.



-42 -                            Annex A
State GDP, the collection of ICMS can serve as a good indicator of the concentration of
economic activity.4 For example, only 8.8% of the State's municipalities accounted for
93.6% of total ICMS collected in 1994, with the municipality of Sao Luis alone generating
72.4% of total revenues for the State. The rising urbanization of the State has promoted
the development of the service industry, which absorbs the influx of unskdlled labor from
the rural areas. As evidence of the prominent role of service activities in the economy of
Maranhao, this sector produced 67% of the State's GDP in 1993, compared with a
contribution of 17% for industry and 16% for agriculture.5 In spite of its relatively low
participation in State GDP, the agriculture sector remains the largest employer in the
State. In 1995, about 59% of the State's economically active population of 2.5 million
was engaged in agricultural activities, a situation which reveals one of the primary causes
of poverty in rural areas.6
6.    The GDP of Maranhao was estimated by SUDENE to have reached US$8.5 billion
by 1994, corresponding to 8.6% of the GDP for the Northeast and 1.5% for Brazil.
According to the same source, the State's average annual growth rate for the period
1980/1994 was 6.41%, higher than that of the region (2.87%) and the country (1.87%).
In fact, between 1970 and 1992, Maranhao experienced the greatest economic growth
among all the states in the Northeast. However, average per capita income in 1994 was
estimated at about US$1,644, compared with US$2,229 for the Northeast and about
US$3,676 for Brazil, making the State the second lowest in the region in this regard. In
terms of revenues, Maranhao contributed 6.0% of all ICMS collected in the Northeast.8
Figures for 1995 indicate that the State derived 31.4% of its income from collection of
ICMS, with transfers from the Federal Government amounting to 59.3% of revenues.9
The Agricultural Sector
7.    Maranhio has the most highly skewed pattern of land ownership in the Northeast.
According to the Agricultural Census of 1985, some 20% of a total of about 531,413
recorded rural producers owned their land, while 38% were renters, another 4% were
sharecroppers and the balance of 38% were squatters. As in other states of the Northeast,
perverse incentives limit access to the land by the poor, even on a temporary basis. For
example, legislation on renting and sharecropping, typical forms of temporary access to
land, sets ceilings on rents and crop shares, providing almost permanent rights to tenants
after a few years but making such arrangements unattractive to owners and reducing
4  ICMS (Imposto sobre Circulagtfo de Mercadoria e Servifos) is the principal tax applicable to all
marketed products, of which 75% goes to the State and 25% is divided among the municipalities.
5  SUDENEADPO/Contas Regionais
6 FIBGE, PNAD/199S
7  Gomes, Gustavo Maia & Vergolino, Jose Raimundo. "A Macroeconomia do Desenvolvimento
Nordestino: 1960/1994", Texto para Discussao no. 372. IPEA, p. 26/27, Brasilia, 1995.
s SUDENE, Boletim Conjuntural do Nordeste, 1995.
9  Balanco Geral do Estado, 1995.



-43 -                           Annex A
access for those the law was intended to protect. Similarly, agricultural land is a tax haven
for wealthy investors, thus increasing its price and reducing access for the smallholders
and landless workers unable to take advantage of tax laws.' In terms of landholdings, the
1985 Census shows that small farms under 10 hectares account for some 84% of all farm
establishments, but only 4% of farmland; moving up the scale to farms of 100 hectares or
less (classified as small farms in terms of productive capacity under semi-arid conditions in
the absence of inputs), the percentage rises to 95% of total farm establishments and 20%
of farmland. Conversely, some 5% of farms hold 80% of farmland. Insecurity of land
tenure and high rents considerably restrict access to land and credit, when available.
Consequently, small farmers make use of few modem inputs outside of labor, relying on
traditional, non-mechanized production practices that are geared toward subsistence and
not the generation of surpluses for market.
8.    The agricultural economy is dominated by extensive livestock enterprises and the
production of traditional foodcrops (rice, cassava, maize and beans) and commercial crops
(bananas and babassu nuts). Rice is the principal crop, making Maranhao the second
largest producer in the country, and its production is dispersed among a large number of
small productive units. Only two municipalities have a production volume exceeding
30,000 tons/year; 13.2% of the municipalities, accounting for 30.0% of rice production,
produce about 10-30,000 tons/year; and the majority of municipalities (83.8%) produce
less than 10,000 tons/year, corresponding to 44.3% of the state's total volume. Another
subsistence crop of relative importance is com, of which 47.8% of total volume is
produced in 10.0% of the municipalities. On the other hand, the majority (85.8% of
municipalities) produced less than 5,000 tons/year, yielding 56.5% of all the com in the
state. Manioc, though a traditional crop in the state, has been losing importance every
year. As a complementary food crop, it can be found in every municipality; however, only
nine municipalities produce more than 50,000 tons/year, contributing 40.2% of all manioc
produced in the State. The production of soybean, which has been growing at high rates
in Maranhao, is concentrated in the southern part of the state and destined mainly for
export.
9.    With the exception of soybean, the production of food crops has experienced great
instability, particularly since the early 1980s, a trend reflected in the decline of the relative
contribution of agriculture to state GDP. A distorted land ownership structure, the
expansion of livestock grazing and limitations on credit further diminish the role of the
primary sector in the state's economy. For example, total production of grains reached
1,584,000 tons in 1994, a 7.0% decline in production from 1988; meanwhile, production
of sugar cane reached 1,591,000 tons, the lowest volume since 1988. In fact, indices of
production for grains have steadily declined over the last three decades, reducing
Maranhio's contribution to national grains production from 4.0% in the period 1964/1966
to only 1.4% in the period 1992/1994. " Because of the relatively poor performance of
10 Brazil: A Povert Assessment Human Resources Operations Division, World Bank, Report No.
14323-BR, June 27, 1995.
Governo do MaranMo, Secetaria de Estado do Planejamento "Plano Pluriannual - 1996/1999",
Sgo Luis, 1996.



-44 -                           Annex A
the agricultural sector, the overall economic growth in the State has failed to reach the
majority of rural dwellers and done little to improve their precarious social conditions.
Indigenous Populations
10.    An estimated 13,600 indigenous people live in 16 Indigenous Reservations in
Maranhio. All but two of these reservations (Krikati and Awa Guaya) have to date been
demarcated and registered. Demarcated indigenous areas occupy a total of 1.7 million
hectares, with an additional 211,700 ha having been delimited but not yet demarcated.
The indigenous population of the State is descended from two distinct linguistic branches:
the Tupi, which includes the Tenetehara and the Tupi; and the Macro-Je, which can be
identified as part of the Timbira nation.'2 Although some indigenous groups have a
history of interaction with national society dating back to the seventeenth century, others
have systematically resisted contact as late as the 1970s. As has frequently been the case
with contact between indigenous groups and national society, a pattern of ethnic
deterioration over time has ensued from such contacts in the State of Maranhao.
Government policies favoring large landholders and persistent drought throughout the
Northeast have encouraged large groups of landless peasants and small farmers to migrate
to the Amazonian frontier, where they have come into conflict with the indigenous
inhabitants of this region. Facing limited options for livelihood, both the migrant and the
indigenous populations live under conditions of severe poverty and deprivation.
11.   Since the establishment of the Law of the Indian in 1973, the Foundation for
Amerindian Affairs (FUNAI) has served as the coordinating agency in the Federal
Government's efforts to protect the indigenous peoples of Brazil.'3 FUNAI has provided
assistance in the form of reservations, intermediation with national society, health and
education services. At present, however, FUNAI is undergoing a phase of administrative
reform, as a result of political developments in the past decade that have challenged its
traditional role as guardian of the indigenous populations. The Federal Constitution of
1988, under Article 231, established the principle of self-deternination for indigenous
peoples and their autonomy in defining the type of relationship they wish to maintain with
national society. While this Article awaits final ratification, there are two essentially
opposing legal directives governing the official position on indigenous affairs.
12.   The reformulated NRDP-Maranhlo has been instrumental in fostering the civil
autonomy of the State's indigenous communities and promoting their interaction with
national society. Under the FUMAC component, the project has caused a consolidation of
indigenous councils, formed on the basis of independent indigenous associations, which
assume the role of managers of resources destined for them. The FUMAC methodology
and management model is suitable for a group of communities which traditionally practice
a collective method of decision-making on socially relevant matters and the delegation of
12 Varga, IstvAn Van Deursen. "Politica Agnriia, Desenvolvimento e Quest0o Indigena no Maranho",
Manuscrito, IICA, 1996.
13 Decree No. 6,001 of 12/19/1973.



-45 -                           Annex A
powers. In the municipality of Barra do Corda for example, an indigenous FUMAC
Council has been established comprising representatives of various ethnic groups living in
FUNAI-demarcated reserves. The Council meets regularly to deliberate on the
subprojects proposed by the communities, after Council members make preliminary visits
to the villages to evaluate the legitimacy and viability of the proposals. In addition, the
Council itself facilitates the contracting of firms to provide technical assistance in the
elaboration and execution of community subprojects. This emphasis on meeting the real
needs of indigenous communities through culturally attuned methods has shown positive
results. The proposals approved by this Council represent 700/o of all proposals submitted
by indigenous communities between 1994 and 1996. Building on its successful
experience, this Council has already initiated a dialogue with indigenous groups in other
parts of the State.
State Government Strategy to Alleviate Poverty
13.  In its strategy for sustainable development for the period 1996/1999, the State of
Maranhlo focuses on reducing inequalities in the geographic and social distribution of
income and wealth. As part of its strategy to alleviate poverty, the State's priorities are:
(a) to provide technical and financial incentives for small producers and entrepreneurs to
contribute to the generation of employment; (b) to increase the supply and affordability of
basic food products; (c) to increase the population's access to basic health services; (d) to
greatly improve the social indicators for infant mortality, illiteracy, life expectancy,
sanitation and housing; (e) to systematically reduce high rates of grade repetition and
school drop-out which increase the costs of education and reduce the indices of school
attainment; (f) to expand opportunities for technical and professional development geared
towards the labor market; (g) to mobilize governmental and non-governmental
organizations for the eradication of misery and hunger in the State; (h) to ensure
democratic access to information as an instrument for improving community organizations
and their management capabilities; and (i) to diversify and disperse economic activities,
with an emphasis on exploiting the potential of local communities and establishing more
efficient methods for the distribution of services. The Government is mindful of the
lessons from the NRDP project, which stressed decentralization, popular participation and
administrative transparency. Through the establishment of municipal councils, it
collaborates with community organizations to define concrete investment proposals for
developing economic and social infrastructure and generating local employment and
income.
Experiences with Bank-Financed Development Programs
14.   The history of the State's involvement with Bank-financed rural development
programs is consistent with that of the other Northeastern states. As part of the
POLONORDESTE operations of the 1970s and early 1980s, the MaranhLo Rural
Development Project (Loan 2177-BR) met its physical targets but experienced
implementation and disbursement delays, mainly because of Federal counterpart funding
and rural credit problems, over-centralized project administration and limited beneficiary



-46 -                           Annex A
participation in project planming and execution. Lack of coordination, duplication of effort
and competition for scarce finds were also key factors. Nevertheless, the project did
strengthen state institutional capabilities, and established services and infrastructure which
energized a process of agricultural modernization and proved a useful basis for further
rural development programs.
15.   The Northeast Rural Development Program (NRDP), initiated between 1985 and
1987, was largely unable to improve on the performance of POLONORDESTE but did
successfully launch the community-based rural development methodology through the
small APCR component. Maranhao's experience was no exception to this pattern. The
NRDP, like POLONORDESTE, also made other important contributions: it paved the
way for administrative decentralization, a more strategic approach to rural development,
the involvement of NGOs and a greater role for communities in project planning and
execution. The NRDP projects in each of the Northeast states were reformulated in 1993
by essentially converting the successful APCR component into the primary model for
development.
16.   The reformulated NRDP in Maranhao has achieved its primary implementation
benchmarks established at the time of reformulation, in large part because of the strong
commitment of the State Government, and the willingness of many municipalities to share
counterpart funding, despite the chronic fiscal crisis affecting the State in recent years.
Community subprojects are being implemented according to the guidelines of the
Operational Manual, which include beneficiary participation in subproject identification,
imnplementation, and operation and maintenance. Most of these subprojects show tangible
impact on beneficiaries in terms of income, employment opportunities and standard of
living.
17.   The NRDP-Maranhao project closed on December 31, 1996. Of the original
NRDP loan of US$84.0 million, signed on July 20, 1987, US$22.8 million had been
disbursed at the time of reformulation. Since then, another US$57.4 million were
disbursed, leaving an outstanding balance of US$3.8 million. The rate of disbursements
improved resoundingly after the NRDP reformulation: prior to reformulation, the NRDP-
Maranhao project disbursed an average of US$4.3 million annually, and after
reformulation this rate jumped to US$17.7 million. By the Closing Date, beneficiary
communities had submitted some 6,240 proposals, of which 3,065 were financed. Some
65% of the subprojects financed were for infrastructure investments, 30% were for
productive activities and 5% were for social investments. These investments benefited
some 324,900 poor rural families including 2,100 Amerindian families, in 135
municipalities (the entire state excluding the state capital). The number of beneficiary
families was four times greater than estimated at project appraisal and ten times the
number estimated at project reformulation (see Annex B for details).



-47 -                               Annex B
BRAZIL
RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT
MARANHAO
THE REFORMULATED NORTHEAST RURAL
DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM (NRDP): PERFORMANCE AND
EVALUATION
INTRODUCTION
1.    The largest concentration of rural poverty in Latin America is found in the Northeast, a
region that spreads over nine States and part of a tenth and is inhabited by over half of Brazil's
poor and nearly two-thirds of its rural poor.' Rural development programs established in this
region since the early 1970s had not succeeded in alleviating poverty -- including the Northeast
Rural Development Program (NRDP), which sought to improve living standards of small farm
families and reduce poverty through individual projects initiated between 1985 and 1987 in the ten
Northeast states. For several years, with the exception of one component supporting small
community projects, implementation of the NRDP lagged behind schedule and performance in
meeting basic project objectives was weak. However, its innovative community-based
component, Apoio as Pequenas Comunidades Rurais (APCR), relying on the planning and
organizational capabilities of communities and recognizing their expressed needs, produced very
encouraging --and replicable-- results: the poverty alleviation impact of the APCR was positive,
the cost per family relatively low, and its disbursement and commitment rates far exceeded those
of other components. In 1993, based on the successful experience of this component and on
lessons learned with similar schemes elsewhere in Latin America, the Federal Government and the
Bank reformulated the NRDP into an entirely community-based development program. This
reformulation, concomitant with the administrative and fiscal decentralization embodied in the
new Brazilian constitution of 1988, decentralized decision-making, program counterpart funding
and implementation, from the Federal Government to the States and localities. It allowed rural
communities to identify their own needs and execute their own subprojects, while committing
themselves to contributing to the cost of the investments and taking charge of their operation and
maintenance (O&M).
2.    Effective in late 1993, the reformulated NRDP provided matching grants to rural
community associations to finance small-scale subprojects (up to US$40,000) that were identified
by these groups as priority investments to improve community well-being. Choosing among
The Northeast Region includes the States of Maranhao, Piaui, CearA, Rio Grande do Norte, Paraiba,
Pernambuco, Alagoas, Sergipe, Bahia and the northern part of the State of Minas Gerais.



- 48 -                       Annex B
eligible subprojects, the beneficiaries solicited investments which responded to their most critical
needs. The methodology incorporated two different delivery mechanisms for screening,
approving and implementing community subprojects: (a) State Community Schemes (PAC) in
which rural communities submitted their subproject investment proposals directly to the State
Project Technical Unit (TU). The TU screened, approved and released funds for subprojects,
interacting directly with the beneficiaries; and (b) Pilot Municipal Community Schemes
(FUMAC), in which subprojects identified and prepared by rural communities were presented to
project Municipal Councils for review. The FUMAC Councils, composed of community members
and representatives of local governments as well as of civil society, promoted local-level
consensus-building on priority needs through open "town meetings", and screened and submitted
subprojects to the State for subsequent approval and financing. Originally, the pilot FUMAC was
to reach only 5 and 10 municipalities per state; due to rapid success, this initial target was
surpassed in most states: at the end of the program, FUMAC was covering a total of 168
municipalities in the ten states. Of the last four loans, the NRDP-Alagoas closed on September
30, 1996 and those for Paraiba, Maranhao and Minas Gerais on December 31, 1996.
3.    This Annex contains an evaluation, undertaken in late 1996 by the Bank and FAO (United
Nations Food and Agriculture Organization) and updated during appraisal of the proposed
project, of the performance and impact of the reformulated NRDP during its approximately three
years of implementation. Some aspects of the analysis, based on the latest information from
NRDP's Simplified Project Monitoring System (SSMP) and State databases as well as findings of
earlier studies, cover the overall program in the ten participating states. Other aspects, in
particular the socio-economic impact of subproject investments, have been analyzed specifically
for the State of Maranhao. Featured below are: (a) the information base used for the evaluation; (b)
implementation results, in terns of NRDP subprojects and loan disbursements, in each of the states; (c)
an impact analysis of the reformulated program at the state and municipal levels for all ten states, and at
the local level for Maranhio; (d) the advantages of FUMAC over PAC, the two delivery mechanisms
available under the NRDP; (e) a technical assessment of subprojects; (f) an assessment of institutional
performance under the program, and (g) conclusions and recommendations for design improvements in
follow-up projects.
4.    The different evaluations of the reformulated NRDP converge to show that, after several
decades of experience with rural development efforts in the Northeast, a good measure of success
was achieved with this program in reaching the rural poor through targeted interventions. They
also bring out important lessons, which are consistent in many respects with lessons learned
elsewhere in Latin America and other regions with similar community-based development
programs. These lessons indicate, in particular, that some adjustments to project design and
operational features would further enhance the effectiveness and sustainability of this approach.
INFORMATION BASE
5.    The analysis presented in this Annex draws upon the following sources:



-49 -                        Annex B
(a)   The Simplified Project Monitoring System (SSMP) of the Bank's Recife Office,
which is the major data base from which the performance of the reformulated
NRDP in each state was monitored. The SSMP, updated monthly, stored key
information such as the number and types of community subprojects at the
different stages of implementation, number of beneficiary communities, subproject
costs, and disbursement information;
(b)   A review of: (a) special evaluation studies of FUMAC, conducted in 1994 by the
state TUs, based on their implementation experience and specific case studies; (b)
the University of Michigan's "Baseline and Popular Participation Study" (Kottak
and Costa), initiated in 1993 and followed by a community impact evaluation
analysis based on field surveys covering 38 communities in 23 municipalities of the
states (except Minas Gerais) in July-October 1994; (c) a series of studies under the
"ARIDAS Project on Regional/Municipal Development in Semi-arid Areas of the
Northeast"; (d) an evaluation of NRDP commissioned in 1994 by the Federal
Secretariat of International Affairs (SEAIN), Ministry of Planning; (e) another
evaluation of the program, completed in early 1996 by SUDENE, the regional
agency that oversees development programs in the Northeast; and (f) reports from
several Bank and FAO missions reviewing the experience of the reformulated
NRDP;
(c)   Previous Bank/FAO evaluations of the program. Of these, the first one was
undertaken in February 1995 for all ten participating states and presented in the
Staff Appraisal Reports (SARs) of the new Rural Poverty Alleviation Projects
(RPAPs) for Bahia, Ceara and Sergipe (nos. 14390-BR, 14394-BR, and 14395-
BR, respectively); the second, conducted in late 1995-early 1996 for the states of
Rio Grande do Norte, Piaui and Pernambuco, appears in the relevant SARs (nos.
15933-BR, 15934-BR and 15935-BR, respectively); and
(d)   Impact evaluation findings from surveys by the Bank/FAO in November 1996, of
the most common types of subprojects financed in Maranhao. The surveys
focused on the following aspects: (i) the process of subproject identification,
implementation, technical assistance and supervision; (ii) the nature of the
subproject (investments funded); (ii) special qualitative and quantitative
information; and (iv) socio-economic results/impact of the subproject.
IMPLEMENTATION RESULTS
Subprojects and Beneficiaries
6.    Statistical information, obtained from the SSMP and State databases, on the performance
of each of the participating states at closing date of the last NRDP loans is presented in Tables 1
to 6. Out of a total of nearly 46,590 subproject proposals submitted by potential beneficiaries in



-50-                         Annex B
the ten states since reformulation, 17,860 community subprojects were financed, of which some
14,150 under PAC and 3,710 under FUMAC. In Maranhao, 3,065 subprojects (2,110 PAC and
955 FUMAC) were funded, out of 6,244 subproject proposals received from communities
throughout the state (Table 1). Of the participating states, Maranhao --followed by Ceara, Bahia
and Paraiba- funded the largest number of community investments under NRDP.
7.    During its 3 years of implementation, the reformulated NRDP reached about 1.8 million
poor rural families in the Northeast. With community subproject investments totaling about
US$424 million in the ten states, the delivery cost of the program was strikingly low, at less than
US$250 per beneficiary family. These recipient families include an estimated 10 to 20%
"repeater" families which benefited from more than one subproject, belonging to different types of
investments. Such families form part of community associations which typically are better
organized than others, usually with support from NGOs and/or other technical assistance
agencies. The gradual accumulation by some of the target population of benefits and assets from
different NRDP subprojects as well as from other programs has a significant impact on
community development. It would constitute an important element of a strategy to graduate
some of the NRDP recipients into other, non grant-based programs (paras. 18-19).
8.    Throughout the participating states, more than 100 different types of subprojects were
proposed by rural communities. A large majority of these constitute basic rural infrastructure
(such as electrification and water supply), followed by productive subprojects (mostly small-scale
agro-processing and communal tractors) and, to a lesser extent, investments of a social nature
(chiefly day care centers or house improvement). Table 2 shows community demand for the most
common types of subprojects for the NRDP as a whole, and separately for the states of Paraiba,
Maranhao, Minas Gerais and Alagoas. In all participating states, the most popular types of
investments were rural electrification and water supply; in Maranhao, due to the poor conditions
of most village roads, rehabilitation of these roads was also often requested. The profile of the
subprojects financed was in line with community demand: out of the total number of subprojects
implemented in the ten states, some 61% were for rural infrastructure, 33% for productive
investments and 6% for social subprojects (Table 1). Maranhao conforms closely to this overall
picture, with 65% of all subprojects approved in this state made up of infrastructure
(predominantly localized road rehabilitation and rural electrification, followed by water supply),
against 30%/o and 5%, respectively, for productive (mainly rice and manioc flour mills) and social
(mostly house improvement) subprojects. Most NRDP-funded infrastructure investments,
particularly rural electrification, led to productive activities that raised family incomes and
increased employment opportunities.
9.    Owing to its strong popularity with communities and municipalities, the FUMAC pilot
component was expanded towards the end of the project implementation period to reach over
20% of all subprojects approved under NRDP in the ten states (Table 1). FUMAC also delivered
more community investments per municipality than PAC, as subprojects are processed faster
when they are screened at the local level through the FUMAC Municipal Council. On average,
about 22- subprojects were implemented in each municipality under FUMAC, compared with only
11 under PAC (Table 3). Among the ten states, Maranhao achieved the largest absolute number
of FUMAC subprojects (955), representing 31% of all NRDP-financed community investments in
the state. This compares with 37% (FUMAC subprojects over the total) in Paraiba and, at the



-51-                         Annex B
end of the spectrum, 8% in Alagoas. Indeed, depending on the local socio-political situation,
conditions favorable to the FIJMAC process, as promoted under NRDP, differ from state to state.
Thus, if this delivery mechanism has been more widespread and successful in states like Minas
Gerais and Paraiba, where a tradition of community organization and participation is accompanied
by a favorable political environment, FUMAC has been extremely limited in Alagoas due to the
difficult political circumstances in this state.
10.   Subprojects costs were similar for PAC and FUMAC, averaging about US$24,000 per
subproject for the ten states as a whole (Table 4). Whether PAC or FUMAC, infrastructure and
social subprojects generally benefited larger numbers of people than productive subprojects, and
thus tended to have lower costs per beneficiary. The average cost per subproject varied among
investment types, ranging from about US$14,800 for manioc flour mills to nearly US$30,000 for
communal farm tractors (Table 5). Within each type, costs could vary substantially from one state
to the other depending on the specific nature and technical requirements of the subproject.
Loan Disbursements
11.   Final analysis of loan disbursements shows that the NRDP's overall disbursement rate was
significantly higher than its historical equivalent before reformulation (Table 6). In just over three
years a total of US$338.6 million of loan funds was disbursed under the reformulated program
(late 1993 to end-1996), as compared to only US$302.1 million during the entire implementation
period of the original NRDP (1985-late 1993). It should also be noted that municipalities in states
like Maranhao and Paraiba frequently contributed to counterpart funds, in light of shortages at the
state level. For the program as a whole, it is estimated that 93% of project funds disbursed
reached the beneficiary communities directly, as compared with only 44% under the original
NRDP. In Maranhao, some US$57.4 million was disbursed under the reformulated NRDP (as
compared to US$22.8 million in the period before reformulation), with an outstanding loan
balance of US$3.8 million to be canceled.
EVALUATION
State and Municipal Levels
12.   Based on conservative estimates derived from SSMP data and information provided by the
state TUs, arnple evidence exists to show that the reformulated NRDP was cost-effective in
attending to the rural poor in the Northeast. First, the program delivered low-cost basic
infrastructure and services that would have constituted a larger burden on State and Municipal
Government budgets, had they been executed under force account rather than by the communities
themselves. Given the fiscal difficulties faced by most of these governments, such investments
and services would probably have required a longer timeframe to complete than with the NRDP.
Second, the rural water supply structures installed under the program are providing water to
beneficiary communities on a more permanent and wider basis, substituting in these areas for
annual and/or extraordinary expenditures that municipalities and States have traditionally had to



- 52-                        Annex B
incur to reduce the effects of often severe and protracted drought on their rural communities.
Third, on the revenue side, those NRDP-financed productive subprojects that generate surplus
agricultural produce (including high-value and industrial crops) and non-agricultural commodities
(such as clothes), can add to State and municipal tax revenue when their outputs are sold in
formal markets.
13.   With respect to construction costs, surveys in many states have shown that infrastructure
projects are, on average, about 30% less expensive when they are implemented by the
communities themselves (directly or through small local firms) than by government agencies or
contractors. Data provided by the TU in Maranhao clearly confirm this finding: in this state, rural
water supply systems funded by NRDP cost, on average, US$23,000 as compared to US$32,000
when the system is installed by CAEMA, the state water and sewage company; for rural
electrification, NRDP costs --depending on the type of network-- ranged between US$3,750 and
US$17,100 per km against US$6,300-US$19,400 per km as charged by the state electricity
company (CEMAR); and for rural road rehabilitation, the cost was US$6,000 per km under
NRDP as compared to US$9,700 per km when the works are executed by the state Roads
Department. Conservatively assuming that only half of all community subprojects financed by the
reformulated NRDP were effectively 30% cheaper than if they had been implemented by public
agencies,, total savings in this regard for the Northeast State governments would be the equivalent
of US$64 million (the total investment cost of the approximately 17,860 subprojects implemented
under the program, as shown in Table 1, amounts to some US$424 million).
14.  In the areas where they were installed, NRDP water supply systems have eliminated the
need for municipalities to provide water by carro pipa (water bowser) to rural communities, both
in years of "normal" precipitation and in periods of drought (during which additional emergency
funds may be required from the State and the Federal Governments). NRDP water supply
subprojects helped to minimize that recurring expenditure, and municipalities could use the funds
thus saved to attend to the many other needs of their populations. For all the municipalities which
benefited from the 2,700 NRDP water supply subprojects financed in the ten states, the actual
annual savings to their respective budgets from not having to provide the corresponding carros
pipa are estimated to range from about US$7 million in a year of normal precipitation to more
than US$15 million in a drought year.
15.   NRDP investments also generate tax revenue for the State and Municipal governments on
marketed outputs of productive subprojects.2 For example, sales taxes on rice and manioc flour
produced currently by the 140 rice mill subprojects and the 80 manioc flour mills financed in
Maranhio and remaining for sale after family consumption are estimated to amount to about
US$0.7 million per year.
2 ICMS is the principal tax applicable to marketed products, of which 75% goes to the State and 25% is divided
among the municipalities. The rate of ICMS varies according to the state and the product. In Maranhao, an
ICMS ranging between 12% and 17% is applied to sales of certain agricultural products, including basic
foodcrops. On the other hand, as in other states, some staples like manioc are exempt of ICMS.



53-                         Annex B
Local Level
16.   At the community level, the NRDP has had a positive impact on the quality of life of
beneficiaries and on the local economy. The availability of electricity and water supply, the
localized improvements to feeder roads and bridges, the rehabilitation of rural schools and health
posts, and finally the provision of community-owned and operated facilities and services in
support of local production, have changed the socio-economic outlook of those communities that
have been reached by the NRDP. With the increases in local capacity and multiplier effects
produced by the program, endogenous economic development has begun to emerge, leading to
savings accumulation both at household and community levels. Except in cases where technical
assistance was lacking, community cohesion was weak and/or cases of subproject types
addressing individual needs and requiring entrepreneurial skills which poor community
associations do not possess, the productive investments financed by the NRDP have generated
higher family production and incomes and created jobs. In addition, certain types of infrastructure
and social subprojects, resulting in the provision of cleaner water and/or better sanitary
conditions, have had an important beneficial impact on the health of recipient families -- and can
lead to substantial savings in terms of medical assistance, which is another responsibility of the
municipalities.
17.   The above results were also found in Maranhao, except for specific groups of productive
subprojects which will be discussed below. In this state, an evaluation of "Projeto Comunidade
Viva" (as the reformulated NRDP is known in Maranhao) was carried out in late 1996, just a
month before the project was to close.3 A number of completed community subprojects,
belonging to many types of investments, were surveyed in detail. Of these, ten major types, of
which an abbreviated description is presented below, account for over 90% of all subprojects
approved. For each, aggregate SSW data on the number of subprojects implemented, total
beneficiaries and average cost per beneficiary are shown in Table 7. Additionally, financial and
economic analyses were undertaken for some of the productive subprojects, whose results are
presented in Annex J.
3 Although NRDP's generic name in Brazil is PAPP (Programa de apolo ao pequeno produtor), the program
is also known by another local name in most of the participating states.



-54 -                            Annex B
The reformulated NRDP in Maranhlo
Implementation period:               39 months (Oct. 1993-Dec.1996)
Total no. of subprojects financed:   3,065
of which         2,110 PAC and 955 FUMAC
and              65% infrastructure subprojects (localized road
rehabilitation, rural electrification and rural
water supply), 30% productive subprojects
(e.g., rice and manioc mills) and 5% social
subprojects  (e.g.,  health-related  house
improvement, day care centers)
Total no. of beneficiary families:   318,760
Total no. of municipalities
with approved subprojects:           135
or 100% of eligible municipalities
Total investments:                   US$85.6 million
or US$269 per beneficiary family
Total beneficiary contribution:      US$8.6 million
Infrastructure Subprojects
As in other participating states, rural infrastructure constituted the major category
of investments requested by NRDP communities in Maranhlo. A dominant type, found less
frequently than rural electrification and water supply in other states, was the localized
rehabilitation of rural roads, which accounted for 26% of all subprojects approved in Maranhio.
(a)    Localized road rehabilitation. Due to limited State/municipal resources for basic.
infrastructure and its maintenance, access roads in rural areas in Maranwo are often in
precarious condition. Some communities can find themselves completely isolated from
the municipal capital or neighboring small towns, where schools, health and other
essential services are located, and where they can find more employment opportunities
as well as markets for their produce. Demand was therefore high for NRDP funds to
finance localized improvements to rural roads, often complemented by rehabilitation of
small bridges and culverts. Relatively low-cost (US$29,000 on average), this type of
subproject reached a large number of beneficiaries, with a positive impact both on the
local economy and the lives of families residing in the assisted areas. Throughout the



-55-                          AnnexfB
state, 790 such subprojects were implemented, each benefiting some 144 households or
a total of about 114,000 rural families.
(b)   Rural electrification. Frequently, remote rural areas in Maranhao, as in most
Northeast states, are not connected to the main electricity network. NRDP helped
to install electrification in villages and/or communities, which improved the quality
of life of rural dweilers by giving them access to radio, television and the use of
domestic appliances. Electrification also generated productive activities, created
additional employment and increased incomes of local shops, businesses and agro-
industries. In total, about 96,000 families benefited from the 633 rural electrification
subprojects financed by the program in Maranhao.
(c)   Rural water supply. Although Maranhao is outside the "drought polygon" and as
such is less vulnerable to drought than other Northeast states, some parts of the
state --particularly those adjacent to the sertdo in the neighboring state of Piaui-
have scarce water resources. Water supply works implemented (such as
communal wells, reservoirs and fountains) differ according to local conditions. They
provide, mostly for domestic use and human consumption, a precious resource which
previously was obtained only through long hours of walking or had to be supplied by
the municipality (para. 14). They lead to savings in time, effort and cost, and to
improved health through better sanitation - these gains are often cited by the
beneficiaries as one of the major benefits accruing from NRDP water supply
subprojects. In MaranhMo, NRDP water supply systems are also frequently utilized to
irrigate communal vegetable gardens (hortas), which contribute to improving the
nutritional status of beneficiaries. Some 53,600 families benefited from the 421 water
supply subprojects that were implemented in the state under the refornulated NRDP.
Productive Subprojects
The experience with productive subprojects, which represented less than a third of
NRDP investments in the state, has been mixed in Maranhao. The more traditional types, based
on agro-processing of food crops such as rice and manioc, have generally been successful in
increasing local production and incomes of recipient families. One specific type, more rarely
found in other states, also contributed to raising beneficiary incomes but often in an unsustainable
manner: this was the provision of farm inputs over a limited period (one or two cropping
seasons). Such subprojects were eventually stopped by the TU following its own evaluation of
their outcome. Finally, political decision led to the financing of a clothes-making complex in the
municipality of Rosario, a joint venture with foreign investors which was designed to generate
several thousand jobs for poor local communities. However, initial results were disappointing,
prompting the State Government to take remedial measures that should improve the outcome of
the subprojects.
(a)   Rice mills. Rice being one of the main crops in Maranhio, there is high demand
for communal processing units or mini-usinas de arroz. These typically consist of
a shed, which communities help to build with their own labor and materials, and a
milling equipment which is simple, low-cost (about US$11,000) and easy to



- 56 -                       Annex B
operate, usually by a wage-earning employee. Association members contribute to
the operation and maintenance of the mill by paying a monthly association fee, a
user fee (conga) representing a certain percentage of the quantity of rice milled by
each individual, and eventual supplementary contributions in case of extraordinary
maintenance. Surplus rice remaining after family consumption is sold on local
markets. Some 140 rice mills were financed in Maranhao, benefiting nearly 10,000
rural families.
(b)   Manioc flour mills. As in the rest of the Northeast, casas defarinha are a
familiar structure in rural Maranhao, where manioc is consumed primarily in the
form of flour. The main benefits from this type of subproject are reduced
processing costs (plus, in some cases, savings in transport to other mills located
outside the community), leading to increased production both for sale and family
consumption. Where there is no other mill in the area, community-owned casas de
farinha replace home-based processing which is done in an artisanal, time-
consuming fashion and produces poor quality flour. Because faster processing
allows the producers more time for planting and harvesting, the installation of
manioc mills is associated with an increase in cultivated areas and in employment,
both on the farms and in the mills. In total, some 80 manioc flour mills were
financed by the reformulated NRDP in Maranhao, benefiting about 6,000 families.
(c)  ]Inputs for campos agrfcolas. This type of productive subproject consisted of
providing agricultural inputs (seeds, fertilizers etc.) to groups of farmers over a
short agricultural season or year. This served, in effect, as a substitute for formal
credit --which NRDP communities do not normally have access to for lack of land
titles and other collateral-- to allow poor farmers to purchase the necessary inputs
to cultivate, on a communal basis, dry or irrigated land. Where this provided
beneficiaries with some critically needed resources to continue and maintain
agricultural production in the face of adverse climatic or marketing conditions,
campos agricolas financed by NRDP contributed to stabilizing, if not increasing,
incomes of local farm families during difficult periods. However, the TU
eventually realized that the one-time provision of inputs which was characteristic
of this type of subproject was clearly not sustainable, especially when beneficiaries
were not able to make their own collective arrangements for establishing funds to
buy inputs for the following seasons, and campos agricolas became ineligible
under the project.
(d)   Clothes-making. Most investments in this category (about 8% of the total
subprojects approved in Maranhao) have been for a group of 180 subprojects
involving 90 community associations in the municipality of Rosario, as part of a
shirt-making complex sponsored by the State Government in order to stem high
local unemployment. The community associations, each with 40 members, own
the facilities and equipment, which were financed partly by NRDP (through
matching grants) and partly by Banco do Nordeste (through group credit). They
also provide labor, originally to be remunerated by a Taiwanese firm which was to
be responsible for the marketing and operation of the complex. Early estimates



- 57 -                       Annex B
indicated that only 70% of the 3,600 beneficiaries initially envisaged would end up
being employed; and that even these were likely to earn a net salary, according to
the Taiwanese firm's own production and wage estimates, that was well below the
official minimum wage. The World Bank, which was not informed when the
Rosario subprojects were approved, and had already forestalled similar ventures in
several other states, subsequently agreed with the state that their impact on the
community associations would be closely monitored, measures would be initiated
to prevent involved communities from being penalized, and that the state would
desist from repeating such ventures. At the beginning of 1997, training of the
association members by the Taiwanese firm was suspended, and the relations
between the two parties started to deteriorate. The State Government intervened
by contracting a local NGO to resume training and support the associations in
institutional and administrative matters as well as financial management. While the
future role of the Taiwanese firm in the undertaking is being re-assessed by the
State, the first stage of production is expected to start in June 1997, some six
months behind the original schedule.
(e)   Tractors for communal use. As in other states, farming communities in
MaranMo seek financing for tractors which they can use on a group basis to
mechanize cultivation and expand the areas cropped (mostly with rice, manioc,
maize, beans and horticultural crops). The use of tractors and implements helps to
increase crop yields and productivity, often resulting in significant gains:in the
production and incomes of the beneficiaries. These, small farmers and tenants, had
to depend previously on a few privately-owned tractors whose services are costlier
and often not available for all at the required time. The 132 tractor subprojects
that were financed by the reformulated NRDP in Maranhao are benefiting about
5,650 families whose incremental incomes are estimated to be about US$1,400 per
year (see Annex J).
Social Subprojects
In Maranhao NRDP investments of a social nature were predominantly for house
improvement and day care centers, followed by a few subprojects to rehabilitate rural schools and
health posts.
(a)   Health-related house improvement. As in other states, rural dwellings often are
in poor condition and lack hygiene. This inevitably leads to health problems
including the fatal Chagas disease, spread by an insect favoring wall materials of
traditional rural houses. In total, 110 house improvement subprojects were
implemented in Maranhao, with a notable impact on the living and health
conditions of the 4,800 beneficiary families.
(b)   Day care centers. Creches are a particularly helpful investment for women. By
freeing the mothers from child care responsibilities during the day, these
subprojects increase the capacity of mothers to work and earn additional income.
Other benefits include an increase in their time for food preparation, educational



-58-                         AnnexB
and leisure activities. Some 32 day care centers were financed in Maranhao,
benefiting about 3,100 rural families.
Graduation
18.   By improving the quality of life and economic and social conditions of beneficiaries, the
NRDP initiated a process of accumulation at both the local and household levels, providing
beneficiaries with a jump-start and ensuring a degree of sustainability absent from previous
development efforts in the Northeast. As found in the University of Michigan study (para. 5(b)),
socio-economic conditions in the communities that were reached by the program improved
notably. In particular, NRDP-funded investments accelerated the post-1993 drought recovery of
these communities, and provided them with incentives to use land more intensively. While rural
infrastructure and social subprojects have ameliorated, sometimes dramatically, living standards of
beneficiary families, they also have, along with productive subprojects, generated employment not
only for heads of rural households but also other members such as women, and led to improved
welfare and increased, more stable, family incomes. The program thus contributed to elevating
the economic conditions of beneficiaries above those generally found with rural communities in
the Northeast, providing them with initial start-up funds and allowing them to generate savings
both for financing other investments and accessing formal credit. In addition, a notable feature of
the NRDP was to promote resource mobilization at the municipal level, as demonstrated by the
financial participation of municipalities in the program, particularly in Maranhao (para. 11).
19.   Given the relatively high IERRs of some productive subprojects (Annex J), it could be
argued that these cases would have been better attended through credit rather than through a
grant mechanism. However, the rural poor in the Northeast --the target group of the
reformulated NRDP-- generally have very limited access to credit for such micro-ventures. As an
alternative to credit, the grant mechanism provided the NRDP beneficiary communities with the
means to accumulate benefits at the local level and generate savings, which they could use to
leverage with the financial sector to obtain credit for additional investments and eventually
graduate out of the program. However, determination of the variables that should count most
when deciding to graduate a given community or municipality from the program requires careful
study.
ADVANTAGES OF FUMAC OVER PAC
20.   While the pilot nature of FUMAC under the reformulated NRDP necessarily limited its
area of intervention, experience to date demonstrates that this component was successful and
should be expanded. The FUMAC approach clearly achieved greater community participation
and transparency than PAC and helped strengthen the capacity of communities to select and
implement subprojects. Although socio-economic benefits produced by the two components were
similar in many respects, there was enough evidence, as found in Kottak and Costa's follow-up
study (1994), to assert that greater community participation and transparency in decision-making
were achieved through FUMAC, since subproject proposals were deliberated not only by the
community but also by the project Municipal Council at open public meetings. Not only did
awareness of the program and its requirements appear to be stronger with FUMAC communities
than with PAC communities, but participation in decision-making was also found to be higher



-59 -                        Annex B
with the first group. Generally, as a result of better selection and prioritization by the
beneficiaries through the Municipal Council forum, FUMAC subprojects were able to meet the
program's criteria better than PAC subprojects. This more rigorous process in FUMAC also
contributed to an increased capacity by communities in FUMAC municipalities to identify, plan
and implement subprojects. In addition, the stronger and more capable Municipal Councils served
as catalysts to increase community organization.
21.  In the majority of Northeast states, local governments and communities have also been
highly committed to the FUMAC approach. The success of FUMAC can be gauged by the large
degree of acceptance and commitment of both local governments and communities which, in most
states, adhered to its principles of consensus building and local development planning -- the latter
being in its most advanced state in Maranhao (para. 25). In some of the states, a number of
municipalities, first participating under PAC, spontaneously chose to establish "FUMAC-like"
Councils, where local priorities were discussed and collective decisions made on subproject
submissions before these were forwarded to the TUs.
The FUMAC Experience in Maranhao
22.   The experience of FUMAC in Maranhao has been diverse and enriching, both in terms of
achievements and lessons learned. At the beginning of the reformulated NRDP, 12 FUMAC
municipal councils were set up to implement this pilot component throughout the state. In 1995,
their creation was accelerated by the TU which, faced with shortages of state counterpart funds,
decided to encourage the municipalities to actively participate not only in the execution but also in
the financing of the program. As a result, 31 other municipalities formed their own FUMAC
councils, but these lacked sufficient knowledge of the program and appropriate training (which
the TU had no capacity to provide in such a short time). The hasty establishment and
unpreparedness of some of these councils translated into less than satisfactory performance,
particularly in the process of subproject selection and approval, forcing the TU to "de-activate"
19, or more than 40% of the FUMAC councils constituted, in early 1996.
23.   The TU then concentrated its efforts on mobilizing rural communities and on training the
remaining FUMAC councils (2 more were established since, bringing the total of FUMAC
municipalities to 26 at the end of 1996). Most of the training was conducted in the form of
seminars or workshops which were attended by members of different communities and councils,
and where participatory techniques were used to stimulate discussions and allow for exchanges of
experiences and collective problem solving. The approach has been fairly successful, although
local circumstances such as the level of organization of the communities and/or the attitude of the
municipal authorities tended to prevail on the degree of transparency and representativeness in
which FUMAC operated in the various municipalities.
24.   Of the FUMAC councils in the state, 14 have graduated into so-called "decentralized"
FUMAC councils. These have their own legal status, maintain their own bank accounts, enter
into contractual arrangements with the TU for the disbursement of subproject funds, oversee the
utilization of these funds by the beneficiary community associations, authorize payments to
contractors and finally, supervise the execution of subprojects on the ground. Some of these
FUMAC councils, having reached a high level of organizational and operational autonomy, are



60-                         Anne B
ideal candidates for a prpgram in which they would be devolved financial autonomy as well. Such
a program, called FUMAC-P, has been introduced on a pilot basis in the new Rural Poverty
Alleviation Projects in Bahia, Ceari and other states. Its distinguishing feature from the original
FUMAC is that it decentralizes financial management down to the Municipal Councils,
transferring the responsibility for managing subproject funds to those councils that have proven
capacity and, possibly but not- necessarily, have performed well under FUMAC. Each year the
councils would receive a budget envelope corresponding to subprojects identified and prioritized
by their communities, and included in an annual operating plan which they would have prepared
and submitted to the TU the previous year.
25.   Along with only one or two other NRDP states, Maranhao piloted the preparation of
municipal development plans. With technical assistance from the TU and IICA, three of the
municipalities with FUMAC councils (Guimaraes, Fortaleza dos Nogueiras and Matoes - the last
two being "decentralized" FUMACs) produced their first development plans, the result of a
collective, consultative effort involving representatives of local government and civil society
including the communities. The plans themselves are imperfect documents and, because they
were prepared before the recent municipal elections, they may not be acknowledged by the newly-
installed municipal administrations in the three municipalities. However, developing the plans
constituted an unprecedented opportunity for the local stakeholders to analyze potentials and
constraints in an integrated manner and to identify and plan priorities for investment, matching
them against possible sources of financing including NRDP. As such, it was a useful learning
process not only for the municipalities but also for the TU, which will be refining the methodology
used to prepare the plans before replicating the experience to other municipalities in the state.
26.   Another achievement was to initiate the application of the FUMAC delivery mechanism to
indigenous populations in Maranhao, starting with the establishment of an indigenous FUMAC
council in the municipality of Barra do Corda. This council is composed of representatives of
various ethnic groups living in three reserves demarcated by the national agency FUNAI
(Fundapdo Nacional do Indio), within a total area of about 153,000 ha. Both the level of
organization and discipline, and performance of the indigenous FUMAC council have been
strikingly good. Like other FUMAC councils, the indigenous council is legally constituted, has an
executive director and secretary, a general assembly and a "fiscal" committee. It meets on a
regular basis to discuss and prioritize investment proposals. Before each meeting, council
members visit eommunities that they represent to check on the legitimacy of the proposals. The
council contracted local firms or individuals for technical assistance and for preparation and
implementation of NRDP subprojects, and was discussing with the TU a revised version of the
Project Operational Manual with the aim of tailoring it specifically to the needs of indigenous
communities. While it received full support and material assistance (transport and sundries) from
the local office of FUNAI, the indigenous council was completely autonomous in its decision-
making processes.
27.   By late 1996, the indigenous council of Barra do Corda had endorsed --and forwarded to
the TU for final approval-- 35 community subprojects, distributed equally between basic
infrastructure (in particular for roads improvement, a pressing need in a region where council
members have to travel several hours from their communities to meet in the municipal center) and
productive subprojects (manioc flour mills, rice mills and some irrigated fruit production



- 61-                        Annex B
development). Principally because of the TU's slowness to respond and the difficulties it
encountered in traveling to these areas to appraise subproject submissions in the field, only four of
the subprojects had been approved for financing as of late 1996. The 35 subproject proposals
submitted to the indigenous council of Barra do Corda represent about 70% of total demand by
indigenous communities living in four municipalities in the state (Amarante do Maranhao, Arame
and Grajau, in addition to Barra do Corda itselt). Demand by communities in the other three
municipalities was channeled through "regular" FUMAC councils, representing non-indigenous as
well as indigenous communities.
28.   The positive experience of the indigenous FUMAC council of Barra do Corda should be
replicated to other indigenous areas in the state. Experience to date has shown that the felt needs
and aspirations of indigenous communities are voiced more efficiently and with more positive
results within a forum composed of representatives of communities sharing the same cultural
identity and types of problems, rather than one that represents other communities as well.
However, serious social conflicts have risen in other indigenous areas of the state such as Grajai,
creating serious security risks for "outsiders" and a difficult working environment for the TU.
TECHNICAL ASSESSMENT OF SUBPROJECTS
29.   A technical evaluation carried out by the Bank in late 1994 found that works executed
under the program in all participating states were generally of good quality, especially when
implemented by private contractors (about 75% of PAC and FUMAC subprojects). For the
remaining 25% of subprojects (20% executed by municipalities, with unskilled labor often
provided by beneficiaries, and 5% implemented by the communities themselves), the quality varied
but remained generally fair to good. Only for a very small proportion (less than 5% of all
subprojects) was construction quality rated as poor. In Maranhao, a more recent survey was
conducted by the TU on major types of works implemented in the state (all by local contractors
for infrastructure subprojects, and largely by the communities themselves for construction related
to productive subprojects like manioc flour or rice mills). The survey found that, overall, the
quality was good in about 58% of the subprojects, fair in 30% and unsatisfactory in 12%. Rural
electrification subprojects were of the highest quality (80% good, 20% fair), while construction of
less than a third of water supply systems was rated unsatisfactory (against 43% good and 27%
fair).
30.   Because of their relatively small size, PAC/FUMAC subprojects generally do not produce
significant effects on the environment. However, certain types of projects, by their very nature,
produce environmentally undesirable by-products (e.g., from the processing of manioc) or lead to
increased use of products that may have a negative environmental impact (including fertilizers and
pesticides associated with the use of tractors, wood for fuel in manioc and rice mitls). Greater
consideration will have to be given to these aspects in the successor project to the NRDP in
Maranhio, following the example of the Rural Poverty Alleviation Projects now under
implementation in Bahia and other Northeast states.



- 62 -                       Annex B
INSTIrUTIONAL ANALYSIS
31.   A participatory, demand-driven program addressing a large target population such as the
reformulated NRDP, involves many actors and stakeholders. The analysis of the performance of
each of these groups, although varying among the states, yields a generally favorable picture. The
clientelistic approach traditionally found in the Northeast remains prevalent in some specific areas
but, by and large, the program, by promoting transparency and consensus building as well as
enhancing the capacity of communities to address and prioritize their own needs, succeeded in
reducing the incidence of politicization and in particular the use of project resources for political
or personal purposes. In cases where this has happened, as in the Rosario complex in Maranhlo
(para. 17(d)), close and permanent monitoring by the Bank and commitment of the state to adopt
appropriate solutions, are required.
32.   When they are properly mobilized and share a common sense of purpose, community
associations generally function well. Collective responsibilities such as appointment of office-
holders, payment of dues or user fees and accounting are met by the members, particularly of
those associations which are well organized, as in Minas Gerais or Paraiba where many date back
to the start of the original NRDP. On the other hand, some community associations were formed
with the objective of requesting financing for a needed subproject, and did not have significant
organizational experience at the outset. Such weak associations tended to be easily exploited by
politicians and/or intermediaries, usually under PAC. Where the consensus-building mechanism
existed at the municipal level through FUMAC, the outcome was generally favorable, especially
when mayors facilitated the spread of information about the project and provided the conditions
necessary for communities to capitalize on project benefits which met their basic needs. In
Maranhao, notable cases include the communities of Guimaraes and Vit6ria do Mearim, which
were able to generate their own investment proposals and follow up on their implementation
through well performing FUMAC Councils, in which the Church and/or supportive mayors
actively participated.
33.  In all ten states, community associations share a common need for technical assistance.
Not only is this essential for the organizational development of newly-formed associations, but it
is needed to assist all associations during the entire subproject cycle, from preparation to
implementation and O&M of subprojects. The need for training and technical assistance was
more acute for productive subprojects, where inadequate O&M was often the result of lack of
technical know-how on the part of the communities in the absence of follow-up by the TUs.
Better access to organizational and management training wili also contribute to the sustainability
of both community organizations and subprojects.
34.   The FUMAC Municipal Councils have been the focal point of the program's
decentralization strategy and must be protected from political interference which would
undermine the demand-driven nature of such a program. In FUMAC, the Municipal Councils
review and discuss in a public forum the communities' subproject requests and forward these to
the TU in priority order for financing. The Councils are generally chaired by the mayors and
comprise representatives from both public and non-governmental agencies and community
associations. Development and performance of the project FUMAC Municipal Councils was
clearly afTected by the attitude of the local political power base, especially that of the mayor.



- 63 -                       Annex B
Usually, mayors were supportive and the disparate interests represented in the FUMAC councils
found a modus vivendi. In some of the participating states, mayors even generalized the FUMAC
approach to decision-making on allocation of non-project resources as well. Nevertheless, while
political influence can work to the advantage of the Councils by facilitating the subproject
approval process and forging mutual benefits for project Councils and municipal governments,
this same influence can undermine the demand-driven nature of the project if left unchecked or
when community groups are not strong or cohesive enough. In Maranhao, an example of this was
found in Guimaries, where the previous mayor worked hand in hand with the local FUMAC
Municipal Council and where, with one or two exceptions, the community subprojects financed by
NRDP were performing satisfactorily. The present mayor, on the other hand, is reputedly less
open to consultation and participation. The communities, while apprehensive about the risks of
negative interference or open opposition by the new mayor, stated that they would continue with
FUMAC and resist any attempt to subvert the FUMAC Council.
35.   The participation and support of rural municipal governments is important for
sustainability and should be encouraged, but with sufficient safeguards against negative political
influence. While the project Municipal Councils act independently of municipal governments, the
participation and support of the latter is nonetheless important. Rural municipal governments
have limited financial resources with which to invest in rural communities and, hence, the
reformulated NRDP served as an important source of funds at the local level to bridge the gap in
public resources for investment in poor rural communities. Mayors and municipal leaders viewed
the project as a welcome source of additional resources for investment to meet basic community
needs to which their municipal budgets could not realistically attend. For the most part, mayors,
municipal legislature members (vereadores) and municipal administrations supported and
participated in NRDP. Maranhao constitutes the best example where municipal governments
provided the counterpart funds which the financially strapped state governments were unable to
supply. In fact, in this state, financial contributions by interested municipalities were increasingly
imposed by the TU as a condition for participating in NRDP. Although this attests to the capacity
of the program to leverage local municipal resources, this practice tended to penalize the poorer
municipalities as well as opened the NRDP to political haggling by some powerful and well-off
mayors. Indeed, the Bank stopped project disbursements for several months in late 1995 when it
became aware of some bargaining between the State authorities and certain mayors for
subprojects to be funded by the program. Overall, the net result of this practice has been a
relative concentration of subprojects in 14 municipalities (about 11% of all eligible municipalities),
which together received about 35% of all NRDP community subproject funds in the state.
36.   Technical Units need assistance to streamline operational procedures and strengthen
project supervision. The state-level TU has been the focal point for project administration and the
project's principal liaison for the Municipal Councils and for those community associations
located in PAC municipalities. TUs are generally autonomous entities attached to the State
Planning Secretariat (except for Rio Grande do Norte where the TU is responsible to another
State Secretariat). Most have established field offices, each with one or more technicians.
Maran}o is a notable exception, with a TU of only 36 technicians and 22 administrative staff,
operating exclusively out of the state capital. Given the large size of the state (over 333,000
kn2) and its distribution into different agroecological micro-regions, the TU is obviously too



-64 -                        Annex B
small. In particular, manpower limitations made it difficult for the TU to operationalize its rules
of conducting field investigations of potential subprojects before approving them --a necessity
ignored by the previous TU-- and of closely supervising their execution. Another problem was
the inadequacy of the formal structure of the TU, inherited from the previous administration, with
the way in which the various units and departments actually operated and worked together. This
last constraint appears to have been solved by changes in the TU structure, formalized by a recent
(April 1997) decree issued by the state Governor.
37.   Despite their size (generally 40-60 technicians), TUs found it hard to process the large
number of subproject proposals and to provide technical assistance for the preparation and
implementation of subprojects. Because the process of appraising subprojects and, in particular,
that of negotiating terms of agreement with beneficiary associations was time-consuming, not all
of the subprojects approved yearly (up to 1,000 per state) were actually funded the same year. In
addition, supervision of subprojects was weak given the logistical constraints of visiting a large
number of subprojects. Project technical assistance to the TUs was mostly contracted from
intemational and bilateral agencies such as IICA, GTZ and FAO.
38.   The successful cases of NGOs and other technical assistance providers participating in
the reformulated NRDP need to be replicated. One solution to the problem of the TUs' inability
to provide sufficient technical assistance and to supervise the large number of subprojects, has
been for the TUs to contract NGOs to fulfill these tasks, as has been done successfully in Rio
Grande do Norte with various organizations grouped together under the Forum do Campo, or to
forge alliances with other technical assistance providers as in Minas Gerais. In this latter state,
EMATER provides high quality agricultural extension services and has been more supportive and
successful than in other states in contributing to income-generating productive subprojects.
However, even where there was no official alliance between the TU and EMATER, NRDP was
supported by individual extensionists adpersonam. In Maranhao, the TU intends to expand its
collaboration --to date limited-- with NGOs, some of which have several years experience with
working with rural communities in certain municipalities throughout the state but are short of
staff.
39.   The World Bank Recife Office plays a fundamental role in the coordination and
supervision of the ten state projects under the reformulated NRDP. The Bank's office in Recife
(Pernambuco) has three task managers dedicated exclusively to working with the participating
states, some of which, like Bahia and Maranhao, are quite large. By delegating all supervision
activities to the Recife Office, including procurement reviews and field visits, Bank support is
better tailored to the decentralized structure of the reformulated NRDP.
Summary Institutional Assessment
40.  Institutional analysis shows that, by assigning greater responsibility and influence to local
level organizations and municipal governments, the reformulated NRDP's primary achievement
has been to support a decentralized approach to resource allocation and the creation of social
capital in the rural areas of the Northeast. After three years of implementation of the
reformulated program, it is possible to draw a number of conclusions about its institutional
arrangements and performance. The capacity of both communities and municipal governments to



-65 -                        Annex B
prioritize investment decisions was strengthened by the subproject development and approval
process inherent in the program. The NRDP provided a fiscal incentive to decentralized decision-
making, since local level decisions were backed by inflows of project resources. The FUIMAC
approach, in particular, not only placed the power to prioritize community investment proposals
with local level organizations but also introduced transparency into the resource allocation
process for rural investments at the municipal level, thereby minimizing the traditional, clientelistic
approach. FUMAC provides a forum, which did not exist before, for local government
representatives and community representatives to discuss investment needs and priorities. As
FUMAC spreads beyond the pilot phase and as municipalities gain more years of experience with
the mechanism, municipal governments will become more accustomed to participatory decision-
making processes, and rural community associations will continue to exercise their voice and
choice.
41.   The reformulated NRDP was nonetheless vulnerable to political interference, particularly
where local level organizations such as community associations and FUMAC Municipal Councils
were newly established, lacked sufficient information, or were without adequate technical
assistance and training, factors needing to be addressed in follow-up projects. Experience under
the reformulated NRDP demonstrates that there is a fine line between participation of local
political leaders in the program, which is strongly encouraged, and politicization of the program.
Politicization occurs when transparency breaks down, which can happen if information about the
project is not widely and carefully disseminated, or when project internal controls are not
enforced, such as with weak supervision by the TUs or insufficient external support from NGOs
or other third parties to monitor project implementation. As municipalities increase their
contributions to the financing of NRDP investments, greater vigilance will be required to ensure
that the demand-driven nature of the project is not sacrificed. Also, the FUMAC approach, which
instills greater transparency into the program's resource allocation process, can fall prey to
political interference if community representation on the Councils is insufficient. In addition,
where technical assistance and training is inadequate, sustainability of the investments is more
precarious since operation and maintenance of the investments requires certain skill sets which
may not exist in some communities. Increased "on the job" training to community associations is
vital to ensure their sustainability, particularly of newly-formed associations.
CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
42.   The generally satisfactory performance of the reformulated NRDP and its favorable impact
on the lives and incomes of beneficiaries show that after several decades of experience with rural
development efforts in the Northeast, a good measure of success has been achieved in effectively
reaching the rural poor with targeted interventions. Some of the most positive results can be
summarized as follows:
* The reformulated NRDP put in place objective conditions for the organization of poor
communities in the ten participating states. In some of these states, organized rural



-66 -                        Annex B
communities have shown that they can influence the allocation and use of municipal
financial resources in such a way as to favor the rural poor.
*  The program fostered the institutional and financial commitment of local governments
to its decentralized approach to addressing the needs of the rural poor. A large
number of municipalities, although not legally required either under PAC or FUMAC,
provided financial and other types of assistance to approved community subprojects.
In addition, in some states, mayors readily adopted the FUMAC approach and
instituted it for decision-making on non-project investments at the municipal level.
*  Investments funded by the program have, to a large extent, (a) satisfied real
community needs; (b) been of good or satisfactory technical quality and (c) been
relatively less costly than those executed by public authorities (municipal, state and
federal).
*  Beneficiary communities have adhered enthusiastically to the program; such
enthusiasm translated into participation in the execution and in contributing to the
costs of operation and maintenance of the investments, enhancing their sense of
ownership of the subprojects.
*  Although the reformulated NRDP did not incorporate instruments for structural
changes in the agriculture of the Northeast, it proved to be a valuable approach for
reaching and assisting a large number of landless families -- usually excluded from the
target groups of many other programs, including the original NRDP. Further, land
reform beneficiaries became a very active clientele of the reformulated program, as it
provided them with opportunities to satisfy investment needs other than those
received through the government's land reform program.
-  In the majority of FUMAC participating municipalities, there are encouraging signs
that the "clientelistic" approach traditionally used in the Northeast to satisfy
community needs is gradually giving way to a more genuinely participatory and
transparent approach. This transparency in decision-making has allowed a built-in
mechanism of "social control" over investments using public funds.
43.   Nevertheless, the program could be further improved by introducing modifications to its
design, which would rectify those deficiencies that have been identified and would improve
project implementation and performance. In Maranhao, divergence from the principles of
transparency and accountability promoted by NRDP has been detected --and recognized by the
State-- in the case of the Rosario clothes-making complex, as have been the negative trade-offs
from municipal contributions into the program (para. 35). However, the TU is fully committed to
preventing such cases from recurring. It also put in special efforts in the past two years to: (a)
improve the operational aspects of the program, e.g., more rigorous analysis of subproject
proposals coupled with more frequent and systematic field supervision, stricter control of use of
subproject funds by communities, review of subproject types financed in the past so as to
eliminate those that are not meeting the program's criteria or not producing sustainable benefits.



- 67 -                       Annex B
Unfortunately, these improvements did not prevent strong political pressure by the State
authorities to use NRDP resources to finance the Rosario subprojects; (b) reach out and provide
effective technical assistance to indigenous populations, a good example of which is the setting up
of the Indigenous FUMAC Council in Barra do Corda whose performance and capacity for
organization are remarkably good; (c) apply participatory methods in training and program
evaluation; (d) ensure quality in the FUMAC delivery mechanism by de-activating unauthentic or
under-performing FUMAC Councils; and (e) pilot the preparation of municipal development plans
in three FUMAC municipalities. Additionally, the TU would have to review its present staffing
requirements and opt for a more decentralized structure, which would facilitate its mobilization
and technical assistance work with rural communities in the field. It would also have to expand
collaborative arrangements with NGOs and/or other entities to assist in these tasks.
44.   Taken together, the different evaluations of NRDP have brought to light a number of
lessons, which suggest that the following modifications be made to the design of successor
projects:
45.   Expand FUMAC. The projects should expand FUMAC and initiate a pilot municipal
funds program (FUMAC-P), to promote further decentralization of decision-making to municipal
and community levels, to relieve the administrative logjam resulting from state intervention in the
minutiae of subprojects, and to further encourage municipal cost-sharing of subprojects. The
appraisal and subsequent approval of community subprojects by Municipal Councils under
FUMAC and FUMAC-P would significantly reduce the role played by TUs in approving
subprojects --and the bias that this implies-- in the existing program. Also, FUMAC tends to be
more effective in thwarting political interference because of the increased transparency of its
subproject approval process over that of PAC. Increasing community representation on the
Councils to at least 80% of all voting members will help Councils resist overpowering political
influence.
46.   Supervision. By the same token, supervision of subprojects by the TUs should be more
rigorous, including by contracting external assistance as in Rio Grande do Norte where a NGO
was contracted for this purpose. Supervision, both during and after implementation of the
subprojects, is an indispensable determinant of their success and sustainability. Increased supervision
would improve the quality of implementation of subprojects and would help identify and resolve
potential problems in subproject operation and subsequent maintenance.
47.   Standard Designs and Appraisal Criteria. For simplicity and efficiency in subproject
preparation, evaluation and supervision, as well as for minimizing design deficiencies, the Project
Operational Manuals should establish standard engineering designs, technical and financial
parameters, and cost indicators for the most frequently requested subprojects. Standardization of
subproject documents, technical designs and unit costs simplifies the subproject preparation and
evaluation process, facilitates the procurement of goods and works, prevents overdesign and improves
the quality of subprojects, encouraging greater participation by poorer communities and reducing
bottlenecks in the subproject cycle. Also, environmental assessment criteria should be part of the
Operational Manual and routinely monitored during subproject supervision.



-68 -                         Annex B
48.   Productive Subprojecta. The managerial requirements and profit maximization
objectives of certain types of productive subprojects are difficult to meet when they are financed
in a social context and operated and maintained communally as under the NRDP. To ensure
sustainability, productive subprojects financed by such a program should be subject to rigorous
selection, preparation, technical assistance and supervision. Eligible productive investments
should be those that provide services for a large number of community members; whose collective
use is regulated by strict operational guidelines (regulamento de uso); and for which operation
and maintenance is assured by charging adequate user fees to both association members and non-
members.
49.   Technical Assistance and Training. Funds for technical assistance and training should
be channeled to rural communities and project Municipal Councils to enable participation of the
poorest areas, foster community capacity and empowerment, and encourage the active
participation of able and competent NGOs and local development agencies. Increased technical
assistance to rural communities also will enable them to identify, prepare and implement their own
subprojects, thereby augmenting their capacity to compete for investment funds and to operate and
maintain the subprojects appropriately. In addition, technical assistance activities should be targeted to
project Municipal Councils to improve their planning, management and financial capacity. Finally, the
quality and capacity of the Technical Unit is a critical factor in project success, and thus its institutional
strengthening, which may entail the contracting of international or bilateral aid-funded entities such as
I[CA or GTZ, as is currently practiced, should receive increased attention. The TUs should actively
organize all technical assistance and training arrangements under the project and oversee the
quality of these activities.
50.   Participation and Transparency. In addition to the above measures, participation and
transparency should be further enhanced by setting clear rules for the composition and modus
operandi of project Municipal Councils, with more than 80% of members coming from
community representatives and local civil society. Greater efforts by the TUs to organize and
mobilize poor communities are also fundamental in order to enable these communities to
participate in project benefits.
51.   Transparency should also be promoted by incorporating a system of operational incentives
and penalties into the project design. Incentives for positive performance and penalties against
departures from project guidelines --misappropriation of resources, mistargeting of project
benefits, faulty subproject design, insufficient community participation or lack of proper O&M--
should accompany the increased decentralization of resources and decision-making responsibilities
to beneficiaries and project Municipal Councils through FUMAC and FUMAC-P. This
framework of incentives and disincentives would require backing by the TUs through ex-post
control of subproject activities through auditing of accounts, and supervision and monitoring.
52.   Finally, to minimize the risk of political manipulation and increase participation, the
Northeast states must better tailor their information campaigns to the rural poor and ensure that
information about the project, particularly its objectives, operational guidelines and procedures for
soliciting financing, is widely disseminated to all potential beneficiaries. Better and more widely
disseminated information campaigns will also increase transparency --stimulating the role of public



- 69 -                       Annex B
"watchdogs"-- and will put all communities on a level playing field with respect to access to
project benefits.
53.   Sustainability. Through a system of matching grants to poor rural community associations,
the reformulated NRDP has improved the quality of life and the economic and social conditions of its
beneficiaries. By providing an initial jump-start to poor communities previously without investment
capital, the reformulated NRDP initiated a process of local accumulation at the beneficiary and
community levels and laid the groundwork for sustainable local development. This process will be
further encouraged through greater finanial participation of municipal governments in subproject
inestments, a process which has already been launched in several states under the NRDP and should
be expanded but with appropriate safeguards. Sustainability of the subproject investments themselves
also has greater potential when the municipalities and communities contribute to the subproject
financg in a cost-sharing arrangement and when there is increased beneficiary participation.
Beneficiaiy counterpart contributions should be better quantified and should count toward the global
counterpart fund requirements. Furthermore, increased technical assistance and training to rural
communities, as well as stronger supervision by the TUs, will improve the quality of
implementation of subprojects and stem potential problems in subproject operation and
maintenance, which can impede sustainability.
54.   Cost Sharing and Graduation. A strategy should be formalized to graduate
municipalities and communities from the program, once a certain level of accumulated benefits has
been reached. A fundamental element of a feasible graduation strategy would be the criteria
adopted to determine the point of graduation, backed by appropriate data which can be collected
to implement such a strategy. The strategy would need to carefully consider beneficiaries' access
to credit as well as monitorable indicators of income levels and local capacity to manage funds, as
would be demonstrated through mastery of the FUMAC-P approach.
55.   Monitoring and Evaluation. A user-friendly monitoring and evaluation (M&E) system
facilitates the subproject evaluation process, provides feedback and necessary information to improve
targeting and efficiency, and serves as an effective management and planning tool. Project design
should pay careful attention to baseline studies as the springboard for well-designed M&E and for ex-
post financial and economic evaluation of productive subprojects. To bolster the measurement of
overall project impact, the M&E system would need to expand the range of project impact inmcators
and performance benchmarks. Examples include: increased employment for women, improved health
and related "savings" to State/municipal budgets; resource mobilization at the local/municipal level; and
indicators of migration. In addition, the project M&E system must be geared to collect the information
necessaiy to support a graduation strategy. Therefore, as a condition of loan effectiveness, the
project M&E system should be improved to reinforce the mechanisms for targeting and to secure
reliable data for evaluating subproject impact, as well as to facilitate better control and project
management throughout the subproject cycle by the TUs.
56.   "Best Practice" Exchanges. Across the ten states of the reformulated NRDP, there exist
numerous successful interventions that could be replicated to the benefit of the whole program,
such as the experience with FUMAC Councils in Paraiba, the preparation of municipal
development plans in Maranhao, EMATER in Minas Gerais or NGOs in Rio Grande do Norte. In
addition, certain states have adopted technical parameters or have developed training materials



-70 -                        Annex B
which have produced positive results and should be disseminated throughout the program. Thus,
"best practice" exchanges should be arranged among the TUs to share successfiul experiences and
to reward inmovation. At the state level, as is being done in Paraiba, community associations with
successful subprojects or possessing certain skills should also be encouraged to share these with
other associations through training seminars and workshops as well as field visits.



-71-                                                Annex B
BRAZIL
RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT - MARANHAO
Table 1. PACIFUMAC Subprojects by State
State        Number of Community Proposals1'             Implemented                            Subproject Types1'
Total     PAC       FUMAC          Total      PAC      FUMAC       Infrastructure Productive   Social    Total
Sergipe 4'            1,565     1,321        244          600        501         99           398           80         122      600
Rio Grande do Norte '   1,972   1,827        145           769       694         75           183          572          14      769
Pemambuco 5           4,573     3,942        631         1,237.    1,073        164           688          455          94     1,237
Bahia                14,076    12,502      1,574         2,701     2,297        404         1,523         1,167         11     2,701
Piaui Y               3,945     3,451        494         1,569     1,417        152         1,068          320         181     1,569
Ceara '               4,651     4,194        457         3,025     2,695        330         1,698         1,185        142     3,025
ParaIba'              4,924     4,009        915         2,308     1,455        853         1,714          529          65     2,308
Minas Gerais.         3,211     2,016      1,195         1,844     1,224        620         1,262          435         147     1,844
Maranhgo O'           6,244     4,730      1,514         3,065     2,110        955          1,979         940         146     3,065
Alagoas               1,327     1,244         83           742       683         59           462          215          65      742
Total                46,488    39,236      7,252        17,860    14,149      3,711        10,975        5,898         987    17,860
1/ Community subproject proposals received by the State Technical Units.
2/ Number of subprojects completed and/or under implementation.
3/ Number of subprojects completed and/or under implementation, by type.
4/ Loan closed on December 31, 1995.
S/ Loan closed on June 30, 1996.
6/ Loan closed on December 31, 1996.
7/ Loan closed on September 30, 1996.



-72 -                            Annex B
BRAZIL
RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT - MARANEHO
Table 2. Community Demd - Percentage Distribution of Subprojects Submitted by Type
Total NBDP     NRDP          NRDP         NRDP         NrDP
Type of Project    (All states)    Paraiba   Maranhao  Minas Gerais    Alaga
Water supply            15.1         14.2          10.7        13.3           2.2
Rural electrification   28.0         37.5          18.4        53.3          18.4
Farm tractor             6.0          0.7           3.2          8.7          4.7
Manioc flour mill        6.4          2.0           3.5          1.0          3.2
House improvaemnt        3.3          -             6.0          1.6          8.9
Small-scale irrigation   1.8          3.4           2.0         1.7           1.3
Sanitation               1.2          0.6           0.7         0.1           0.0
Clothes-making           2.2          -             5.7         0.2           1.7
Bridges                  2.4          -             1.7          1.1          2.1
Brick-making              1.0         -             0.7         0.1           0.0
Rice processing           1.2         2.3           5.1          0.0          2.1
Localized road           4.1          -            20.0          2.4         10.7
rehabilitation
Maize processing          1.1         1.8           0.1          0.0          0.0
Childdaycarecenters      0.4          -             1.2         0.7           0.1
Cashew processing        0.4          -            -            0.0           0.6
Other                   25.4         37.5          21.0         15.7         44.0
Total                  100.0        100.0         100.0       100.0         100.0



- 73 -                                                       Annex B
BRAZIL
RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT - MARANHAO
Table 3. Number of Municipalities Reached by NRDP
State                  Number of Municipalities '
In the   In Project      With implemented              Number of approved            Subprojects / municipalit
State     Area             subprojects                    subprojects
Total    PAC   FUMAC          Total    PAC    FUMAC           Total    PAC    FUMAC
Sergipe               75         74         74        67        7          600      501        99           8.1       7.5      14.1
Rio Grande do Norte   159        158       136       127        9          769       694       75           5.7       5.5       8.3
Pernambuco            174        167       161       145       16        1,237     1,073       164          7.7       7.4      10.3
Bahia                415         264       264       237       27        2,701     2,297      404          10.2       9.7      15.0
Piaui                 148        123       117       107       10        1,569     1,417      152          13.4      13.2      15.2
Ceara                178         176       195       168       27        3,025     2,695      330          15.5      16.0      12.2
Paniba                171        171       180       155       25        2,308     1,455      853          12.8       9.4      34.1
Minas Gerais          792/        7921      79        61       18        1,844     1,224      620          23.3      20.1      34.4
Maranhao              136        135       148       122       26        3,065     2,110      955          20.7      17.3      36.7
Alagoas               97          57        58        55        3          742      683        59          12.8      12.4      19.7
Total               1,632      1,404      1,412    1,244      168       17,860    14,149     3,711         12.6      11.4      22.1
1/ The sum of the PAC and FUMAC municipalities may exceed the total number of municipalities in the Project Area because some original PAC
municipalities later became FUMAC.
2/ Including 29 municipalities of Jequitinhonha Valley that were incorporated in the project area in 19%.



-74 -                                                     Annex B
BRAZIL
RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT - MARANHIAO
Table 4. Average Cost of Subprojects Implemented per Project, Type and State
State                                                        Average Cost (US$)
PAC                                                FUMAC                                  Total
Infrastmeture  Productive   Social    Total       Infrastructure  Productive    Social      Total
Sergipe              28,122        23,209     22,452    26,211         25,533         21,199      23,358       24,569           25,940
Rio Grande do Norte    24,926      30,228     28,614    28,951         23,854         32,214     ...............  29,134        28,969
Pernambuco           27,251        29,347     26,332    27,618         29,317         28,505      25,105       28,782           28,123
Bahia                19,457        22,217     20,660    20,654         20,911         22,620      21,600       21,652           20,803
Piaui                20,151        19,327     35,368    21,752         19,153         22,797      26,461       20,546           21,635
Ceara                20,608        30,837     26,214    23,825         23,735         31,393      28,386       27,330           24,207
Paraiba              25,736        15,000     17,888    23,668         17,327          9,644      25,626       15,311           20,580
Minas Gerais         30,789        29,548     28,569    30,312         31,873         28,134      30,332       30,894           30,674
Maranhao             26,540        17,358     25,940    24,325         28,001         20,425      27,537       24,347           24,340
Alagoas              25,686        17,814     17,603    20,823         23,620         18,917      25,356       23,304           21,009
Total                                                  24,074                                                  23,681           24,098



-75 -                                              Annex B
BRAZIL
RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT - MARANHAO
Table 5. Average Cost of PAC/FUMAC Subprojects, by Type and by State
Average Cost by Type
STATE                                                          (US$)
Manioc  Farm  Water supply   Water   Small   Rural    Rice          House      Small-scale        Clothes
Type of Project:    flour  tractor  (simplified   supply    dam    electrif  process.  improvement  irrigation  Bridge making
mill            system)   (all types)
Sergipe              11,300  29,035   30,500     29,601    -        23,692   -           24,437       -       25,935   -
Rio Grande do Norte   18,692  33,700   17,200    22,172   28,603   19,407   -            -           25,020   18,337  20,796
Pernambuco           24,000  31,000   29,000     30,000   29,000   28,000   30,000       28,000      29,000   28,000  25,000
Bahia                 7,416  19,918   14,544      14,500   13,154   20,514   10,897      18,870       18,970   20,391  22,727
Piaui                 5,843  30,825   16,800      8,722   22,343   26,383    8,859       30,897      17,701   27,969  18,428
Ceara                18,526  37,676    -         21,840   27,324   22,650   24,273       25,298      29,616   28,114  26,910
Paraiba              15,015  38,439   18,288      16,844   19,139   24,957    7,693      -           13,572    -       13,172
Minas Gerais         26,591  31,998   28,517     27,400   24,157   31,911   -            32,745      18,351   31,444  19,839
MaranLao              8,364  25,117   21,358     24,305   15,859   28,539   10,618       30,593      24,316   21,264  21,964
Alagoas              12,425  18,735   16,050     23,625    9,615   27,202   -            -           27,970   28,850   -
Total                14,817  29,644   21,362     21,901   21,022   25,326   15,390       27,263      22,724   25,589  21,105



-76 -                                             Annex B
BRAZIL
RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT - MARANHAO
Table 6. Disbursement Performance of the NRDP by State, US$ million
State -    X   Original Loan    Disbursement at   Cancellations '       Actual             Tobl
Amount       Reformulation 1                       Disbursement      Disbursement
after
Reformulation
Sergipe                      61.3             36.6               1.0              23.7              60.3
Rio Giande do Norte          61.4             32.7              10.2              18.5              51.2
Pernambuco4'                 92.0             47.1              20.0              24.9              72.0
Bahia '                     171.0             52.1             63.8               55.1              107.2
Ceara 3'                    122.0             37.1             37.1               47.8              84.9
Piaui 4/                     78.0             30.5             25.0               22.5              53.0
Paraiba5'                    60.0             21.4              0.6               38.0              59.4
Minas Gerais                 55.0             11.2              4.7               39.1              50.3
MaranhAo V                   84.0             22.8              3.8               57.4              80.2
Alagoas!y                    42.0             10.6              19.8              11.6              22.2
Total                       826.7            302.1            186.0              338.6             640.7
1/ Excluding initial deposit into Special Accounts. Reformulation became effective on September 28, 1993.
i2  Cancellation became effective on December 21, 1994 for Sergipe, Rio Grande do Norte, Pernambuco, Bahia, CeariL and Piaui;
amounts estimated to be canceled for Paraiba, Minas Gerais, Maranhao and Alagoas.
3/  Loans closed on December 31, 1995.
4/  Loans closed on June 30, 1996.
5/ Loans closed on December 31, 1996.
6/  Loan closed on September 30, 1996.



-77-                                     Annex B
BRAZIL
RURAL POVERTY ALLEV4ATION PROJECT - MARANHEO
Table 7. Selected Data on Major Types of Subprojects Financed by the NRDP in Marabio
Cost per
Total No. of     Total No. of     Beneficiary
Subprojects     Beneficiaries       Family
Subproject Type              Implemented        (Families)         (USS)
Infrastructure
Localized road rehabilitation (26%/*)"       790           114,111             203
Rural electrification (21%)/                 633            95,777              189
Rural water supply (14%)/'                   421            53,607              169
Productive
Clothes-making (80%)I'                       254            10,922             509
Agricultura inputs (5%)"                     142            6,584              447
Rice miUs (5e/e)                             140             9,837              151
Communal tractors (4%/0)"                    132             5,646             587
Manioc mills (3%/)                            80             6,000              112
Social
Health-related house improvement (4%/.)'/    110            4,766              706
Day care centers (1%)"I                       32             3,104              178
"Percentage of all subprojects implemented in the state.
Source: State database.



-78-                            Annex C
BRAZIL
RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT -
MARANH11O
C. TARGETING MECHANISMS AND PROJECT
MUNICIPALITIES
1.    Targeting of the rural poor is of critical importance in the project, particularly as
justification for the use of grants for subproject financing. Under the project, it is
proposed that targeting occur at three levels:
(a)   geographically by poverty level and other characteristics of the
municipalities;
(b)   geographically within municipalities to target rural settlements and
communities; and,
(c)   community-based selection of poor beneficiaries and particularly
vulnerable groups by the project Municipal Councils.
2.    Municipalities. Targeting at the first and second levels defines the project area.
All municipalities, with the exception of the metropolitan area of Sao Luis, are included in
the project area, bringing the total project municipalities to 216. Targeting of these
municipalities takes into consideration the concentration of income and economic activity
in the metropolitan area and the higher incidence of poverty in the municipalities of the
interior, manifested by such indicators as the rate of indigence, availability of municipal
resources, and other socio-econoniic indicators.' According to IPEA (1993), 88% of the
project municipalities suffer a rate of indigence greater than 50%.
3.    During project preparation, the Maranhao PCU refined the project targeting
methodology in a widely attended and publicized seminar, with the participation of local
NGOs, universities and public agencies as well as international agencies like UNICEF and
IICA, to identify the micro-regions/areas in the state which the proposed project should
focus on. Using a series of targeting criteria, which were based on the Mapa da Fome and
on the experience derived both from the reformulated NRDP and past or on-going
programs of the institutions that participated in the seminar, specific areas and
municipalities were pinpointed for priority action under the proposed project. As a result
Rate of indigence equals the number of families below the official poverty line established by
IPEA divided by the total number of families in the municipality. See 0 Mapa da Fome, JPEA,
March 1993.



-79 -                           Annex C
of the seminar, the PCU produced a detailed map, highlighting 11 principal micro-regions
for project interventions.
4.    Within the project municipalities, the selection of PAC and FUMAC municipalities
will be based on criteria such as past performance under the reformulated NRDP,
estimation of the organizational capacity of communities within the municipality, and
"progressiveness" of the mayor and municipal administration. The criteria for selection of
FUMAC-P municipalities is included in Annex F. As an incentive and basis for a
reasonable rate of development for FUMAC and FUMAC-P Councils, a minimum of 5
subprojects would be financed annually for each of these Councils. Adopting this rule and
based on the average unit cost of NRDP subprojects in Maranhao, amounts initially
allocated to the two subcomponents would permit the establishment of 116 FUMAC
Councils and 20 FUMAC-P Councils during the project period.
5.    Rural Settlements and Communities. The second level of targeting, within
municipalities, focuses on rural settlements and communities. Beneficiary settlements or
communities are limited to those with a population under 7,500 people.
6.    Community-based Selection. The third and principal level of targeting is
community-based selection. The project assumes that local communities can best judge
which community groups are poor and what investment priorities are in each municipality
and/or each community. The process of consensus-building at the local level by project
Municipal Councils helps to ensure that only poor communities benefit from the project.
During the open meetings to set priorities, criteria such as the socio-economic situation of
the participating communities, including existing infrastructure and availability of services,
would be discussed as part of the ranking of subprojects within the municipality. The
composition of the Municipal Councils, in which 80% are representatives from rural
communities and local civil society, as well as the clear and transparent rules and
procedures for the Councils' functioning, are important elements which facilitate targeting
poor beneficiaries. Finally, indicative targets set for social subprojects and those which
benefit women in particular, should be considered by the Municipal Councils as criteria for
subproject selection, insofar as the principles of need and perceived benefits guide ranking
decisions.
7.    The effectiveness of the targeting methodology would be assessed through the
project monitoring system and though ex-post evaluation studies. For example, annual
physical performance reviews (Annex H) would monitor the targeting of project benefits.
Also, the project implementation review (Annex H) would measure the ability of the
project to target and reach the poor. Adjustments and fine-tuning of the targeting
methodology would be based on these ex-post reviews, in agreement with the Bank.
GRADUATION STRATEGY
8.    The demand-driven community development model presented in the proposed
project is expected to increase the income-generating capacity and standards of living in
the beneficiary communities. Because project resources will be targeted to the poorest



-80 -                          Annex C
mru  communities, certain communities with better socio-economic standing relative to
others would receive fewer investment resources during the course of project
implementation. These comnmnities, able to leverage a critical mass of subprojects and
other benefits from this and previous Bank-financed and other projects, would gain access
to other sources of financing and reach a point where a "safety net" is no longer necessary.
In order to formalize this process, the proposed project would introduce a community
graduation strategy whereby those communities with demonstrated capacity for
sustainable asset-accumulation (savings), adequate social and economic infrastructure and
community organization, would no longer be eligible for project matching grants.
9.    To make this judgment, baseline profiles of beneficiary communities would be
developed using indicators of community weln-being collected from community subproject
proposals. Each subproject proposal would be accompanied by a 'fact sheet' to be filed
out by the community which would provide indication of the community's socio-economic
standing. The questions asked would extract information on benefits from previous
subprojects as well as from NRDP and other public programs, existing infrastructure and
access to social services, and indicators of accumulation/savings, such as: (a) the average
income of families in the community, in terms of minimum wages; (b) the average portion
of this income which families dedicate to buy food; (c) the average portion of farnily
income dedicated to buying medicines; and (d) the percentage of community households
which have electricity, which have secure access to water and/or treated water, and which
have access to a health post. The information contained in the baseline community profiles
would be incorporated in the MIS, and regularly updated through monitoring and
supervision exercises.
10.   At the end of the second year, the project would finance a study to determine the
point at which a community would be charged a higher cost-sharing percentage as well as
the "take-oft' point, the point at which a community would graduate out of the project.
The study would be based on a comparison of community profiles and on information
from the baseline impact evaluation (see Annex H). Using this analysis, the PCU (for
PAC) and the Municipal Councils (for FUMAC and FUMAC-P), with the support of the
PCU, would graduate those communities which have reached this "take-off' point. As
communities graduate, those municipalities with fewer eligible communities would
gradually receive less funding for subprojects and, concurrently, would graduate from the
project as weli.



-81-                            Annex D
BRAZIL
RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT -
MARANHAO
D. INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT AND PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION
1.    The success of the Rural Poverty Alleviation Project in Maranhlo in meeting its
stated objectives is dependent on the strength and capabilities of four distinct groups of
entities: (a) community organizations; (b) project (FUMAC and FUMAC-P) Municipal
Councils; (c) the Project Coordinating Unit (PCU); and (d) participating governmental and
non-governmental agencies.
CoMMTuNrry ORGANZATIONS
2.    Community associations are the legitirnate representatives of the beneficiaries
before the Municipal Councils and the State under the project, which will only benefit
those communities organized into legally-constituted civil associations. This, a
prerequisite under Brazilian law for associations to receive public funds, also helps ensure
that the project meets the needs of a representative group from a given community and not
simply the needs of its more vocal or politically influential constituents. Due to the rather
cumbersome legal process in Brazil for forming associations, the project only requires that
the association be legally formed once the subproject proposal has been approved.
3.    Under local law, the organization of community associations typically comprises an
Executive Board of Directors, a General Assembly and a Fiscal Council. The Executive
Board of Directors comprises the President, Secretary, and Treasurer and the
Coordinators of any special working groups within the Association. These fixed-term
positions are flled by the vote of the General Assembly which meets regularly every three
months to discuss and vote on the Association's work program and intemal procedures.
All decisions made by the General Assembly are registered in official documents (atas)
and signed by all members present. This procedure is reflected in the identification and
prioritization of subprojects: a subproject proposal addresses the needs of a majority of
the association, as voted by its members, and therefore is accompanied by an ata signed by
the association members. The fiscal council, normally composed of three members,
supervises all of the association's activities and functions as internal auditor of all financial
transactions made by the association. The principal source of funds for most associations
is monthly dues paid by members.
4.    Community associations are the foundation of project implementation. The
associations are responsible for formulating and prioritizing ideas for subprojects and



-82 -                           Annex D
submitting these proposals to the Municipal Councils (under FUMAC and FUMAC-P) or
to the PCU (under PAC) for financing. The General Assembly deliberates and votes on
each subproject proposal, thereby ensuring that these subprojects attend to the needs of
the majority of the association members. The signed ata which accompanies each
subproject proposal attests to the association's commitment to the subproject. Once a
subproject has been approved, the community association enters into a legally binding
agreement with the PCU and/or Municipal Council through which the funds to implement
the subproject are passed to the association. The association, in most cases, is responsible
for all procurement and record-keeping during the implementation of the subproject. This
agreement also binds the association to provide the necessary counterpart contribution
(which can include labor, materials and cash) to execute the subproject as well as
undertake the future operation and maintenance (O&M) of the investment. In the case of
infrastructure, the association generally transfers O&M to appropriate public sector
agencies (e.g., the local electricity company in the case of rural electrification subprojects)
to which it pays the relevant user fees.
5.   Implementation of subprojects therefore implies significant responsibility for the
community associations and the communities which they represent, and is a source of
empowerment for them. Charging the communities with the primary responsibility for the
implementation of their own subprojects assures better quality and reinforces their sense of
ownership. The supervision and administration of the subprojects is carried out by an
elected Supervision and Control Committee, which oversees the subproject from start to
finish and reports back to the association on progress. This Committee of 3 to 4 persons
is comprised of subproject beneficiaries, both members of the association and non-
members within the community. The members of the Committee are elected by the
beneficiaries-at-large and are recognized as having some experience or knowledge about
the proposed subproject type. The Committee visits the subproject regularly and monitors
subproject implementation, costs, procurement, and community contribution, as well as
any potential problems. The Supervision and Control Committee therefore acts as a
"community watchdog" to ensure that subproject funds and the community's contribution
are invested in accordance with the subproject agreement and that the investment is of a
high quality.
MUNICIPAL COUNCILS
6.    Under the proposed project, FUMAC and FUMAC-P Municipal Councils may be
formed as legally-constituted civil organizations or may be established through Municipal
decree. In the latter case, the Council must nonetheless be granted administrative and
financial autonomy from the local municipal government. The size of the Municipal
Councils will vary across municipalities (usually between 10 and 15 members) and their
profile will be representative of the beneficiary communities. Of the Council's voting
power 80% is granted to representatives of community associations and of local civil
society, such as NGOs, labor unions and religious organizations. The remaining 20%
represent Municipal Government and other public institutions such as EMATER. The



-83 -                          Annex D
PCU has a seat on the Council with the right to voice but not vote. Members of the
Council are elected for one-year terms (which can be renewed once) by a community
assembly.
7.    While the project Municipal Councils act independently of the Municipal
Government, the participation and support of the latter is nonetheless important.
Experience under the reformulated NRDP has demonstrated that the mayors and
municipal leadership welcome the project Municipal Councils as an instrument to meet
basic community needs to which their municipal budgets cannot realistically attend. The
participation of the mayor is fundamental in creating a synergy between the priorities of
the Council and the Municipal Government's investment program. In this sense, the
project Municipal Council is not seen as a parallel institution to Municipal Government but
as a counterpart.
8.    Municipal Councils are the key organization for the targeting of project benefits
and the allocation of resources under the proposed project. The Councils have a
fundamental role in mobilizing communities and fomenting community participation in
decision-making at the municipal level. By their nature as open, representative and
democratic bodies which build consensus on priorities, the Municipal Councils instill
transparency into the decision-making process for FUMAC and FUMAC-P investments.
The Councils receive, prioritize and approve subproject proposals from the beneficiary
associations. The monthly meetings of the Municipal Councils are widely publicized and
the public is encouraged to attend them. At these meetings, the beneficiary associations
present their subproject ideas to the Council. The Council deliberates and prioritizes the
subproject proposals based on its determination of the needs of the different communities,
and on criteria such as the level of poverty and the existing infrastructure of each
community in relation to the rest of the municipality; the type of subproject to be financed
and its potential to improve the life quality of the beneficiary population; and the
demonstrated participation of the beneficiary community in the identification of the
subproject and its commitment to the implementation and subsequent operation and
maintenance of the subproject. The Municipal Councils' prioritization process is the basis
of targeting in the project since the communities themselves through the Councils
determine where project resources will best be applied based on their first-hand
knowledge of local investment needs. The Council ranks the subprojects in priority order
based on the vote of the Council members. The subproject approval process is based on
technical and eligibility criteria. The Municipal Council screens the FUMAC/FUMAC-P
subprojects based on pre-established technical, environmental and cost/financial standards
(see Annex G) and either approves or rejects the proposals. Rejected subprojects are
returned to the beneficiary association with recommendations to improve the proposal.
Decisions for approval or rejection of subproject proposals are also determined by vote.
Under FUMAC, approved subprojects are sent by the Municipal Councils to the PCU in
order of priority for financing. In the case of FUMAC-P, the subprojects are financed
directly by the relevant Councils within an annual budget envelope as described below.
9.    A FUMAC-P Council bases its investment decisions on an Annual Operating Plan
(POA), developed with the assistance of the PCU at the start of every fiscal year. This



-84 -                           Annex D
POA, which is voted on by Council members after detailed deliberations, establishes the
development priorities of the communities within a given municipality and the
corresponding investments to be financed with project resources. Each year, based on the
POA prepared, the PCU will transfer the allotted budget to the Council. The Council, in
turn, will transfer funds for subprojects approved to the beneficiary associations on the
basis of signed, legal agreements. This concept of approving subprojects within a budget
envelope enhances the Council's capacity to program and prioritize investments. If, on
the other hand, the Council's performance is unsatisfactory, it will run the risk of seeing its
budget envelope reduced the following year.
10.   Municipal Councils also supervise the implementation of subprojects in the
communities and work closely with the Community Control and Supervision Committee in
this respect. The Councils are well placed to provide this assistance. Given their
proximity to the communities and their lines of communication both with the PCU and
with the communitievthemselves, Municipal Councils are effective trouble-shooters for
subproject implementation problems.
PROJECT COORDINATING UNIT
11.   The PCU is the focal point for project administration and for communication with
the Bank and the State Government. It is also the project's principal liaison for the
Municipal Councils and for those community associations located in PAC municipalities.
In Maranhao, the PCU is the Nicleo Estadual de Programas Especiais (NEPE), as the
NRDP Technical Unit (TU) was renamed in a recent (April 1997) Governor's decree that
gave the TU increased autonomy and a revised structure, in line with the State's
decentralization strategy for the public sector. Under the proposed project, the PCU will
shed some of its executive responsibilities that it held under the reformulated NRDP and
increase its monitoring, technical assistance and supervision responsibilities. It will
promote decentralization and community participation in the project by delegating tasks to
Municipal Councils and participating state and non-governmental organizations.
12.   The PCU (NEPE) is an autonomous entity that is directly linked to the State
Secretary of Planning and is overseen by a Consultative Council, chaired by the Planning
Secretary and composed of representatives of the State Secretariats of Environment,
Science and Technology, and Agriculture as well as the State University of Maranhao,
with the Director of NEPE acting as Executive Secretary for the Council. The Director is
assisted by a Legal Advisory Group, a general Administrative and Financial Support
Department and a Physical and Financial Implementation Department, under which work
four closely interrelated Divisions, in charge, respectively, of subproject orientation and
selection; monitoring and evaluation; appraisal; and technical assistance and training.
Under the proposed project, NEPE will keep this structure although the Physical and
Financial Implementation Department will take on a more important planning function that
will be translated onto its name (see Organizational Chart at the end of this Annex). As
the PCU's staff is limited (36 technical and 22 administrative staff) and concentrated in
Sao Luis, all technical assistance, training and supervision tasks under the project will be



- 85 -                         Annex D
contracted to other service providers, i.e. NGOs, university and other private specialists,
as well as other public agencies like EMATER (see Annex E). In the field, the PCU will
link up with these service providers through 11 "regional agents" (Agentes Regionais da
Unidade Tecnica - ARUTs), also to be contracted. In keeping with the State's
administrative reform program, the ARUTs will use existing offices of EMATER or other
public agencies located in 11 strategically important regions in the state (see Annex C),
rather than new facilities that the PCU would have to establish and maintain.
13.   The PCU's principal tasks under the project will include: (a) project planning and
coordination at the state level through the preparation of POAs, including the
consolidation of POAs by FUMAC-P Councils, and monitoring activities through
maintenance of the project Management Information System (MIS); (b) promoting the
project and encouraging participation of potential beneficiary communities, NGOs and
private sector entities; (c) preparing project implementation reports and organizing
evaluation exercises; (d) ensuring timely and adequate provision of loan and state
counterpart funds; (e) appraising and approving all PAC subproject proposals; (f) entering
into subproject agreements with community associations (PAC) and Municipal Councils
(FUMAC) and into POA-based agreements with FUMAC-P Municipal Councils, to
transfer subproject funds and monitor their use; (g) overseeing all monitoring and
supervision activities under the project to gauge compliance with project guidelines and to
improve the quality of subprojects and project interventions, ensuring that environmental
guidelines for subproject approval and implementation are followed; (h) providing
technical assistance to the FUMAC and FUMAC-P Municipal Councils; (i) preparing
statements of expenditure (SOEs) and applications for reimbursement; and () ensuring
that procurement, disbursement and auditing procedures applicable to the Bank loan are
followed. To increase the current Technical Unit's capacity to undertake some of these
tasks, particularly with respect to stimulating the mobilization and organization of
communities and providing technical assistance to them, training in specific areas will be
organized for its staff under the institutional development component of the project
(Annex E). In the area of environmental impact assessment, the PCU will be provided
training and assistance from specialized national or state agencies.
INSTITUTIONAL CAPACITY
14.   The project, through the community subproject methodology, is expected to lay
the groundwork for, and consolidate, participatory institutions and processes at the
municipal and community levels. Formed into community associations, the rural
population is gaining a voice and a role in political participation which it did not have as
individuals. When communities organize themselves to receive benefits from the project,
and contribute to and operate and maintain the investments, the sense of ownership of the
investment empowers the communities and their organization and commitment are
rewarded. A municipality participates in the FUMAC (and eventually FUMAC-P)
program when this level of organization is apparent at the municipal level, and the official
municipal leadership supports participatory decision-making. The project Municipal



- 86 -                           Annex D
Council in FUMAC formalizes the communities' voice in the establishment of investment
priorities at the municipal level. FUMAC also forges a partnership between the
communities and municipal leadership as both groups contribute to the financing of
investments, thus leveraging project funds. As Municipal Councils gain experience and
capacity, progressing from FUMAC to FUMAC-P, they increase their bearing and
influence on public resource programming at the municipal level while reinforcing a
sustainable participatory process. Such an experience has been gained in a number of
highly organized municipalities in some of the northeast states under the reformulated
NRDP.
15.  Implementation capacity is central to the successful performance of the community
subprojects component and, hence, of the project's development objectives.
Implementation capacity constraints of the various institutions participating in the project
--beneficiary associations, Municipal Councils, public and non-governmental agencies, and
the PCU itself-- are specifically addressed by the project's institutional development
component. This component provides resources to finance appropriate technical
assistance and training in order that each group acquire the capabilities needed to
effectively perform its functions under the project (see Annex E for operational details).
16.   The institutional development component will give community associations access
to funds for community mobilization and organizational strengthening. Beneficiary
associations will also have access to expertise on subproject preparation and execution, as
well as training in operation and maintenance techniques to derive optimal benefit from
subproject investments. By providing training in financial administration, the project will
also prepare these groups to manage productive activities which open doors for future
income-generating endeavors. To fuliy develop their potential leadership role at the
municipal level and to fulfill their role within the project, Municipal Councils will require
assistance to orient their decision-making on resource allocation among community
investments and, in the FUMAC-P program, to develop their capacity for investment
planning and financial administration. Municipal Councils will also themselves serve as a
source of technical advice for community associations. The PCU, in its refined role as
project facilitator, will require training to master effective monitoring and supervision
techniques as well as enhanced project management and other skills. Where the PCU
contracts NGOs or other state agencies to assist in fulfilling some of its technical
assistance, monitoring and supervision tasks, these institutions may also receive specific
training under the project.



- 87 -                                Annex D
ORGANIZATIONAL CHART OF THE STATE PCU
(Nacko Estadual de Programas Especiais, Maranhdo)
State Governor
State Secretary of Planning
l  Consultative     l
lCouncil 
l       Dire ctor|
Legal Advisory
Group
Planning and
Finance Departnent
Orientation and       Monitoring and            Appraisal              Technical
Selection         Evaluation Division         Division            Assistance and
Division                                                         Training Division
Regional Agents (11).



-88 -                           Annex E
BRAZIL
RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT -
MARANHAO
E. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE, TRAINING AND
INSTITUTIONAL CAPACITY-BUILDING
1.    Technical assistance and training are fundamental inputs into the various stages of
the subproject cycle and overall project implementation. Evaluations of the reformulated
NRDP have emphasized the need for improved technical assistance and training to the
different partners in project execution -community associations, project Municipal
Councils and Project Coordinating Units (PCUs)-- in order to ensure higher quality
planning and implementation and greater sustainability of subprojects and to increase the
development impact of the project. Under the proposed Maranhao Rural Poverty
Alleviation project, technical assistance (TA) would be provided in two forms: (a) under
the Institutional Development component of the project; and (b) as a percentage of the
cost of community subprojects. Details on the operational aspects for the provision of TA
are included in the project Operational Manual.
2.    The Institutional Development Component. Funds under the project's
institutional development component would be used: (a) to mobilize and strengthen the
planning and implementation capacity of potential beneficiary associations and of FUMAC
and FUMAC-P Councils established under the project; and (b) to direct technical
assistance to the Maranhio PCU and State Planning Secretariat in specific areas, such as
specialized skills training and technical assistance for State reform. Since the component
is not tied to the subproject cycle, communities and Municipal Councils can receive
technical assistance independent of whether they have an approved subproject or approved
portfolio of subprojects, respectively. The resources of the Institutional Development
component would finance a variety of capacity-building programs, such as:
(a)   Mobilization assistance to beneficiary associations: the PCU (for PAC) and
Municipal Councils (for FUMAC and FUJMAC-P) would formulate and
fund strategies to extend mobilization assistance to those communities
lacking in organization and thus not initially in a position to benefit from
the project. Such assistance would include community workshops to
determine priority needs, training to community groups in organization
skills and helping them with the process of forming legal associations, etc.;
(b)   Introductory Municipal Council training program: the PCU would organize
this program to train, either directly or through collaborative arrangements
with other entities, FUMAC and FUMAC-P Municipal Councils on the
project philosophy, subproject cycle and Operational Manual guidelines;



-89 -                           Annex E
and, more specifically for the FUMAC-P Councils, on the preparation of
annual operating plans (POAs), budgeting and administration;
(c)   Specialized skills training: the PCU, the project Councils, and groups of
comnunity associations, would receive, on a demand basis, practical "on-
the-job training" in areas such as monitoring techniques, environmental
impact assessments, financial administration, as well as specific technical
topics in support of subproject implementation and operation and
maintenance (e.g., for groups of community associations on water use);
(d)   Standard subproject design training: standardized subprojects (Annex G)
will reduce the need for intensive technical assistance in subproject
preparation for the majority of subproject types requested by communities.
The standard subproject models are especially helpful to communities
lacking experience in subproject preparation. Workshops organized with
community associations, community leaders and project Municipal
Councils would provide technical assistance in the application and use of
standard subproject designs;
(e)   "Best Practice" exchanges: the PCU and Municipal Councils would arrange
for technical exchanges among community associations with similar types
of subprojects. These exchanges have proven to be an effective way to
transfer know-how on subproject operation and maintenance from
community associations with successful subprojects to associations
initiating new subprojects. In addition, exchanges among Municipal
Councils within the state and among PCUs throughout the Northeast could
be financed to disseminate successful experiences across states; and
(f)   Technical assistance for State reform. Because the fiscal situation of the
State affects both project implementation and state counterpart funding,
technical assistance at the state level is needed to analyze issues
surrounding the reform of the State and to identify measures to improve
the State's capacity to overcome fiscal crisis and address its underlying
causes. The State Secretariat of Planning (SEPLAN), through the PCU,
will have access to technical assistance funds for consultant services and
studies required for administrative and other state reforms.
3.    For access to funds from the Institutional Development component, the PCU and
each project Municipal Council Would prepare, as part of the Annual Operating Plan
(POA), a TA and training proposal indicating proposed beneficiaries (by type), numbers of
activities (e.g., events, consultants, etc.), expected subject matter and estimated costs.
The aggregate dollar amount of technical assistance included in each proposal would be
based on a series of parameters, such as the number of subprojects expected, the estimated
number of new Municipal Councils, the estimated number of communities needing
mobilization assistance or general technical support, etc. During the course of the year,
each actual TA and training event would require detailed terms of reference, outlining the



- 90 -                          Annex E
objective and contents of each event. The PCU would provide the Municipal Councils
with a framework for the annual technical assistance and training proposals and with
model terms of reference to facilitate their access to the funds under the Institutional
Development component.
4.    Types of contracts under the Institutional Development component would range
from short-term contracts for single training events, to longer-term retainer contracts for a
series of training or technical assistance activities to be performed over a period of time.
For example, project Municipal Councils may contract the services of a local extension
agent to follow-up and provide TA to all community subprojects within the municipality.
Also, training in basic accounting and recordkeeping may be needed by a number of
community associations with productive subprojects and would best be handled by having
the PCU contract a specialized NGO to conduct in situ training with various community
associations over a certain period of time. The flexibility of contract types reflects the
diversity of TA and training needs of the various entities participating in the project.
However, to reduce the administrative task of processing a series of contracts and to take
advantage of economies of scale, technical assistance and training events would be
packaged whenever possible.
5.    The funds for institutional development at the project level will be administered by
the PCU, which will contract all technical assistance and training for the PAC program
and, in cases of packaging or upon request by the Municipal Councils, for the FUMAC
program. FUMAC and FUMAC-P Municipal Councils may contract technical assistance
and training for themselves or, upon request, for beneficiary associations, with the
assistance of the PCU and on the basis of standard terms of reference. The PCU would
monitor the use of institutional development funds by the Municipal Councils and by
beneficiary associations through review of statements of expenditure (SOEs) and periodic
supervision.
6.    Percentage of subproject cost targeted to technical assistance. At the
discretion of community associations, subproject proposals may include, as part of the
subproject cost, an allocation for technical assistance in preparation and/or implementation
of the subproject. The percentage, to be determined by the Municipal Councils in the case
of FUMAC or FUMAC-P and by the PCU in the case of PAC, would vary from 2% to
8% of the subproject cost. It would depend on the technical complexity of the subproject,
on whether a standard design already exists for the type of subproject under consideration,
and on other factors.
7.    Technical assistance and training financed as a percentage of the subproject cost,
would need to be described in detail in the subproject proposal. For TA during subproject
preparation, the service provider would necessarily work in an "at-risk" situation, since
TA services provided would be paid only if the subproject is indeed approved and funded
under the project. However, to avoid the risk of hampering the provision --under this
mode-- of technical assistance for subproject preparation, community associations have
the option of requesting Municipal Councils to use resources from the institutional
development component instead to contract the required assistance. If the subproject is



-91-                             Annex E
approved, funds for technical assistance provided as a percentage of subproject cost
would be disbursed directly to the beneficiary association. The association would contract
the extensionist/entity under procurement procedures acceptable to the Bank and
described in the Operational Manual. For "turn-key"-type contracts, where the technical
assistance provider helps prepare and then implement the subproject, a smaller percentage
would be paid for the preparation assistance vis-a-vis the implementation assistance, in
order to direct the financial incentive toward the successful implementation of the
subproject.
8.    For greater effectiveness, technical assistance for subprojects should extend into
the post-implementation (i.e., operation and maintenance) period, particularly for
productive subprojects where success depends on the association's capacity to operate
and administer its small-scale, communal activity. Therefore, as a prerequisite for
approval of productive subprojects, community associations would have to provide a
satisfactory technical assistance plan with the service provider identified. In addition, as
part of their commitment to sufficiently operate and maintain their subprojects, beneficiary
associations should include technical assistance among the expenditures to be financed out
of the O&M funds maintained by each association. The PCU and project Municipal
Councils would actively encourage this practice during routine monitoring and
supervision.
SERVICE PROVIDERS
9.    The identification and mobilization of technical assistance and training providers is
a crucial complement to the availability of resources. The most important providers of
technical assistance would continue to be the PCU and the project Municipal Councils.
Other service providers are readily identifiable from their participation in the reformulated
NRDP:
(a)   Multilateral and bilateral technical assistance agencies -- international
technical assistance organizations contracted by the PCU can provide
technical assistance to the PCU itself and to the Municipal Councils at the
project level;
(b)   EMATER extensionists -- in each municipality, local accredited agents of
the state rural extension agency (EMATER) would be identified by the
PCU, to be contracted by individual community associations for work on a
particular subproject, or by Municipal Councils, on a retainer contract, for
clearly-specified work with a group of communities. As a rule, the project
would channel resources (only for incremental operating costs, not salaries)
directly to local extensionists rather than to the central, state-level agency,
in order to stimulate greater local participation, reward effective agents and
penalize those that do not effectively provide the assistance needed; and



- 92 -                          Annex E
(c)   Non-Govermnental Organizations -- staff from local grassroots
organizations can also serve as accredited agents, as described in the
paragraph above, or the NGOs themselves can enter into contracts with
associations, the Municipal Councils or the PCU for global or specific
technical assistance and training activities.
10.   The PCU and Municipal Councils would be charged with developing lists and
contacting all potential sources of technical assistance, such as: university students, local
private organizations, private extensionists, and state agencies. These lists would be
updated annually and would be available at the local level.
IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS
11.   To create institutional incentives in the PCU to promote accountability for TA and
training activities, technical assistance would need to be a more visible and effective line
function within the PCU. A high-level Technical Assistance Coordinator, to be nominated
from among the staff of the PCU, would be responsible for overseeing the Institutional
Development component as well as the technical assistance arrangements forming part of
subproject funds (as described above). The main tasks of the Coordinator would be to:
(a) develop the technical assistance and training framework under the project; (b) identify
and contact potential technical assistance providers and maintain updated lists for each
municipality and for the project as a whole; (c) identify and prepare potential local
accredited agents; (d) prepare the annual TA and training proposal for the project; (e)
assist the Municipal Councils in the preparation of the annual TA and training proposals
and review the proposals presented by each Municipal Council; (f) develop model terms of
reference for specific technical assistance activities and training events; (g) encourage
replication of successful technical assistance and training activities wherever possible;; and,
(h) based on supervision findings, measure and report on the progress.of technical
assistance arrangements and their effectiveness.
12.   As part of their regular supervision efforts, the PCU and the Municipal Councils
would monitor the frequency and quality of technical assistance and training provided to
each subproject. SOEs presented by Municipal Councils and community associations for
technical assistance and training expenditures would be closely monitored by the PCU to
ensure that resources are used exclusively for that purpose and in a cost-effective manner.
As further incentive for their effective use, loan funds allocated to the Institutional
Development component will not be permitted to be re-allocated to finance community
subprojects or any other expenditure under the project. To give Municipal Councils
greater incentive to promote and achieve successful technical assistance arrangements in
their respective municipalities, the provision of technical assistance, both by the Councils
and other providers, would be considered a parameter by which to judge the overall
performance of project Municipal Councils and would factor into decision-making on the
promotion of FUMAC Councils to FUMAC-P. Technical assistance would also be
monitored through the project's monitoring and reporting arrangements (see Annex H).
Information from the MIS would identify active technical assistance contracts which will



- 93 -                          Annex E
then be followed up during subproject supervision visits. The mid-year and annual project
progress reports, compiled by the PCU for the Bank, would contain specific sections
pertaining to the quantity, quality and effectiveness of technical assistance provided. The
project implementation review (Annex H) would also evaluate the quality and cost-
effectiveness of technical assistance and thus provide the beneficiaries' assessment of TA
arrangements. The Bank's Recife Office would evaluate the project's technical assistance
arrangements during regular supervision visits.



-94 -                           Annex F
BRAZIL
RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT -
MARANHAO
F. THE FUMAC-P PILOT PROGRAM
BACKGROUND
1.    Decentralization of decision-making and the transfer of project implementation
responsibilities from the State to the local (municipal and community) levels, started under
the reformulated NRDP with the introduction of the community-based PAC and FUMAC
programs, will be further advanced in the proposed project. First, FUMAC coverage will
expand significantly under the project to cover over 110 municipalities by the fifth year of
implementation. Second, a further step towards decentralization will be taken through a
pilot program, FUMAC-P, which will promote the transfer of financial management
responsibilities to selected FUMAC Municipal Councils.
2.    Generally, municipalities which participated in FUMAC under the reformulated
NRDP tend to be those in which the environment for participatory decision-making is
more favorable, which distinguishes them from more traditionally-run municipalities with a
strong "clientelistic" approach. This environment has been the result of a conjunction of
cultural/political factors, such as the emergence of a movement for the development of
civil society (usually induced by religious organizations, NGOs and more recently by some
political parties) and the coming to power of a new generation of more open-minded
political leaders.
3.    Several important lessons have emerged from the FUMAC experience under the
reformulated NRDP. First, it proved to be an efficient, transparent approach for
identifying and prioritizing, through local-level consensus building, multiple demands for
investments by needy communities. Second, it provided the opportunity to experiment not
only with increased transfer of decision-making, including approval of subprojects, from
the state-level Project Coordinating Unit (PCU) to Municipal Councils representing
communities, but also with the management of community subproject funds by these very
Councils. This experience is reflected in the proposed project in the design of FUMAC
and, in particular, FUMAC-P, where the feasibility of financial management at the
grassroots level will be tested.
FUMAC-P: MAlN FEATURES
4.    The FUMAC-P pilot would account, initially, for about US$7.6 million or 7% of
the total base cost of the project over the five-year implementation period. In order to
motivate project Municipal Councils (both FUMAC and FUMAC-P) and have them



-95 -                           Annex F
participate in the project in a sustainable manner, each Council --and its communities--
would benefit from a minimum of 5 subprojects per year. The initial amount allocated to
this subcomponent is therefore expected to allow the installation of some 20 FUMAC-P
Councils by the end of the project period. If this pilot approach proves successfiul with the
communities and meets its objectives of local-level investment selection, execution and
financial management, FUMAC-P would be expanded with funds initially earmarked for
the FUMAC and PAC subcomponents (see para. 10) and more FUMAC-P Councils than
initially foreseen could be set up during project implementation.
5.   Initially, the PCU would select FUMAC-P municipalities from among the best
FUMAC performers under the reformulated NRDP, i.e., those with the best record in
administering and executing community subprojects. Additionally, other municipalities
which have a favorable environment for participatory work (extensive community
organization, municipal officials open to participative decision-making, etc.), and are
interested and can commit themselves to following project guidelines, could be included.
There should also be some indication that local capacity exists to manage financial
resources, for instance in communities or existing associations already managing small-
scale businesses (on an individual or group basis) and whose members could potentially
form part of FUMAC-P Municipal Councils. As the proposed project gets underway, and
the FUMAC-P approach proves successful, other well-performing FUMAC municipalities
could gradually be upgraded into FUMAC-P municipalities.
6.    Once the municipalities are selected, allocation of funds would be done based on a
number of criteria to which different weights will be assigned. These criteria may include
several of the following:
(a)   ratio of rural to total population;
(b)   rate of indigence;
(c)   number and degree of dispersion of poor rural communities;
(d)   availability of public resources per capita;
(e)   number of subprojects approved under the reformulated NRDP (small
discriminatory factor);
(f)   perfornance in the previous year; and
(g)   willingness of the mayor (prefeito) to participate.
7.    FUMAC-P Municipal Councils would have the same composition and modes of
operation as FUMAC Municipal Councils (Annex D). They would be responsible for:
(a)   assisting rural communities in identifying priority needs and translating
them into investment proposals;



- 96 -                         Annex F
(b)   screening and reviewing these proposals, and ensuring that they meet
eligibility criteria as contained in the Project Operational Manual;
(c)   monitoring and supervising, together with the PCU, the implementation of
approved subprojects;
(d)   providing, directly or through contracting, technical assistance and training
to beneficiary associations in the design and operation and maintenance of
project-financed investments;
(e)   managing subproject funds and transferring funds to beneficiary
associations with approved subprojects; and
(f)   preparing indicative annual operating plans (POAs) for review and
approval by the PCU. The POA would contain a list of community
investment priorities, indicative targets to be met, a tentative timetable, the
indicative budget and the technical assistance required to implement the
proposed program. The PCU would review and approve the POA at the
end of the year preceding implementation.
8.    An agreement (convYnio) between the PCU and the Municipal Council would
establish the terms and conditions as well as rights and obligations of each party with
respect to the release and use of the approved funds. These (both loan and state
counterpart funds) would be deposited into an account in a commercial bank, and would
be withdrawn solely upon formal order by the Municipal Council. The Council would
screen community subproject proposals on the basis of the approved POA and the funds
made available by the PCU. An agreement (convenio) between the Municipal Council and
the beneficiary association would be required.
9.    Regular supervision of the operations of the FUMAC-P Municipal Councils would
be the responsibility of the PCU, focusing in particular on the administrative and financial
arrangements made by the Councils to effectively control and release project funds to the
community associations and on progress in the implementation of the POA agreed for
each FUMAC-P Council. Municipal Councils would be aided in their tasks, both for
management and accounting as well as subproject appraisal, monitoring and supervision,
by appropriate technical assistance under the guidance of the PCU. Unsatisfactory
performance of a Council would have to be carefully assessed by the PCU, including, if
necessary, the weighing of penalties. If unsatisfactory performance is not rapidly
corrected, it may lead to a reduction of the budget envelope allocated to the Council the
following year (para. 6) or, in the case of serious wrongdoing such as misappropriation or
misuse of funds, to legal remedies, combined with restructuring of the Council or its
downgrading from FUMAC-P back to FUMAC. On the other hand, built-in incentives
would encourage positive performance. Positive performance, for example, would be
rewarded with a potential expansion in the budget envelope allocated each year.



- 97 -                          Annex F
10.   The project implementation review to be carried out at mid-term would include a
specific evaluation of the FUMAC-P program. The basic purpose of this evaluation will
be to assess performance under the pilot program and, where necessary, adjust its design
and mechanisms in order to improve its procedures and impact on beneficiaries. If the
pilot program is found successful and its expansion is justified, part of the remaining PAC
and FUMAC funds under the project could be transferred to the FUMAC-P program for
implementation in the final project years.



98-                            Annex G
BRAZIL
RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT -
MARANHAO
G. STANDARD DESIGNS AND OPERATION AND
MAINTENANCE OF SUBPROJECTS
STANDARD DESIGNS
1.    Experience under the NRDP showed that the technical elaboration of subprojects
can be a difficult task for rural community associations. In some cases, especially where
competent technical assistance is not available locally, this resulted in inappropriate design,
cost overruns and subprojects left incomplete or unoperational. Under the proposed
project, preparation of subprojects by associations, as well as appraisal of the technical
proposals by Municipal Councils and/or the Project Coordinating Unit (PCU), will be
facilitated with the adoption of standard designs developed by the PCU for the most
common types of subprojects found in Maranhao. The use of standard designs will ensure
that, at least for those subprojects most in demand by communities, project investments
follow recommended technical specifications, both for construction and operation and
maintenance (O&M), meet reasonable cost parameters so as to be financially viable, and
comply with all necessary environmental requirements. At the same time, the risk of
"directing" community demend towards subprojects for which standard designs will be
made available would be reduced by the project's information campaign which advises
communities, inter alia, about the variety of subprojects that are eligible for financing.
2.    Different standard designs or appropriate standard documentation (projetos-
padrao orprojetos tipos) will be prepared for the various types of investments:
productive, infrastructure and social subprojects. The main items to be included in each of
the relevant documentation are indicated below.
3.    For productive subprojects:
(a)   a summary of the existing situation, including considerations on demand,
supply of raw materials, as well as markets;
(b)   a set of considerations and parameters to carry out simplified feasibility
studies, in particular: a presentation of subproject objectives and potential
benefits; the technical production process and type of equipment required;
technical parameters such as expected yields, coefficient of utilization,
range of output; range of costs of production, depreciation, maintenance
requirements; expected benefits and number of beneficiaries; indicative
internal rates of return, benefit/cost ratios, and other such indicators;



- 99 -                           Annex G
(c)   technical aspects, including a description of civil works, technical
specifications, bill of quantities, and the list of suppliers of equipment
required to operate the subproject;
(d)   guidelines for O&M; and
(e)   environmental considerations and recommendations for specific measures
to mitigate the negative impact, if any, of the proposed subproject.
In addition, a set of operating rules (regulamento de uso) wifl accompany the
documentation for each of the proposed productive subprojects.
4.    For social subprojects:
(a)   a methodology for establishing the profile of social demand in order to
properly tailor the size of the required facility;
(b)   design considerations, e.g., services to be delivered by the proposed
subproject, and technical, legal and administrative aspects;
(c)   technical aspects as for productive subprojects;
(d)   O&M features, including an evaluation of the delivery costs of the
proposed social service; and
(e)   environmental considerations where relevant.
5.    For infrastructure subprojects, whose size can vary widely depending on the local
context, intended number of beneficiaries and other factors, the concept of standard design
as such is not totally adequate. However, it is possible to develop:
(a)   generic terms of reference for engineering of different types of subprojects,
e.g., water supply systems, road rehabilitation, etc.; and
(b)   "typical" engineering (projetos tipicos) of small works such as pipes and
box culverts, retaining walls, typical decks for small bridges, etc.
6.    Standard designs will be available for those types of subprojects that most respond
to the needs and demand of communities. By project effectiveness, a first group of 10
standard designs will have been prepared by the PCU, and listed in the project Operational
Manual, for the following most popular types of subprojects: rural electrification, water
supply, local road improvements, small bridges, manioc mills, rice mills, clothes-making
units, tractors, artisanal fisheries and day care centers. While these standard designs
would be continuously reviewed and adjusted, others, depending on demand, would be
elaborated by the PCU for additional types of subprojects that would be requested by a
relatively large number of communities.



-100-                           Annex G
7.    Careful field supervision and monitoring of standard subprojects by the PCU will
be necessary in order to: (a) avoid mistakes to be replicated on a large scale, and (b) fine-
tune and adjust the standard designs that have been developed. The need for the different
participating states to share experiences on standard designs of subprojects has also been
identified. In particular, those that have been prepared by the first six states participating
in the Northeast Rural Poverty Alleviation Program (Bahia, Ceari and others) could be
shared by Maranhio. Workshops should be arranged in which standard subproject
documentation developed by the different states would be used for discussions to compare
and evaluate the different solutions that have been found to the same problem.
OPERATION AND MAINTNANCE
8.    Although the reformulated NRDP financed many of the same types of community
investments (e.g., manioc mills or small-scale rural water supply projects) that have been
supported under past programs or projects in the Northeast, one of its innovative features
was to ensure that these investments are operated and maintained by the beneficiaries
themselves, thereby enhancing their sense of ownership and the prospects for sustainability
of the investments. Under the proposed project, this feature will be maintained and
strengthened.
9.    Community associations will bear the primary responsibility for O&M for most
project-funded investments, and this provision will be included in the agreements
(conmnios) with the associations. The relative responsibilities of the associations for
O&M would vary according to the type of investment. As a general rule, beneficiaries
would be fully responsible for operating and maintaining their own productive subprojects
and some social subprojects, such as community or day care centers. In the case of most
infrastructure and other types of subprojects, the responsibility for O&M would normally
be shared between the communities and the relevant State or municipal institution. In
exceptional cases of relatively complex subprojects, beneficiary associations might
contract private firms or NGOs to assist them in O&M tasks.
10.   Based on experience under the reformnulated NRDP, several types of arrangements
would be implemented in order to ensure the financial sustainability of project investments,
as follows:
11.   Productive Subprojects (e.g., small-scale irrigation schemes, communal cereals
processing, manioc mills, etc.). Once a subproject has been approved for financing, the
beneficiary association elects a committee to be in charge of subproject implementation
and management. This committee has the task, among others, of determining the different
dues and user fees to be charged to association members (as well as to non-association
members using project facilities), based on estimated requirements for O&M and capital
replacement or eventual expansion. User fees have to be approved by all association
members, and may be paid in cash, labor or kind, depending on the particular situation.
The committee is responsible for collecting the fees, placing them in a "reserve fund",
managing the reserve fund to meet extraordinary maintenance and capital replacement



-101-                            Annex G
requirements, and making payments for recurrent expenditures such as electricity
consumption, fuel, inputs, repairs, and employees' salaries.
12.   Social Subprojects (e.g., community centers, sanitation, health-related house
improvement, day care centers, school or health post rehabilitation). The degree of
community involvement in the O&M of social subprojects depends on the type of
investment. In the case of subprojects related to public services, such as health posts or
schools, the municipality or relevant public/private entity could undertake O&M foliowing
an agreement with the community. For other types of subprojects such as community
centers or house improvement, the community will be responsible for O&M, each of the
community memrbers contributing either financially or in the form of labor.
13.   Infrastructure Subprojects (e.g., small bridges, water supply systems, fords,
road repairs). Different arrangements are to be followed for O&M of infrastructure
subprojects. In the case of services (e.g., water supply) connected to individual
households, beneficiaries could transfer the corresponding assets to the relevant state or
municipal utility company, which then undertakes O&M and recovers costs through user
fees. Simplified water supply systems (without connection to households) will be
operated and maintained by the community itself, which makes arrangements for collection
of dues or fees from individual community members to pay for O&M expenses. These
arrangements are commonly found in the rural water supply subprojects financed under
the reformulated NRDP. For infrastructure subprojects such as rural roads, bridges, and
street paving, which serve a larger public, responsibility for O&M would normally be
shared with the municipality under agreement with the beneficiary association.



-102-                           Annex H
BRAZIL
RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT -
MARANHAO
H. PROJECT MONITORING, REPORTING AND
EVALUATION
PROJECr MONITORING
1.    The establishment of an efficient project monitoring system will be instrumental in
following the progression of the investment program financed by the proposed Maranhao
Rural Poverty Alleviation Project and ascertaining its consistency with project objectives.
Project implementation relies heavily on a decentralized system of decision-making and
management, and is driven by demand from rural community associations which is filtered
through a selection process based on established criteria. This process involves a large
number of small, diverse subprojects over an extensive geographic area. Hence, since the
ex ante determination of the pattern of project investment and other key parameters is not
possible, effective supervision depends on the existence of a capable monitoring system.
2.    The objectives of the project monitoring system are to:
(a)   provide information regarding the progress of the project and the status of
the subproject cycle in its different stages (e.g., subproject approval,
procurement, implementation and disbursement); and
(b)   verify that project activities are consistent with the guidelines, targeting
methodology and selection criteria included in the Project Operational
Manual.
Project Database
3.    The project monitoring system would depend on a Management Information
System (MIS), created under the reformulated NRDP' and to be improved under the
project. The project MIS is a data base organized in three general levels: (a) a subproject
information module, which contains pertinent physical and financial information for each
subproject; (b) a financial management module, from which Statements of Expenditure
(SOEs) are generated; and (c) a project management module, from which all project
reports are generated. Under the proposed project, the MIS will operate as a network to
Under the reformulated NRDP, this system was referred to as the SSMP, or Simplified Project
Monitoring System.



- 103 -                         Annex H
facilitate the inputting of information and provide access to up-to-the-minute information
by all levels of project management, tailored to individual needs.
4.    For the State of Maranhio, the Project Coordinating Unit (PCIJ) would be
responsible for operating and maintaining the M1S and for providing the input
corresponding to PAC subprojects. The project Municipal Councils would be responsible
for completing the data sheets for FUMAC and FUMAC-P subprojects and, upon
completion of each data sheet, would present them to the PCU which would subsequently
update the MIS.
5.    The subproject module is the basic module into which all information collected
from the subprojects is entered and processed. Subproject information feeds into both the
financial management module and the project management module. Subprojects are
identified and entered in the MIS according to the following format. Information for the
MIS is obtained from data sheets for each subproject and separated into four submodules
which correspond to key steps of the subproject cycle:
(a)   Submodule No. 1 would include information for the subproject regarding
its location and identification, according to the following format: (i) by
program [PAC, FUMAC, and FUMAC-P]; (ii) by type [Infrastructure,
Productive and Social subprojects]; (iii) by category [e.g., water supply,
agro-processing, energy, etc.]; (iv) by sub-category, in particular for water
supply subprojects [e.g., dams, wells, tanks, etc.]; and (v) by location
[municipality, community and beneficiary association];
(b)   Submodule No. 2 would include the technical, social and financial
characteristics, as weli as a set of indicators such as cost/capita, cost/m2,
and other parameters to the subproject budget;
(c)   Submodule No. 3 would include information on subproject implementation,
including procurement procedures and contracting, all disbursement data,
including beneficiary and municipal government contributions to
counterpart funding, and provision of technical assistance and training to
the community association in question; and
(d)   Submodule No. 4 would include subproject completion information,
including beneficiary numbers and relevant subproject impacts (e.g.,
production figures, income generated, etc.).
6.    The information input into the MIS would come from standard data sheets of three
types: (a) subproject data sheet; (b) supervision data sheet; and (c) graduation data sheet.
The subproject data sheet, completed by the PCU (for PAC) and the Municipal Councils
(for FUMAC and FUMAC-P) would supply the basic information on the subproject
stemming from the subproject proposal. The supervision data sheet would verify and/or
update information on the subproject data sheet, identify any implementation problems and
possible mnitigating measures, and report relevant subproject impacts. The supervision



-104-                           Annex H
data sheets would be completed by the PCU and Municipal Councils, or by those entities
subcontracted to provide supervision services, in which case the supervision data sheets
would be included in the TORs. Finally, the graduation data sheets would include
information on the community itself; including existing infrastructure and other indicators
of community well-being (see Annex C), to be filled out by the beneficiary community
associations as part of their subproject proposals, and verified and/or updated by the PCU,
Municipal Councils, or subcontracted participating agencies.
7.    Given the 3,392 subprojects estimated to be financed during the five years of
project implementation, the MIS is an essential tool for following the course of project
investment. Information from the MIS is also fundamental to measure compliance with,
and subsequent effectiveness of, the project's targeting mechanisms. By monitoring the
direction of project benefits and types of subprojects being financed, the PCU and the
Municipal Councils can direct appropriate technical assistance and training based on the
frequency of certain types of investment or target community mobilization activities.
Cases of mistargeting or misappropriation of funds -- resources channeled outside the
project area or for ineligible investments -- will be verified using the MIS in order for
appropriate remedies to be applied.
Monitoring Activities
8.    Within the framework of the project monitoring system, the PCU and the project
Municipal Councils (under FUMAC and FUMAC-P) are responsible for supervising the
application of the guidelines from the Operational Manual in the development and
implementation of all subprojects. Using the information from the MIS, combined with
field visits and inputs from project supervision reports, project-contracted studies and
audits, the PCU and the Municipal Councils would monitor project characteristics and
trends, identify implementation problems and accomplishments and undertake or promote
appropriate actions to improve project implementation (see Annex K on Project
Supervision). The MIS will also serve as a basis from which to derive Annual Operating
Plans (POAs), regulate their implementation, and make necessary adjustments to the
POAs and corresponding budgets during the course of each fiscal year. The delineation of
monitoring responsibilities between the PCU and the Municipal Councils would be clearly
reflected in the Project Operational Manual.
PROJECr REPORTING
9.    The PCU is responsible for reporting on project progress to the Bank. Four types
of reports would be generated by the PCU and presented to the Bank:
(a)   a copy of the content of the MIS data base on diskette would be provided
on a monthly basis to the Bank's Field Office in Recife. The information
from the MIS will facilitate Bank supervision efforts and monitoring of the
investment program;



-105-                           Annex H
(b)   an MIS-generated report which would include the updated status of project
implementation (USPI) and an updated list of subprojects with their
physical, procurement and disbursement status would be provided to the
Bank's Field Office in Recife at the same time that the statements of
expenditure (SOEs) are sent to Bank Headquarters. The USPI and
subproject list will permit the Recife Office to review the eligibility of
subprojects presented for reimbursement;
(c)   a Mid-year Project Progress Report, using standard formats agreed with
the Bank, would be presented by July 31 of each year of project
implementation; and
(d)   an Annual Report would be presented by January 31 of each year of project
implementation. The Annual Report would use the standard formats from
the mid-year report but would also include a comprehensive review of: (i)
the status of the project performance indicators and the specific activities of
the institutional development component; (ii) subproject appraisal
indicators, the status of the targeting of project benefits, the application of
subproject investment eligibility criteria, and other implementation
guidelines included in the Operation Manual; and (iii) other relevant
analyses and recommendations from project-contracted studies and audits
which may be applied to improve project implementation.
PRoJEcT EVALUATION STUDIEs
10.   The project would develop and implement a range of evaluation studies to measure
the impact of the subproject investments and to provide appropriate feedback to improve
project methodology and implementation. The PCU would be responsible for drafting
Terms of Reference (TORs), which would form part of the Project Operational Manual,
and contracting local and other consulting services, both steps in agreement with the
Bank, for the following studies: (a) annual physical performance reviews; (b) a mid-term
implementation review; and (c) a comprehensive impact evaluation. These studies are
described below. In addition, the project would finance a study to determine the point of
community graduation and details on this study are included in Annex C. During the
course of project implementation, the PCU may also identify other needed evaluation
studies which can be financed under the project in agreement with the Bank.
Annual Physical Performance Reviews
11.   The objective of the Physical Performance Review (PPR) is to evaluate the success
of investments financed by the project, in terms of their achievement of specific subproject
objectives, and the quality, efficiency, and sustainability of the investments. For each
subproject included in the sample, the study would focus on the following points: (a) the
adequacy of the physical design in relation to the subproject's objective; (b) the quality and



-106 -                          Annex H
cost of subproject execution; (c) the efficiency of procurement procedures used; and (e)
the targeting of project benefits. The PPR would provide indication of the effectiveness of
community-based procurement; compliance with and/or needed adjustments to cost
indicators and other physical/financial appraisal indicators and to the Standard Designs
included in the Operational Manual; and the quality of project investments and the profile
of distribution of project benefits. The PPR will also be an important input to the project's
implementation review and to project Annual Reports.
12.   The PPR will be conducted on the basis of TORs agreed with the Bank and
included in the Operational Manual. The first PPR will be conducted at the end of 1998
for a sample of subprojects representative of the prior year's investment program (PAC,
FUMAC, and FUMAC-P). To conduct the PPR, the PCU would: (a) establish, with
Bank agreement, the sample of subprojects to be reviewed; (b) supply counterparts to the
independent consultants contracted by the PCU to implement the study; (c) participate in
the diagnosis and generation of appropriate recommendations; and (d) incorporate the
recommendations into the implementation of the project. Subsequent PPRs would be
conducted each year and would review physical performance issues identified during the
first PPR and monitor improvements. TORs for the remaining PPRs would be agreed
with the Bank by no later than July 31 of each corresponding year.
13.  In addition, the first PPR will include a module to measure the quality and
efficiency of community procurement (direct contracting) of goods and works. Similar to
an audit, this module of the PPR would analyze the contracting procedures used and the
accompanying documentation for a sample of subprojects. The issues to be examined
would include: (a) the transparency of the contracting process; (b) if the goods/works
were procured at the lowest cost for the quality required and how these costs compare
with the unit cost references in the MIS; (c) in the case of technical assistance, if the
service providers contracted satisfied the profile and experience indicated in the TORs;
and (d) if the documentation maintained by the community association is sufficient to
complete Statements of Expenditure (SOEs) and to satisfy an audit.
Implementation Review
14.   Project performance would be measured through an implementation review at the
mid-term of project implementation. The purpose of the implementation review is to
assist the State Government of Maranhao, the PCU and the Bank, in the identification of
positive experiences and implementation problems and bottlenecks, particularly in
FUMAC and FUMAC-P, in order to recommend needed modifications to their
methodology and design. Importantly, since the FUMAC-P program is a pilot, this mid-
term review would determine its feasibility and recommend its expansion.
15.   The mid-term review would be carried out through beneficiary consultations--
interviews and group discussions. These consultations would determine, inter alia: (a)
how the project is perceived and valued by the actual beneficiaries; (b) level of community
participation -- and any outside involvement (e.g., NGOs, EMATER, etc.) -- in the
different stages of the subproject cycle, including in the process of prioritizing local



-107-                           Annex H
demands; (c) effectiveness of the subprojects in alleviating poverty and its consequences;
(d) the access to and quality of technical assistance for the preparation, implementation
and O&M of subprojects; (e) the role of the Municipal Councils, how these Councils are
perceived in the communities, and how decisions on prioritization are effectively made; (f)
the role of Mayors in decision-making and in actual project implementation; (g) the
operation and maintenance of subprojects; and (h) how the role and performance of the
PCU is viewed in the communities (for PAC). Additional questions would evaluate the
efficiency and impact of the different subcomponents (PAC, FUMAC and FUMAC-P), the
effectiveness of institutional development activities, the level of community participation,
and the ability of the project to target and reach the poor. Overall, the beneficiary
consultations would generate a reliable evaluation of project performance and impact as
seen through the eyes of the ultimate beneficiaries which would serve as a convincing
input to improve project implementation.
16.   The implementation review would be carried out in the third year of project
implementation with a sample of community associations drawn from FUMAC and
FUMAC-P municipalities, with a small residual sample drawn from PAC municipalities,
and a sample of Municipal Councils. The implementation review would be carried out by
independent consultants -- preferably a local organization with field experience -- under
TORs and contracting procedures agreed with the Bank. Inputs to the review process
would include: the mid-year and annual reports, MIS-generated analyses and reports,
results of the PPRs, recommendations from project audit reports, and additional reviews
or studies contracted by the PCU.
Project Impact Evaluation
17.   The project would also finance a baseline (year 1) and final (year 5) evaluation to
measure the socio-economic impact of the subproject investments. This comprehensive
evaluation, based on a random sample survey of representative subproject types, would
select important socio-economic indicators, such as employment, income, health,
education, and migration, and measure the impact of subproject investments on these
indicators and consequently the impact of the project on the quality of life of the
beneficiary population, differentiating by gender where possible. The evaluation would
also relate impact back to specific aspects of the project in order to identify those
conditions or activities which have resulted in positive impacts.
18.   The evaluation study would also measure the effects of the project on the financial
situation at the municipal and state levels, due to the positive impacts on project
beneficiaries (communities and families). For example, the financing of subprojects for
community water supply implies savings for municipal governments, and even State and
Federal Governments, in drought periods by preempting the need of these governments to
finance temporary water provision to rural communities through carro pipa, typically a
significant expenditure for municipal governments of the Northeast and one which is not
made to the extent needed due to limited resources. The project would also generate
benefits in terms of improved health or, in general terms, in improved quality of life for



-108-                           Annex H
beneficiaries, which would result in savings for the State or municipal governments in
medical services, medicnes, etc., furnished to rural communities. In addition, the project
produces products over which the State and municipal governments can collect taxes
(such as the ICMS tax on marketed production). These products can include not only
products generated by productive subprojects but also consumer goods (e.g.,
refrigerators, radios, etc.) purchased by families benefiting from rural electrification
subprojects. Therefore, the study would evaluate the aggregate impact of the project at
the State and municipal levels, measurng: (a) the savings permitted by the project, in
terms of expenditures for water supplied by carro pipa' and provision of medical services,
etc., that no longer have to be made due to the project, and (b) the: taxes generated by
various types of subprojects financed.
19.   As in the mid-term implementation review, the study would concentrate on
FUMAC and FUMAC-P municipalities, where the majority of project investments would
be located, and include a small sample of PAC municipalities, consistent with the project's
investment profile. The indicators would be identified and measured during the baseline
evaluation in the first year of project implementation, and assessed in the final evaluation
at the conclusion of implementation. The impact evaluation would be carried out by
independent consultants and contracted under TORs and procedures acceptable to the
Bank.
Implementation Plan and Project Performance Indicators
20.   The implementation plan and project performance indicators for each project
component over the five-year implementation period were agreed upon during appraisal.
Given the demand-driven nature and flexibility of the project, these indicators will be
mostly indicative targets. They can be expected to be achieved at least in the initial year of
the project, but may well develop somewhat differently in subsequent years, particularly in
terms of the proportion that each main category of subprojects (infrastructure, social or
productive) would represent out of the total investments financed by the project.



-109-                            AnnexH
Project Performance Indicators
Project Inputs            Project Results           Project Impact
Counterpart funding, by   # of financed subprojects,   Improved standards of living
type (state, municipal,   per category (PAC,        (measurements in increased
beneficiary); loan funds  FUMAC, FUMAC-P), per  income and access to public
disbursed                type (infrastructure,      services and/or
productive, social); # of  infrastructure; etc.)
beneficiary families; women
beneficiaries; communities;  Increased community
municipalities            Participation
Technical assistance finds   # of technical assistance and  Increased women's
disbursed (institutional  training events (including    participation
development component)   for women)
FUMAC-P POAs approved  # of Municipal Councils
functioning satisfactorily
(EUMAC and FUMAC-P)
Information Campaigns     Sustainability of subprojects
(financial and
organizational)
Supervision visits



-110-                                                    Annex H
NORTHEAST RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT - MARANHAO
Project Perfonnance Indicators/ Implementation Plan
Project Components and       Responsib            Unit        PYO       PY1      PY2       PY3       PY4       PYS      Total
Activities             Institution
A. Community Subprojects
Subprojects Implernented'      Benef. Assoc.         No.                    528      596       704       814       750     3,392
- Infrastructure                                   No.                    264       298      352       407       375      1,696
- Social                                           No.                     79        89       106      122       112       508
- Productive                                       No.                    185       209      246       285       263      1,188
Beneficiaries                  PCU, Councils
- Total                                          Families 2                30        35       41        48        44       198
('000)
- Total                                          People3
('000)                 150       175       205       240      220       990
- women as % of productive                          %                      30        30       30        30        30
subproject beneficiaries
Community Associations         PCU, Councils         No.                    264      562       914      1,321    1,696     1,696
benefited 4                                     (cum.)
Municipalities benefited with      PCU               No.                    184      161       126        89        80
subprojects (PAC)
Municipal Councils created
- FUMAC                          PCU               No.                     30        20       30        30         6       116
- FUMAC-P                        PCU               No.                      2         3        5         7         3        20
1   At $28,000/bproject (59%/ infirasucture, 15% social, 35% productive).
2 65 families/subproject with 10% "repeater' families.
5 persons/fassily.
4 2 subpwojectasociation.



- 111 -                                                 Annex H
Project Components and       Responsible         Unit        PYO       PYI      PY2       PY3       PY4      PY5       Total
Activities             Institution
B. Institutional Development
Preparation of annual program  PCU, Councils
of technical assistance and
training
(i) PCU                                           No.                      1         1         1        1         1         5
(ii) Municipal Councils                            No.                    32        23        35       37         9       136
Community Mobilization         PCU, Councils
- Beneficiaries                                 Seminars5                 44        44        44       44        44       220
- Local Leaders (for                             No. of                  640       460      700       740       180    2,720
formation of Project                         Participants 6
Municipal Councils)
No. of training courses offered
to:
- Beneficiary associations                        No. '                  528       596      704       814       750    3,392
- All Municipal Councils       FUMAC +            No.                     64       110       180      254       272       880
FUMAC-P
- FUMAC-P Municipal                               No. 9                    4        10       20        34        40       108
Councils
- PCU staff                                        No.                     2         2         2        2         2        10
4 seminars/ARUT/year.
6 20 community leaders/Municipal Council.
7   2 courses/year.
s 2 courses for each new Council (FUMAC+FUMAC-P).
9   2 courses for each new FUMAC-P Council.



-112-                                                   Annex H
Project Components and       Responsible         Unit        PYO       PY1      PY2       PY3       PY4      PYS       Total
Activities             Institution
Technical Assistance provided
- for Subproject              PCU, Councils     Subprojects               528       596      704       814       750     3,392
Inplementation                                Attended
(technology transfer)
- to Municipal Councils           PCU            Contracts                 32        23       35        37         9       136
C. Project Administation, Supervision, Monitorin and Evaluation
Supevision
- Subprojects                 PCU, Councils        No. of                1,956     1,192    1,408     1,628     1,500    6,784
Visits 10
- Municipal Councils               PCU             No. of                   64      110       180       254      272       880
Visits'"
Annual Operating Plans
(POAs)
- Preparation of POA for   FUMAC-P Councils       No.              2       5        10        17       20         -       54
FUMAC-P
- Consolidation and              PCU              No.              1       1         1         1        1          ..       5
Preparation of Project POA
Standard designs
- Preparation                    PCU              No.             10                                                       10
- Review and Updating            PCU                                       x         x        x         x
Special Account                    PCU                                       x
(establishment)
Infomiation Carnpaign              PCU
10 2 visits/subprojwL
2 VisitsMunicipal Council/year.



-113 -                                                 Annex H
|  Project Components and       Responsible         Unit       PYO      PYI       PY2      PY3       PY4      PYS       Total 
Activities             Institution
- Presentation to Bank                                        x
- Campaign Launched                                                      x         x        x
Operational Manual                PCU
- Preparation                                                 x
- Review and Adjustments                                                 x         x        x
(with Bank approval)
Monitoring Reports (sent to
Bank)
- Monthly Disbursement           PCU             No.                     12       12        12       12        12       60
Summaries and MIS update
- Annual, Semi-annual            PCU             No.                     2         2        2         2        2        10
Reports
- Extemal Audits                 PCU             No.                      1        1         1        1         1        5
Evaluation Studies
- Physical Performance          PCU              No.                      1        1         1        1         1        5
Reviews
(i) Mid-Term                                                                               1                            1
- Impact Evaluation             PCU              No.
(i) Baseline                                                             1                                              1
(ii) Final                                                                                                     1        1
- Graduation Study              PCU              No.                               1                                     1



-114 -                                               Annex I
Table 1. 1
BRAZIL
RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT - MARANHAO
Annual Phasing of Project Costs by Component
(US$ million)
Project Component                                    Totals Including Contingencies
PYI         PY2          PY3          PY4          PYS          Total
A. Community Subprojects
1. FUMAC                                 4.2          7.0         11.2         15.4         16.3         54.1
2. FUMAC-P                               0.3          0.7          1.4          2.4          2.8          7.6
3. PAC                                  10.3          9.0          7.1          5.0          1.9         33.3
Subtotal                                   14.8         16.7         19.7         22.8         21.0         95.0
B. Institutional Development                1.9          1.8          1.8          1.5          0.4          7.4
(Technical Assistance and Training)
C. Project Administration, Supervision,     0.4          0.6          0.6          0.7          0.8          3.1
Monitoring and Evaluation
TOTAL BASELINE COST                        17.1         19.1         22.1         25.0         22.2         105.5
Physical Contingencies                   0.2          0.2          0.2          0.2          0.0          0.8
Price Contingencies                      0.0          0.1          0.1          0.1          0.1          0.4
TOTAL PROJECT COST                         17.3         19.4         22.4         25.3         22.3         106.7



-115 -                            Annex I
Table 1.2
BRAZIL
RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT - MARANHAO
Financing Plan
(US$ million)
Project Component                       Amounts to be Financed by
State
Total           Government/
Cost   IBRD   Municipalities Beneficiaries"
A. Community Subprojects
1. FUMAC                         54.1    40.6        8.1           5.4
2. FUMAC-P                        7.6     5.3        1.5            0.8
3. PAC                           33.3    25.0        5.0            3.3
Subtotal                         95.0    70.9       14.6            9.5
B. Institutional Development         7.4     7.4       -              -
(Technical Assistance and Traiing)
C. Project Administration,           3.1     1.1        2.0           -
Supervision, Monitoring and
Evaluation
TOTAL BASELINE COST                105.5    79.4       16.6            9.5
Physical Contingencies            0.8     0.4        0.4           -
Price Contingencies               0.4     0.2        0.2           -
TOTAL PROJECT COST-                106.7    80.0       17.2            9.5
al    Minimum contributio
h/    Including about USS3.4 million of axes and duties not financed by IBRD.



- 116 -                           Annex I
Table I.3
BRAZIL
RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT - MARANHAO
Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Category                Item and % of Expenditures                Total Amount
(US$ Million)
I.    Communit Subprojects                                       70.9
(75% of expenditures)
40.6
A. FUMAC                                                   5.3
B. FUMAC-P                                                25.0
C. PAC
H.     Institutional Development, including Technical              7.4
Assistance and Training and Evaluation Studies
(100% of expenditures)
in.     Project Administration and Monitoring System               0.3
(20% of expenditures)
IV.     Project Supervision                                        0.8
(50% of expenditures)
IV.     Unallocated                                                0.6
TOTAL                                                        80.0



- 117-                           AnnexI
Table 1.4
BRAZIL
RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT - MARANHAO
Estimated Schedule of Bank Disbursements
(US$ million)
Bank       Quarter     Disbursement         Cumulative           Balance
Fiscal     Ending         During            Disbursement            of
Year                     Quarter                                  Loan
Amount    % of Total
1998    March 31, 1998      5.3"'          5.3          6.6        74.7
June 30, 1998       2.5            7.8          9.8        72.2
1999    Sept. 30, 1998      2.5           10.3         12.9        69.7
Dec. 31, 1998       2.6           12.9         16.1        67.1
March31, 1999       3.6           16.5         20.6        63.5
June 30, 1999       3.6           20.1         25.1        59.9
2000    Sept. 30, 1999       3.6          23.7         29.6        56.3
Dec. 31, 1999       3.7           27.4         34.3        52.6
March 31, 2000      4.2           31.6         39.5        48.4
June 30, 2000       4.2           35.8         44.8        44.2
2001    Sept. 30, 2000       4.2          40.0         50.0        40.0
Dec. 31, 2000       4.2           44.2         55.3        35.8
March 31, 2001      5.0           49.2         61.5        30.8
June 30, 2001       5.0           54.2         67.8        25.8
2002    Sept. 30, 2001       5.0          59.2         74.0        20.8
Dec. 31, 2001       5.0           64.2         80.3        15.8
March 31, 2002      4.2           68.4         85.5        11.6
June 30, 2002       4.2           72.6         90.8         7.4
2003    Sept. 30, 2002       4.2          76.8         96.0         3.2
Dec. 31, 2002       3.2           80.0        100.0         0.0
at Including the authorized allocation of US$5.3 million into the Special Account.



-118-                            Annex J
BRAZIL
RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT -
MARANHAO
J. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
Introduction
1.    The project will assist the State Government of Maran}ao to alleviate poverty and
its consequences by providing basic infrastructure, employment and income-generating
opportunities for the rural poor, decentralizing resource allocation and decision-making to
local levels, leveraging resources mobilized at the community and municipal levels and
expanding social capital in rural areas of the state. These objectives will be attained
through three project components--Community Subprojects (90% of total base cost),
Institutional Development (7% of total base costs) and Project Administration,
Supervision, Monitoring and Evaluation (3% of total base costs).
2.    The demand-driven nature of the project implies that communities will determine
the nature and scope of each subproject funded. Accordingly, neither benefits nor costs
can be identified ex ante. As such, it is not possible to estimate an ex ante overall intemal
economic rate of return for the project nor individually for the variety of potential
subprojects. The proposed Rural Poverty Alleviation project is a foliow-up to the
reformulated NRDP (see performance and impact evaluation in Annex B). Subprojects
intended to be funded under the proposed project would, in general, be similar to those
subprojects funded and completed under the previous project. Therefore, the experience
and expost results of a sample of completed subprojects under the reformulated NRDP
can be examined, as internal rates of return and other economic parameters for subprojects
likely to be financed under the new project are not expected to differ greatly.
3.    Subprojects would be of many types, broadly classified as infrastructure (e.g.,
rural water supply, electrification, small roads and bridges), social (e.g., community
centers, sanitation) and productive (e.g., small-scale agro-processing and minor irrigation
schemes). Nmety percent of the total cost of the project (US$95.0 million) would support
matching grants for these subprojects. Bank funds will cover 75 percent of the total cost
of each subproject, with the remaining 25 percent consisting of counterpart funds from
state, municipal and community contributions. Of this 25 percent, approximately 10
percent is expected to come from the local community, either in cash or in-kind.
Subproject selection is demand-driven and based on community preferences. Subproject
proposals would observe standard documentation and technical, economic, environmental
and sustainability criteria established in a detailed Project Operational Manual, which sets
forth procedures and guidelines for implementation.



-119-                             Annex J
Methodology and Assumptions
4.    In terms of the counterfactual, the project will support infrastructure and social
investments which, due to their public nature and the inappropriability of potential benefit
streams, are unlikely to be undertaken in sufficient quantity by the private sector.
Furthermore, while state, municipal and community counterpart contributions will total 25
percent of all subproject costs, it is doubtful that, in the absence of this project, the local
governments and communities would be financially capable of amassing the necessary
investment required to fund these projects, either due to poor rural financial intermediation
or low asset levels. Also, resource efficiency is improved through direct community
participation in the identification, selection and implementation of each subproject
proposal.
5.    While it is feasible to separate the three components of the project (i.e.,
Community Subprojects; Institutional Development; and Project Administration,
Supervision, Monitoring and Evaluation), such a strategy would jeopardize the
achievement of project objectives. A project based solely on the provision of grants for
community subprojects would not address the need to simultaneously foster and bolster
the development of grass-roots institutions, such as the Municipal Councils created under
the project which review and approve the subproject proposals. While the overall level of
funding for institutional development is low (7 percent of total project costs), these funds
are vital to properly train and prepare these Councils for effective leadership in their
communities. Project Administration, Supervision, Monitoring and Evaluation will
provide needed feedback on project performance and impact, as well as finance project
coordination.
6.    Complementarity among community subprojects makes a precise overall
quantitative analysis (i.e., economic IRR calculation) difficult. Simply put, the synergy
created from the interactive effects of several subprojects within any municipality is
difficult to capture and equally difficult to quantify. For example, rural electrification,
which accounted for about 20 percent of all subprojects funded under the reformulated
NRDP in Maranhao, generates a variety of productive undertakings, such as irrigation in
previously rain-fed only regions, opening opportunities for an expanded portfolio of crops
which the fanner can cultivate. Additionally, the electricity generated permits local milling
of basic grains, such as manioc, corn and rice, where previously these grains were
manually milled at home or processed outside the community at private mills. In short,
subprojects can build on each other, forging a network of community development
activities. Similarly, spillovers and spillins, in the form of incremental benefits or costs
which are unintended yet nonetheless result from the undertaking of the subproject, should
also be recognized in the economic analysis. Again, the spillovers are both difficult to
identify and difficult to quantify.
7.    Finally, the community subprojects foster the creation of social capital. The
demand-driven imperative of the subprojects requires that communities identify and
prioritize their most pressing needs. Municipal councils established under the project
would critically examine subproject proposals to both confirm their feasibility and verify



-120-                            Annex J
their compatibility with overall community development objectives. These socially
sustainable community organizations are an important element of social capital formation.
Members of the community are responsible for counterpart financing of each subproject,
either financially or in-kind. As such, project resources are leveraged to undertake the
productive subprojects by which the community gains access to market channels.
Qualitative recognition of these benefits is vital to a fuili understanding of the economic
impact of a given subproject. However, as in the case of complementarities, spillovers and
spillins, social capital is difficult to quantify within the framework of estimation of internal
economic rates of return.
Infrastructure and Social Subprojects
8.    Infrastructure and social subprojects are analyzed using the least cost, best
alternative criteria. Several aspects of project design help to ensure that infrastructure and
social subprojects undertaken represent the least-cost, best alternative. First, the demand-
driven nature of each subproject permits scarce resources to flow where they are most
needed, thereby improving allocative efficiency. Community participation, under the
direction of the Municipal Councils created under the project, ensure that the chosen
subproject is the best alternative for the local community. Second, the use of standard
technical designs (projetospadroes), including cost parameters, for the most common
types of subprojects ensures that least cost models are adopted and decreases search and
information costs by providing communities with proven patterns of initiating and
completing a subproject. Third, the contracting procedures prescribed in the Project
Operational Manual requires competitive bidding on all subprojects; the community
solicits three bids for the subproject and subsequently chooses the least-cost bid. This
methodology has been shown to be more cost effective in completing the subproject than
were the same project undertaken by the public sector (for details and examples, see the
discussion presented in Annex B).
Productive Subprojects
9.    The financial and economic analyses completed for this project utilize expost data
on past subprojects completed under the reformulated NRDP. Productive subprojects
are analyzed by calculating the IRR for a sample of productive subprojects completed
under the previous NRDP. Actual cash flows associated with the productive subprojects
are captured in the estimation of the financial IRR. Nonfinancial benefits and costs, chief
among them incremental unskilled labor costs, are incorporated into the estimation of the
economic IRR The economic IRR is then refined by shadowing the impact of public
funds on the overall performance of the productive subproject. Data permitting, the cost
effectiveness of productive subprojects is indicated by estimating the subproject's benefit-
cost ratio and investment per job created.
10.   Generally, the analysis of sample cases indicates that the impact of the NRDP on
the quality of life and incomes of beneficiary communities has been very positive. As
shown in Annex B, productive subprojects comprised 31 percent of NRDP investments in



-121-                            Annex J
Maranhao and were typically implemented only after the basic infrastructure (electricity,
water supply, better feeder roads) became available. For this reason, many of the
surveyed productive subprojects only recently became operational, while others will reach
maturity over the next several years. Financial and economic analyses have been
conducted on three fully operational productive subprojects, representing some of the
most popular types of NRDP investments in Maranhao (see more detailed description in
Annex B):
(a)   Rice mills. Community rice mills typically consist of a shed and low-cost
milling equipment (less than US$10,000) operated by a wage-earning
employee. As in similar communal activities, association members pay a
monthly association fee and a user fee (conga) as a cost recovery measure.
Surplus rice remaining after family consumption is sold on local markets.
Based on the sample subprojects analyzed for this type of investment,
incremental net income generated would be about US$240 per family per
year.
(b)   Manioc flour mills. Casas defannha are a typical feature of rural areas in
the Northeast. The main benefits from this type of subproject are reduced
processing costs (plus, in some cases, savings in transport to other mills
located outside the community), leading to increased production both for
sale and family consumption. Where there is no other mill in the area,
community-owned casas defarinha replace home-based, artisanal (less
efficient) processing. Investments in the subprojects examined are
estimated to generate incremental net income of about US$200 per family
per year.
(c)   Tractors for Communal Use. Community-owned tractors with
implements are a popular type of productive subproject. Tractor use has
led to increased cultivation and greater crop diversification, productivity
and farm incomes. Tractors are labor-intensive when used primarily in pre-
harvest production activities and, when used for farm transport, can
substantially reduce producer costs. Increased net incomes of about
US$1,370 per family per year are resulting from the tractor subprojects
analyzed .
11.   Productive subprojects were evaluated using data collected by a late 1996
Bank/FAO mission and by the Technical Unit in Maranhao. Detailed cost and revenue
data were obtained on each productive subproject. Where either benefits or costs were
nonmonetary in nature, economic costs or benefits were assigned in order to calculate the
economic IRR. Conversion factors were also used to transform financial prices to
economic prices. The principal nonmonetary cost in the majority of productive
subprojects was unskilled labor; it was priced at the prevailing minimum wage and subject
to a conversion factor of 0.7 (See Table 1 for the conversion factors applied in the
analysis). Nonmonetary benefits flowing from the productive subproject (e.g., increased
manioc and rice production for family consumption) were valued at the market price



- 122 -                          Annex J
available for that good or service. No conversion factors were assigned to subproject
benefits, since in most cases small quantities were produced and they were traded locally.
Benefits, costs and prices are assumed to be constant over the 10-year project horizon.
Estimates of annual benefits, costs, and net incremental benefits were then obtained and
used to calculate both financial and economic IMRs. Given the sampling nature of the
exercise and the variations that exist among subprojects in terms both of costs and
performance, these results should be taken as illustrative only.
Table 1: Conversion Factors for Selected Productive Subproject Inputs, Maranhio
Subproject Item                   Conversion Factor
Construction Materials                              0.862
Civil Works                                         0.739
Electricity                                         0.995
Seeds                                               1.023
Fertilizers                                         0.778
Diesel Fuel                                         0.630
Machinery                                           1.026
Tractors                                            0.827
Implements                                          0.990
Unskilled labor (male)                              0.779
Unskilled labor (female)                            0.669
12.   Financial and economic analyses were conducted on a sample of productive
subprojects in Maranhao (see Annex B for descriptions of productive subprojects): (a)
manioc mills, (b) rice mills and (c) communal use of tractors. Collectively, these
productive subprojects accounted for about 12 percent of all community subprojects
implemented in Maranhlo under the reformulated NRDP. Table 2 gives the financial IRRs
for these productive subprojects. Financial IRRs for all productive subprojects evaluated
were satisfactory and in all cases greater than 50 percent. These uniformly favorable
financial IRs demonstrate the low-cost associated with both manioc mills and rice mills.
Furthermore, even though the tractor sujbproject requires nearly seven times as much
initial investment as manioc mills and rice mills, the corresponding revenues are more than
sufficient to justify the subproject.
Table 2: Financial Internal Rates of Return, Selected Productive Subprojects, Maranhao
Subproject Type    Manioc          Rice            Communal Use
Mills         Mills             of Tractors
Financial IRR        > 50           > 50                > 50
13.  In the economic analysis, domestic prices were transformed to economic prices
(where conversion factors were available) and the financial analysis was extended to
include nonmonetary benefits and costs. Economic IRRs for the sample of productive
subprojects in Maranhao are reported in Table 3. Although lower than the financial IRRs,



-123 -                            Annex J
the economic IRRs are nonetheless satisfactory. The primary factor in the difference
between the financial and econonic IRRs is unpaid labor required for each of the three
subprojects. These nonmonetaly labor costs, on average, were US$ 795 for manioc milis,
US$ 2,490 for rice mills and USS 17,668 for tractor subprojects, representing 36 percent,
62 percent and 48 percent of total annual costs, respectively.
Table 3: Economic Internal Rates of Return, Selected Productive Subprojects, Maranhko
Subproject Type    Manioc            Rice           Communal Use
Mills           Mills            of Tractors
Economic IRR         > 50             42                  37
14.   To determine the sensitivity of the economic IRRs to the distortionary effects of
publicly-funded grants and the costs associated with raising these funds (i.e., taxation), an
additional analysis was carried out using a shadow price of public funds. Although lower
than the "base" economic IRR estimates, the resulting "shadowed" economic IRRs remain
positive, ranging from 30 percent for manioc mills to 5 percent for tractor subprojects.
The capital-intensive nature of the tractor subproject (e.g., tractor purchase, implements)
was the primary factor in reducing its IRR under this scenario.
Table 4: Shadowed Econornic IRR, Selected Productive Subprojects, Maranhao
Subproject       Manioc            Rice           Communal Use
Type           Mills             Mills            of Tractors
Shadowed
Economic IRR         30                14                  5
15.   Unexpected variations in benefit and cost streams can substantially effect the above
mentioned financial and economic IRUs. Sensitivity analysis attempts to capture these
unexpected variations. Table 5 reports the financial and economic IRRs under the
conditions of (a) a 10 percent decrease in benefits and (b) a 10 percent increase in costs.
The estimates obtained from the sensitivity analysis can be interpreted as a lower bound on
the financial and economic IRRs for each type of productive subproject examined.
Financial IRRs remain significantly positive, in all cases greater than 40 percent. Base
economic IRRs are again lower than the financial IRRs due to the impact of nonmonetary
labor costs; in the case of the tractor subprojects, the economic IRK is highly susceptible
to changes in the cost of capital equipment, e.g., tractor. With shadowing of public funds,
rice mills show a rather large decrease in the economic IRR to one percent, while the rates
for manioc mills and tractors are 18 percent and 13 percent, respectively.



-124-                              Annex J
Table 5: Sensitivity Analysis, Selected Productive Subprojects, Maranhaol"
Subproject Type        Manioc               Rice          Communal Use
Mills              Mills           of Tractors
FinancialIRR              >50                  48                 41
Economic IRRY              40                  25                 16
Economic IRR,               18                  1                 13
assuming a lo/. decrease in subproject benefits and a 10% increase in subproject costs
21 base esimate
with shadowing of public fumds
16.   Cost effectiveness is examined by estimation of benefit-cost ratios for each
productive subproject and investment per job created (Table 6). These ratios are
calculated by deriving the NPV of both benefit and cost streams, assuming a discount rate
of 10 percent. The ratios reflect economic (i.e., monetary and nonmonetary) costs and
benefits. Benefit-cost ratios for productive subprojects in Maranhao range from 1.3
(tractors) to 1.8 (manioc mills).
Table 6: Cost Effectiveness Indicators, Productive Subprojects, Maranhao
Project Type                Benefit-Cost   Total Investment
Ratio        per Job Created
(US$)
Manioc Mills                                  1.8              n.a.
Rice Mills                                    1.5              n.a.
Communal Use of Tractors                      1.3             2,182
-'Real discount rate is 10%
17.   It is envisioned that those subprojects eventually undertaken will possess the
capacity for long-term sustainability through cost recovery. Whereas initial subproject
financing will provide the outlays required for start-up, subsequent net revenues from the
subproject should be sufficient to meet replacement costs of the original capital
investment. The sustainability of the productive subprojects was evaluated by examining
(a) cost recovery measures undertaken by each subproject and (b) the replacement period
for initial capital equipment. All three types of subprojects evaluated assess user fees to
cover 0 & M expenses incurred and contribute toward the eventual replacement of capital
equipment. For all subprojects evaluated, cost recovery was sufficient. Table 7 details
cost recovery measures and replacement period for selected subprojects in Maranhao. In
spite of the relatively high up-front costs for the tractor subprojects, net revenues are
sufficient to cover replacement of capital investment within two years compared to an
economic useful life of ten years. Equally favorable is the sustainability of manioc mills
and rice mills, in which the replacement fund is built in only one-quarter of the project's
useful economic life.



-125 -                             Annex J
Table 7: Financial Sustainability Indicators, Selected Productive Subprojects, Maranhlao
Item/Subproject Type   Manioc Mills        Rice       Communal Use of
Mills          Tractors
Number of associations       80             140              132
Average net income per      4,931          8,278            1,370
association (US$)"
Average cost of             6,827          12,365           25,117
subproject (US$)
Cost Recovery             User Fees      User Fees        User Fees
Measures
Average number of
years:
Of useful economic life      12              12               10
(years)
To build replacement          2              2                2
fund (years)2'
1/ Total income fiom association fees and cost recovery net of all O&M and other recurrent costs.
2/ Number of years after which the association has accumulated enough funds to replace the original
investnent, which is typically less than the useful economic life of the investnent The real interest rate
is assumed to be 10%.
Fiscal Impact
18.   The project will cost an average of US$16 million per year over the five year
project horizon. For FY 1996, the state of Maranhao realized capital expenditures of
US$ 232 million, an increase of 60 percent from FY 1995. As such, annual project costs
represent 6.9 percent of 1996 capital expenditures. The primary fiscal impact of the
project will derive from two sources: (a) cost savings and (b) revenue generation.
Experience has shown that local communities can undertake and complete these small-
scale subprojects at a lower total cost that is possible through the public sector. For
example, the rural electrification network installed by the NRDP in 1995 alone was
equivalent to that which was developed through other programs by the previous State
Government over a four year period. In another example, NRDP water supply
subprojects have minimized the need for water delivery via tanker trucks (carro pipa);
cost savings for all states under the reformulated NRDP due to these water subprojects
range from US$7 million in a year of normal precipitation to US$15 million in a drought
year. Surveys in many states indicate that infrastructure projects are, on average, about 30
percent less expensive when implemented by the communities (i.e., demand-driven) than
by government agencies or contractors. Thus, by decentralizing toward the community
level, the state can achieve costs reductions which in turn will allow reallocation of scarce
public finance to other pressing needs.
19.   The demand-driven nature of the project precludes the ex ante estimation of fiscal
revenues; however, experiences accumulated under the reformulated NRDP can shed light



-126-                           Annex J
on any potential changes in public sector fiscal balances which may result from the project.
Expanded commodity production under the majority of the productive subprojects
evaluated can potentially generate additional public revenues through taxation. However,
the combination of informal market transactions, own consumption of subproject benefits
and tax exemptions will limit public revenue generation from these subprojects. The State
of Maranhao exempts the following agricultural items from value-added taxation (ICMS)
when marketed within the State: corn (for animal consumption), fish, agricultural inputs
and goat products. Interstate and state tax exemptions apply to the following items:
manioc, raw sugar, most fresh fruits and vegetables. This list would encompass the vast
majority of marketable produce from productive subprojects. In all cases, tax collection
depends on the extension of a nota fiscal which formalizes the sale before the public
authorities. However, rural transactions are largely informal in nature, which in turn
precludes significant public sector revenue generation from community subprojects.



-127 -                          Annex K
BRAZIL
RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT -
MARANHAO
K PROJECT SUPERVISION
1.    The principal role of project supervision is to ensure that project implementation
follows the guidelines set forth in the Loan Agreement and detailed in the Operational
Manual. At the operational level, project supervision arrangements are designed to
provide essential information on the general performance of the project and the feedback
necessary for managerial decision-making. Information collected regularly from the field
during project implementation will provide the Project Coordinating Unit (PCU) with the
tools necessary to: (a) identify and correct departures from project guidelines; (b)
reinforce targeting mechanisms; (c) modify technical assistance strategies; and (d) identify
training needs.
2.    Supervision Responsibilities. In line with the decentralized implementation of
the project, the responsibilities for project supervision at the state and local levels will
correspond to the PCU and the project Municipal Councils, respectively:
(a)   at the state level: the PCU wili monitor global trends across all project
municipalities, oversee the functioning and activities of project Municipal
Councils, and supervise the portfolio of subprojects under the PAC
subprogram; and
(b)   at the local level: the project Municipal Councils will monitor the
performance of the subproject portfolio under the FUMAC and FUMAC-P
subprograms.
3.    At the state level, the PCU's responsibilities include: (a) monitor the quality of
global project implementation and administration; (b) assess community participation in
the identification, preparation and execution of PAC subprojects, as well as the quality of
technical assistance provided to beneficiary communities in PAC; (c) collect and verify
pertinent information on the project and subprojects for the MIS; and (d) review the
activities of the FUMAC and FUMAC-P Municipal Councils.
4.    Supervision of the project Municipal Councils by the PCU will focus on the
following points: (a) the composition of the Councils to ensure they meet the required
80% beneficiary representation; (b) the frequency and openness of the Councils' meetings;
(c) the criteria applied to screen, prioritize and approve subproject proposals and the
effectiveness of targeting of project benefits to the poorest communities; and (d) the
capacity of the Councils to provide technical assistance to the beneficiary communities. In
addition to these points, supervision of the FUMAC-P Councils will focus on whether the



-128 -                          Annex K
administrative and financial arrangements made by these Councils are effective in
managing and releasing subproject funds to the community associations as well as
progress in the implementation of POAs agreed for each FUMAC-P Council.
5.    At the local level, the Municipal Councils, with support from the PCU, will carry
out the following supervision tasks in their respective municipalities: (a) verification of
the status and quality of subproject implementation; (b) assessment of community
participation in the identification, preparation and execution of subprojects; (c) evaluation
of the extent to which communities are organized to effectively undertake the operation
and maintenance of the investments, following, in the case of productive subprojects, the
appropriate regulamentos de uso; (d) identification of technical assistance and training
needs; and (e) assessment of effectiveness of targeting of project benefits and identification
of potential beneficiary communities not yet participating in the project. In addition to
these tasks, FUMAC-P Councils will follow up on compliance by beneficiary associations
with subproject agreements signed with them.
6.    To fulfill their supervision responsibilities, given the number of subprojects in the
field and the amount of information to collect, both the PCU and the project Municipal
Councils may delegate some supervision tasks to selected NGOs and participating public
agencies (e.g., EMATER), according to specific terms of reference developed for this
purpose. This assistance would be especially usefuil for evaluating the status of
community organization and mobilization. In addition, to facilitate the supervision of
individual subprojects under implementation, the PCU and the Municipal Councils would
liaise with the Subproject Supervision and Control Committees (Annex D) --community
members designated to supervise each subproject and control the status and quality of
subproject implementation. Whether carried out by the PCU, Municipal Councils or a
partner organization, subprojects would receive two supervision visits in their first year of
implementation and, in the case of productive subprojects and water supply subprojects, at
least one visit per year thereafter.
7.    Supervision Reporting. Information collected during supervision, including
indicators of subproject implementation performance and the identification of the principal
bottlenecks or problems, will be incorporated into the subproject standard data sheets (see
Annex H) and included in the MIS, maintained by the PCU. To aid the overall
information collection process between the state and local levels, the project Municipal
Councils will report regularly to the PCU on the implementation of the subprojects in their
respective municipalities. The contents and frequency of these reports would be
determined by the PCU and included in the Operational Manual. Based on the project and
subproject information collected at the state and local levels, the PCU will prepare and
submit to the Bank mid-year and annual reports on the overall physical and financial status
of project implementation and performance. In addition, the PCU will present the Annual
Operating Plan (POA) and corresponding budget for each subsequent fiscal year of
implementation to the Bank for its review and comment.
8.    World Bank Supervision. In keeping with the decentralized implementation of
the project, and based on the experience under the reformulated NRDP, the Bank will



-129-                           Annex K
continue its decentralized supervision of the project. The Bank will carry out at least two
regular supervision missions per year from its field office in Recife. Regular supervision
will entail: (a) a discussion of project implementation problems identified by the PCU
and/or Municipal Councils; (b) field visits to a random sample of community subprojects;
and (c) a review of the performance of all project components, and particularly an
assessment of the FUMAC-P pilot subprogram, to address problems and make appropriate
recommendations. In addition, based on frequent communication with the PCU, the
Recife Office will conduct short supervision missions to address problems which require
prompt action. Also, in view of the diversity of community subprojects, consultants of
different expertise would be contracted to provide occasional input and advice to Bank
missions. Two full supervision reports will be issued annually, as well as Back-to-Office
reports for each short supervision mission. It is estimated that about 35 staff-weeks will
be required for project supervision, or about 7 staff-weeks annually during the five years
of project implementation.
9.    The schedule of project supervision is as follows:
(a)   by July 31 and January 31 of each year, presentation of mid-year and
annual reports from PCU to the Bank;
(b)   by February and September of each year, full Bank supervision missions
completed; and
(c)   by October 30 of each year, presentation of the POA for the subsequent
year to the Bank for review and comment by November 15.



130 -                        Annex L
BRAZIL
RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT -
MARANHAO
L. PROJECT OPERATIONAL MANUAL (OUTLINE)
The Operational Manual would have the foliowing table of contents:
I.    Introductory Remarks and Organization of Manual
II.    The Project
a.    Objectives
b.    Project Description
1.    Community Subprojects (FUMAC, FUMAC-P and PAC)
i.    Institutional Development Component
iii.   Project Administration, Supervision, Monitoring and Evaluation
C.    Strategy and Targets
d.    Project Area
e.    Poverty Targeting Mechanisms
f.    Eligibility Criteria for Subprojects
g.    Cost-sharing Matrix
h.    Institutional Framework for Project Implementation
i.    State Government
H.    Project Coordinating Unit (PCU)
iii.   Municipal Councils
iv.   Community Associations
v.    Municipal Government
vi.   Non-Governmental Organizations (NGOs)
i.    Flow of Funds
III.   Operational Guidelines
a.    Information Campaign
b.    The Subproject Cycle: Identification; Preparation; Standard Subprojects
(projetos-padrao/projetos de referencia); Submittal; Evaluation; Legal
Agreements (convenios); Execution; Conclusion; Operation and
Maintenance
c.    Environmental Assessment
d.    Procurement
e.    Technical Assistance and Training
f     Supervision
g.    Operational Incentives and Penalties
h.    Statements of Expenditure (SOE)



- 131 -
-~~~~~ ~Annex L
IV.   Project Management and Monitoring
a.    Management Tasks of the PCU
b.    Financial Management
c.    Monitoring
d.    Supervision
e.    Auditing
f.    Evaluation Studies
Annexes:
A.  Indicative List of Project Municipalities by Subprogram (FUMAC, FUMAC-P and
PAC)
B.  Ineligible Subprojects
C.  Standard Subproject Designs
D.  Unit Cost Tables
E.  Environmental Assessment Checklist
F.   Standard Forms (for proposal submittal and for ata de recebimento)
G.  Operational Manual for FUMAC
H.  Operational Manual for FUMAC-P
I.   Model Law for Creation of FUMAC and FUMAC-P Municipal Councils
J. Model Annual Operating Plan (POA) for FUJMAC-P
K.  Model Contracts (for PAC, FUMAC and FUMAC-P subprojects)
L.  Guidelines for Community Associations
M.  Guidelines for Subproject Supervision and Control Committees
N.  Terms of Reference for Contracting Technical Assistance
0.  PCU Organizational Chart
P.  Technical Assistance and Training
Q.  Supervision
R.  Graduation of Communities
S.  Management Information System (MS) and Reporting
T.  Standard Data Sheets for MIS (Subproject, Supervision and Graduation)
U.  Standard Contract for Procurement of Goods and Works
V.  Guidelines for SOEs
W.  Guidelines for Financial Management
X.  Terms of Reference for Evaluation Studies
Y.  Terms of Reference for Auditing



- 132 -
Annex M
BRAZIL
RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT -
MARANHAO
M. LIST OF DOCUMENTS IN PROJECT FILES
1.    Boletim Conjuntural-Nordeste do Brasil: Agosto 1996, Superintendencia do
Desenvolvimento do Nordeste (SUDENE), Volume 4, August 1996.
2.    Agregados Econ6micos Regionais-Nordeste do Brasil, 1965-95,
Superintendencia do Desenvolvimento do Nordeste (SUDENE), 1996.
3.    Regiio Nordeste do Brasil em numeros, Superintendencia do Desenvolvimento
do Nordeste (SUDENE), 1997.
4.    Formacao Bruta de Capital Fixo do Setor Publico - Nordeste do Brasil, 1960-
93, Superintendencia do Desenvolvimento do Nordeste (SUDENE), 1995.
5.    0 Mapa da Fome, IPEA, three volumes, 1993.
6.    Relat6rio sobre Desenvolvimento Humano no Brasil, PNUD/IPE, 1996.
7.    Projeto de Desenvolvimento Municipal Sustentivel, ARIDAS, October 1994.
8.    A Study of Popular Participation in the Brazil Northeast Rural Development
Program (NRDP-PAPP), C. Kottak (University of Michigan), February 7, 1994
(Draft).
9.    1994 Follow-up Study - Northeast Rural Development Program/PAC-
FUMAC, C. Kottak and A. Costa, December 2, 1995.
10.   Brazil: A Poverty Assessment, World Bank, Human Resources Operations
Division, Report No. 14323-BR, June 27, 1995.
11.   Projeto de Combate a Pobreza Rural no Estado do Maranhao, Carta-Consulta
a Comissao de Financiamentos Externos (COFIEX), Projeto Nordeste/PAPP,
Secretaria de Estado do Planejamento, Governo do Estado do Maranhao,
September 1996.
12.   Projeto de Combate a Pobreza Rural no Estado do Maranhao - Manual de
Operag6es (para uso da Unidade Tecnica), Nicleo Estadual de Programas
Especiais, Secretaria de Estado do Planejamento, Governo do Estado do
Maranhao, Februaryl997 (Draft).



MAP SECTION






RRAZVt
A r L A N T I c                                   RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT
STATE OF MARANHAO
U  1AtXIARTFM'R~,OJECV0BeCHN1CAL UNIT
REi fC) C    E  A N                                                                                          MEA N'Xi.UED FROM TIHEPROJECT
.,000--- ApNEAL hAu4FALL IN fWMEffRS
C- NMT  ZONE0
LIZI[       ,WETr-RY
AI fEVERS
*                                            @~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ STATE CABITALE
-3L                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MAIN TEGATL
'  -         - , ' 5 ' - ! E - .        .                                       (3    S1 ATE REI
5,  sowvDdy                                                                         5/,:  ,S~~"                                             T
-ap rA>sinU n   TWorld Bcmi.  .  -,*  ......... . , .  i
/5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~10
T~~~~~~~~~~~~  ~ ~ ~ ~  ~        ~         ~        ~        ~       ~       I
TPCA NRIN
fbsMtT oniracema don  Norpte                                                                       1A  50500* -1 s.\.v.
RMop D.ei9 UnEglh of oyTheriy WorJs R<I .    . 
IS Bonyndories ooors,.ossApsncoof                               --                                       i   4-- A2ENIAOAA   7'>,      -,ivVdO
7  such boundaries.                                                                                           ARGENTI  NA               ALOE Ocos       5
_4-                                                                         , 48  ,-BAHIA                                                              4 - N
I   6~p                                                                                            -AEAA     N.



IMAGING
Report No.:         16758  BR
Type:     SAR



