Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4252-BR
Loan Agreement
(Rural Poverty Alleviation Project - Maranhão)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
and
STATE OF MARANHÃO
Dated March 30, 1998
LOAN NUMBER 4252-BR
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 30, 1998, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and STATE OF MARANHÃO (the Borrower).
WHEREAS (A) Federative Republic of Brazil (the Guarantor) and the Borrower, 
having been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority of the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, have requested the Bank to assist in the financing of 
the Project;
(B)
by an agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) of even date herewith between 
the Guarantor and the Bank, the Guarantor has agreed to guarantee certain obligations 
of the Borrower in respect of the Loan as set forth in the Guarantee Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth below 
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
Page  2
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be 
made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territory of any 
country which is not a member 
of the Bank or for goods produced in, or services 
supplied from, such territories; or (b) 
for the purpose of any payment to 
persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such 
payment or import, to the 
knowledge of the Bank, is prohibited by a decision of the United 
Nations Security 
Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations."
(c)
In Section 6.02, subparagraph (k) is relettered as subparagraph (l) and a 
new subparagraph (k) is added to read:
"(k)
An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under which any 
further 
withdrawals under the Loan would be inconsistent with the 
provisions of Article III, Section 
3 of the Bank's Articles of Agreement."
(d)
Section 6.03 is modified to read:
“Section 6.03.  Cancellation by the Bank.  If (a) the right of the 
Borrower to make 
withdrawals from the Loan Account shall have been suspended with 
respect to any amount of 
the Loan for a continuous period of thirty days, or (b) at 
any time, the Bank determines, 
after consultation with the Borrower, that an amount 
of the Loan will not be required to 
finance the Project’s costs to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, or (c) at any 
time, the Bank determines, 
with respect to any contract to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan, that 
corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the 
Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Loan during the procurement or the execution of 
such 
contract, without the Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action 
satisfactory to 
the Bank to remedy the situation, and establishes the amount of 
expenditures in respect of 
such contract which would otherwise have been 
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of  the Loan, or (d) at any time, the Bank 
determines that the procurement of any contract to be 
financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or 
referred to 
in the Loan Agreement and establishes the amount of expenditures in respect of 
such 
contract which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of 
the Loan, or (e) after the Closing Date, an amount of the Loan shall remain 
unwithdrawn from 
the Loan Account, or (f) the Bank shall have received notice from 
the Guarantor pursuant to  Section 6.07 with respect to an amount of the Loan, the Bank 
may, by notice to the Borrower 
and the Guarantor, terminate the right of the 
Borrower to make withdrawals with respect to 
such amount.  Upon the giving of such 
notice, such amount of the Loan shall be canceled.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"Approved POA" means each approved annual operating plan referred to in 
Section 3.04 (b) of this Agreement;
(b)
"Civil Association" means a civil association associação civil duly 
established in the Borrower's territory in accordance with the Guarantor's laws, and 
which meets the criteria set forth in the Operational Manual (as hereinafter defined) 
for participating in the Project;
(c)
"Community Subproject" means any investment referred to in Part A of the 
Project to be carried out by a Civil Association utilizing the proceeds of a Grant (as 
hereinafter defined) and which meets the criteria set forth in the Operational Manual 
(as hereinafter defined);
(d)
"Council Agreement" means any of the agreements referred to in Section 
3.01 (c) (ii) of this Agreement;
(e)
"FUMAC Grant" means a grant in an amount equivalent to 75% of the cost of 
a Community Subproject approved by a Municipal Council (as hereinafter defined) and 
made or proposed to be made by the Borrower out of the proceeds of the Loan to a Civil 
Page  3
Association in a Municipality (as hereinafter defined), for the financing of such 
Community Subproject pursuant to the terms of the Operational Manual (as hereinafter 
defined);
(f)
"Grant" means any of a FUMAC Grant or a Pilot Grant or a PAC Grant (the 
latter two as hereinafter defined);
(g)
"Grant Agreement" means any of the agreements to be entered into between 
SEPLAN (as hereinafter defined) and a Civil Association providing for a PAC Grant (as 
hereinafter defined) or a FUMAC Grant;
(h)
"Implementation Plan" means the plan for the overall implementation of 
the Project set forth in Schedule 6 to this Agreement;
(i)
"MIS" means the Project monitoring and information system, satisfactory 
to the Bank, to provide information on the Project implementation, which shall 
include, inter alia, information on the Performance Indicators (as hereinafter 
defined);
(j)
"Model Forms" means the set of model draft agreements satisfactory to the 
Bank, including standard drafts of Council Agreements and Grant Agreements, set forth 
in the Operational Manual (as hereinafter defined);
(k)
"Municipal Council" means a municipal council, composed mainly of 
representatives of communities and local organizations and including a representative 
of the NEPE (as hereinafter defined), as provided in the Operational Manual (as 
hereinafter defined);
(l)
"Municipality" means any of the municipalities set forth in Schedule 7 to 
this Agreement and any other municipality that may be added to such list from time to 
time by agreement between the Bank and the Borrower;
(m) 
"NEPE" means Núcleo Estadual de Programas Especiais, the Project 
coordinating unit, under the Borrower’s SEPLAN (as hereinafter defined), established 
pursuant to the Borrower's Decree No. 15,605 of June 11, 1997, and referred to in 
Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement;
(n)
"Operational Manual" means the manual, satisfactory to the Bank, 
describing the criteria and procedures for the Project implementation and including 
the Model Forms, as the same may be amended from time to time by agreement between the 
Bank and the Borrower;
(o)
"PAC Grant" means a grant in an amount equivalent to 75% of  the cost of 
a Community Subproject approved and made or proposed to be made by the NEPE out of the 
proceeds of the Loan to a Civil Association for the financing of such Community 
Subproject pursuant to the terms of the Operational Manual;
(p)
"Performance Indicators" means the set of performance indicators, to be 
used for purposes of monitoring the progress of the Project, set forth in Schedule 6 
to this Agreement, and any other additional performance indicator that may be agreed 
from time to time by the Bank and the Borrower for such purposes;
(q)
"Pilot Grant" means a grant in an amount equivalent to 75% of the cost of 
a Community Subproject approved and made or proposed to be made by a Municipal 
Council, under a Pilot Grant Agreement, out of the proceeds of the Loan to a Civil 
Association for the financing of such Community Subproject pursuant to the terms of 
the Operational Manual;
(r)
“Pilot Grant Agreement” means any of the agreements to be entered into 
between a Municipal Council and a Civil Association providing for a Pilot Grant;
(s)
“SEPLAN” means the Borrower’s Secretariat of Planning; and
(t)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
Page  4
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various currencies that 
shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of eighty million Dollars 
($80,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each 
withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for: (i) amounts 
paid (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be paid) by the Borrower on account of 
withdrawals made by the Borrower under Grants to meet the reasonable cost of works, 
goods and services required for Community Subprojects (under Part A of the Project) in 
respect of which the withdrawal from the Loan Account is requested; and (ii) 
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for Parts B and C of the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or 
attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2003 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of 
the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest 
Period equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the 
preceding Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).  On each of the dates 
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued 
on the principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated 
at the rate applicable during such Interest Period.
(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall 
notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined 
in respect of such Semester.
(c)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
"Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the date 
immediately 
preceding each date specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement, beginning 
with the Interest Period in which this 
Agreement is signed.
(ii)
"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as reasonably 
determined by the 
Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum, of the 
outstanding borrowings of 
the Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982, 
excluding such borrowings or portions 
thereof as the Bank has allocated 
to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) 
loans which may be made by 
the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing interest rates 
determined otherwise 
than as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
(iii)
"Semester" means the first six months or the second six months of 
a calendar 
year.
(d)
On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months' notice 
to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to 
read as follows:
Page  5
"(a)
The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn 
and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter 
equal to the Cost of Qualified 
Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding 
Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 
of 1%).  On each of the dates specified 
in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower 
shall pay interest accrued 
on the principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest  Period, calculated 
at the rates applicable during such Interest Period."
"(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the Bank 
shall notify  the Borrower and the Guarantor of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings 
determined in respect of 
such Quarter."
"(c)
(iii) ‘Quarter’ means a three-month period commencing on January 
1, April 1, 
July 1 or October 1 in a calendar year."
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on 
February 1 and August 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project through SEPLAN, with the assistance of the Municipal Councils, with 
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate social, 
administrative, agricultural, environmental, financial and engineering practices, and 
in accordance with the Operational Manual, the Implementation Plan and the Approved 
POAs, and shall provide or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.  Except as the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not amend, abrogate, suspend, waive or fail 
to enforce the Operational Manual or any provision thereof.
(b)
For the purposes of carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall, through 
SEPLAN, maintain during Project implementation, the NEPE with responsibilities, 
structure and functions satisfactory to the Bank. 
(c)
The Borrower shall, through SEPLAN:
(i)
enter into Grant Agreements, whenever appropriate for the carrying 
out of the 
Project, such agreements to be made in accordance with the 
terms of the 
respective drafts set forth in the  Model Forms;
(ii)
enter into Council Agreements with Muncipal Councils providing 
for: (A) the 
terms and conditions for the participation of the relevant 
Municipal Council 
in the Project; and (B) the obligation of such 
Municipal Council to enter into 
Pilot Grant Agreements which shall be 
made in accordance with the terms of the 
respective draft set forth 
in the Model Forms, and, to exercise its rights and 
comply with its 
obligations under the Pilot Grant Agreements in such a manner 
as to 
protect the interests of the Municipal Council, the Borrower and the 
Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and not to assign, amend, 
abrogate, waive or fail to enforce the Pilot Grant Agreements or 
any provision 
thereof; and
(iii)
exercise its rights and comply with its obligations under the 
Council 
Agreements and the Grant Agreements in such a manner 
as to protect the 
interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to 
accomplish the purposes of the 
Loan and, except as the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not 
assign, amend, 
abrogate, waive or fail to enforce the Council Agreements and 
the 
Grant Agreements or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
Page  6
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the Performance Indicators, the 
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank, not later than 12 months after the Effective Date, a base-line study 
perfil de entrada on the Project;
(c)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank, by a date 24 months after the Effective Date or when disbursements from 
the Loan Account shall have reached 50% of the amount of the Loan, whichever is 
earlier, a report integrating the results of the evaluation activities performed 
pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying 
out of the Project during the period preceding the date of such report and setting out 
the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date; 
(d)
review with the Bank (the mid-term review), by a date 24 months after the 
Effective Date or when disbursements from the Loan Account shall have reached 50% of 
the amount of the Loan, whichever is earlier, or such later date as the Bank shall 
establish by notice to the Borrower, the report referred to in paragraph (c) of this 
Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the 
conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Bank's views on the matter;
(e)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank, by a date 12 months after the Effective Date, a study evaluating the 
performance of the Civil Associations in the carrying out of procurement activities 
under Part A of the Project; and
(f)
review with the Bank, by a date 12 months after the Effective Date, or 
such later date as the Bank shall establish by notice to the Borrower, the study 
referred to in paragraph (e) of this Section, and, thereafter, implement the 
recommendations of such study after incorporating the Bank’s comments thereon.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall:
(a)
in the month of October of each year during the carrying out of the 
Project, prepare and furnish to the Bank the proposed annual operating plans and 
budget, satisfactory to the Bank, detailing the Project activities proposed to be 
carried out during the next succeeding year and the respective sources of funding 
therefor; and
(b)
not later than 30 days after the approval of the Borrower's budget by its 
Assembléia Legislativa (Legislative Assembly), furnish to the Bank the approved annual 
operating plans and respective budget (Approved POA) referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall:
(a)
in each month during the carrying out of the Project, beginning in the 
second month after the Effective Date, prepare utilizing the MIS and furnish to the 
Bank a report on the disbursements under the Project during the previous month, of 
such scope and detail as the Bank shall request; and
(b)
in the months of March and September of each year during the carrying out 
of the Project, prepare utilizing the MIS and furnish to the Bank a report on the 
implementation of the Project, of such scope and detail as the Bank shall request, 
which shall include, inter alia, information on the carrying out of Community 
Subprojects and their results.
Page  7
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall:
(a)
in the month of March of each year during the carryig out of the Project, 
beginning in 1999, furnish to the Bank the recommendations of a study, to be carried 
out under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, on the cost structure and 
results of Community Subprojects, including physical performance evaluation and cost 
comparisons;
(b)
review with the Bank the results and recommendations of such study; and
(c)
take or cause to be taken all such action which shall have been agreed by 
the Bank and the Borrower during the review referred to in paragraph  (b) above, as 
shall be necessary for the efficient execution of Community Subprojects, such action 
to be taken in a manner and within a timetable agreed upon during such reviews.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall:
(a)
in the twenty fourth month after the Effective Date, furnish to the Bank 
the results and recommendations of a study (the graduation study), to be carried out 
under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, for the development of the criteria 
for regulating the cases, and corresponding terms and conditions, in which Civil 
Asssociations may remain as beneficiaries under the Project;
(b)
review with the Bank the results and recommendations of such study; and
(c)
take or cause to be taken all such action which shall have been agreed by 
the Bank and the Borrower during the review referred to in paragraph  (b) above, as 
shall be necessary for the efficient execution of Community Subprojects, such action 
to be taken in a manner and within a timetable agreed upon during such review.
Section 3.08. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions, the 
Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the 
future operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting 
practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project, of the 
departments or agencies of the Borrower or other entities responsible for the carrying 
out of the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section and 
the records and accounts for the Special Account for each 
fiscal year audited, 
in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable 
to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
months after the end of each such year, the report of 
such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and 
accounts, and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time 
to time reasonably 
request.
Page  8
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain, or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, or cause to be retained, until at least one year after the 
Bank has 
received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the 
last withdrawal 
from the Loan Account or payment out of the 
Special Account was made, all 
records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing 
such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:
(a)
that the Borrower has adopted the Operational Manual in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Bank;
(b)
that the Borrower has adopted a work program for an introductory 
information campaign about the Project in the territory of the Borrower satisfactory 
to the Bank;
(c)
that the Borrower has established the MIS; and
(d)
that this Agreement has been duly registered by the Guarantor's Central 
Bank.
Section 5.02. The following is specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank namely that this Agreement has been duly 
registered by the Guarantor's Central Bank.
Section 5.03. The date June 30, 1998, is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Secretary of Planning of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
Page  9
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For the Borrower:
Secretaria de Estado de Planejamento
Rua da Estrela, 350-B
65.010-200
São Luis - Maranhão
Brazil
With copy to:
SEAIN - Secretaria de Assuntos Internacionais do
Ministério do Planejamento e Orçamento
Esplanada dos Ministérios - Bloco K - 5º andar
70040-906 Brasília, DF
Brazil
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
São Luis, Maranhão , as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Gobind T. Nankani
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
STATE OF MARANHÃO
By /s/ Roseana Sarney
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
% of
(Expressed in
  Expenditures
Page  10
Category
Dollar Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Grants
75% of the cost of the 
respective Community 
Subproject 
(a)
FUMAC Grants
40,600,000
(b)
Pilot Grants
 5,300,000
(c)
PAC Grants
25,000,000
(2)
Consultants' services
 7,400,000
100%
and training for Parts
B and C of the Project
(3)
Administrative Costs:
(a)
incremental operational
costs
   300,000
20%
(b)
Project supervision
and monitoring costs
   800,000
50%
(4)
Unallocated 
   600,000
 _________
TOTAL
80,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule the term "Administrative Costs" means the 
incremental operational costs and the supervision and monitoring costs of the Project 
incurred by the NEPE under Part C of the Project, excluding expenditures for salaries 
and related benefits and training.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of:
(a)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of 
$8,000,000, may be made on account of payments made for expenditures before that date 
but after May 9, 1997 or a date twelve months before the date of this Agreement 
whichever is later;
(b)
payments under a Grant unless the respective Grant Agreement or Pilot 
Grant Agreement, as the case may be, shall have been entered into between the parties 
thereto; and
(c)
payments under a Grant for a Community Subproject costing more than the 
equivalent of $50,000, unless the Bank shall have approved such Community Subproject.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures: (a) under contracts for goods and works 
costing less than the equivalent of $100,000; (b) for services of individual 
consultants under contracts not exceeding $50,000 equivalent; and (c) for services of 
consulting firms under contracts not exceeding $100,000 equivalent, all under such 
terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower's efforts to alleviate 
rural poverty in the Municipalities by: (a) providing basic social and economic 
infrastructure, and employment and income generating opportunities for the rural poor; 
(b) supporting rural community groups in planning and implementing their own 
investment subprojects; (c) intensifying current efforts to create social capital in 
poor rural areas; and (d) leveraging revenue mobilization at the community and 
Page  11
municipal levels.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Community Subprojects
Financing of small scale community investments consisting, inter alia, of: (a) 
infrastructure investments such as rural water supply, electrification, local road 
improvements and construction of small bridges; (b) social investments such as 
construction of day care centers, and rehabilitation of schools and health posts; and 
(c) other investments such as small-scale community agro-processing, purchase of 
agricultural equipment and minor irrigation schemes.
Part B:
Institutional Development
1.
Carrying out of a basic introductory capacity building program for Municipal 
Councils.
2.
Provision of training for the NEPE and Municipal Councils.
3.
Provision of technical assistance and training for participating communities in, 
inter alia, community mobilization and organization, preparation of Community 
Subprojects, and operation and maintenance of such Community Subprojects.
4.
Carrying out of workshops and seminars for Municipal Councils and Civil 
Associations, to exchange views and disseminate information and experience with 
respect to the carrying out of the Project.
5.
Carrying out of studies to analyze the Borrower’s fiscal policies and 
management, including the effect of such policies on the rural poor, and to define 
measures for addressing identified constraints.
Part C:
Project Administration
Support to the overall Project implementation, coordination and supervision 
including, inter alia:
1.
the operation of the NEPE and its field agents related to Project 
implementation;
2.
the establishment and operation of the MIS;
3.
the carrying out of information campaigns within the Borrower’s territory to 
disseminate information about the Project; and
4.
the carrying out of Project evaluation studies, including, inter alia, 
performance reviews and impact evaluations.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2002.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due 
(expressed in dollars)*
on each February 1 and August 1
beginning on August 1, 2003 
through February 1, 2013 
4,000,000
Page  12
_____________________________
*
The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as of the 
respective 
dates of withdrawal.  See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 
4.03.
Premiums on Prepayment
Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium payable on 
the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage 
specified for the applicable time of prepayment below:
Time of Prepayment
Premium
The interest rate (expressed 
as a percentage per annum)
applicable to the Loan on the
day of prepayment multiplied 
by:
Not more than three years
0.20
before maturity
More than three years but
0.40
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but
0.73
not more than 11 years
before maturity
More than 11 years but not
0.87
more than 13 years
before maturity
More than 13 years before
1.00
maturity
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Page  13
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised January and August 1996 (the Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:
Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Except as provided in Parts B.2, B.3 and B.4 hereof, goods and works financed by 
Grants under Part A of the Project shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.  In the 
procurement of goods and works in accordance with this Part B.1, bidding documents in 
a standardized form for the Project shall be used.
2.
National Shopping
Except as provided in Part B.4 hereof, goods financed by Grants under Parts A, B 
and C of the Project estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up 
to an aggregate amount equivalent to $2,200,000, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
Procurement of Small Works
Except as provided in Part B.4 hereof, works financed by Grants under Part A of 
the Project estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount equivalent to $2,600,000, may be procured under lump sum, fixed price 
contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three qualified domestic 
contractors in response to a written invitation.  The invitation shall include a 
detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the required 
completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Bank, and relevant 
drawings, where applicable.  The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the 
lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience and resources 
to successfully complete the contract. 
4.
Community Participation
Goods and works, financed by Grants under Part A of the Project for Community 
Subprojects of up to $50,000 equivalent, to be procured by a Civil Association, may be 
procured in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank as provided in paragraph 
3.15 of the Guidelines (including direct contracting in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines) as detailed in the Operational Manual.
Part C:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract to be awarded pursuant to the provisions of Part 
B.1 of this Section, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines shall apply.
2.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 1 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Part D:
Special Provisions
Without limitation to any other provisions set forth in this Schedule or the 
Guidelines, the following shall apply to the procurement of goods and/or works to be 
undertaken pursuant to Part B.1 hereof:
1.
Contracts shall be awarded to the bidder whose bid has been determined to be the 
lowest evaluated bid, such evaluation to be based on price and, whenever appropriate, 
to also take into account factors similar to those referred to in paragraph 2.51 of 
Page  14
the Guidelines, provided, however, that the bid evaluation shall always be based on 
factors that can be quantified objectively, and the procedure for such quantification 
shall be disclosed in the invitation to bid.
2.
Whenever required by the Bank, the invitation to bid shall be advertised for at 
least three consecutive days in a newspaper of wide circulation in Brazil.
3.
The arrangements, under the invitation to bid, for a joint-venture consórcio of 
Brazilian and foreign firms shall be approved in advance by the Bank in each case.
4.
The invitation to bid shall not establish, for purposes of acceptance of bids, 
minimum or maximum amounts for the contract prices.
5.
The purchaser shall not, without the Bank's prior approval, issue any change 
order under a contract which would increase or decrease by more than 15% the quantity 
of goods (and related services) without any change in the unit prices or other terms 
and conditions of sale.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 (the 
Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Least-cost Selection
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 3.6 of the 
Consultant Guidelines and are estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per 
contract, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.01 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Page  15
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of 
$200,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (3) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to 
$5,300,000, or such other amount as the Bank shall establish, to be withdrawn from the 
Loan Account and deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this 
Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the 
Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to $2,650,000 until the 
aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of 
the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of $12,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have 
requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the 
Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant 
to paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect 
of which replenishment is 
requested.  On the basis of each such request, 
the Bank shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 
Account and deposit into the Special 
Account such amount as the 
Page  16
Borrower shall have requested and as shall have 
been shown by 
said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the 
Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, 
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
Page  17
SCHEDULE 6
Implementation Plan and Performance Indicators
For purposes of this Schedule, the term “beneficiaries” means the members of an 
Association and any other person receiving a direct benefit from the results of the 
implementation of a Community Subproject.
Part A:
Implementation Plan
Activities
Completed by
First training activity offered to:
-Civil Associations
5 months after the Effective Date
-communities (mobilization)
3 months after the 
effective Date
-Municipal Councils
6 months after the Effective Date
-NEPE
1 month after the Effective Date
Preparation of annual program of training
October of each year and 
technical assistance 
of 
Project implementation
Information campaign launched
1 month after the Effective Date
10 standard designs of  Community Subprojects made
1 month after the Effective Date
Evaluation studies:
-physical performance reviews 
March of each year of 
 completed
Project implementation, 
beginning in 1999
-mid-term implementation review
24 months after the Effective 
 completed
Date or when disbursements 
from the Loan 
Account shall 
have 
reached 50% of the amount 
of the Loan, whichever is earlier 
-impact evaluation completed:
 *baseline
12 months after the Effective 
Date  
 *final
December of 2003 
-graduation study completed
24 months after the 
Effective Date 
SCHEDULE 7
Municipalities
Açailândia
Afonso Cunha
Água Doce do Maranhão
Alcântara
Aldeias Altas
Altamira do Maranhão
Alto Alegre do Maranhão
Alto Alegre do Pindaré
Alto Parnaíba
Amapá do Maranhão
Amarante do Maranhão
Anajatuba
Anapurus
Apicum-Açu
Araguanã
Page  18
Araioses
Arame
Arari
Axixá
Bacabal
Bacabeira
Bacuri
Bacurituba
Balsas
Barão de Grajaú
Barra do Corda
Barreirinhas
Bela Vista do Maranhão
Belágua
Benedito Leite
Bequimão
Bernardo do Mearim
Boa Vista do Gurupi
Bom Jardim
Bom Jesus da Selva
Bom Lugar
Brejo
Brejo de Areia
Buriti
Buriti Bravo
Buriticupu
Buritirana
Cachoeira Grande
Cajapió
Cajari
Campestre do Maranhão
Cândido Mendes
Cantanhede
Capinzal do Norte
Carolina
Carutapera
Caxias
Cedral Central do Maranhão
Centro do Guilherme
Centro Novo do Maranhão
Chapadinha
Cidelândia
Codó
Coelho Neto
Colinas
Conceição do Lago Açú
Coroatá
Cururupu
Davinópolis
Dom Pedro
Duque Bacelar
Esperantinópolis
Estreito
Feira Nova do Maranhão
Fernando Falcão
Formosa da Serra Negra
Fortaleza dos Nogueiras
Fortuna
Godofredo Viana
Gonçalves Dias
Governador Archer
Governador Edson Lobão
Governador Eugênio Barros
Governador Luiz Rocha
Governador Newton Bello
Governador Nunes Freire
Graça Aranha
Page  19
Grajaú
Guimarães
Humberto de Campos
Icatu
Igarapé do Meio
Igarapé Grande
Imperatriz
Itaipava do Grajaú
Itapecuru Mirim
Itinga do Maranhão
Jatobá
Jenipapo dos Vieira
João Lisboa
Joselândia
Junco do Maranhão
Lago da Pedra
Lago do Junco
Lago dos Rodrigues
Lago Verde
Lagoa do Mato
Lagoa Grande do Maranhão
Lajeado Novo
Lima Campos
Loreto
Luís Domingues
Magalhães de Almeida
Maracaçumé
Marajá do Sena
Maranhãozinho
Mata Roma
Matinha
Matões
Matões do Norte
Milagres do Maranhão
Mirador
Miranda do Norte
Mirinzal
Monção
Montes Altos
Morros
Nina Rodrigues
Nova Colinas
Nova Iorque
Nova Olinda do Maranhão
Olho D'Água das Cunhãs
Olinda Nova do Maranhão
Paço do Lumiar
Palmerândia
Paraibano
Parnarama
Passage Franca
Pastos Bons
Paulino Neves
Paulo Ramos
Pedreiras
Pedro do Rosário
Penalva
Peri-Mirim
Peritoró
Pindaré-Mirim
Pinheiro
Pio XII
Pirapemas
Poção de Pedras
Porto Franco
Porto Rico do Maranhão
Presidente Dutra
Page  20
Presidente Juscelino
Presidente Médici
Presidente Sarney
Presidente Vargas
Primeira Cruz
Raposa
Riachão
Ribamar Fiquene
Rosário
Sambaíba
Santa Filomena do Maranhão
Santa Helena
Santa Inês
Santa Luzia
Santa Luzia do Paruá
Santa Quitér ia do Maranhão
Santa Rita
Santana do Maranhão
Santo Amaro do Maranhão
Santo Antonio dos Lopes
São Benedito do Rio Preto
São Bento
São Bernardo 
São Domingos do Azeitão
São Domingos do Maranhão
São Félix de Balsas
São Francisco do Brejão
São Francisco do Maranhão
São João Batista
São João do Caru
São João do Paraíso
São João do Sóter
São João dos Patos
São José de Ribamar
São José dos Basílios
São Luís Gonzaga do Maranhão
São Mateus do Maranhão
São Pedro da Água Branca
São Pedro dos Crentes
São Raimundo das Mangabeiras
São Raimundo do Doca Bezerra
São Roberto
São Vicente de Férrer
Satubinha
Senador Alexandre Costa
Senador La Roque
Serrano do Maranhão
Sítio Novo
Sucupira do Norte
Sucupira do Riachão
Tasso Fragoso
Timbiras
Timon
Trizidela do Vale
Tufilândia
Turiaçu
Turilândia
Tutóia
Tutum
Urbano Santos
Vargem Grande
VianaVila Nova dos Martírios
Vitória do Mearim
Vitorino Freire
Zé Doca
Page  21
