                                     Document of
                                  The World Bank




                                                             Report No: 30275

                       IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                     (CPL-42520)

                                        ON A

                                       LOAN

                         IN THE AMOUNT OF US$80.0 MILLION

                                       TO THE

                                 STATE OF MARANHÃO

                                       FOR A

                       RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT




                                   December 28, 2004




ESSD Sector Management Unit
Brazil Country Management Unit
Latin America and Caribbean Region

                           CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                       (Exchange Rate Effective June 30, 2004)

                              Currency Unit = Real
                                    R$1.00 = US$ 0.32
                                  US$ 1.00 = R$3.10

                                   FISCAL YEAR
                             January 1 to  December 31

                       ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

APCR    Program of Support to Small Rural Communities
CAS     Country Assistance Strategy
CDD     Community-driven Development
FUMAC   Municipal Community Schemes
FUMAC-P Pilot Municipal Community Schemes
GEAGRO  State Management Unit for Agriculture, Livestock and Rural Development
GEPLAN  State Administration for Planning and Economic Development (Borrower)
HDI     United Nations Human Development Index
IICA    Inter-American Institute for Cooperation in Agriculture
IRR     Internal Rate of Return
MIS     Management Information System
NEPE    State Center for Special Programs (Project Coordination Unit)
NGO     Non-governmental Organization
NRDP    Northeast Rural Development Program/Project
O&M     Operation and Maintenance
PAC     State Community Schemes
POA     Annual Operating Plan
R-NRDP  Reformulated Northeast Rural Development Program/Project
SEBRAE  Brazilian Service for Small and Medium Business
SOE     Statements of Expenditure
PCU     Project Coordination Unit

                            Vice President:   David de Ferranti
                 Country Manager/Director     Vinod Thomas
                  Sector Manager/ Director    John Redwood
                        Task Team Leader      Luis O. Coirolo

                                           BRAZIL
                            Rural Poverty Alleviation - Maranhao


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            16
6. Sustainability                                                                17
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 19
8. Lessons Learned                                                               22
9. Partner Comments                                                              24
10. Additional Information                                                       26
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             27
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             28
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             30
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             37
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             38
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                39
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            40

Project ID: P051701                                                  Project Name: Rural Poverty Alleviation - Maranhao
Team Leader: Luis O. Coirolo                                         TL Unit: LCSER
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: December 29, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: Rural Poverty Alleviation - Maranhao                     L/C/TF Number: CPL-42520
   Country/Department: BRAZIL                                                             Region: Latin America and the
                                                                                                     Caribbean Region

        Sector/subsector: Other social services (40%); Roads and highways (20%); General
                            agriculture, fishing and forestry sector (20%); Sub-national
                            government administration (10%); Water supply (10%)
                  Theme: Rural services and infrastructure (P); Participation and civic
                            engagement (P); Rural non-farm income generation (P);
                            Decentralization (S); Other social development (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 04/15/1997                                     Effective: 03/15/1998                06/12/1998
     Appraisal: 06/02/1997                                         MTR: 06/04/2001                  06/14/2002
      Approval: 11/20/1997                                      Closing: 06/30/2003                 06/30/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          State of Maranhão/State Administration for Planning and Economic Development
                                           (GEPLAN)/State Center for Special Programs (NEPE)
                      Other Partners:      Community Associations

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 David de Ferranti                              Shahid Javed Burki
Country Manager/Director: Vinod Thomas                                         Gobind T. Nankani
Sector Manager/Director:        John Redwood                                   Maritta Koch-Weser
Team Leader at ICR:             Luis O. Coirolo                                Luis O. Coirolo
ICR Primary Author:             Anna Roumani with Task
                                Manager; R. Caminha and Brazil
                                Northeast Team


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The Loan Agreement states Project objectives as assisting the Borrower to alleviate rural poverty
in the Municipalities by: (a) providing basic social and economic infrastructure, and employment
and income generating opportunities for the rural poor; (b) supporting rural community groups in
planning and implementing their own investment subprojects; (c) intensifying current efforts to
create social capital in poor rural areas; and (d) leveraging revenue mobilization at the community
and municipal levels.

3.2 Revised Objective:
Project objectives were not revised.

3.3 Original Components:
The Project's three components were as follows: (a) Community Subprojects (US$95.0
million, 90% of base cost) to support small-scale investments selected, executed, operated and
maintained by the beneficiaries themselves; (b) Institutional Development (US$7.4 million, 7%
of total base cost), which would provide all implementing agencies and communities with
technical assistance and training to increase their capacity and improve implementation of the
Project; and (c) Project Administration, Supervision, Monitoring and Evaluation (US$3.1
million, 3% of total base cost), financing project coordination and activities to provide feedback
on project performance and impact. These components represented an appropriate set of actions
to achieve project objectives and to benefit an estimated 198,000 families - close to 1.0 million
people - having been based on an evaluated, scaled-up "pilot" experience in 10 Northeast states
under the reformulated Northeast Rural Development Program (R-NRDP, 1993-1996).

3.4 Revised Components:
Project components were not revised.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
Rated Satisfactory (project appraisal pre-dated the QAG).

The Project emerged from the experiences and positive outcome of an innovative program which
tested a different approach to rural poverty reduction. Rooted conceptually in both Bank and
non-Bank rural poverty programs in several regions, the program also assumed a distinct
"home-grown" persona reflecting the realities of Northeast Brazil and the new Constitution of
1988. The centralized, administratively-driven and largely ineffective integrated rural
development model of the previous 20 years was abandoned and substituted by decentralized,
participatory, demand-based mechanisms conforming to the following guiding principles: (a) place
money for implementing approved subprojects directly into the hands of the beneficiary
communities; (b) decentralize decision-making and involve local authorities as
participants/partners; (c) maintain transparent decision-making at all levels; (d) stress community
participation in planning, financing, executing, operating and maintaining the investments financed
by the Project; and (e) use simple, explicit poverty targeting mechanisms which can be easily
monitored. The community-driven development (CDD) approach also dispensed with the
intermediary agencies and bureaucratic complexities of earlier programs, thus ensuring that at
least 90% of project funds were used for direct subproject investments, the remainder financing



                                                  - 2 -

mainly technical assistance.

The Project was embedded in the Bank's Program of Targeted Interventions, employing a
three-part methodology for reaching poor rural populations: geographically by poverty level and
other characteristics of the municipalities; geographically within municipalities to target rural
settlements and communities; and community-based selection by the project Municipal Councils
of poor beneficiaries and particularly vulnerable groups. Important complementary objectives
included: laying the groundwork for, and consolidating, participatory institutions and processes at
the municipal and community levels; ensuring that project funds reached the poorest
municipalities and communities; and, expanding the successful strategy of decentralization and
participation tested under the previous Bank-supported program in the Northeast. *
* Reformulated Northeast Rural Development Program (R-NRDP, 1993-1996)


Objectives and activities were internally consistent, addressing State poverty conditions, the
benchmarks of the 1996 and 1997 CAS for Brazil, and the State's poverty reduction strategy at
that time. Maranhão is the second poorest state in Brazil and the most rural, with exceptionally
low Human Development Index (HDI) measures and gross deficiencies in education,
socio-economic infrastructure and services, and institutional capacity. At preparation (1997),
about half the population was indigent ­ despite the state's freedom from the drought/semi-arid
conditions typical of the Northeast region - with 75% of that cohort living in rural areas; and,
over 90% of all municipalities harbored precarious living conditions affecting childhood survival.*
* HDI is a summary measure of three dimensions of the human development concept: living a long and healthy life, being educated and having a
decent standard of living. It combines measures of life expectancy, school enrollment, literacy and income and is closely linked to the MDG.

Design and objectives were also consistent with the 1997 Bank Country Assistance Strategy
(CAS) for Brazil which stressed: the centrality of poverty reduction; regional development of the
Northeast as a priority; development of the poor rather than relief of poverty; improved
sustainability through cost recovery; and stronger financial commitment from municipal and state
governments. The State's strategy for poverty alleviation in the period 1996-1999 targeted
reductions in the unequal distribution of wealth and included technical and financial incentives for
local job generation by small-scale producers; investing in improved social indicators; and,
diversifying and decentralizing economic activity to the community level and establishing more
efficient distribution of services.

Three mechanisms with increasing degrees of decentralization are used to screen, approve and
implement community requests for financing ­ PAC, FUMAC and FUMAC-P. Under PAC
(State Community Schemes), rural communities submit investment proposals directly to the State
Technical Unit (STU) which screens and approves them, releasing funds to the beneficiary
association. With FUMAC (Municipal Community Schemes), investment decision-making is
delegated by the State to project Municipal Councils, representative bodies with 80% community
members and local civil society, and 20% municipal authorities. Councils establish priorities and
approve community proposals. The STU reviews them for consistency with the Operational
Manual, then transfers funding for approved proposals directly to the community association bank
account. Councils monitor and supervise subproject execution. FUMAC-P (Pilot Municipal
Community Schemes) is a more decentralized variant of FUMAC piloted under the Rural Poverty
Alleviation Program.* With an annual budget from the STU based on criteria such as rural
population, poverty and previous year's performance, Councils submit an Annual Operating Plan



                                                                        - 3 -

(POA) to the STU. Approval releases budget to the Council which manages its distribution to
beneficiary associations and assists with subproject execution. PAC is now only used in
municipalities with little chance ­ for whatever reason - of forming a FUMAC.
* Rural Poverty Alleviation Program comprising 8 state-level CDD projects in the Northeast.

Design heeded lessons learned under the R-NRDP, scaled-up successfully-piloted features and
introduced further innovations and improvements: (i) mainstreamed the FUMAC Municipal
Council mechanism (a pilot under R-NRDP) and introduced the even more decentralized
FUMAC-P instrument, giving selected, high-performing FUMAC Councils greater control over
budget resources; (ii) systematized beneficiary targeting and transparency through
performance-based incentives and penalties; (iii) upgraded the Management Information System
(MIS) - data is sent regularly to the Bank via Internet ­ to support proper targeting, better project
management, and monitoring and evaluation; and (iv) introduced an Operational Manual with
technical, financial and administrative parameters, along with funding specifically for technical
assistance to support mobilization and organization, build capacity and foster the participation of
NGOs and other partners. Other improvements included even more intensive supervision,
standardized subproject design and cost parameters, publicity and information campaigns, and
cost-sharing requirements for the State Government and beneficiaries.

Project design also reflected early lessons emerging from peer operations in the same program
(approved and under supervision) introducing: (i) increased Bank share of expenditures financed
for community investment subprojects, from 59% to 75% ; (ii) technical assistance (TA) funding
under the Institutional Development component for the Secretariat of Planning to conduct
administrative and other state reforms; and (iii) funds for technical assistance support for
community investment subproject preparation and/or implementation, valued from 2-8% of
subproject cost, depending on complexity. Experience in Brazil and elsewhere showed that the
main risks for rural poverty projects were irregular funding, technical weaknesses and
over-design, inadequate supervision, mis-targeting of resources and over-centralized
decision-making. Measures were introduced to avoid or reduce those risks, which proved
effective in practice and are standard features of the CDD program region-wide.


4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Rated Satisfactory

Objective ­ Providing basic social and economic infrastructure, and employment and income
generating opportunities for the rural poor.

The Project met this objective, financing 4,160 investments in basic rural infrastructure,
productive and social facilities, improving the living standards and well-being of some 276,000
families plus another 10,000 indigenous and Afro-descendent families ­ about 1.4 million rural
people ­ as well as the local economy of rural Maranhão. Aggregated data shows the Project
financed the recuperation of 8,130 km of access roads; built or renovated about 2,900 m of
bridges; installed some 6,570 km of electricity distribution line; constructed or renovated 9,253
houses; installed 42 km of water supply distribution systems; established 1,300 ha of communal



                                                                     - 4 -

farm plots; and installed 156 small-scale agro-processing units. The more than 1,300 ha of
orchards and manioc, corn, rice and bean fields, as well as the introduction of small-scale
fowl-raising (1,950 sq. meters) goat-raising (840 breeding animals), cattle (535 breeding
animals) and 154 community fish farming facilities are not only increasing family incomes and
absorbing labor but also improving family food intake and nutrition. These investments, and the
many others financed, are responding to beneficiaries' needs and are having positive impact on
community health, education, housing, employment and income, productivity, transportation,
communication, migration and other elements of human development in rural areas.

Infrastructure investments predominated (76% of total) with rural electrification, community
access roads and simplified water supply systems accounting for 93% of that category. As in other
participating Northeast states, communities desire the "basics" for their immediate impact on daily
life and for their potential to jump-start employment and income-generating activity, followed by
productive and social investments (16% and 8% respectively).

Installation of electrification for some 76,000 families is powering homes, schools, streets, village
shops, small-scale agro-processing units, and pumping water. Among its many benefits are night
school and adult literacy classes, conservation of food and medicine, a dramatic increase in access
to domestic appliances, improved productivity from small-scale irrigation and processing systems,
and access to information.

Access roads benefiting about 98,000 families are especially vital in rural Maranhão where
distance and isolation combined with exceptionally poor, frequently impassable roads/tracks limit
the economic, social and education opportunities of poor communities. Particularly striking,
Project-supported access roads represented 50% of all such investments in the State in the period.


Water supply investments benefiting about 46,000 families are facilitating domestic labor,
promoting better family hygiene, sharply reducing the high incidence of water-borne disease
(amoebic dysentery, cholera, malaria). Communities surveyed reported only "isolated" cases
since their water supply subproject was installed, the healthcare burden on municipalities has been
reduced, as well as the daily burden on women and girls of having to collect water from distant
and risky locations. Evidence strongly suggests that water investments, when combined with
complementary investments in power for example, can create productive jobs and increase
incomes.

Community tractors and equipment were about 25% of approvals in the productive category, and
significantly expand area cultivated by small farmers, ensure timely preparation of land to exploit
rainy periods, improve quality of soil preparation, and facilitate cultivation and post-harvest
activities, contributing to better incomes. Research repeatedly demonstrates the positive direct
and indirect impacts, including interesting multiplier effects, of communal tractor subprojects
under the Northeast CDD program.

Within the social cohort of investments, housing improvement investments substituting
cement/tile dwellings for deteriorated wattle and daub construction with earthen floor, were about



                                                 - 5 -

93% of the total - despite the State Special Projects Unit (NEPE, the Project Technical Unit)
having approved barely 20% of actual demand - and benefited about 9,250 families. Families
reported much cleaner air and fewer respiratory ailments, combined with more sanitary, safer and
"normal" living conditions. NEPE notes in its end-Project completion report* that housing
subprojects have a strong structural significance to poor communities and are not seen in purely
social terms.
* Projeto de Combate a Pobreza Rural do Estado do Maranhão ­ PCPR-MA (Comunidade Viva), Relatório Final, November 2004 (Borrower
Completion Report).


Objective ­ Supporting rural community groups in planning and implementing their own
investment subprojects.

At Closing, about 3,000 community associations had participated in the Project (with another
thousand organized and waiting to participate), and a large proportion had received technical
assistance and/or training. The training methodology was client-driven and participatory. NEPE
and its Regional Development Units (RDU) trained the Municipal Councils in the selection and
priority ranking of community needs and their translation into sound investment proposals.
Development of standardized subproject designs has helped associations with technical aspects
and construction of the more common types of investments (housing improvement, simple water
supply systems, manioc mills). This has many benefits for the communities: simplified the
preparation and evaluation of subprojects by poor communities and Councils, fostered more
competition and better quality of execution of works, reduced subproject cost and communities'
dependence on private firms, and facilitated procurement. Of equal importance, community-based
research during project implementation showed that the mobilization, organization, training and
technical assistance associated with the subproject cycle fosters the steady, substantial and
measurable accumulation of social capital in beneficiary communities, boosting inter alia, their will
and readiness to continue pressing for their rights as citizens.

Objective ­ Intensifying current efforts to create social capital in poor rural areas.

Fostering social capital in rural municipalities and communities has been a watershed achievement
of the Northeast CDD projects, including Maranhão. As participatory, open forums for discussing
and establishing local development priorities, the Municipal Councils have reduced political
interference and patronage-based management; created partnerships between the Councils,
communities and municipal governments; given communities a voice in public resource allocation;
fostered citizenship through greater awareness of social responsibilities; and strengthened local
capacity to select, establish priorities for and implement, investment decisions. Social capital has
expanded through the evolution of successive CDD-based rural poverty programs and through the
increasing decentralization of the mechanisms themselves. Gains in social capital within
communities and municipalities are evidenced by the significant number of Municipal Councils
which have moved beyond subproject decision-making to become participatory venues for
broader municipal planning, i.e., the discussion goes beyond the Project, and the allocation of
non-Project resources; and community associations which are leveraging social capital acquired
under the Project to obtain other, previously inaccessible, investment resources. While this
phenomenon holds great promise for the future sustainability of Councils as an integral part of the
rural socio-economic and political establishment, it should not be over-stated. It is an evolutionary



                                                                 - 6 -

process with 212 Councils in Maranhão at various stages/levels of capacity.

Most Northeast rural communities have significant, established levels of social capital and thus the
Project's participatory mechanisms are not starting from scratch. One of the core challenges, as
defined by a decade of Bank research into the impact of the CDD projects on social capital
formation in the Northeast, is to build community trust in the state. Thus, each subproject
deliberated, implemented and completed by the community is a positive component in the process
of changing the traditional relationship. Community access to accurate information (through
publicity campaigns, and as a core element of the CDD methodology) at all stages of their
subproject cycle is crucial to this process and to leveraging existing social capital for further
developmental gains.

Objective ­ Leveraging revenue mobilization at the community and municipal levels.

The Maranhão Project and its peer projects are among the few programs in Brazil which have
successfully leveraged revenue mobilization at the local level. Beneficiary cost-sharing (mostly
family labor and materials) under the Project's matching grant feature totaled US$9.5 million by
end-Project, or about 10% of the costs of all subprojects financed through Closing, and about 9%
of total Project cost. Financial contributions by municipalities ­ not required under the Project -
were negligible. It is common throughout the participating states of the Northeast to find mayors
contributing to the operations of Municipal Councils with logistical support in lieu of financial
(e.g., equipment, premises, transportation for meetings), but this was not as common in Maranhão
where mayoral support has been slower to evolve as a generalized phenomenon. Under the new
Project (Maranhão Integrated Program: Rural Poverty Reduction Project, Loan 4735-BR),
Councils will match community investment proposals with available funding including non-Project
resources from other public programs, while abiding by established CDD mechanisms and rules, in
this way leveraging both additional funding for Project-generated activities and scaled-up use of
the methodology itself outside the Project.

4.2 Outputs by components:
Community Subprojects (US$95.0 million or 90% of total base cost)
Rated Satisfactory

This component financed small-scale investments selected, implemented, operated and maintained
by the beneficiaries. Investments of up to US$50,000 each were financed through matching
grants (public grants "matched" with community contribution), with legally constituted
community associations identifying their priorities and committing to their operation and
maintenance. It was estimated the Project would finance 3,392 community-managed subprojects
over five years covering basic infrastructure, productive and social investments benefiting 198,000
families organized in 1,696 associations. An estimated 116 FUMAC and 20 FUMAC-P Councils
were to be established. These were largely indicative targets due to the demand-based, flexible
nature of the Project, and were estimated on the basis of demand/behavior patterns under the
previous project.

In six years of implementation, the Maranhão RPAP exceeded most of its primary physical
targets, as follows: (i) implemented 4,159 subprojects (123% of target) from a total demand of


                                                 - 7 -

around 10,000 proposals, a stark reminder of the massive deficits in basic infrastructure and
services in this state and pent-up demand awaiting the follow-on project; (ii) financed at least one
subproject for 276,145 beneficiary families (140% of target) representing about 1.4 million people
in 212 municipalities, and including 5,952 indigenous families and another 4,102 Quilombola
(Afro-descendent) families; (iii) organized some 4,000 community associations (236%) of which
around 3,000 obtained financing for subprojects (177%); (iv) established 212 FUMAC Councils
(183%), but no FUMAC-P (see 4.5). The NEPE completion notes that the Project was viewed
by the State Government as a full partner in its execution of policies and public works in poor
rural areas.

Around 70% of all investments were financed through the FUMAC mechanism and the remainder
through PAC. The effort to mobilize, analyze demands and supervise subproject implementation
was shared by the 212 Councils, NEPE and its 18 Regional Development Units (RDU), as well as
partnerships arranged with public and private entities to support Project execution. An average 66
families benefited per subproject with 74 families averaged for infrastructure and 38 for social
investments. Numbers of beneficiaries per subproject varied little between the proposal and
reality for productive subprojects, since income generated must be divided between the
association members. The same was true for housing improvements, built on a per family basis. In
the case of socio-economic infrastructure, mainly access roads and electrification, numbers of
beneficiaries were significantly above original estimates. Subprojects per municipality averaged
about 20, but some 24% or 979 investments were concentrated in just 10 municipalities,
indicating significant differentiation between municipalities in levels of organization, leadership
and/or political clout. Average cost per subproject was around R$43,000 (about US$14,000,
significantly less than the permitted ceiling of US$50,000) and average cost per family was R$600
(about $200).

Community demand for basic socio-economic infrastructure has traditionally emphasized rural
electrification, housing improvement, water supply and other basics of human well-being.
Nevertheless, as in all participating states, there is enormous pent-up demand for income and
job-generating activities which will be a strong focus of the new Maranhão Integrated Project.
Communities presented proposals for close to 2,000 productive investments of which 663 were
approved and financed, representing 37 different types of activity. Stimulating greater investment
in productive activities also implies focused attention on economic and financial feasibility, and
marketing. Efforts will be made to expand communities' participation in the ongoing "Fair
Trade" initiative (Comércio Ético e Solidário) which establishes commercial links between
small-scale Northeast producers and European supermarkets and other buyers for fruits, honey,
crafts and other products.

The discussion of subproject demand and selection of priorities before submitting proposals for
funding proceeded as envisaged at appraisal, through the communities. Choices were made in
open assembly with liberal participation of local people, not only association members. In a wise
move designed to facilitate communities' handling of the subproject cycle and enable them to
make informed decisions, an Orientation Manual with basic Project rules, requirements and
procedures (e.g., how to present a proposal to the Council, submit statements of expenses,
contract service and other providers, and execute and maintain a subproject) presented in



                                                  - 8 -

accessible language with graphics and illustrations, was distributed to all associations and
Municipal Councils. Meetings were held to discuss this manual and training was provided.

Councils adopted fairly uniform procedures for analyzing proposals. Upon receipt, Councils sent
a committee of members to the respective communities to verify legitimacy of the proposal.
Proposals, with committee opinion attached, were then read, discussed, voted and sent forward
(or not) during a scheduled Council meeting. Communities contributed their 10% share, generally
as labor or materials, and usually came to the RDU and Councils for help in preparing the
technical proposal, installation of the subproject and for advice on submitting accounts. Technical
assistance firms and autonomous professionals were contracted to prepare technical proposals and
support construction. Communities elected a supervision committee for subproject execution, as
per the Operational Manual. While this group lacked specialized technical knowledge of their
subprojects, they had the advantage of knowing the locale and were vigilant about the quality and
performance of contractors. The associations informed NEPE that they had not experienced
difficulties throughout that phase but that the final, required submission of statements of account
(prestação de contas) was complex and bureaucratic. Rural workers' unions usually stepped in to
assist communities at that point and Bank supervision missions worked with NEPE to simplify
those procedures.

Besides the discussion and interaction with the RDU in the selection and submission of demands,
NEPE (2004) cites the views of Councils and associations on how subproject cycle efficiency
might be further improved: (i) reduce documentation requirements; (ii) eliminate required legal
sign-off for authentication purposes which is expensive and time-consuming; (iii) accelerate
subproject analysis and release of resources to the associations; (iv) toughen NEPE's
pre-qualification of technical assistance firms especially their understanding of local realities; and
(v) increase NEPE/RDU technicians for Project supervision and monitoring, and resources,
materials and trained personnel to support the Project.

In its completion report, NEPE alludes to the comparatively high rate of rejection/devolution of
proposals, mainly due to documentation issues, lack of available financing to meet the high level
of demand and issues concerning the legitimacy of demand in some cases. The report also notes,
inter alia, the excellent performance of the Councils in analyzing community proposals carefully
and screening out those whose community-based credentials seemed suspect. While political
pressure was a reality on occasion, whether from the mayor, councilmen, state deputies, or even
INCRA technicians, the overall results were positive for the communities. NEPE acted to limit, to
the extent possible, these attempts to influence the process, conducting awareness-building
training with Councils and associations and following up on specific complaints.

Indigenous and Afro-descendent Beneficiaries: Maranhão has an indigenous population of some
19,000 families (IBGE) distributed across 17 indigenous lands officially demarcated by the
National Indigenous Foundation (FUNAI), and an Afro-descendent (Quilombola) population of
some 56,000 families including city-dwellers. Based on core principles of social inclusion, the
Project made special efforts to stimulate the participation of these groups, initially with training
and awareness-raising activities and the preparation of sustainable development strategies for each
community involved, followed by investments. NEPE staff includes a specialist in indigenous



                                                  - 9 -

affairs. Some 5,950 indigenous families in three municipalities benefited from 109 subprojects, a
level of capture three times their weight in the general population. Types of investments were
mainly electric power, agricultural equipment, housing improvement and access roads. Similarly,
the Project also benefited about 4100 members of Afro-descendent communities with investments
mainly in electric power and access roads.

In financial terms (around R$3.7 million) and number of beneficiaries, Maranhão represents the
largest Bank-supported intervention in the Northeast region targeting indigenous communities. It
should be emphasized that in each case, the communities themselves set priorities and executed
their investments, typically contributing their share in labor. Important lessons were derived from
this experience (see Section 8). A recent diagnosis revealed that while 25% of the indigenous
population benefited, their communities continue to harbor high levels of poverty and social
exclusion. Traditional methods of production (fishing, hunting and subsistence agriculture) do not
adequately fulfill their survival needs or address new demands generated by their contact with
non-indigenous populations, e.g. access to consumer goods, infrastructure and better quality of
life. The new project in Maranhão further intensifies actions on behalf of these communities.

Targeting. The Maranhão Project was accurately targeted; beneficiaries conformed to the
intended profile. Project inclusion of indigenous and Afro-descendent groups, typically among
the very poorest, demonstrated the state's commitment to sharp targeting of Project funding and
benefits. Studies of targeting effectiveness across all participating states indicate that the CDD
program methodology for reaching poor families works well. Beneficiaries are extremely poor by
most key measures: educational level, occupation, location of dwelling and work, living
conditions, domestic and productive assets, income, and the identification of a portion of
beneficiaries as being subject to food insecurity and hunger (about 50% of all beneficiaries were
estimated to have endured hunger and food shortages prior to implementation of Project
investments in their community).

Estimates also show that a large majority of Project beneficiaries have incomes below the poverty
line. Studies performed in 2004 indicated that 73% of beneficiaries had an average monthly family
income below R$182.00. Another 25% had income slightly above this level but below R$300.00
per month. Bearing in mind that average family size is five members, income per capita is below
R$37.00 or less than US$1.00/day for over 73% of beneficiaries. In addition to income, baseline
studies for selected participating states in 2000 indicated extremely low levels of access to basic
services: 41% with electricity, 36% with septic tank, 28% with piped water, 24% with access to a
health post, and 40% of families were illiterate. Given that Maranhão is the 2nd poorest state in
Brazil, these averages are almost certainly higher than Maranhão in most if not all indicators.

Institutional Development (US$6.9 million, 4% of total base cost)
Rated Satisfactory
This component financed training, technical assistance and consultancies to consolidate, refine and
strengthen community participation and the operational capacity of community associations, the
Municipal Councils and the Technical Unit itself. A wide variety of activities were developed and
executed in connection with preparing the annual training program, community mobilization,
training and technical assistance. In basic numbers, around 17,000 community members received



                                                 - 10 -

training; leadership skills were enhanced for some 4,050 FUMAC Council members; and close to
3,400 courses were delivered to community associations supporting subproject execution. Types
of training included: Council and subproject management, local development planning,
awareness-building, cooperative management, training for productive activities including
bee-keeping, cattle-raising, vegetable production, fruit-growing, cheese-making and fish farming.
Training methods stressed integrated, participatory planning targeted at the effective management
of diverse subproject investments and more effective interaction with public authorities. Training
covered indigenous and Afro-descendent communities as well as women's groups. A survey of
the effectiveness of community training by NEPE saw 84% respond that the courses "helped a
lot" (NEPE, 2004).

NEPE personnel received training in 34 different categories, the emphasis always being on
upgrading staff technical skills and qualifications to support the Project. The scope of training
was broad and included: public accounting and financial management; gender in sustainable
development; communications skills; project monitoring and evaluation; public procurement;
information technology and management (including as a result, establishing a Project website);
technical cooperation methodology; environmental management; a wide range of courses on
administrative and organizational issues; and courses designed to support community productive
activities, e.g., fish farming. The above activities/programs received skilled, effective support
from the Brazilian Service for Support of Small and Medium Business (SEBRAE), NGOs,
municipal mayors and governments, the State University of Maranhão (UEMA), and the National
Indian Foundation (FUNAI), all of which provided instructors, as well as technical, administrative
and methodological support.

Project Administration, Monitoring and Evaluation (US$3.1 million, 3% of base cost)
Rated Satisfactory

This component performed as expected, supporting project coordination and activities to
assess/measure project performance and impact; incremental operating costs (excluding salaries)
of NEPE to enhance supervision and strengthen project operations; reformulating and upgrading
the project management information system (MIS); materials/programs and outreach supporting
the state's information diffusion campaigns to raise awareness of Project objectives, benefits, rules
and methodology; monthly, six-monthly and annual reports on physical, financial, strategic and
qualitative aspects of the Project; and an end-Project evaluation. NEPE conducted close to
14,000 supervision visits to subprojects under execution and 1,700 visits to Municipal Councils.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
The SAR did not estimate an economic or financial rate of return for the Project. Instead, an
analysis was provided for illustrative purposes, of the kinds of benefits achieved under the
preceding reformulated Northeast Rural Development Project (R-NRDP) for the most common
types of investments program-wide. Similar benefits were expected, on a larger scale, from the
follow-on projects, including Maranhão. While estimates were made at appraisal of the types of
investments most likely to be demanded, in practice this is a decision made by communities over
the life of the Project and precise ex ante estimation of resource allocation, cost-effectiveness, rate
of return and fiscal impact is not possible. It is evident for example, that appraisal significantly
over-estimated likely demand for productive investments and this has been the case in most


                                                  - 11 -

participating states. The end-Project numbers demonstrate vividly what is now well-known; poor
communities opt for basic infrastructure before any other type of investment and in the Maranhão
context of massive deficiencies, the investment outcome was rational. Overall, subprojects
financed by the RPAP, including Maranhão, did not differ markedly from the previous program
and thus a similar analysis was conducted of program-wide investments under the RPAP as an
indication of cost effectiveness and sustainability, and of the financial viability of productive
subprojects (see below and Annex 3).

Cost Effectiveness and Sustainability

About 77 percent of all subproject investments under the RPAP were infrastructure while social
investments comprised less than 3 percent (Maranhão data shows 76 percent and 8 percent
respectively). Most fall into the category of core public services (water supply, electrification,
sanitation, access roads, housing renovation) with benefits supporting their universal provision.
The CDD approach to rural infrastructure and service delivery for poor rural communities works
cost-effectively in the Northeast due to several basic design features: (i) demand-driven
subproject priority-setting and selection in a democratic forum such as the FUMAC Councils; (ii)
standard technical designs and cost parameters, ensuring the use of least-cost models and
providing established patterns of initiating and completing works; and (iii) delegating subproject
implementation directly to community associations, thus generating cost-savings relative to similar
works executed by public agencies.

The contracting procedures established in the Operational Manual require direct, competitive
contracting for all investments; associations solicit at least three bids, selecting the least-cost.
RPAP costs were from 30-50% cheaper than publicly-executed subprojects of similar quality,
based on an analysis of a random sample of subprojects including 10 categories comprising 80
percent of types financed. State-level evaluation of the RPAP in six Northeast states found that
the quality of overall finish and quality of operation were technically and physically satisfactory
for a large majority of subprojects in all states. Operation and maintenance was generally
satisfactory with a majority of associations paying user fees where appropriate. A separate
evaluation found that 89 percent of a sample of subprojects completed in 1995 and 1997/98 were
still fully operational. Sustainability did not vary greatly between infrastructure, productive and
social subprojects (89%, 87% and 88% respectively).

4.4 Financial rate of return:
Internal rates of return were estimated for the most common types of productive subprojects, and
exceeded on average, 30%. Benefits are largely concentrated in the beneficiary communities.
The analyses assumed constant benefits over a ten-year project life. Sensitivity analysis performed
on these illustrative subprojects showed that they tended to be reasonably robust vis a vis
decreases in output and prices and increases in production costs.

Benefit cost ratios are high (greater than 2.0) for the main types of productive investments
analyzed and are generally financially sustainable. Although beneficiary associations do receive a
one-time matching grant, the investments tend to be sustainable because cost recovery through
user fees by the average beneficiary association is normally adequate to cover both O&M and
replacement of original investments before the end of their useful economic life. All subprojects


                                                  - 12 -

show satisfactory internal rates of return with some quite high. In all cases, less than six years is
required to recover the investment and less than 3.5 years in half of all cases.

Fiscal Impact

Evaluations show that subproject investments make a significant fiscal contribution through cost
savings to state and municipal governments. For example, in most Northeast states, RPAP
investments in water supply eliminated the need for water trucks to supply communities in time of
drought (not generally applicable in Maranhão). Provision of clean, reliable water reduces public
health costs and saves time spent by family members collecting water in often remote locations.
Cost savings also derive from the community-driven Project design; as stated earlier, subprojects
implemented by communities, directly or contracted, have consistently proven less expensive than
publicly-executed works of similar type and quality. In terms of revenue generation, direct
impacts are likely to be small, but indirect impact can be significant. Installation of electric power
results in surging demand for domestic appliances, significantly increasing the ICMS (sales tax)
revenue to municipalities.* Based on a sample of the 990-odd rural electrification subprojects as
well as water supply investments financed in Maranhão between January 1998 and December
2000, NEPE projected the acquisition of over 16,000 television sets, about 13,000 refrigerators,
11,000 music sound systems, 6,900 blenders, 6,700 parabolic antennas, 4,800 flatirons, 870
washing machines and about 870 electric motors.
*ICMS is collected by the state and all municipalities receive 25% of collections regardless of where collected.


4.5 Institutional development impact:

As a participatory, demand-oriented mechanism, the Maranhão project involved many actors and
stakeholders. All community associations and Municipal Councils received orientation and
training about how the Project functioned, community organization, associative action, operations
and responsibilities of Councils, and specific technical themes.

Community Associations: Community associations created under the Project generally performed
well. Members typically met their collective responsibilities and benefited from the efforts of
NEPE and its RDU, as well as civil society entities to transmit information about the Project and
create conditions for poor communities to participate. Membership is inclusive with women
increasingly assuming leadership roles. Importantly, the benefits of subprojects have tended to
reach non-members as well as members. Technical assistance and training are clearly critical for
the proper functioning and sustainability of associations at their formative and longer-term
operational phases.

The NEPE report (2004) cites the opinions of surveyed association leaders and members,
registering the universal call for even greater emphasis on the principal themes affecting their
ability to manage their roles. Associations also noted the importance of a monthly contribution
from members to maintain the association and especially to cover expenses such as the
preparation and registration of documents pertaining to the association itself (cost R$200) and
other key services/documents ranging from R$30.00 to R$500.00 (cost of lawyer to review and
sign the statute establishing the association). Other expenses include transportation and food for
trips to the municipal or state capital to resolve land-related issues, tax issues or regularization of



                                                                       - 13 -

documents. Associations which collect regular monthly fees from members have no trouble
covering such expenses.

Another issue raised by community leaders included the need for regular, more frequent meetings
to maintain community interest and involvement. Surveys showed that participation is relatively
high ­ about 80%. Average membership of an association is 67, with an average 56% men and
44% women. An important finding from interviews with heads of household and rural leaders, is
that associations can and should gain critical mass by acting jointly. Further, it was found that
associations which had received productive subprojects continued to be active, while in some
communities a degree of passivity set in following the acquisition of infrastructure which is
associated in communities' mind with public sector authority and responsibility. The report
concludes that awareness-building and training are critically important to galvanize communities
to continue to press for their needs both from within and outside the Project, over the medium to
long-term.

Municipal Councils: All 212 Municipal Councils received training in 2002 focused on basic
operational aspects of the Project and their own functions/responsibilities. NEPE also initiated an
evaluation of Council performance in 2002 assessing basic elements such as meetings,
priority-setting, assistance provided for the organization and legalization of community
associations, checking of community Carta Consultas; adherence to Project directives;
relationship to public sector and elected officials, and level of member participation. Councils are
not necessarily uniform, having different situations and characteristics, e.g., Councils exercising
complete sovereignty over their deliberations and collaborating productively with authorities and
local power groups; Councils where it is the active collaboration of the mayor and his local
infrastructure which sets a positive stage for the Council's proper functioning and successful
execution of the Project; some Councils which were moribund due to constraints on their proper
functioning and where the intervention of NEPE and more training was required to re-constitute
them; and "cutting edge" Councils where members are actively involved in mobilizing and
organizing communities, supervision and evaluation of subprojects, providing technical assistance,
introducing new themes into the discussion of local development (including environmental),
preparing local development plans and active efforts to integrate the Bank-supported Project with
other municipal, state and federal public policies and programs.

NEPE (2004) cites the results of field surveys defining the attitudes of Council members. The
message which emerges is a healthy self-confidence in their work and its significance, but lacking
the resources in some cases to fully realize their potential and not having, in a significant number
of cases, adequate support from the mayors, despite the substantial resources injected into their
municipalities by the Project. A majority of the mayors however, are supportive, even paying for
the registration and legalization of burgeoning community associations. The principal expenses of
a Council include regular meetings to analyze subprojects, implying long journeys often on foot
for members and participants to attend, food while they attend since many are away from their
homes for several days, and the costs of subproject supervision, again signifying distance from
their homes/communities. Members frequently bear these costs personally. This situation results
in some Councils meeting less frequently than they should, delays in subproject analysis and
approval, and reduced supervision activities. There was broad consensus on the need for an



                                                 - 14 -

operating fund (similar to the associations). Even so, the overriding concern expressed by both
NEPE and the associations, relating to the functioning of the Councils, was the paucity of new
leaders coming up from the communities/grassroots, and the systematic effort needed under the
new Project to address this.

FUMAC-P: The Project was slated to establish 20 FUMAC-P Councils but closed without
action, although in 1998 several municipalities were selected as candidates and the issue of their
creation remained a subject of discussion with supervision missions virtually to end-Project. The
Mid-term Review mission devised an alternative plan to gradually decentralize certain
responsibilities to selected FUMAC Councils based on criteria such as sense of autonomy,
deliberative ability, and level of participation in Council meetings and decision-making. They
would assume certain activities including training and technical assistance and subproject
supervision. Financial resource transfers were also contemplated and such Councils would be
designated "advanced FUMAC Councils". Lack of action is explained by: (i) NEPE's concern
that the transfer of resources to such Councils would be viewed by non-FUMAC-P municipalities
as a political victory, provoking their strong calls to be similarly benefited. However, the
FUMAC-P pilot was never intended to be available on demand, but rather as a selective,
performance and capacity-based "promotion" from FUMAC; (ii) many FUMAC Councils at the
time were judged by NEPE to still need the more advanced organizational and administrative
capacity permitting the independent and efficient management of Project resources required
under FUMAC-P; and (iii) three changeovers in NEPE leadership and the reform of the State
administration substantially modified NEPE's institutional structure and its willingness to pilot
FUMAC-P. The new Project does not include this mechanism.

NGOs/Civil Society Organizations: Substantial effort went into identifying civil society bodies
with potential to support the Project (and the new Maranhão Integrated Project). The main
streams/forums of civil society organizations in Maranhão are associated with poverty alleviation,
environmental issues, gender and with Afro-descendent and indigenous groups. While their focus
and primary objectives differ substantially, much of their effort goes into training social groups
and activities associated with income-generation and improved wellbeing within a sustainable
framework. Supervision and Mid-term Review missions found that there was a marked consensus
among these bodies on what should be priority actions for rural areas: training and technical
assistance; their own greater involvement in supervision, monitoring and evaluation of the Project;
horizontal integration of public policies; lining these policies up more closely with sustainable
development objectives/initiatives; and opening up specific instances where dialogue and
cooperation could be fostered. As a group, their broad reach and ability to collaborate has proven
valuable, their credibility in the communities is strong, they bring specific skills to the Project and
accordingly, the State's plans to foster their continued and increased support is strongly-endorsed
by the Bank.

Technical Unit: NEPE administers and coordinates the Project, acts as a vehicle/conduit for
communication with the Bank and State Government, and as main liaison with the Municipal
Councils and in PAC municipalities, with the community associations. NEPE has significant
administrative and financial autonomy within GEAGRO. Through a combination of
Project-funded training, and the complementary impact of the State's mandatory administrative



                                                  - 15 -

reform program, NEPE was modernized, decentralized to 18 Regional Development Units which
assumed responsibility for analysis, monitoring, technical assistance and subproject supervision
along with training and data entry in the Management Information System (MIS), and
strengthened in terms of information technology, plant and equipment. These measures brought
the RDU into close contact with the Councils and associations, to the benefit of the Project. While
admitting that even more could have been done in terms of awareness-building and training,
NEPE holds that the Councils and associations fulfilled their roles well, acting as intermediaries
between beneficiaries and NEPE managers.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

There were no major factors in this category.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

While there were several important administrative and organizational events instigated by
Government, they had either positive or negligible impact on the Project and are outlined in
Sections 7.5 and 7.6.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

No major factors subject to implementing agency control affected Project implementation and
outcome.

5.4 Costs and financing:

Total Project cost was US$106.7 million, on par with the appraisal estimate. There were two
reallocations of Loan funds. An amount of US$4.8 million was reallocated from Category 1(b)
Pilot Grants (FUMAC-P) as follows: US$3.0 million to Category 1(a) (FUMAC Grants); US$1.5
million to Category 1(c) (PAC Grants); and US$300,000 to Category 3(a) (Incremental
Operational Costs). This was followed by a second reallocation of US$1.1 million as follows:
US$500,000 from Category 1 (b) (Pilot Grants) and US$600,000 from Category 4 (Unallocated)
to Category 2 (Consultants' services and training for Parts B and C of the Project). The Loan
was fully-disbursed. The first reallocation from Category 1(b) was an acknowledgment (and early
indicator) that FUMAC-P was unlikely to progress. The second reallocation was used to benefit
Afro-Brazilian and indigenous communities ­ comparatively numerous in Maranhão - financing
training in leadership, project rules/substance and impact evaluation in advance of actual
subproject investment activity. A six-month extension of the Closing Date to end-June 2004
provided continuity for preparation of the new Maranhão Integrated Project, using a small,
remaining Loan balance.

Procurement: All procurement of goods/works was carried out in accordance with Bank
guidelines, and in the CDD context was both innovative and effective. Acquisition of mainly
goods and works under the community subproject component was handled directly by the
community associations in all cases, and subject to at least three price quotations. Supervision



                                                     - 16 -

missions vetted procurement through random reviews of subprojects both in the field and analysis
of NEPE documents. NEPE handled procurement of consultants to provide technical assistance
to the communities, and to support its own responsibilities, with satisfactory performance and
outcomes. In addition, the use of standard subproject designs and unit costs, required by the
Operational Manual, and providing associations with basic information on how to proceed,
simplified procurement, reduced the incidence of under- or over-dimensioned investments, and
made supervision and monitoring smoother. The community cost-sharing requirement (10%
minimum) under these CDD projects correlates directly with communities' seeking competitive
prices through three quotations, fostering economy and efficiency.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Sustainability is rated Likely

Institutional: The Project re-affirmed that delegation of responsibility and influence to local-level
organizations and involving local government can successfully support decentralized resource
allocation and social capital creation in rural Maranhão. Linking the Councils to local municipal
planning and budgeting processes and programs, as well as alternative sources of credit and
financial services, fosters sustainability while scaling up Project impact. NEPE's sustainability is
intimately related to the skills and experience of its core technical team and its broad involvement
with other state and Federal programs, including the Bank-supported Crédito Fundiário land
reform program. Programmed actions are underway to stimulate greater interest and commitment
from municipal mayors and to foster strategic partnerships between the mayors and NEPE's
RDUs to strengthen the Councils and realize their potential. Similarly, NEPE is committed to
working even harder to fortify the communities, strengthening their capacity to manage the
subproject cycle, and especially to administer Project-funded goods and structures. Despite major
efforts to publicize and mobilize communities, NEPE believes that an even more intense
capacity-building program would enable weaker community associations in some areas to fend off
political encroachment and to better manage their investments.

Financial: Financial analysis and field investigation confirm the sustainability of investments
financed by the R-NRDP and RPAP projects. A sample of over 8,000 subprojects in Northeast
states which executed Projects as of 1995 (R-NRDP) and 1997/98 (RPAP) was reviewed in 2000.
Some 89% of all of them were still fully operational. Analysis of productive subprojects revealed
that cost recovery through user fees by beneficiary associations was adequate to cover both
operation and maintenance and replacement of the original investment well before the end of its
useful economic life. NEPE (2004) comments at some length on operation and maintenance
performance under the Project, especially of productive subprojects. As noted, a high proportion
of communities are expanding their initial investments, increasing planted area, re-investing to
expand small-scale agro-industries, maintaining goods acquired under the Project (tractors,
equipment, processing facilities), and augmenting their businesses (e.g., selling ice-cream
following Project financing of an ice-making facility).

Physical: Participation by beneficiaries throughout the subproject cycle, together with significant
community cost-sharing, fosters a senses of the value of the investment in both social and financial



                                                  - 17 -

terms. In addition, the democratic process intrinsic to the representative Municipal Councils
ensures better selection and priority ranking of investments by beneficiaries, contributing to their
longer-term sustainability. Nevertheless, in Maranhão, research observations towards the end of
the Project noted the lingering perception by some communities that O&M was the responsibility
of the mayor. Maintenance of access roads presented particular difficulties in terms of who was
responsible and equipped to do the work; similarly, water supply systems need focused attention
to ensure that communities understand and are committed to the payment of adequate user fees.
Domestic connection inside the dwelling has been repeatedly found to promote regular payment.
Even so, NEPE's completion report finds that most communities find solutions to O&M issues
and administer their investments effectively. The new project introduces performance incentives
for community O&M, to be monitored by the Councils and RDU.

NEPE (2004) states that a sizeable proportion of beneficiary associations are operating their
investments in a professional manner, effectively managing their production, marketing,
distribution of profits between association members and capital reinvestment. Surveys showed, in
the case of tractors, that users pay on average, R$25/1.5 hours if members and R$30 if
non-members, plus fuel costs. Users also pay a fee to use the tractor for hauling produce to
market. For manioc processing, a fee of 10% of the value of flour produced is levied, i.e. 3 kg of
flour from each 30 kg. In the case of rice, the average fee is R$3.00/60 kg sack or R$0.05/kg.
Members pay R$200/month for use of boats and nets acquired from fishery subprojects.
However, the maintenance of reserve funds is not generalized across all subprojects and payment
of user fees is still not uniformly adopted (where relevant) for all subprojects. The main issue
affecting Project-funded productive subprojects in Maranhão is inculcating a disciplined approach
to establishing and maintaining a reserve fund for re-stocking raw materials, maintenance and
supplemental investments. Association leaders interviewed mentioned members who still need an
appreciation of their subproject as an asset requiring long-term care, or as something to which
they need to contribute financially or with their labor.

There are also issues with some socio-economic infrastructure investments. In the case of water
supply investments, the association charges members R$3.00 per residence, and while the vast
majority pay, not all pay regularly, and this can compromise O&M and even payment for the
electric power or fuel to run a system. Some associations still need to develop mechanisms to
secure payment per se and regular payment, by every member/user. Maintenance of roads and
access routes is also problematic due to constant rains, sandy lands, and intensified vehicle usage
especially by heavy trucks which do not come from the community. Communities which have a
tractor patch the roads to the extent possible, but the real problem lies with the lack of long term
action by the mayors and by the State Department of Roads (DER-MA), to maintain what the
Project finances. Electricity networks are transferred to the Maranhão Electricity Centers
(CEMAR) which regularly handles supervision and maintenance of lines, and charges for
electricity consumption by users. Public lighting has been installed in all beneficiary communities.
Not surprisingly, there are some technical difficulties such as interruptions in energy provision
which can affect water supply systems and operations of small processing facilities, or artesian
wells which operate at less than full capacity, but generally, communities manage by administering
the resource on a fixed time schedule and with schemes for saving or storing the resource. In
general, positive experiences predominate. The developmental issues raised above have been



                                                 - 18 -

well-documented and are resolvable; measures are being taken by NEPE and the RDUs to
establish more systematic, sustainable ways of handling them.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

Transition arrangements to regular operations mean, in this case, execution of a subproject, its
release to the community association (which legally and technically owns the investment) and its
becoming operational under pre-established rules and procedures for this phase. In the case of
electric power investments - and similarly with all other participating states - operation and
maintenance are handled by the local power agency/concession company.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank's performance during identification, preparation and appraisal is rated Satisfactory.
The Bank recognized that the R-NRDP represented a successful shift away from the traditional
rural development model and that it merited follow-up based on lessons learned. In addition, as
one of the last projects prepared under the RPAP, Maranhão benefited from early
experiences/lessons flowing in from its RPAP predecessors which were already under
implementation, in some cases for two years or more. The preparation process was marked by
openness to further innovation, a hallmark of the Northeast CDD program since its inception.

7.2 Supervision:
Bank supervision is rated Satisfactory. About 86 staff weeks were expended on supervision,
rather than the 35 estimated at appraisal, a significant under-estimation given characteristics of the
state and estimated supervision requirements for other states in the program, which tend not to
drop below 75 weeks. Project execution benefited from stable Bank task management for the full
duration of the Project (with similar stability in NEPE) and regular supervision missions. The
Bank's Recife Office once again proved its value in terms of proximity, experienced Team
leadership, Task Manager and administrative personnel, long-standing relationship with the State
Government and NEPE, knowledge of the Northeast CDD mechanisms and their evolution, and
decentralized structure in keeping with the nature of the Northeast rural poverty program. The
Bank defined and addressed implementation issues as they arose, in cooperation with NEPE, and
based on time-bound action plans when indicated. Supervision missions used a prepared advisory
document showing updated performance indicators and highlighting any apparent issues, plus a
MIS-generated random sample of municipalities for field visits. The Project was correctly rated
Satisfactory for Development Objectives and Implementation Progress throughout.

Principal issues of supervision included: (i) the potential impact on the Project of the State
institutional reform (which suspended subproject approvals and financing for about three months,
without noticeable effect on the Project ); (ii) upgrading the quality of services provided to
communities by subproject planning firms and construction contractors; (iii) fostering
communities' understanding of Project rules including the importance of establishing operation
and maintenance funds; (iv) capacity-building/training for Councils, associations and the RDU,
using NEPE professionals and contracted NGOs, to review the Operational Manual, design tools
for identifying and reaching poor communities, and reinforcing understanding of roles and



                                                  - 19 -

functions of community leaders; (v) improving through better up-front analysis, the financial
viability of productive subprojects; (vi) postponed creation of FUMAC-P Councils and promoting
greater community understanding of the role and responsibilities of FUMAC Councils; and (vii)
leveraging, through the use of autonomous entities, professional assistance to supervise water
supply, small-scale dams and community road improvement investments. NEPE also simplified its
overly-bureaucratic requirements for communities' submission of statements of expenses
(prestação de contas), substantially reducing the number of associations technically in default due
to incomplete documentation or other issues. The consolidation of RDU offices and their local
level supervision capacity contributed to this reduction.

Related to this, supervision also effected a significant and positive revision in Project procedures,
permitting the release of subproject financing to the community bank account in one installment
instead of several. This meant that subproject expenses could be paid directly, with authorization
by the associations and on-site verification by the RDU. Advantages included greater sense of
local control and transparency, better relations with service providers, and streamlined
bureaucratic procedures for getting resources to the beneficiary communities.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Rated Satisfactory

The Rural Poverty Alleviation Program of eight projects including Maranhão received a LAC
Region Performance Award and a Bank Social Development Award for Excellence in Project
Quality in 2000. In addition, the Northeast rural poverty reduction program was selected for
presentation as Best Practice in scaling up CDD approaches, at the 2004 Shanghai Poverty
Conference.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

The Borrower's performance during preparation is rated fully Satisfactory. Preparation was
straightforward with full support of State authorities, the strong commitment of NEPE whose
experience went back to the POLONORDESTE program of the 1970s and early 80s, and broad
recognition that the R-NRDP had successfully changed the way rural development could be done.
At the time of Project appraisal, the State Governor increased NEPE's autonomy, revised its
organizational structure in line with the State's decentralization strategy for the public sector, as
well as the specific needs of the Project, and provided NEPE with new office premises adapted to
its operational needs.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

The State Government did not have a direct, day to day role in Project implementation, except
through its counterpart funding/cost sharing responsibilities, which were satisfactory throughout,
and indirectly through the role and performance of NEPE. The intervention and support of the
State Governor when needed, was also important to the success of this Project. The profound
and ambitious State institutional reform of early 1999 caused a 3-month cessation of subproject
approvals and processing while important changes and adjustments were made, but this did not



                                                - 20 -

materially affect the Project. As part of this reorganization, Government's creation of 18 regional
offices of NEPE in fact, greatly benefited the Project by bringing NEPE closer to the associations
and Councils.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
Quality Project implementation and outcomes correlate closely with NEPE's experienced
coordination and administration, Project-funded training opportunities in areas directly related to
the Project, and the modernization exercise of 1999. The unit produced a high quality completion
report which enriched the ICR. NEPE worked willingly and effectively with the Bank in areas
needing focused attention and/or improvement. Three turnovers in NEPE leadership did not
materially affect the Project because the core technical team and administrative procedures were
not modified. The Coordinator at project outset withdrew to pursue a political career and became
a strong advocate for the Project in the State Legislative Assembly. In 2002 the replacement
Coordinator resigned for health reasons, was followed briefly by a third person who was then
substituted by the new State Governor's nominee, the current Coordinator. In May 2002, NEPE
was detached from the State Secretariat of Planning (GEPLAN) and came under the umbrella of
the State Management Unit for Agriculture, Livestock and Rural Development (GEAGRO), the
result of a mini-reorganization instituted by the new Governor. NEPE continued as a relatively
autonomous body and actually benefited from coming under GEAGRO due to that agency's
stronger "operational culture" in contrast to GEPLAN's more strategic/planning orientation.

Following the State Reform Program, NEPE decentralized subproject analysis, supervision,
technical assistance and monitoring to its 18 Regional Development Units (RDU, which operate
in conjunction with 18 "Casas de Agricultura" providing special assistance to NEPE's field
operations), along with training activities for Councils and communities, and project data entry in
the MIS. While NEPE acknowledges that mobilization and organization of communities and
Councils could have benefited from even greater intensity ­ the scale and dispersion of rural
poverty, and poor transportation conditions in this state represent a daunting organizational
challenge ­ the 4,159 subprojects contracted were 20% above target (3,392) and NEPE/RDU
made some 23,000 visits to communities for monitoring, technical assistance and supervision.
NEPE's efforts also helped Councils and associations to fulfill their roles effectively and become
effective intermediaries between beneficiaries and project coordination.

RDU staff were, for practical reasons, recruited from their own area even though this meant in
some cases that the staffing cohort ­ and hence capacity - varied between zones. Some RDU had
up to 17 permanent technicians ­ agronomists, vets and agricultural technicians, as well as
temporary contracted workers. In its end-Project report, NEPE points to additional efforts it is
making to further improve its operational efficiency and to obtain more consistent results
state-wide. When asked to list the types of frustrations they encountered, technicians noted: (i)
delayed processing of subproject proposals due to overwhelming demand; (ii) limited access to
remote areas in the rainy season for subproject supervision and need for more vehicles; (iii)
rotation of technicians in NEPE and the RDU; (v) sizing and labor problems with some access
road subprojects due to executing companies' inadequate knowledge of local conditions; (vi) need
for more specialized technical personnel experienced in handling productive subprojects; and (vii)
heavy bureaucratic requirements of the subproject cycle.




                                                 - 21 -

Despite these constraints, which are normal for a Project involving thousands of small investments
in a large and exceptionally poor state, NEPE/RDU staff expressed "gratification in accompanying
communities' progress and the improving infrastructure in the interior of the state. Where there
was backwardness there is now economic progress; where there were earthen roads and sandy,
impassable paths, there are today asphalt roads with electric poles along the margins; where there
were difficulties in obtaining potable water, it is now alongside or inside homes; where there was
darkness or kerosene lamps, homes, schools and shops are now lit; and where there was only a
subsistence plot, there is now flourishing production including for market" (NEPE 2004).

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Rated Satisfactory

The Borrower performed exceptionally well and was always committed to and supportive of, the
Project. Counterpart funding availability was never an issue.

8. Lessons Learned

Project lessons reinforce and validate previous experience in this state and in other Northeast
states with similar projects, and have influenced the design of the follow-on-Project (Loan
4735-BR):

Decentralization and participation: Decentralization of fiscal and investment decision-making
and implementation to the state and local levels including community organizations, results in
administrative efficiency and superior results. Involving beneficiaries in the selection, financing,
execution, and O&M of subprojects ensures that investments meet genuine community needs,
leads to cost savings, boosts community "ownership" and increases the sustainability of
investments.

CDD approaches: By assigning responsibility to local communities and their organizations, and
by involving municipal government as a partner, CDD approaches can successfully support
decentralized resource allocation and create social capital in even the poorest rural areas. This
method also reduces bureaucracy and administrative obstacles, and reinforces accountability for
project performance by eliminating the "distance" between decision-makers and beneficiaries who,
at key points in the subproject cycle, are synonymous.

Self-selection of beneficiaries results in strong targeting. The socio economic profile of
project beneficiaries in Maranhão indicates that a high proportion are illiterate, with insecure
access to basic foodstuffs; the vast majority have incomes well below the poverty line. Poverty
targeting that is simple, verifiable and based on these kinds of objective criteria, fosters
transparency, reduces political interference in project resource allocation and ensures that the vast
majority of project resources reach the poorest.

Alignment of community investments with the Municipal Human Development Index
(HDI-M) as a targeting and mobilizing goal, establishing mechanisms for local level integration of
project activities with other programs to increase targeting effectiveness and poverty impact, is
both a logical evolution of the Northeast CDD approach and an important way to further scale it



                                                  - 22 -

up. In practical terms, this means strategies which concentrate financial resources and public
policies on the poorest municipalities, based on HDI-M, while preserving the participatory
institutional mechanisms already established. Under the new Maranhão Integrated Project, 60%
of total funding for subprojects is allocated to the 80 municipalities with lowest HDI-M.

Natural resources management (NRM) and sustainability issues require proactive attention in
environmentally fragile states such as Maranhão, located in a transition zone between the
semi-arid Northeast and the Amazon region. Environmental protection checklists, periodically
updated, are essential even though the small scale of investments virtually eliminates significant
environmental effects in most cases. Standard subproject designs have special importance where
environmental concerns are relevant, while environmental TA and training to FUMAC Councils
and community groups ­ delivered by in-house environmental expertise in the Technical Unit if
possible ­ fosters broad awareness.*

* The new Project gives communities the option of investing in environmental subprojects, piloting regional or territorial investments across several
municipalities (e.g., watershed investments) and demonstration subprojects in NRM themes.


Productive subprojects are likely to assume greater prominence under the new project. They
require rigorous selection, preparation, technical assistance and supervision criteria and linkage to
a graduation strategy which facilitates communities' access to formal credit. The idea of a "one
time matching grant" for productive ventures, as intended under the new Maranhão project,
makes sense under the following conditions: services cover a majority of community members;
use is regulated by strict operational guidelines; O&M is assured by payment of user fees; meets
impact criteria for HDI and environment; and, provision for technical assistance is built in.
Calculations made by supervision missions on the basis of cost and income data collected on-site
showed that a well-thought-out productive subproject with adequate technical assistance could
double or treble family income in 12-18 months.

Municipal Councils can play a broader role in local planning. FUMAC Councils can
establish links to local municipal planning and budgeting processes and programs as well as
alternative credit and financial services, including state and federal. Carefully nurtured with
technical assistance, information and funding support, and maintaining transparent,
comprehensible rules of operation, the Councils could become one of the most valuable and
durable institutions for rural development in the Northeast. Attempts to establish FUMAC-P
Councils have not been equally successful in all states and should not be pursued if/when a state
has coherent reasons for opposing them.

Indigenous community organizations can establish and express priorities, and administer
resources received. Project investments for these groups were successful due to the role of
FUNAI and other public sector personnel including NEPE, in organizing and training
communities in advance of their actual investments. This experience has encouraged a general
re-orientation of indigenous public policy in Maranhão, moving away from an "assistance"
approach towards one of integration and participation. The vast majority of indigenous
communities, when compared to non-indigenous, showed greater receptivity to participation in
community activities, in part due to their tradition of collective action.




                                                                      - 23 -

Intensive supervision which includes the use of local entities closest to the communities, is an
indispensable determinant of success and sustainability for CDD projects. FUMAC Councils have
the capacity to assume greater responsibility for supervision, with appropriate training, TA and
information technology. The Bank's Recife Office remains vital for project coordination,
supervision, procurement reviews and field visits, with task managers dedicated exclusively to the
Northeast region. In this manner, Bank support meshes with the decentralized structure of the
Northeast program, and signals Bank commitment to the region.

Technical assistance ­ of diverse type and delivery -- is an essential ingredient for CDD projects
and presents particular challenges for its systematic organization, location, delivery and
supervision in poor rural regions. Formal/informal partnerships between project technical units
and diverse entities (public and private agencies, NGOs, Church groups, local rural workers'
unions) capable of delivering quality technical assistance can make an important contribution to
resolving this issue. The appointment of "technical advisors" recruited by each FUMAC Council
and trained by the TU to manage and coordinate local technical and training needs, can have
tangible benefits and has been introduced under the new project in Maranhão.

The project management information system (MIS) is part of a standardized system
established in all participating Northeast states, capable of generating real time data/reports on the
full subproject cycle and supporting monitoring and evaluation activities. The system is flexible,
permits continuous upgrading and under the new Maranhão project for example, will: (i) link
project physical implementation data with financial information; (ii) integrate with State
information systems to facilitate M&E of the State's multi-year development plan (PPA); and (iii)
measure income, welfare and social capital gains through a comprehensive impact evaluation
component.

Standardized subproject documents, technical designs and unit costs ­ periodically reviewed,
updated and expanded -- simplify subproject preparation and evaluation, improve subproject
quality, facilitate procurement, prevent over- and under-design and promote the participation of
poorer communities.

Checks and balances, clearly-defined and well-disseminated, are essential to ensure proper
targeting and use of resources and to boost and institutionalize transparency. This project
confirmed the practical utility of rules and procedures -- including guidelines for performance
incentives and penalties, periodically reviewed and updated ­ set down in a Project Operational
Manual.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The Borrower provided the following comments on the Bank's draft ICR:




                                                 - 24 -

- 25 -

(b) Cofinanciers:
na

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
na

10. Additional Information

na




                                             - 26 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

No Log Frame Matrix was prepared for the Project.
Project Components and Activities                   Unit               Appraisal Estimate Actual
A. Community Subprojects
Subprojects implemented                             No.                       3392               4159
- Infrastructure                                    No.                       1696               3166
- Social                                            No.                       508                330
- Productive                                        No.                       1188               663
Beneficiaries
- Total                                             Families `000             198                276
- Total                                             People `000               990                1,400
Community associations                              No. (cum)                 1696               2,993
Municipalities assisted                             No. (cum)                 184                212
Municipal Councils
- FUMAC                                             No. (cum)                 116                212
- FUMAC-P                                           No. (cum)                  20                  -
B. Institutional Development
Preparation of annual program of TA/training
- Meetings of Technical Unit                        No.                         5                 25
- Meetings with Municipal Councils                  No.                       136                213
Mobilization/Meetings:
- Community associations                            Seminars                  220                220
- Local Leaders (formation FUMAC/P Councils)        No. participants          2720                 -
- FUMAC-P Councils                                  Seminars                  108                  -
- Technical Staff                                   Seminars                   10                 20
Training Courses offered:
- Beneficiary associations                          No.                       3392               3,392
- Persons trained                                   No.                         -               16,960
- All Municipal Councils                            No.                       880                880
- Council members trained                           No.                         -                4,047
- FUMAC-P Municipal Councils                        No.                       108                  -
- PCU Staff                                         No.                        21                 44
- Persons trained                                   No.                         -                680
Technical Assistance provided:
- for subproject implementation (Tech. Transfer)    Courses                  3,392               3,392
- to Municipal Councils                             Courses                   136                213
C. Project Admin., Monitoring, Evaluation
Supervision:
- Subprojects in implementation                     No. visits               6,784              13,684
- Municipal Councils                                No. visits                880                1,704
Annual operating plans (POA)
- for FUMAC-P                                       No.                        54                  -
- PCU (Project POA)                                 No.                         5                  5
Standard designs
- Preparation                                       No.                        10                 10
- Review and Updating                               No.                       Na                   1
Monitoring reports (to Bank)
- Monthly disbursement summaries, MIS updates       No.                        60                 72
- Annual, semi-annual reports                       No.                        10                 12
- External audits (project accounts)                No.                         5                  6
Evaluation studies
- Physical performance reviews                      No.                         5                  6
- Mid-term Review                                   No.                         1                  1
- Impact evaluation:
(i) Baseline                                        No.                         1                  1
(iii) Final                                         No.                         1                  1
(iv) Graduation study                               No.                        1           Postponed to PCPR
                                                                                                   II




                                                           - 27 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (US$ million equivalent)
                            Appraisal          Actual/Latest    Percentage of
Project Component         Estimate US$             Estimate       Appraisal
                             million             US$ million         %
Community subprojects         95.0                  93.6            98.5
of which:
- FUMAC                       54.1                  58.2             108
- FUMAC-P                      7.6                    --             --
- PAC                         33.3                  35.4             106
Instit. Development (TA        7.4                   8.5             114
and Training)
Project Administration,        3.1                   4.6             148
Monitoring, Evaluation
and Supervision
Physical/Price                 1.2                    --             --
Contingencies
TOTAL:                        106.7                106.7             100



        Annex 2: Project Cost by Procurement Arrangement, Appraisal vs. Actual (US$million)

                        Estimate at Appraisal                 Actual at Closing
  Category           NCB       Other      Total Costs      NCB     Other     Total Costs
Community
Subprojects
Small Works                 47.0 (35.1)    47.0 (35.1)          93.6          93.6
(<US$50,000)
Goods &                     38.5 (28.7)    38.5 (28.7)           --           --
Materials
(<US$50,000)
Small Works     4.7 (3.5)                 4.7 (3.5)              --           --
(>US$100,000)
Small Works                 2.6 (2.0)      2.6 (2.0)             --           --
(>US$50,000)
Goods &                     2.2 (1.6)      2.2 (1.6)             --           --
Materials
(>US$50,000)
Consulting                  7.8 (7.8)      7.8 (7.8)            8.5           8.5
Services
Project                     3.9 (1.3)      3.9 (1.3)            4.6           4.6
Administration
TOTAL            4.7 (3.5)   102.0         106.7                106.7         106.7
                             (76.5)        (80.0)
Source: NEPE/GEPLAN




                                                 - 28 -

Annex 2: Project Financing by Source/Component, Appraisal vs. Actual (US$ million )
                 Est.  IBRD    State Govt.          Total    IBRD     State Govt.
Component        Total         & Municip.  Benefs.  Cost-             & Munic.    Benef
                 Cost                               Actual
A. Community      95.0   70.9      14.6      9.5     93.6     70.1        14.0     9.5
Subprojects
- FUMAC           54.1   40.6      8.1       5.4     58.2     43,6        8.7      5.9
- FUMAC-P          7.6   5.3       1.5       0.8     ---       ---         ---      ---
- PAC             33.3   25.0      5.0       3.3     35.4     26.5        5.3      3.6
B. Institutional   7.4   7.4        ---      ---     8.5      8.5          ---      ---
Development
C. Project         3.1   1.1       2.0       ---     4.6      1.4         3.2       ---
Administration,
Monitoring,
Evaluation &
Supervision
Physical           0.8   0.4       0.4       ---     ---
Contingencies
Price              0.4   0.2       0.2       ---     ---
Contingencies

Total Project    106.7   80.0      17.2      9.5    106.7     80.0        17.2     9.5
Cost:




                                           - 29 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

The SAR did not include an economic or financial rate of return for the Project. Rather, an
analysis was provided for illustrative purposes, of the kinds of benefits achieved under the
R-NRDP for the most common types of investments. Similar benefits were expected, on a larger
scale, from the RPAP. Types of subprojects financed by the RPAP did not differ significantly
from the R-NRDP (although the relative proportions of the three principal categories did vary
from appraisal expectations). A similar analysis was done of the program-wide investments under
the RPAP for cost effectiveness and sustainability, and the financial viability of productive
subprojects.

Cost Effectiveness and Sustainability of Infrastructure and Social Subprojects

About 77% of subproject investments financed under the RPAP were infrastructure, with social
subprojects comprising less than 3 percent. Most infrastructure subprojects comprise core public
services (water, electrification, sanitation, social investments) which, numerous studies
demonstrate, provide benefits that justify their universal provision (World Bank, 1998). The
experience of the R-NRDP and RPAP projects shows that the CDD approach to rural
infrastructure and service delivery targeted to the poorest is cost effective in the Brazilian
Northeast. Several aspects of project design have enhanced cost-effectiveness:

(i)     Standard technical designs (projetos padrão) and cost parameters for the most common
types of infrastructure and social subprojects foster the use of least-cost models for their
implementation, and decrease search and information costs for community associations by
providing established patterns of initiating and completing a subproject. Field surveys
demonstrate that technical quality is good.

(ii)    Delegation of subproject implementation directly to the community associations generates
cost savings relative to works of comparable quality and type executed by public agencies.
Contracting procedures prescribed in the Project Operational Manual require direct, competitive
contracting for all subprojects: the community association solicits three bids for the subproject
and chooses the least-cost bid.

Analysis of a random sample of subprojects (including ten categories which collectively represent
some 80% of subproject types financed) found that costs for RPAP infrastructure and social
investments were 30-50% cheaper than projects of similar quality, financed by the state.
Evaluation of RPAP states examined the quality of materials used, overall finish and of operation
of the investments. In all states surveyed, the majority of subprojects were found to be technically
satisfactory and of good quality. Beneficiaries expressed their satisfaction with subproject quality
and regarded more than 90% of all investments as being satisfactory overall. Operation and
maintenance of infrastructure and social subprojects has been good, with community associations
charging user fees sufficient to operate and maintain the investments. An evaluation study of the
Northeast RPAP program, carried out in 2000, reviewed a sample of 8,123 subprojects funded by
the R-NRDP in 1995 and RPAP in 1997/98, finding that 7,240 of them, or 89%, were fully
operational in March 2000. There was no substantial difference in sustainability across
infrastructure, productive and social subprojects. Of 6,064 infrastructure, 1,820 productive and



                                                  - 30 -

239 social community subprojects, 89%, 87% and 88%, respectively, were fully operational at the
time of the study.

Financial Viability of Productive Subprojects

Benefit-cost ratios are high (greater than 2.0) for the main types of productive subprojects
analyzed (Table A). Analysis of selected productive subprojects also suggests that the investments
are financially sustainable (Table B). Although beneficiary associations have received a one-time
investment grant from the RPAP, this investment is financially sustainable because cost recovery
through user fees is generally adequate to cover both O&M and replacement of the original
investment well before the end of its useful economic life.

For illustrative purposes, 12 productive subprojects representing some of the most typical
productive investments carried out under the RPAPs, were selected for financial analysis.
Activity models were constructed for them, based on field interviews with subproject managers
conducted during evaluation, supervision and project preparation missions, and a review of
standard project designs (projetos padrão) prepared by the State Technical Units. The subprojects
analyzed are as follows:

Manioc Mill: Middle-size construction equipped with mill, press, oven and other equipment
required to process cassava into flour. Investments include a pack animal to transport produce to
and from the plant. The mill serves a local community of some 30 to 40 farming families. The
plant operates around 100 days per year processing some 120 tons of cassava into approximately
30 tons of farinha and 4.8 tons of starch employing one person to operate the plant during those
days. Farmers are charged a users' fee of 15 percent of output. Association members normally
pay a smaller fee than non-members.

Communal Tractor: Tractor of 75 HP, plus trailer, grain husker, grader and other equipment,
including a garage. The tractor benefits an association of some 65 farming families. The tractor
works for members and non-members providing land preparation, grain shelling and transport
services. It works approximately 1,700 hours per year serving some 300 ha. User fees for
members are smaller than prices charged by private tractor owners and fees charged to
non-members. The subproject employs a full-time driver/operator hired by the association.

Small Irrigation 1: Purchase of 18 localized irrigation kits for 38 families to pump water to
irrigate a total of some 29 ha (0.8 ha per family). The irrigation is accompanied by the
introduction of a new technical package and two new cash crops, chuchu and quiabo (two
high-priced Brazilian vegetables with good local markets), which replace the existing traditional
cultivation of corn, beans and bananas, providing a very good return.

Small Irrigation 2: Sprinkler irrigation system to irrigate 10 ha of previously uncultivated land
with water pumped from a permanent water source, benefiting 10 farming families. Most of the
irrigated land is used for traditional subsistence crops (corn and beans), although a cash crop
(watermelon) is planted on one-third of the new area. Two crops are obtained per year.




                                                 - 31 -

Goat Production. Production of goats by a group of about 30 farmers, with an investment
consisting of 120 breeding females and 4 breeding males. A pen, a fence and other facilities are
constructed and 85 ha of improved pastures are installed. Income is derived from the sale (or
domestic consumption) of incremental animals and the sale (or domestic consumption) of milk.

Animal Feed Production Equipment: Grinding machine and complementary equipment to
produce animal feed from crop residuals, together with a small structure to shelter the machine.
Farmers pay a small amount (R$ 1.50) per hour to use the machine. From these payments,
electricity and maintenance costs are covered and a small fund is formed. The machine works
approximately six months per year. Raw materials and labor to operate the machine are supplied
by users. The organization and supervision of machine use is freely supplied by association
leaders.

Honey Production: Purchase of 340 beehives plus 2 decanters, 2 centrifuges and other apiculture
and honey processing equipment to benefit an association of some 23 members with no previous
apiculture experience. Training is provided along with the equipment. The beehives, located in 8
sites, are maintained by association members. They yield an annual output of some 8,200 kg of
honey which is sold wholesale.

Local Bakery. Middle-size construction (120 sq. m) equipped with a gas oven and other baking
facilities to produce various types of bread, with an average output of 130 kg of bread per day.
Employs a master baker and two full-time workers. Bread is sold locally in the surrounding
communities.

Fish Farm: Five fish ponds of 2,200 m2 each, with a capacity for 8,500 Tilapia fish each. Ponds
are rotated, with 4 ponds being continuously used at a time. Two harvests are collected per pond
in a year, with a total output of 24,000 kg. of fish. Output is sold locally to middle-men. One
person is employed half-time to feed the fish and another is employed half-time as watchman.
Part-time labor is used to harvest the fish.

Cashew Processing Plant: Middle-size plant plus equipment to process cashew nuts. Some 200
tons of cashew nuts are processed annually into 46 tons of roasted and packed cashew almonds,
which are then sold wholesale. Plant operates for ten months of the year, employing around 6
operators. Cashew nuts are bought from surrounding farmers serving some 150 farmers with 1 to
5 ha of cashew trees each.

Jam Production Plant: Plant to process various local fruits into different types of jams and other
confectionery products, producing an average of 175 kg per day of these products. Fruit and
other inputs are bought by the plant. Products are sold retail locally and also wholesale to
retailers. Employs a plant manager and three permanent workers.

Small Dairy Plant: Middle-size plant (155 sq. m) equipped with a pasteurization kit, cooling
chamber and other facilities to pasteurize milk, with a capacity of 1,200 liters per day. The plant is
supplied by around 400 cows with an average daily output of 3 liters per cow belonging to some



                                                 - 32 -

60 dairy farmers within a radius of 6 km. Employs a plant manager and 4 permanent workers.
See Table A.

       Table A: Results of the Financial Analysis of Selected Subprojects

              Type of Activity       Investment     IRR      NPV        Net    Years to
                                         (R$)       (%)    (at 10%)   Annual   Recover
                                                                      Income      the
                                                                       (R$)     Capital
                                                                               Invested
        Manioc Mill                     18,450      15.8     5,377     3,970      5.6
       Communal Tractor                 39,752      37.6    35,141    18,075      2.4
       Small Irrigation 1               44,054      >50     327,366   90,781      0,9
       Small Irrigation 2               28,311      28.1    23,573    15,238      3.3
       Goat Production                  43,346      16.5    16,925    12,180      5.8
       Feed Production Equipment        6,730       15.4     1,831     1,149      5.9
       Honey Production                 26,102      16.8     9,112     7,252      5.5
       Local Bakery                     43,352      35.0    56,868    29,575      2.8
       Fish Farm                        46,104      15.6    13,739    13,162      5.6
       Cashew Processing Plant          64,964      >50     288,790   72,195      1.1
       Jam Production Plant             41,123      41.7    69,062    35,008      2.4
        Small Dairy Plant               62,583      19.7    30,223    34,591      4.7


The investment cost of the subprojects ranges from around R$7,000 to R$65,000, which is typical
for RPAP productive investments. All subprojects show satisfactory internal rates of return, with
some of them high. Less than six years are needed to recover the investment in all cases and less
than 3.5 in half of the cases. The net incremental annual income or value-added generated by the
subprojects (at full development) ranges from R$1,149 for the feed preparation equipment to
R$90,781 in the case of one of the irrigation subprojects, with an average value of around
R$28,000 for an average investment of around R$ 39,000. The IRRs of the subprojects compare
favorably with the real cost of borrowing to the Brazilian Government, which is of the order of 12
percent (measured by the difference between the SELIC rate and inflation rate). The IRRs also
compare favorably with the interest rates that would have to be paid in concessionary rural credit
programs, like those of the Banco do Nordeste and Banco do Brasil. Only two subprojects --the
cashew processing plant and one of the irrigation subprojects -- would be able to pay the high
interest rates charged by commercial banks for term lending.

To examine the financial robustness of the subprojects, a sensitivity analysis was carried out on
the illustrative activity models. Three scenarios were considered: (i) production was assumed to
be 20% below the base case, because of, say, marketing problems. A 20% percent decrease in
output caused a 20% decrease in revenue, but this was, to some extent, matched by a reduction in
the use of inputs and hence in variable costs; (ii) the price decreased 20% and revenue also
decreased by the same proportion without any compensating element; and (iii) an increase of 20%
in the price of variable costs was assumed. The results are shown in Table B.




                                                 - 33 -

      Table B: Results of Sensitivity Analysis
     Type of Subproject                            Base Case       Scenario 1  Scenario 2  Scenario 3
                                                                  - 20% output - 20% price + 20% costs
     Manioc Mill
      IRR (%)                                           15.8           11.5        10.1       14.4
      NPV (R$)                                         5,377          1,385        132        4,124
    Communal Tractor
      IRR (%)                                           37.6           17.2        < 0        16.8
      NPV (R$)                                        35,141         10,836      -23,602     10,221
    Small Irrigation 1
      IRR (%)                                            >50           >50         39.4       >50
      NPV (R$)                                       327,366         163,375      77,015     154,646
    Small Irrigation 2
      IRR (%)                                           28.1           7.4         4.6        13.0
      NPV (R$)                                        23,573         -2,965       -6,057      3,546
    Goat Production
      IRR (%)                                           16.5           12.8        11.5       15.2
      NPV (R$)                                        16,925          7,097       3,847      13,395
    Feed Production Equipment
      IRR (%)                                           15.4           11.2        10.2       14.4
      NPV (R$)                                         1,831           397         62         1,496
    Honey Production
      IRR (%)                                           16.8           10.0        7.2        11.6
      NPV (R$)                                         9.112           42         -3,635      2,162
    Local Bakery
      IRR (%)                                           35.0           20.1        < 0        15.8
      NPV (R$)                                        56,868         22,451      -21,559     12,859
    Fish Farm
      IRR (%)                                           15.6           9.3         < 0         < 0
      NPV (R$)                                        13,739         -1,732      -39,886     -26,024
    Cashew Processing Plant
      IRR (%)                                            >50           > 50        48.3       >50
      NPV (R$)                                       288,790         210,642     132,561     201,015
    Jam Production Plant
      IRR (%)                                           41.7           24.0        < 0        12.7
      NPV (R$)                                        69,062         29,690      -33,720      5,652
     Small Dairy Plant
      IRR (%)                                           19.7           2.0       n.d. (*)    n.d. (*)
      NPV (R$)                                        30,223         -23,493     -138,697    -84,981

      (*) IRR not defined; net benefits are negative all years.


Some subprojects are more sensitive than others to changing market conditions. In general,
subprojects which are highly dependent on purchased inputs, like the communal tractor, the
bakery, the fish farm, the jam production plant and the dairy plant, are more sensitive to
deteriorating market conditions than those with minor dependence on purchased inputs, e.g.,
manioc mill, goat production, feed preparation equipment and honey production subprojects.
Finally, a weighted average was calculated of the IRRs of the activity models included in the
sample. The shares of each of the twelve types of illustrative models (which were taken to
represent other, similar ones) in the total amount invested in community subprojects in the RPAP


                                                                 - 34 -

program until the end of April 2001, were used as weights. (The IRR of the Small Irrigation I and
Cashew Processing Plant subprojects, which are higher than 50%, was taken to be equal to 50%
in the computation of the weighted average). The resulting average IRR is 30.2%, indicating the
overall profitability of the productive subprojects normally financed under the RPAP.

Fiscal Impact:

Evaluations in Northeast states indicate that subproject investments make a significant fiscal
contribution through cost savings to state and municipal governments and revenues from sales
tax. Given the large numbers of beneficiaries of rural electrification and water supply subprojects
in Maranhão, the fiscal impact was almost certainly substantial. In the case of rural electrification,
the main fiscal impact comes from a large increase in the purchase and use of domestic appliances
when electricity becomes available, increasing the ICMS revenue to municipalities.*
* ICMS is collected by the state and all municipalities receive 25% of collections regardless of where collected.


Based on a sample of some 987 rural electrification subprojects completed between January 1998
and December 2000 in Maranhão, it was projected that beneficiaries would acquire 16,070
television sets, 12,800 refrigerators, 10,600 sound systems, about 7,000 blenders, 6,700
parabolic antennas, 4,800 electric irons, 870 washing machines and 870 electric motors.
Motorcycles and bicycle acquisition was also estimated to be very high, given the large number of
investments in access roads. Benefits in the case of water subprojects in Maranhão are mostly
derived from reduced public health costs from reliable, clean water supply. Cost savings also
derive from the community-driven design of the project; subprojects implemented by
communities, directly or contracted, were (and continue to be, from recent studies) 30-50% less
than prices paid by public authorities for works of similar type and quality.

Aggregate Impact of the RPAP Program on Employment, Income and Cultivated Area

The July 2000 impact evaluation study carried out of the RPAPs in eight Northeastern States
including Maranhão, provided an estimate of the aggregate impact on employment, income and
cultivated area of the infrastructure, productive and social subprojects included in the program.
The study, based on a sample from the most representative types of subprojects in each of the
States, with an error of less than 20%, provides summary figures for incremental jobs created,
incremental income generated and incremental number of hectares cultivated per unit invested in
productive subprojects.


     Total investment in community subprojects:                                                                  US$362.0 million
    Incremental employment created:                                                                                   40,000 jobs
    Incremental net annual income/savings generated:                                                               US$80.0 million
    Incremental cropped area:                                                                                      40,000 hectares



These estimates are subject to several caveats, including that the sample's level of significance is
not large, and that the estimates reflect both direct impact of the investments on employment,
income and cultivated land as well as some indirect impacts, e.g., expansion of cultivated area,
employment and income derived from the introduction of a tractor or a casa de farinha in a


                                                                        - 35 -

certain community. The above figures should thus be viewed as indicative of the magnitude of
benefits involved.




                                             - 36 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty                  Performance Rating
                                      (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)           Implementation Development
                    Month/Year  Count           Specialty                          Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
               03/15/1997                2     Ag. Economist
                                         2     Ag. Specialist
                                         1     Anthropologist
                                         1     Civil Engineer


 Appraisal/Negotiation
               06/15/1997                4     Ag. Economist
                                               Anthropologist
                                               Sociologist
                                               Agric. Specialist
                                               MIS Specialist

 Supervision
               06/30/1998                 1    Ag.Economist                           S               S
               07/17/1998                 1    Ag. Economist                          S               S
               04/30/1999                 1    Ag. Economist                          S               S
               04/30/1999                 1    Ag. Economist                          S               S
               04/30/1999                 1    Ag. Economist                          S               S
               03/16/2001                 1    Ag. Economist                          S               S
               11/26/2001                 1    Ag. Economist                          S               S
               06/14/2002                 6    Economist (1), Financial               S               S
                                               Specialist (1), Ag. Economist (2),
                                               RD Specialist (1), Anthropol. (1)
               08/30/2002                 1    Ag. Economist                          S               S
               02/27/2003                 5    Ag. Economist (1), Financial           S               S
                                               Specialist (1), Anthropologist
                                               (1), Ag. Specialist (1), RD
                                               Specialist (1)
               12/12/2003            Update    --                                     S               S

 ICR
               03/15/2004                1     Ag. Economist                          S               S



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                    Actual/Latest Estimate
                                    No. Staff weeks                    US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                 2.9                              4.1
  Appraisal/Negotiation                    13.0                              26.3
  Supervision                              86.3                            145.9
  ICR                                        7.0                             11.6
  Total                                   109.2                            187.9




                                               - 37 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
        Not applicable
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA
Not applicable




                                                    - 38 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 39 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

* Projeto de Combate a Pobreza Rural do Estado do Maranhão ­ PCPR-MA (Comunidade Viva),
Relatório Final, November 2004 (Borrower Completion Report).

* Decentralized Rural Development, Enhanced Community Participation and Local Government
Performance: Evidence from Northeast Brazil, (Draft), van Zyl, Sonn and Costa, July 2000

* Brazil: Community Driven Development - Case Study for Shanghai Poverty Conference:
Scaling Up Poverty Reduction, Roumani, March 16, 2004

* Assessment of Community Participation, Costa, Bank/FAO, 1999.

* Staff Appraisal Report, Rural Poverty Alleviation Project - Maranhão, Report No. 16758-BR,
October 23, 1997

* World Bank Supervision Reports (Aide Memoires, PSR, BTO reports).

* Project Operational Manual

* Project Management Database (MIS)

* Project Reporting Documents

* Project Appraisal Document, Maranhão Integrated Program: Rural Poverty Reduction Project,
Report No. 28647-BR, April 23, 2004.




                                             - 40 -

- 41 -

