Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 9582
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
YUGOSLAVIA
SEMBERIJA DRAINAGE PROJECT
(LOAN 2161-YU)
MAY 17, 1991
This doument has a restricted distribuion nd may be used by redplents only in Ihe perfonrance of
their offchi dutes. Its contents mey not otherwise be dWcosed without World Bank authorization.



THE WORLD SANK                FOER OmCAUL USE ONLY
Washington, O.C 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Dect(W-.CIal
Ope#ation Evaht*"n
May 17, 1991
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIV1 DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report: YUGOSLAVIA - Semberija
Drainage Project (Loan 2161-YU)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled
"Project Completion Report on Yugoslavia - Semberija Drainage
Project (Loan 2161-YU)' prepared by the Privredna Banka Sarajevo,
Udruzena Banka and the Europe, Middle East and North Africa Regional
Office. No audit of this project has been made by the Operations
Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OFICAL USE ONLY
YUGOSIVIA
SMBERIJA DRAINAGE PROJECT
LOAN2161-D
PRJTL C5MLUNREP
Table of Contents
Page No.
Preface   .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .      .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    . i
Basic Data Sheet.. .. . ............. .i
Evaluation Summary ................. .                                   vii
BANK OVERVIEW
A.    PROJECT  IDENTITY   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 1
B. BACKGROUND .1
Policy Context .1
Linkages Between Project, Sector and Macro Policy
Objectives    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  .  .  .  .  .    2
C. PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   . 2
Project Background ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .. .           2
Project Objectives ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .. .           3
Project Components . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
D.  PROJECT DESIGN AND ORGANIZATION  ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   . 4
Conceptual Foundation of Project Design  ... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   . 4
Innovation in the Project Concept ............... . 4
Appropriateness of Project Scope and Scale . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
Quality of Project Preparation                .5
Appropriateness of Project Timing.                                5
Roles and Responsibilities of Institutions . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
Impact of Institutions Roles and
Responsibilities on Project Implementation . . . . . . . . . . . . 6
Important Aspects of Project Design and  . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6
E. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION.                                            6
Variances Between Planned and Actual Project Implementation  . . . 6
Realistic Identification of Project Risks  . . . . . . . . . . . . 7
F. PROJECT RESULTS..                                                  7
General Assessment..                                              7
Project  Impact   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    7
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



G.  PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  P
H.-      EERFOEMCE  . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .R8
Bank Performance   .   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . .  8
Lessons Learned   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  9
I.  BORROWER'S PERFORMANCE  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  9
The Borrower's Performance  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  9
Lessons of Experience for the Borrower  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  9
J.   PROJECT DOCUMENTATION AND DATA  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
The LegalDocuiments  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
The Staff Appraisal Report  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
Data for Preparation of the PCR   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
BORROWER'S COMPLEITAN REPORT
I.  INTRODUCTWI  . . . . . . . . . .                                      .           .  13
Objectives.                         . . . . . . . . . .                           . 16
Project Cost and Financing  . . . . . . . .  . . .                                  17
Project Implementation Organization.                .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . . . . . 22
II.  DESCRIPTION OF THE PROJECT AREA.                 .  .  .  .  .  .    . . . . . . . . 23
Location ..................... . ...... 23
Topography ......                                                                   23
Climate ..................... . ...... 23
Soil. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23
Population  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24
Land Use ..................... .                                                    24
Physical scope of works .27
Equipment 
Project Implementation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3i
Bidding Procedure .33
Aberrations   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 34
Supervision .35
Contractors and Suppliers.  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . 36
Extension Service. and Training of Personnel  . . . . . . . . . . . 39
Monitoring of the System .41
III.   PRODUCTION. FINANCIAL AND ECONOMICAL EFFECTS
Agricultural Production .42
Financial Effects   . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  44
Economical Effects .47



IV.  CONCLUSION    .   ..   ..   ..   ..   ..   ..   ..   ..   ..   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .. 49
V.    "M EI.. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .
Agricultural Crops Sowing Pattern - Individual Sector  . . . . . . 52
Agricultural Crops Sowing Pattern - Social Sector  . . . . . . . . 53
Agricultural Crops Sowing Pattern - Total Project  . . . . . . . . 54
Agricultural Crop Yields - Individual Sector . . . . . . . . . . . 55
Agricultural Crop Yields - Social Sector . . . . . . . . . . . . . 56
Physical Scope of Crop Production - Individual Sector  . . . . . . 57
Physical Scope of Crop Production - Social Sector  . . . . . . . . 58
Physical Scope of Crop Production - Total Project  . . . . . . . . 59
Production and Cost - Values .......  ..  ..  ..  ..  ..  .  . 60
Economic Analysis (IRA) .................... . 61
CHART
Implementing Agency  ........   .        ............... . 62
AII 1..
Comments from the Institute for Water Resources Development . . . . . .63
MAP
IBRD 16222



£
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
YUGOSLAVIA
SEMBERIJA DRAINAGE PROJECT
(Loan 2161-YUI
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Semberija Drainage
Project in Yugoslavia, for which Loan 2161-YU in the amount of US$34.6 million
was approved on May 27, 1982. The loan was closed on September 30, 1987. It was
fully disbursed and the last disbursement was on March 20, 1987.
The PCR comprises an Overview (including Preface and Evaluation
Summary) prepared by the Agriculture Operations Division of the Europe, Middle
East and North Africa Region and the Borrower's PCR, which was sent to the Bank
in November 1988.
Preparation of this PCR in based, inter alia, on the Staff Appraisal
Report; the Loan, Guarantee and Project Agreements; supervision reports;
correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower; the Borrower's PCRO and
internal Bank memoranda.
This PCR was read by the operations Evaluation Department (ORD). The
draft PCR was sent to the Borrower for comments and they are attached to the
Report (Annex 1).



iii
Semberila Drahnam PWKct laADn 2161.YU)
YUeslevla
Ptobd Cowletin lRevoolt
lhsk Dots Sheet
Key Projet Dta
Appralsl                                          Acual or
Item                              Expetaton                                       Current Estimate
Total Ploject Cost (US$ mlon)                         73.5                                               262/
Undenun (%)                                                                                        64%
Loan/Credit Amon 'USS million)                                                                           346
Disbursed                                                                                            17A
Cancetled                                                                                            17.2
Repaid to
Outsanding to
Date P kysic  Components Compited               12pl/863                                           12/31/86
Proportion Completed by Abovea Date (%)              100                                                100
Proporio of me  Undenun or Overuan (%
Econom    Rate of Retum (%)                           21                                                 185
Finaal Peronnance                                  Good                                               Good
lnstitutiosa Performance                           Good                                            Excellent
ODthr Project Data
Or4ig  Pla             Revisions                      Actual or
Item                                                                                 Es_tiated Actual
Fist Mention in Fl"es or Timntable           11/ /80                                               11/21/80
Governes Applicaon                           04/ /81                                               04/ /81
Negotaions                                  03/04/82                                             03/e4/./82
Board Approval                              05/27/82                                               05/27/82
Lan/Credt Agnement Date                     09/27/82                                               09/02/82
Effienesu Date                              01/31/83                04/26/83                       04/26/83
Closing Date                                09/30/87                                               03/20/87
Borrower                                        Priiedns Banks Sarfvo, Udruena Banks
ExeutAig Any                                    Radna O 0anzadja Poloprivredno Dobro UPI "Semberjaw
Fis  Year of Borrower                           January 1 to Decembr 31
FofeUwen. Projet Name
Loan/Credit N uber                          2161.YU
Amout (USS milion)                          3"
Lan/Credit Agrmnt Date                      09/02/82
A/  ctl pject cot in US dollars decreased becuse of aelerated redion In the exchag prty  the Yu& dinr whereby a
leser amout In dollrs purchased tbe s    amount In Yb& diam



iv
Semberia Oainme Prole  (Loan 216f1-U
Proleet Comjbtlon Renort
Basic Data Sheet
Staff Inputs b/
(Staff Weeks)
TaskM                             FMS f   8       FY82 4   EY FY87 FYN    FY89   OTAL
Preappraisal             1.0   30.2                                                                     31.2
Appraisal                       103    14.    0.2                                                       25.0
Negotiations                            2.1                                                              2.1
Lending Operations       0.1    2.0     0.2                                                              4.1
Subtotal             1.1   42.5    18.6    0.2                                                      62A4
Project Administration
and Procrement                      03    14       0.7      04     2.0     OA       0.2              54
Completion Report                                                                               Q
Project Imnpkmentation Review                                          4.9                               4.9
Supervision                             0.3    S8    124    13.5    15.0    21.6        IA      04      70.6
Subtotal                            0.6    7.2    13.3    13.9    219    22.0       1.6     0.9     814
Training                                                                0.9                              09
Subtotal                                                           0.9                               0.9
b/ Sourm  Management Infomation ServWe Data.
Mission Data
Monthly       No. of     Staffbeeks SpeIalIzatIons Performance    Trend    Type of
Mission            Yea        Per           In Feld Reresented c/    Rating d/         / Problems f/
Preappraisal          104/80
to
(05/81          13          22.6          A,ZD
AppraLsal              05/82            5           2.0          E,F                       -
Total
Supernleson            10/82            1           0.6             D            1         2           F
Supervison 11          03/83            1           0A              D            1         2           F
Supervision Hi         08/83           2            1U              D            1         2        M,F
Supevison IV           05/84            1           0.7             D            1         2           F
SupernlSOI V           06/85           3            3.9           A,D            1         2           F
SuperdiSon Vl          10/86           2            2.0           A,E            2         2           F
Supervlsion Vl         04/87            2           0S            F,E            1         2
Totl (SPN)                                      24
A = AgrieClturDist; D a Enuineewi E    Economist; F a Fin Anlyst
d/ 1 a Problem Free or mnoQr problemq
2 a Modeate probkms and
3 - Mojor problem
I = ihnprovlng 2 * Stationary; 3 * Deteroratlng
t/  M       Manerla T     Technlcal P    Potica4 F     FlnanciaL



V
Cub*v. DIshurameut 9
.'pwa1u. Easieu (US$6 Mau"e)     2*f           m           IUS         U"J      AMJ       34*
Radued EAibute I(US$ mnoun)       2A                       15*IB      NM.    15.0         19
Adets  (US numiIe)                151         US6           MLo       13.      17.44      17A44
year
AWmbWYearAver                                                      kes. RaiN USS a S3U
CRMP         Yea IAe(                                                           USSI)a 737a
BI Da  Budyea   *  I toJasmL



vii
YUGOSLAVIA
SEMBERIJA DRAINAGE PROJECT
LOA  2161-Y
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EVALUATION SUMMARY
1.          Objectives (2ara 5).  The main objectives of the project,
described in the Staff Appraisal Report, were to increase and stabilize crop
product'on, to feed agro-based industries (some existing but operating at very
low capacities) and to raise labor productivity. This was to be achieved by
providing drainage facilities in an area of about 15,600 ha and land
improvement without drainage over an addi'-ional area of about 3,000 ha.
2.          Implementation Exgerience (para  16).  There were four main items
which were added during implementation of the project: a) additional raising
of the Sava dike; b) extension of an interceptor canal; c) a building tc
provide logistical support for operation and maintenance works; and d) a
storage structure for agricultural equipment. Though theoretically all the
additional structures could have been contemplated before the project
implementation, in practice they represent a reasonable change that evolved
from the experience gained through the implementation.
3.          Results (oara 18).  The project was completed in September 1987,
just as scheduled at appraisal. Though the full benefits would likely be
obtained in the not too distant future, all the indications, up to the present
time, are that the project has been quite successful. Since the project area
development was gradual, sub areas on which drainage works were completed
first went into full production almost immediately. Benefits resulting from
improved yields in developed areas were about as expected and are likely to
improve further due to the extension service which was set up as part of the
project implementation.
4.          Sustainabilitv (para 21).  The project is likely to maintain an
acceptable level of net benefits throughout its economic life, provided the
operation and maintenance of the drainage system as set up under the project
continue to be carried out. A cost recovery program associated with the
drainage system was set up under the administration of the Commune Assembly of
Bijeljina. The charge is on a fixed per hectare annual basis, reviewed
annually and adjusted if necessary to cover the actual cost. The Bank
suipervision missions observed that both the operation and maintenance
arrangements and the cost recovery system were functioning satisfactorily.
5.          Findings and Lessons Learned (para 23).  The project demonstrates
the economic viability of rainage works in the lower Sava basin and in other
areas of Yugoslavia with similar micro regional conditio- . The successful
implementation of the project also indicates the importar e of setting up an
appropriate organizational structure to deal with all relevant aspects of
implementation and of formulating a comprehensive project concept which would
relate primary production to end users (agroindustries), supporting services,
marketing, and both the individual and social sectors involved in the
production activities.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Uff- OVERVIE
A. PROJECT IDENTITY
Project Name;            SEMBERIJA DRAINAGE PROJECT
Loan No.:                2161-YU
RVP Unit:                Europe, Middle East and North Africa
Department:              Country Department IV
Country:                 YUGOSLAVIA
Sector:                  Agriculture
Subsector:               Drainage
B.  BACK.ROUND
The Main Features of Agriculture In Yugoslavia
1.    The agriculture sector contributes only 19-20X of the total social
product of the economy and 10-13X of tocal exports,but engages about 294 of
the labor force. A key feature of the agricultural sector in Yugoslavia is the
ownership of about 84% of the land by nearly 2.6 million individual farmers
making it the only sector of the Yugoslav economy which is predominantly
privately owned. The individual sector co-exists with the social sec.or
agrokombinats that developed from the post war colectivization. Agrokombinats
operate as integrated factory farms engaged in primary production, agro-
processing, distributitn and marketing. all agriculttural services, credit,
marketing and processing activities are in the hand of the social sector. In
addition to the agrokombinats, the social sector includes other institutions,
namely cooperatives and research organizations, and altogether controls 16% of
the arable land, produces about 28% of the nation's total output, and accounts
for 5% of the rural work force. The reasons for the disproportionate
contributions from the two sectors stem from Yugoslavia's agricultural
development strategy which was focussed on promoting the growth of social
sector agriculture as the principal ',ans to achieve large-scale market
production and self sufficiency in food. However, while investment per hectare
in the social sector has been three times that in the individual sector,
productivity in the former has been only about twice as large.
Policy Context
2.    The agricultural sector is important in the context of ongoing
structural adjustment in the economy because the sector, along with other
productive sectors, requires restructuring of the production and demand
patterns, and reform of economic incentives for improved resource allocation
and growth performance. The significance of agriculture also arises from its
impact on the standard of living, employment and regional development. The
sector provides essential goods required by the population, with food products
.-onstituiting about 50% of household consumption expenditures. While the need



2
for policy reform in the sector receivod little attention in the past,
Government has taken such measures as the provision of incentives in the form
of subsidies on inputs, e.g., fertilizer, and on interest rates with the
objective of stimulating production. Low interest rates encouraged the use of
debt, led to a relatively rapid pace of capital investment, especially in the
social sector, and contributed eventually to problems of liquidity. However,
a relatively small number of indiiidual farmers have had access to credit for
agricultural investments other than in the form of farm inputs for crops grown
under contract. Liquidity shortages in social sector agrokombinats making
loans to individual farmers have also contributed to the severely restricted
access of individual farmers to credit. More recently, however, the 'Yugoslav
Government has been taking measures to gradually reduce agricultural subsidies
including subsidized credit, and to encourage producers, including those in
agriculture sector, to apply economic and financial criteria in making
investment decisions.
Linkages Between Project. Sector and Macro Policy Oblectives
3.    In Yugoslavia, the Bank's investment objectives have been to support the
less developed regions, promote agriculture, carry out institutional reforms,
and reduce the external resource gap. Agriculture is a priority sector from
the point of view of both the Government and the Bank, and its development has
contributed to the realization of other objectives related to reducing
regional income disparities, and generating employment. Agriculture is the
only major sector other than personal services in which social ownership is
not predominant. However, the future of the individual farmer is very elosely
bound up with the role of the social s"ctor in &griculture. The official
Yugoslav attitude toward the role of the individual farmer has changed during
the 1970s and the 1980s and it is now realized that the individual sector
contains many unexploited and attractive opportunities which should be
realized by provision of inputs and greater market orientation. Government
policy to borrow for agriculture in the less developed regions of the country
coincided with the Bank's concern for lending to benefit the poor. To that
extent, the project, which was formulated and prepared in the late 1970s and
early 80s and is located in the less developed area of tle SR Bosnia-
Herzegovina, reflected the concept to reduce income disparities between
regions and fitted the criteria mentioned above.
C. PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION
Project Background
4.    The project area is located in Semberija, a plain encompassing about
19,000 hectares in the north-eastern part of the Socialist Republic of Bosnia
Herzegovina, at the confluence of the Sava and Drina rivers. Prior to the
project implementation, the area used to be flooded and water logged. The
possibility of a land reclamation project in Semberija was first raised during
an IBRD and FAO/CP mission in September 1976. Subsequently. the project was



3
prepared by the FAO/CP during 1980 and the Bank joined the preparation in
1981. Appraisal was carried out in September 1981 and the project was approved
by the Board in May 1982.
Project Objectives
5.    The main objectives of the project, described in the Staff Appraisal
Report, were to increase and stabilize crop production, to feed agro-based
industries (some existing but operating at very low capacities) and to raise
labor productivity. This was to be achieved by providing drainage facilities
in an area of about 15,600 ha and land improvement without drainage over an
additional area of about 3,000 ha.
Proiect Components
6.    The project components included the following:
(a)   extension of Seliste Interceptor Drain, about 8 km long with out-
fall discharge of about 8.0 m3/sec, to intercept flood run -off
descending from the southern uplands;
(b)   reconstruction of the Sava river dike along the northern boundary
in i, length of about 14.5 km to provide protection from the Sava
river floods;
(c)   construction of surface drainage network including  remodeling of
existing channels, over an area of about 15,600 ha gross (12,200
ha net) to deal with internal excess waters;
(d)   installation of sub-surface drainage system including mole drains
in an area of about 1,900 ha gross (1,500 ha net) for draining
heavy clay soils, and in relation thereto, carrying out of field
experiments on the performance of alternative designs;
e)    construction of wide bedding on about 4,470 ha gross (3,500 net)
for removal of surface waters;
(f)   construction of one new pumping station for a discharge of about
15.5 m3/sec, increasing discharge capacity of an existing pumping
station by about 6.0 m3/sec and repairs to two existing pumping
stations;
(g)   construction of about 80 km of paved and about 90 km of unpaved
access roads for maintenance of project works;
(h)   on-farm development in the project area on about 19,100 ha gross
(15,150 ha net, including about 3000 ha net without drainage)
consisting of land clearance, land levelling, deep plowing,
construction of workshops and machinery sheds and installation of
power lines;



4
(i)   provision of equipment for operation and maintenance of drainage
and flood protection works;
(j)   provision of farm equipment to intensify agriculture in the area;
(k)   provision of vehicles and equipment for extension and research
services;
(1)   training of agricultural extension personnel; and
(m)   miscellaneous feasibility studies for future land and water
development project in SR Bosnia Herzegovina.
D. PROJECT DESIGN AND ORGANIZATION
Conceptual Foundation of Proiect Design
7.    Progressive deterioration in the drainage and water logging situation of
the project area had been observed over many decades. The main sources of
inflow of water were threefold: firstly from the southern mountain slopes;
secondly, from the Sava river; and thirdly from upsurge of ground water. A
drainage canal, namely "Dasurica", was constructed during the Austrian period,
about one hundred years ago, but only to evacuate the surface waters from the
mountain streams in the south. In subsequent years a dike was constructed
along the Sava river to keep out the annual floods. However, tnis dike was a
mixed blessing. While it kept the floods out of the project area it also
effectively stopped the outflow of the accumulated surface flow from the
area. A gradual raising of the bed of the Sava river also occurred due to silt
accumulation and in high flows the river was always flowing at a level higher
than the ground level in the project area. About 3000 ha of agricultural land
was lost to marshes and unproductive forests and there was a clear tendency
for the water logged areas to increase with time unless remedial measures were
taken. The project design had, therefore, clearly emerged, involving a
treatment of surface flows generated by the streams and precipitation,
depression of ground water levels and evacuation of stagnating waters into the
Sava river. The flow of the Sava river had already been contained and the
existing dikes needed some strengthening.
8.    The Borrower (PBS), the investor (AE Semberija), the implementing agency
(BOAL Hydromeliorative Semberija) and the other beneficiaries from the project
(Sugar Mill, Processing Plant, etc.) were fully cognizant of the constraints
on the production of primary agricultural goods which were essential for their
operations and subscribed to the technical solutions proposed under the
project (surface drains, tile drains, pumping stations, on farm development
and other).



Innovations in the Proiect Concept
9.    This project was the second Bank operation in Yugoslavia'/ which
included comprehensive development of a well defined area in such a way that
all physical and institutional constraints were addressed and measures taken
to provide for optimizing production.
AgRroRriateness of Project ScoRe and Scale
10.   The principal objective of the project was to maximize primary
production through appropriate infrastructure designed to remove the
constraint on land and production capability of farmers within a reasonable
period of time. The scope and scale of the project was fully attuned to this
objective.
Ouality of Proiect Preparation
11.   Identification and preparation reports were prepared by the FAO/IBRD
Cooperative Program which were further refined by a number of Bank missions.
The feasibility study, final designs, cost estimate and bidding documents were
ably prepared by the Institute for Water Resources, Sarajevo. The Institute
co-opted the services of numerous experts for advice in specialized fields.
One drawback in the project design, however, relates to absence of allowance
for capitalization of interest during construction. The Borrower in its PCR
mentioned correctly that this has been an issue. Since benefits from drainage
works do not accrue immediately, capitalization of charges and interest due on
the Bank Loan should have been based on the estimated project cash flow
analysis, as was done in other Bank financed projects in Yugoslavia.
ADDrogriateness of Project Timine
12.   The agroprocessing entities in the project area, in particular the sugar
factory and the fruit and vegetables processing entities, were starved for raw
material from the primary production in the area. The sugar factory was
running at only 20% of its capacity. To overcome the shortages, these and
other beneficiaries contributed toward financing the cost of the project. The
project was designed to meet the urgent needs of the area and was very timely.
Roles and Responsibilities of Institutions
13.   The principal institutions involved in the project and their
responsibilities are tabulated below:
Name of Institution                   Role and Responsibility.
PBS                                   Borrower provided all financial support
and carried and carried out appraisal of
subprojects.
The first was Sava Croatia Drainage (Loan 1736-YU).



6
UPI (Com/Len Organization)           Provided equity financing through AE
Semberija and assistance ar.4 support in
implementation.
AE Semberija                         Working Organization, the investor for the
project and responsible for all legal and
financial liabilities.
SIZ Bosnia Herzegovina               Responsible for flood works, provided
financing for all major infrastructure
works, e.g., Sava dike raising, pumping
stations and main drains, which are
considered as public works.
Podrinje Semberija                   Responsible for all transactions with the
individual sector, provided inputs,
extension and all other support services.
Bijelijna Commune                    Responsible for land consolidation, which
was a prerequisite for all project works
and provided guidance and support for all
levels of project implementation.
BOAL Hydromeliorative                The chief manager of the project,
Semberija responsible for all studies,
designs, work programs construction works
and procurement.
All the above agencies clearly understood their roles and carried out their
responsibilities expeditiously. The land consolidation was actually carried
out by the Institute for Land Consolidation, which is an official experienced
organization, on behalf of the Bijelijna Commune. The work was done
systematically and scientifically, which resulted in cooperation and support
of all the constituents concerned.
14.   All agencies cooperated fully in the implementation process and the
project was completed within estimated cost and almost on time. The quality of
the finished project is also of excellent standards.
Important Aspects of Project Design and Organization
15.   BOAL Hydromeliorative Semberija was created at the insistence of the
Bank due to successful experience encountered in similar type projects in
Yugoslavia. Creation of this BOAL was the single most important element of
organizational structure which contributed to the success of the project. The
BOAL coordinated implementation of the project work between various
organizations and investors under a well defined work program which eventually
made possible a completion of the project was time and in commendable quality.



7
E. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Variances Between Planned and Actual Proiect Implementation
16.   There were four main items which were added during implementation of the
project: a) additional raising of the Sava dike; b) extension of an
interceptor canal; c) a building to provide logistical support for operation
and maintenance works; and d) a storage structure for agricultural equipment.
All the additional structures were determined by the investor and the Bank to
be essential to the project and cost wise they added only very little to the
project total cost. Though theoretically all the additional structures could
have been contemplated before the project implementation, in practice they
represent a reasonable change that evolved from the experience gained through
the implementation.
Realistic Identification of Project Risks
17.   The project risk as envisaged at appraisal was that disruption of the
project objectives may result from weak institutional support and ineffective
extension service to the individual sector. Consequently significant attention
was given at appraisal to strengthen such support to project execution. In
fact, the successful completion of the project vindicates this assessment of
such risk at appraisal and of the need to take the corrective measures to
reduce it. However, as it turned out, the main difficulties which the project
actually encountered could not be foreseen at anpraisal. They related to
project financing which stemmed from the rising inflation and the faster rate
of devaluation of the Yugoslav dinar vis a vis foreign currencies.
Consequently, local counterpart funds were hard to raise. Nevertheless, the
project was completed on schedule. An action which could have alleviated the
financial difficulties was to establish a special account to expedite
disbursements by the Bank and thus minimize the time lag between project
expenditures and Bank disbursements. Unfortunately, this was not done. As a
result, the Bank disbursed less foreign exchange against the indirect foreign
exchange component due to the time lag between the actual expenditure, which
was based on the exchange rate ruling at the time for such expendi.ue, and
the Bank's disbursement that was made on the basis of a deprec4ated exchange
rate.
F. PROJECT RESULTS
General Assessment
18.   The project was completed in September 1987, just as scheduled at
appraisal. Though the full benefits would likely be obtained in the not too
distant future, all the indications, up to the present time, are that the
project has been quite successful. Since the project area development was
gradual, sub areas on which drainage works were completed first went into full
production almost immediately. Benefits resulting from improved yields in
developed areas were about as expected and are likely to improve further due
to the extension service which was set up as part of the project



8
implementation.
Project Impact
19. The objective of the project to streamline primary production to be
utilized as raw material fix the agroindustries in the project area has been
fully achieved. As a result, both the agroindustrial subsector and the primary
producers have become more efficient, operating at a higher capacity
utilization rate and have increased their net income. The financial rate of
return from the project has been estimated by the investor to be about 18.5Z.
Though it is slightly lower than the economic rote of return estimated at
appraisal, it is within an acceptable margin of error, which would make the
actual and the estimated figures not significantly different.
Unfortunately,the PCR prepared by the investor does not provide sufficient
data to enable recalculation of the rate of return independently (para. 9).
20. The project also had significant regional impact in several respects.
Before the project, the Semberija region was considered to be one of the
poorest in Yugoslavia. The agricultural development resulting from the project
provided directly and indirectly an impetus for robust development of the
region, which is now considered to be a prospering one. In regard to the
physical environment, the project resulted in elimination of marshes but the
environmental authorities in Yugoslavia have not recorded any significant
detrimental impact on wildlife and fauna. In regard to the social environment,
the project which contributed significantly to on farm development resulted
also in increasing demand for improvement of the social infrastructure and
subsequently in some development to meet this demand. Lastly, the project
contributed to improvement in the functioning of some key institutions, the
most important of them being PBS. PBS has strengthened its ability to appraise
subprojects and process subloans and generally its operation as a bank has
improved.
G. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
21. The project is likely to maintain an acceptable level of net benefits
throughout its economic life, provided the operation and maintenance of the
drainage system as set up under the project continue to be carried out. A cost
recovery program associated with the drainage system was set up under the
administration of the Commune Assembly of Bijeljina. The charge is on a fixed
per hectare annual basis, reviewed annually and adjusted if necessary to cover
the actual cost. The Bank supervision missions observed that both the
operation and maintenance arrangements and the cost recovery system were
functioning satisfactorily.
H. BANK PERFORNANCE
Bank Performance
22. The areas in which the Bank demonstrated its strength during the
preparation and implementation of the project were the following: (a)
provision of highly skilled and competent staff for preparation, appraisal and



9
supervision of the project. As a result the Bank gained the confidence of the
Borrower and the investor who accepted the Bank advice on many issues
concerning the project concept, design and management. Cooperation between the
Bank, the Borrower and the investor was based on mutual respect and resulted
generally in efficient implementation of the project; (b) correct assessment
of the needs and roles of the various implementing entities and ability to
convince the Yugoslav authorities to establish them. The successful operations
of these entities demonstrate that the Bank assessed correctly the key role
which they could play in efficient project implementation; and (c) sound
assessment of the technical parameters during appraisal which have proven to
be fully justified. The main weaknesses, on tne other hand, relate to: (a)
occasional delays in processing of bidding documents which was not completely
streamlined and was excessively dependent on the individual project officer
who had responsibilities for other projects as well; and (b) occasional change
of Bank staff supervising the project which resulted in loss of institutional
memory and higher cost of the supervision task in terms of staffweeks used.
Lessons Learned
23.   The project demonstrates the economic viability of drainage works in the
lower Sava basin and in other areas of Yugoslavia with similar micro regional
conditions. The successful implementation of the project also indicates the
importance of setting up an appropriate organizational structure to deal with
all relevant aspects of implementation and of formulating a comprehensive
project concept which would relate primary production to end users
(agroindustries), supporting services, marketing, and both the individual and
social sectors involved in the production activities.
I. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
The Borrower's Performance
24.   The main strengths which the Borrower demonstrated during preparation
and implementation of the project were: (a) its ability to ensure prompt
execution of all statutory self management agreements; (b) ability to appraise
subprojects efficiently (during the project preparation stage); and (c) timely
processing and approval of subloan applications of about 4700 individual
sector farms and the social sector organization beneficiaries. Though all the
on lending was channeled through the social sector organizations it still
required preparation of subloan agreements and processing of all the
subborrower applications. The main weaknesses are not related specifically to
the project implementation but to the banking system in Yugoslavia in general.
in summary, the executing agency for the project has demonstrated its ability
to mianage well the project implementation, including efficient deployment of
stafi and consultant resources and mobilization of the necessary domestic
resources.
Lessons of Experience for the Borrower
25.    The main issue on which there was some misunderstanding between the



10
Borrower and the Bank related to foreign exchange risk. The perception of the
Borrower was that the Bank loan which is denominated in dollars also reflected
the real dollar repayment obligation of the Borrower vis a vis the Bank.
Though the General Conditions for the Loan cover the concept of foreign
exchange debt repayment, the Borrower was surprised to find that adjustments
were made in the Bank statements to cover additional repayment obligation
related to the currency pool. It would be useful in the future to carry out
discussions with potential Borrowers to cover such aspect of risk and also to
make explicit reference to it in the SAR.
J. PROJECT DOCUMENTATION AND DATA
The Legal Documents
26.   Generally the legal documents were well framed and spelled out. However,
description of the project under Schedule 2 was excessively detailed,
mentioning length of interceptor canal, amount of discharge, exact area to be
covered with tile drainage, exact discharge capacity of pumping station and
other engineering details. Under the given project there were no specific
instances which required modifications in the original project design,
however, experience has shown that required changes are quite common during
implementation of such projects because initial estimates are based on a
certain margin of error. Excessive legal detailing of the engineering design
would cause any change in the project design to be cumbersome and time
consuming. It would be more efficient if reference to the type of works to be
carried out under the project be set out in more general terms.
The Staff Appraisal ReRort
27.    The SAR was the basic document used both by the Bank and the Borrower
during the project implementation. Its usefulness was proven as invaluable
during the project supervision, particularly for new Bank staff who had to be
acquainted with the project.
Data for PreRaration of the PCR
28. Unfortunately data for preparation of the PCR have not been readily
available. The Borrower PCR, though providing important information, does not
include sufficient details to allow independent recalculation of the project
economic or financial rates of return. There is no data on crop prices and on
costs of onfarm production. Further, the PCR does not provide project cost
data in real terms.
Attachments



11
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
YUGOSLAVIA
SEHBERIJA DRAIRAGE PROJECT
(LOAN 2161-DU)
Sour UPI Sarajovo
PD 'SBHEERIJA" Bijeljina
Privredna Banka Sarajevo
Udruzena Bank9
Bijeljina, September 1988



13
SEMBERIJA LAND RECLAMATION PROJECT (LOAN 2162-YU)
I. T N T R O D U C T I O N
In the north-eastern corner of the Socialist Republic of
Bosnia and Herzegovina, at the confluence of the Sava and
Drina Rivers, there is the nlain of Semberija. The geo-
graphical location and redological composition make the
plain a very suitable territory for extensive agricultural
production. However, the lowest part of Semberija used to
be flooded and water-logged. This slowed and made the
agricultural croduction in the area more difficult.  There.-
fore solutions to the croblems were looked for and as the
result the Land Reclamation Project has been implemented
as one of four segments of a srecial study in the River
Sava basin.
Semberija land reclamation issue was first discussed
by the mission of IBRD and PAO/CAP in September 1976. At
first, a solution was offered only for the reclamation of
the eastern area or 9,755 ha.
But the mission came, after much consideration, to a
conclusion that that would not be a comprehensive solution
for broader region and that it would not be economical to
invest only in the eastern area. Since it was the matter
of huge productive potentials detailed instruction were
offered for the preparation of a new project which would
include the reclamation of both western and eastern parts
of Semberija nlain.
Based on the instructions nrepared by PAQ/CAP during
1980, the work on documentation began.  lith the assistence
of the mission of IBRD and FAO/CAYP, who visited Yugoslavia



14
several times at that time, a feasibility study was Drepared
in July 1981. The study included both easter and western
areas or 19,000 ha.
Such documentation was nassed as economically justi-
fiable by the Vorld Bank Board in May 1982 and thus the World
Bank accepted to supDort financially the venture called -
- Semberija Land Reclamation Project. On September 2nd 1982
the Loan Agreement and the Land Reclamation Project Agreement
were signed. In the meantime the preparation on the Project
documentation began.
The Feasibility study was prepared by the following
parties;
- FAO mission from Rome;
- UPI RO Institute for Research and Development /Institute
for Agropedology, Sarajevo; Institute for Economy, Sarajevo
and Agricultural Institute, Bijeljina/;
- Institute of Water Resources Develonment, Sarajevo;
- The Faculty of Agriculture, Sarajevo / Institute for
Economy and Institute for Pedology, Agrochemistry and Melioration/;
- Various services of the Commene Assembly of Bijeljina,
The documentation included the main text of the Project
and Preparatory report which had 8 components:
1.. The Project area
2. Pedological research and detailed drainage
3. IHydrology
4. The most important work organisations connected with
the Project
5. Civil works - three parts
6. Agricultural development
7..Land consolidation
8. Io.rketing and nrices



15
Considering the most important issues of the area
pumping stations appeared to be the key structures and their
construction was to be started before all other works. 3ased
on the Protocol drawn up by the .Jorld Bank mission, Ir. Mahmud
Tirmazi being at the head of it, and signed in Sarajevo on
November 11th, 1981, tenders for construction of pumping
stations were being Drepared first. In order to gain time
it was decided that local bidding procedure for that tender
was to be carried .out.
Institute of Water Resources Development, Sarajevo, was
chosen as a contractor for preparation of project documentation
/Tenders 1 to 7/, in a local bidding procedure.



16
OBJEOTIVPS
In the course of the Project preparation it was agreed
upon that to invest in the area was economically justifiable,
because the area is one of the most fertile lands in Bosnia
and Herzegovina and Yugoslavia and ithas the potential to
double the xroduction after the Projeot.
The main objectives of the Project were to.increase
crop production /wheat, corn, sutgar beet, vegetable and
forage crops/. The Project has ensured the production of
raw materials necessary to feed agro-based industries in
Bijeljina /Sugar factory, Factory for processing vegetables,
cerials and others/.
One of the significant objectives of the Project was
to solve the troblem of drainge in Semberija by constructing
pumping stations, main, seoondary and tertiary canals and
accompanying structures /bridges and culverts/. It was also
important to reclaim land which included plowing of meadows.
and pastures, clearance of degraded forests, brushwood and
green line boundaries and land levelling.
Along with this the Commune Assembly of Bijeljina
carried out the land consolidation project as an additional
measure of on-farm develooment.



17
PROJEOT COST AND FINANCING
Based  on the World Bank mission appreciation from
M4ay 1982 total Projeot oost including the foreseen infla-
tion till the Project completion by the end of 1986 was
3f209.6 million dinars or %US 73.5 million.
During the negotiations the amount was increased to 3,482.6
nillion dinars.  The amount in US currency was not changed.
The following financing plan was proposed:
in million %US
Sources of Funding    Project Parti-   Interest  Total  Partic-
Cost   cipation During            ipation
in %    Construe.          in %
World Bank              34.6     47         -       34.6   43.4
Federal fund            10.4     14        3.6      14.0   17.5
Republic fund            2.7      4        0.2       2.9    3.7
PBS Udrugena Banka       9.5     13        1.7      11.2   14.1
PBS Basic Bank Bijeljina 2.9      4        0.2       3.1    3.8
Equity contributio-ns   13.4     18        0.5      13.9   17.5
TOTA1:         73;5    100        6.2       79.7  100.0
Privredna Banka Sarajevo- Udruzena Banka obtained a loan
from the 'World Bank in Mlay 1982 in the amount of $US 34.6 million.
The Loan was signed on 2nd of September 1982 and became
effective on April 26th 1983.
The amount of 2.7 million US dolars from the Loan is for
miscellaneous feasibility studies, for future land and water
development projects in Bosnia and Herzegovina.



18
Repayment period for the Bank Loan is 15 years and
3 year grace period. The first installment was due on
October 1st 1985. The Loan repayment is to be in equal
installments vhich has created great difficulties both to
Privredna Banka, Sarajevo, as the Borrower, and the Investor
W0O AE "Semberija", Dijeljina.  The fixed interest rate is
i1.6 91i and it is the highest one compared to the World
Bank loans so far. A snecial commitment /front end fee/
has
of 1.5 % in lump sum increased the Loan amount even more.
Total financing per sources were as follows:
in million din
Flood      AMric.   Total   Contr.
Sources of Funding        Protection Sturur.             in
Stru,tures Bo.uipmt            %
World Bank                  976.5    4,427.1  5,403.6   66.4
Federal fund                33Z.2       893.5  1,215.7   14.9
Republic fund                            60.0     60.0    0.7
PBS Udrugena banka            -         419.1    419.1,  5.2
PBS Basic Bank Bijeljina      -          50.0     50.0    0.6
Equity contr;bution         387.       600.9    987.9   12.2
T 0 T A L    1,685.7    6,450.6  8,136.3   100.0
Total invested funds expressed in dinars are considerably
higher than estimated because the inflation rate has been
much higher than it was anticipated during the negotiations.



19
A's the result of irrational estimate of necessary funds
for the Project, high deprici.ition of dinar and desisting
from funds for miscellaneous studies for hydromeliorative
projects, because no one was interested for them, only
17,441,595 US dollars of the original Loan has been used up.
The Investor and PBS Udrugena Banka missions proposed to use
the surplus funds to expand the area on which the Project
works were to be carried out, to build other structures within
the system, which was only partially accepted by the World
Bank Board.
The amount of 4,141,366 US dollars was used for water-
management structures and 13,300,229 US dollars for agri-
cultural structures with equipement.
In the funding Dattern the World Bank contribution was
considerably increased for the I category from 45 % to
65 % which was agreed upon in the WVorld Bank on 19th of
January 1984. Since the World Bank contribution for other
categories remained at 100 % this increase for the I category
meant also the total World Bank contribution increase. In
nominal value bigger financial funds have been ensured from
all sources in comparison to the foreseen ones except, from
the Republic fund and PBS Basic Bank, Bijeljina, whose part-
icipation was not very big any way.
Privredna Banka Sarajevo - Udruzena Banca, agreeing with
the Investor and having an objective to decrease expenditure
conserning commitment fee, cancelled certain Dortions of the
Loan several times after some of their proposals for surplus
fund utilisation had not been accepted. The cancellations
went as follows:



20
21st of April 1984  -  US dollars 2,700,000
28th of Decem 1984  -   '          5,800,000
25th of June  1985  -         "    6,600,000
23th of Decem 1985  -                465t574
6th of March 1987  -         "    1,480,000
15th of Decem 1987  -                112,831
The total amount of cancelled funds is 17,158,405
US dollars which is almost 50 %o of the Loan.
PBS Udruzena Banka, drawing attantion to the problem
of cancelling the surplus funds, which was neither the
Borrower's not the Investor's fault, but mainly unrealistio
estimate by the World Bank of needed funds and unaccept-
ance by the Jorld Bank to include additional structures
in the Project, asked the Wlorld Bank to reduce utilised
part of the Loan by paying back a resnective Dart of paid
front end fee and committment fee. The "Wolrd Bank did not
accept the nroposal of PBS, which increased the cost of an
already costly loan /fixed interest rate 11.60%ol esnecially
for this type of the Project.
As for the toan repayment schedule it is obvious that
the 3 year grace period is financially and economically in-
adequate for such a project. The first annuity had been
due considerably earlier than the Project closing date was
planned. Therefore, there was no chance for the Project
itself to begin reraying the Loan.
The Jorld Bank principle that the grace period
should deiend on the degree of development of a certain
country borrower is not Jiustifiable in such cases.
-The requests for a change in the renayment plan-and
its adjustment to the real Dossibilities of the Project were



21
not accepted by the WVorld Bank, nor were the nroposals that
the first instalments be in smaller amounts in order to
ease the Investor's situation, as well as the Borrower's.
Because of this it was necessary to ensure funds from other
sources to repay the -dorld Bank Loan,pwhich created much
difficulties both to the Investor and PB3 Udrugena Banka.
It should be pointed out here that the Self-management
Agreement on Pooling Financial Funds for Semberija Land
Reclamation Project Realisation, signed on 5th of May 1982,
ensured equity contribution funds of the Investor for fin-
ancing of the Project, although in somewhat smaller percent-
age in comparison to the estimate, which was the result
of an inciease in the Bank participation.
rhe Self-management Agreement on Pooling Financial Funds
for Repayment of Semberija Land Reclarrttion Project Realisation,
signed in June 1982, foresaw means of repayment of a part of
the Loan based on taking over agricultural products from
the area. Since the Project is still not in full operation
the Agreement has not fully justified itself.



22
PROJECT IMPLEMNTATION ORGANISATION
The Borrower for the Project was Privredna Banka
Sarajevo - Udrugena banka, and the Investor was SOUR UPI
Sarajevo, RO PD "Semberija", Bijeljina.
OOUR /BOAL/ of Hydromelioration "Semberija", Bijeljina,
established at the nroposal of the Yorld Bank as a separate
organisation of associated labour within RO PD "Semberija",
Bijeljina, did all the work concerning the Project organisa-
tion.  "Semberija"'s staff scheme, as suggested by the
World Bank, has been attached to the Report.
The Institute of SOUR UPI Sarajevo and the Institute
of Water Resources Developmeat Sarajevo were engaged through
a contract for exDert and advisory supervision.
The Fa2ulty of Agriculture, Sarajevo, - Institute for
Economics of Agriculture and Food Processing Industry -
was engaged, through a contract, for analysis of agricultural
production plans.
The Commune assembly established a Project coordinating
board for the purpose of coordinating works on the Project.



23
II.  D E S C R I P T I 0 N    0 P   T H E
P R 0 J ECT T A R E A
Location
The Project area lies within the low plain of Semberija
in the commune of Bijeljina. The Project has included 19,000
ha located in the north-eastern corner of the SR Bosnia and
Herzegovina, at the confluence of the Sava /northern and
north-eastern border/ and the Drina /western border/ Rivers.
The Seli5te and Majevica Interceptors form its southern and
western borders, respectively. Majevica Interceptor interceps
flood run-off descending from the southern uplands while on
the west there is the main bordering oanal.
TopograRhy
The Projebt area comprises the lowest part of the Semberija
plain, with elevations ranging from 80 to 88 meters above
sea level. Land slope is midely from south to north toward
the Sava and Drina Rivers.
Climate
The Semberija plain has a moderate continental climate
with a relatively uniform rain distribution, well adopted
to agriculture, especially cerials, cash crops, fodder crops
and vegetables. Rainfall and annual temperature based orn
twenty-four avarage are: 760 mm and 10.8 C resDectively.
Soil
The Project area of 19,000 ha is devided into two main
zones:
- one of 15,570 ha requiring draiftgae and land improve-
ment;



24
- the other of 3,430 ha requiring only land improvement.
a/ The predominant soil type in the Project area is
brown meadow soil /Semigleysoil/ heavy textured, deep,
lying on clay and being among the most fertile soils.
b/ The second most commen soil is eugleysoil. Due
to low infiltration rate, these soils are subject to water-
logging. While potentially fertile these soils require special
drainage measures.
o/ The third type of soils which extend along the Sava
River and the Drina River are alluvial soils /fluvisoil/.
These soils possess generally favourable physical and che-
mical properties.
After land reclamation and improvement /canal network,
subdrainage, clearing, levelling, deep plowing, fertilization/
the capability clasiffication is going to imorove.
Pogulation
As to population there is no significant difference
between the situation before and after the Project. There
are 11 villages in the Project area in which there live
17,386 inhabitants in 4,797 individual holdings. There are
12,129 inhabitants living solely on agriculture, whilb
4,397 holdings have their own estate. The rural ropulation
in the Project area is comperatively young, because 64 % is
up to age 39.
The rural population is engaged primarily in crop pro-
duction /cerials, cash crops, sugar beet and soya, vegeta-
bles and fodder crops/ as well as in pig, cattle and poultry
raising.
Land dose
The current distribution and use of land oompared to the
situation before the Project can be seen from table 1,



25
Table 1: LAND USE
in ha
Land          Before the Project       After the Project
category
Total   Social  Indiv.  Total   Social   Indiv.
Plowland
/arrable/    10,860     730  10,130  14,506   1,842  12,564
Plowland1
/uncult./     1,450     560      890     -       -       -
Orchards       .580      -       580     568     -        568
Meadows         440      -       440     -       --
Total
arable       13,330   1,290  12,040  15,074   1,943  13,132
Pastures      1t180     610      570     -       -       -
Agriclt-ral
total        14,510   1,900  12,6-10  15,074   1,942  13,132
Forest        2,990     220   2,770   2,129      123   2tO06
Productive
Total        17,500   2L20   15,380  17,203   2,065  15,138
Fertile                                  347       1      346
Fertile3                               1,450   1,450     -
Fertile
Total         1,500   1,170      330   1,797   1,451     346
T 0 T A L    19,000   3,290  15,710  19,000   3,516  15,484
1/ Uncultivated plowland as the result of waterlogging
* 2/ Urban area.
3/ Roads, canals and other non-cultivable areas



26
In comparison to the situation before the Project
there are quite noticable differences. Because of roads
and canals the category of uncultivated land has been in-
creased by 297 ha. As for other categories it is estimated
that additional 3,646 ha is now being cultivated in the
Project area. There are new plowland areas which could
not be cultivated because of waterlogging, then there are
green line boundaries areasp brushwood and forests, meadows
and pastures which are all now being cultivated.
As for the ownershiD there are a]U certain changes.
There has been a merger in the social sector within the
Agricultural Estate "Semberija", Bijeljina. Some land in
the private secotor and primary production land in the
social sector have been decreased because it has been used
for roads and canals /See table No. 1 - productive land cat./
As to property or ovnership there is the following
situation after the Project implementation:
- individual sector - 8195 %
- AE "Semberija"' /social secotr - 10.9%
- others /Hydromeliorative SIZ, SIZ for roads,
Local communities/ - 7.6 %
The size of a plot in the Project has not been changed.
An avarage estate is still 3.5 ha only. Nowever, the number
of plots has been considerably decreased because the Commune
A-sembly of Bijeljina implemented the Land Consolidation
Project from 1981 to 1986 on approx. 42,000 ha.
In the area there are 19,000 ha belonging to the Land
Reclamation Project. After the land consolidation the average
size of a plot has been increased from 0.35 ha to 0.85 ha.
The number of plots has been decreased from 9.5 to 2.7.
Owing to timely implementation of the land consolidation
in the Project area /1982 and 1983/ there was no dela,y with



27
the Project works. In the course of land consolidation
canals and road routes were marked.
PHYSICAL SCOPE OF WORKS
The Project aimed at:
- construction of structures for safeguarding the
area from external and internal waters on approximatelly
15,000 ha;
- clearance of brushwood, removal of trees and stumps,
clearing of green line boundaries, plowing of natural gras-
land /pastures and meadows/, improving land quality by
agromeasures which are a component part of land reclamation
of all 19,000 ha;
- preparation of miscellaneous feasibility studies for
future land and water development projects in SR Bosnia and
Herzegovina.
First two items were carried out through 7 sub-projects:
- Tender No. 1 which included main canal network,
Seli6te Interceptor, reconstruction of the Sava River dike
and road network along the main canals with accompanying
structures;
- Tender No. 2 including secondary and tertiary canal
network, field roads and on-farm development in the western
part of the Project area;
- Tender No. 3 including secondary and tertiary canal
network, field roads and on-farm development in the eastern
part of the Project area;



28
- Tender No. 4 dealt with procurement of operation and.
maintenance system;
- Tender No. 5 dealt with Drocurement of farm machinery
and equipment;
- Tender No. 6 was for the construction of new and
reconstructior. of the old rumDingstations;
- Tender No. 7 was for 6ub-surface drainage and wide-
-bedding.
The following structures have been constructed through
the Project;
- the Sava River dike has been reconstructed in the
length of 11.5 km /14.5 km in the Loan Agreement/ to protect
the area from the high waters of the River Sava;
- the Selifte Interceptor has been extended in the length
of 9 km /8 km in the Loan Agreement/ to nrotect the area from
the external waters;
- the main canal network and the accompanying road
network and structures in the length of 33 km /37 km in the
Loan Agreement/ have been constructed to drain the internal
waters;
- the secondary and tertiary canal network in thp length
of 382 km /463 km in the Loan Agreement/;
- Field roads with accompanying structures in the length
of 410 km;
- clearing of terrain on 1,312 ha;
- levelling on 15,370 ha;
- deep plowing on 2,305 ha;
- sub-surface drainage on 2,388.8 ha /1,900 ha in the
Loan Agreement/;
- Operation and maintenance facilities for AE "Semberija"



29
- Opelation and maintenance facilities for WO "Podrinje";
- Workshops;
- Farm-machinery sheds;
- Stores;
- Two new pumping stations /ToPolovaQ and Begov put/
and reconstruction of two existing ones /Domus skela and
Topolovac - old structure/.
3EquipmN!
Along with the implementation of works the procurement
of machines and equipment }has been alo completed:
- Excavator - track type - cabled-.,,0 1 po
- Excavator - track type - hydraulic 60...6.60.**66*  1 Pc
- Tractor ............*............................  7 pcs
- Dump keeper *e*      * ******......  1 pC
- Mlotorcycle ....  ...................................  7 pCs
- Grader ..........**............................  1 po
- mower - mounted on tractor *ee. e....ee,ee  7 pCS
- Floating mower ..........................            1 pc
- Drain cleaning pump ....., ........................  1 po
These machines are to be used for the oneration and
maintenance of the system.
The following farm machines and equipement have also been
procured through the Project:
- Heavy tractors /120 to 135 kW/       ...................  7 pcs
- Medium tractors /100 kf/ 4......................... 1 pcs
-Light tractors /30 to 55 kVl/ .,.................... 31 kWI



30
- Vegetable planting machine ....................       D L1co
- Combine harvesters for maize, wheat /50 to 55k'J/10 ncs
- Combine harvesters for maize, wheat /70 to 80kW/ 7 pCs
- Sugarbeet combine, 2-phase /110 to 115 kW/ .... 25 pce
- Sugarbeet combine, 6-phase /110 kW/                2 pos
- Combine for string beans /125 k'V/ .............  1 pc
- Combine for peas /125 kW/ .....................  3 pos
- Silage combine /205 kW/ .......................  1 pC
- Silage combine, semi-mounted                      30 pcs
- Farm wagon           20.......... ....o.eoo*o...... e.o20 pCs
- Pneumatic transporter                              7 pC8
- Corn picker ........13 pea
- Sowing machines .......                           20 too
- Motorcycles                                       10 pcs
- Trucks                                             2 pC8
- Passenger car                                      1 pc
- Equipment for a chemical laboratory                1 set
- Miscellaneous equipment for labs         :      .1 set
- Audio-visual equipment and office equipment  ...  1 set



PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
From the date of the Loan Agreement signing much time
was lost for the preparation of maps, project documentation
and tender documentation. A special problem was preparation
of geodetic and 'eoteohnical maps for they were to be nrepar-
ed in unfavourable conditions /January - April 1982/ and
the financial sources were also uncertain. At the same
time the Project documentation was being prepared and getting
ready for the commencement of civil works in June 1982.
Making of all necessary maps was completed in the first
half of 1982. All tenders, except tenders 4 and 7, and their
main designs were also completed by the end of 1982. Such
short dead lines caused some obstacles which had to be sur-
mounted later on.
First contracts were signed within the Land Consolidation
Project, as it had been foreseen. The land consolidation
works were completad on time. They were completed even earlier
tha-. Planned so that after the farmers were entered upon the
possession of new plots the works from the Project could be
carried out smoothly. However, there was some maladjustment
between general designs for the reclamation project and the
land consolidation project whicW resulted in alternations
concerning physical scope of wo ks as well as insufficiant
agricultural production in the course of the Project realisation.
Following the phasing plan, the first step was constru-
ction of new and reconstruction of the existing pumping
stations, as the most important structures in the drainage
system, without which the protection of the Project aroa
from the internal waters during high waters of the Sava River
could be impossible.



32
In 1983 the construction of a new pumping station Toino-
lovac in the western subarea and Begov put in the eastern
subarea, as well as the reconstruction of Domus skela ana
Topolovac-stari pumping statione began. The completion
of works was planned for Deoember 183 but the pumping sta-
tions were completed with small delay due to certain material
and equipment shortage. There was not satisfactory coordina-
tion between two contractors in charge of equipement assem-
bling.
The construction of the structures within the tenders
1, 2 and 3 was carried out without any major technical problems,
except for forest clearance. Forest clearance works /stump
picking and burying/ were treated as preparatory or prelimi-
nary works so that in the course of forest map preparations
and later during bidding procedure they were underestimated.
Subsurface drainage project works were also implemented
on time. Such a sucessful realisation of this part of the
Project was possible owing to timely completion of canal net-
work, land-levelling, well-prepared project documentation
and well chosen contractors.
Operation and maintenance equipement was nrocured on
time and delivered in 1986 s0 that in the same year it was
put into use.
All farm machinery and equipment were procured in 1984,
1985 and 1986.
All the structures /operation and maintenance facilities
mechanical workshops, stores and sheds/ were completed
nursuant to the Drovisions of the contracts and in accordance
to the Project documentation.



33
BIDDING PROCEDURE
o constant care was taken to follow the accepted phasing
plan. Although the time schedule was very tight all the
Project and tender documentation was completed on time, but
the bidding procedures and choosing of contractors delayed
the beginning of works. There were certain difficulties
while choosing the most appropriate contractors. But those
delays had no significant impact on the Project realisation
because the contractors were given shorter terms to complete
the works which they sucessfully did.



34
ABERRATIONS
The Project implementation was supervised and the
Project documentation was revised regularly with the
assistance of the World Bank. It should be pointed out
that the instructions by the World Bank were completely
respected and followed. In the course of the Project
imnlementation there were no major changes compared to the
original statuso
There were some changes in the physical scope of
works snecifically with stump digging. According to the
main forest clearing project, there were 945 ha of forest
to be cleared. It was estimated in the Project that the
number of stumps per 1 ha was 500 to 700, and there was also
an estimate of stump diameters. As the works progressed it
bacame obvious that the clearing was to be carried out on
',312 ha and that the number of stumps was 900 to 1000 pce
oer 1 ha. This resulted in an increase in deep plowing.
The cause of these significant changes or aberrations
in the Project is inadequate Dreparation which could give
neither precise areas on which to clear nor quantity of works
- due to inadequate maps.
In the course of the Project implementation and due to
deprepiation of dinar to dolar, it became possible and
justifiable to include some additional items in the Project.
The dolrd Bank, in their telex dated Jumy 26th 1985, inclu-
ded in the Project; the construction of subsurface drainage
on 1013 ha, procurement of additional farm eauipment, construction
of operation and maintenace facilities for AB "Semberija"
and JlO "Podrinje", Bijeljina.



35
SUPERVISION
Institute of Water Resources Development has been
entrusted through a contract with the works on preparing
final designs, ensuring of all necessary maps for the
final designs and preparing tender documentation. They
have also been entrusted with the Project sunerintendance
in the course of the Project implementation until the
completion of all works.
Superintendance of all works from the tenders has
been, through a contract, entrusted to UPI Invest, Sarajevo.
Coordination between superintendance of all the works
from the tenders and the Project suverintendance has been
entrusted also to the Institute of Water Resources Develo-
pment, Sarajevo.
The Faculty of Agriculture - Institute of Economy of
Agriculture and Fooe Industry, Sarajevo, has been engaged
with the making of the agricultural production plans since
1984 for the whole Project area.



36
CONTRACTORS AND SUPPLIERS
Works on the construction of canal network, Seliste
Interceptor Drain, the River Sava Dike and road network
/Tender Nio. 1/ were entrusted to GRO "Tempo", Zagreb, with
1 year completion period. The contractor was given such
a short period because there was a delay in the course
of the bidding irocedure.
The phasing plan as stated in the oontract asked for
a simultaneous work on all structures with engagement of
much mechanisation. The Contractor could not follow or
meet the requirements set in the phasing plan in the first
two auarters of 1984. Therefore some alternations were
made in the rhasing plan and the priority was given to
the main canal network. Trhe dead line for the Sava dike
was shifted into 1985 when the works were actually completed.
The quality of works was satisfactory so that all the
strucutres were granted an operating permit. The operation
of all structures is quite satisfactory.
Construction of secondary and tertiary canals, field
roads, on-farm-development both in the eastern and western
sub-area /Tenders No. 2 and 3/ were entrusted to GRO "Hidro-
gradnja, Sarajevo, in the period from 1983 till the end of
1986. Following the phasing plan the first step was to
clear the terrain along with digging the main canels, and
then to nroceede on to the secondary and tertiary canal
networl;, road network and land levelling.
There were 'ertain alternations on the phasing plan
however. They were unavoidable because much bigger area
wa9 to be clenred than it had been previously foreseen.



37
Therefore the olearing was completed only in 1986.
Although there was considerable increase in the phy-
sical scope of works the dead line was met for the con-
tractor made an effort to complete works on time. The
Quality of works was good so that the system was grant-
ed an operating permit. All the struoutres are operat-
ing properly.
Works on the construction of new and reconstruction
of the existing pumping stations /Tender No. 6/ were en-
trusted to the following contractors; GIK "Rad", Bijeljina,
civil works; "Jugoturbina", Karlovac, machine equipment-
assembling and "Unioninvest", Sarajevo, electroequipment.
Following the phasing plan tie works were to be com-
pleted on December 30th 1983. The civil works on the
pumping stations were done on time and expertly. The
assembling of the main equipment was completed on time ,
however the lack of smaller equipment /electromagnet, valves
and trash-cleaners/ caused some delays. This was the reason
to start running the pumps only in 1985. At the beginning
of their operation and later in full operation the pump-
ing stations were running in accord with parameters pre-
scribed in the Project.
Works on the sub-surface draingae /Tender No; 7/ were
entrusted to HMEZAD, talec.  The works were completed on time
and expertly.
The operation and maintenance equii,ment and farm equip-
ment /Tenders 4 and 5/ were trocured in the country and
abroad, depending on the bidding procedutre results. The
following operation and maintenance equinment was procured
abroad: tractor mounted mowers, floating mowers, drain clean-



38
ing pump, drain master and walking excavator. The follow-
ingi farm maohines and equipement were procured from abroad:
h.eavy tractors, sugarbeet combines 2-phase, pea combines,
stringbean combines,      vegetable planting machibe, atomic
absorbtion spectrophotometer and Kjeltec system, the last
two being laboratory equipement. All other machines and
equipement were procured from domestic suppliers.
The procurement of machines and equipement. from Tenders
4 and 5 was followed by the training of operatiorn either
in the country or abroad which was regulated through a
contract with a particular supplier. Besides operating
the staff has been enabled to repair and service the machines
after the guarantee expiration date.



39
EXTENSION SE§RVICE AND TRAINING OP
PERSONNEL
One of the crucial matters of productiott and financial
effects of the Project is the yield and rational utilisation
of inputs, especially in the individual sector. The key
to these problems is agricultural research work and extension
service. Having this in mind, the Project foreoow the in-
crease of number of agricultural specialists for work in tLne
fields with the individual secotr, for research activities,
training courses organisation and all other types of expert
assistance in the field.
In order to rationalise activities, achieve better re-
sults from the Project and repay the Loan with as little
difficulties as po&sible, there has been a merger of various
work organisations and institutes in Bijeljina commune into
an agrocomplex. A complex work organisation "Agrosemberija"
BijelJina has been founded including primary agricultural
production /AB "Semberijaeand WO "Podrinje"/, food processing
industry /"Sava" and "titopromet"/ and research and educational
work /Agriculturaf Institute Bijeljina/.
A suficient nusber of agricultural soecialists for pro-
viding extension services both for cooperative and non-
-cooperative farmers in the Project area has been ensured
in this complex work organisation. There are over 60 agri-
cultural specialists in the Project area; 41 % of them
faculty degree and the rest are agricultural technicians.
Attantion sho/uld be drawn to the fact that the Institute
of Agriculture in Bijeljina has become a constituent part of
AE "Semberija", Bijeljina,. and has changed its title into



40
"Center for Scientific Achievements Application in Agri-
culture", Bijeljina. The Center will be a research work
agent and will be engaged in the exDerimental work on both
cooperative and non-cooperative farmers' plots. Their
activities will also include training and lecturing,
constant cooperation with other specialised services in
the field, makinf of the agricultural production plans for
the Project area, etc.
Within the program of staff training a study tour to
France and Holland was organised and financed from the
Project. The objective of the tour was to see the most
complex and modern hydrosystems in the countries which hav*
achieved the most impressive results in the field.



41
MONITORING OP THE SYSTEM
Special attantion has been paid to the monitoring
of the system in the course of the Project implementation
and after the completion of all works. 'When the numping
stations began to overate along with a part of the canal
network protection of the area from the internal waters
began. In order to follow the effects of this protection
a piezometers network had been set up. It monitored the
underground water level, during the Project Imnolementation.
The monitoring is done continuously. After the com-
pletion of the whole system the underground water level
has not exceeded the value prescribed in the Project.
An overall estimate of the system operation could not be
given only after a longer exploitation period and with
maximum Sava river levels and rainfalls.
Lowering the underground water level and clearing of
the terrain has made agricultural production possible on
all areas. In 1987 all the land planned to be cultivated
was cultivated.



42
III   P R O D U CT   I O  N,  FI  N A N C I A L
A N D    B a O N O   I akL    E  F? B C T s
AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION
Agricultural nroduction in the Project area has been
followed through the Agricultural Production Plans /APP/
which have been regularly made since 1984.
Planned and effectuated way of land usage shown in
Table No. 1 indicates quite significant changes as to the
arable land category. New 3,646 ha of arable land in the
Project area have been obtained by the canal network con-
struction, ba Dlowing of meadows and pastures and forests
and brushwood clearing. This caused changes in crop pattern
on both sectors so that now more cash crops and sugar beet
are sown. In 1987, which was the first year after the Project,
sugar beet was sown on 1,589 ha, which is 1,279 ha more in
comparison to the situation before the Project.
In 1990, when the Project is to give its full effects,
sugar beet will be sown on 3,069 ha and in 199? on 3,325 ha
which is an optimum of needs and capacities. Wheat sown area
has been increased, but not so much.  Area sown with co n
has not yet been decreased, as it was foreseen by the Project.
Yields of all crops are from year to year larger which
particularly shows with wheat, corn and sugar beet.  Wheat
yield in social sector has been increased from 3.0 t/ha before
the Protect to 4.1 t/ha in 1987 /or 37 %/I corn from 3.4 t/ha
to 5.1 tAha /or 54 %/. In the individual sector wheat yield
has increased from 2.7 t/ha before the Project to 3.4 t/ha
/or 25.9 %/ in 1987; corn from .3.3 t/ha to .5.1 t/ha /or 54.5%/
and sugar beet from 24.7 t/ha to 37.2 t/ha /or 50.6 %/.
The total nroduction in 1987 has also been increased
when compared to the situation before the Project:



43
- wheat from 8,338 tons to 11,591 tons /39.1%/
- corn from 17,675 tons to 30,299 tons /58.3%/
- sugar beet from 13,657 tons to 59,335 tons /334.5%/
Having the above shown production in 1987 in mind,
after full exnloitation of the Project /see tables in the
Appendix/ it is likely to exieot the agricultural production
to be as foreseen in the Project, which will economically
justify the investment.



44
FINANCIAL EFFECTS
Comnarison of the financial eft'ects taking into account
valid prices before and after the Project has not been
possible because of high inflation, enormous price in-
crease in dinars as well as a floating dinar toward hard
currencies.
Because of the above mentioned reasons it was necessary
to fix the nrices of all nroduction values for the whole
period of the Project anqlysis. Prices in July 1988 have
been taken as the basic irices for revaluation of all pro-
duction values from the previous years. The Project invest-
ment has been revaluated a'ilying revalorization rates,
which are officially being published for each year and applied
for the whole country.
Revaluation was done for the neriod from 1982 /when the
investment commenced/ to June 30th 1988.
The period from 1988 till 1991 has been presented in
the so-called fixed prices /valid in July 1988/, so that the
inurease of production in the years will be the result of
increase of physical scoDe of work or of changes in produc-
tion pattern.
The following shows the difference in the absolute amount
of the investment after revaluation to the one before; the
Project investmient established at 3,482.6 million dinars
increased during 1982-1986 to 8,136 million dinars.
After revaluation on the basis of the prices on July 30th,
1988, the investment has been increased to 71,061 million
dinars, although the amount estimated before the Project
has been decreased by 17,158,405 US dolars.



45
Data from stupplements 4 and 5, although being made
taking into consideration the revaluated prices as well
as fixed ones for all these years, are not comparable with
the situatioh before the Project, because in order to com-
pare, it would be necessary to revaluate all the prices
stated in the program before the Project.
Althou&h the absolute values of production before and
after the Project are not comparable, there is a Dossiblity
of comDaring relations exoressed in percentage between, in
our opinion, very important financial and economical elementst
the relation between incremental cash flow and oroduotion
value and the relation between the internal rate of return
before and after the Project.
The followinf table shows these comparisons:
ProJect in ,.
a/ Incremental cash flow      before    after    index _ 100
1987 ...........e.....    34.0        37.8     111.2
1988 *0 ..... .. .**0..*    38.6      29.4      76.2
1989 ...................    42.0      35.1      83.6
1990 * ...  .    *,,    0   44.0      39.5      89,8
1991 ...................    45.0      44.2      98.2
Average for 5 years ...s    40.7      37.2      97.4
b/ Internal rate of return      18.9     18.5      97.9
The difference in percentage before and %fter the Project
negligible /which is showm by the internal rate of return
of 18.9 before and 18,5 after the Project/ or within reason-
able limits, because some cogts have enormously increased



46
for ex; interest rate for the funds borrowed for worlcinr
assets.
Lack of working assets in agricultural production,
which is a long term nroblem because of low accumulation
of caDital, long production process and as the result of
this low working assets coeficient, makes necessary the usage
of short-term but very costly credits over the whole year,
with a very high interest rate.
For ex. the interest rate on such working assets is
5 % of the total cost, while in normal conditions, when
the inflation was less than 10 % the interest rate was less
than 1 G, or five times less.
High inflation is not, as a rule, favourable to anyone
and it is not equally distributed over the branches of economy
either. Agricultural production is one of brances of economy
which suffers most because of the inflation; first of R11
because of relatively long production circe of primary -3ro-
duction, especially in livestock production and f±uit growing.
Having in mind financial consequences of slow flash
flow, a group of financial and agricultural experts is trying
to find out nossiblities to increase working assets coefi-
cient, which would improve the financial situation considerably.



47
ECONOMICAL EFFECT8
There have been many data dis-played in the report con-
cerning economical effects of the situations before and
after the Project like data on production, equipment nro-
curement, staff, lwTnning, etc.
In the course of the Project realisation arable land
has been increased by 34 %. The area of every lot has also
been increased which decreased the number ot lots per house-
hold. iater-nanagement structures and roads have also been
constructed which will avert the danger of floods occurring
freauently before the Project. The maintenance of the Project
structures h.as also been ensured.
The Land Reclamation Project has also ensured rational
usage of modern mechanisation and alternations in production
pattern.
Total production value after the rroject is being in-
creased fro,< year to year, nhysically and financially, because
the arable land has been increased, and there has been a
shift to sugar beet and other crops /vegetables/ production
for which there is a deiand on the market.  Law of sumvly
and demand will be more nresent at production planning in
the future.
Results achieved in the nrevious two years are nositive
although full effects of the Project are expected only from
1990.



48
Internal rate of return has been established on the basis
of fiancial results which are established on the basis of
fixed Drices and on revaluated investment funds /surD¶le"lent 5/.
IRR after Project  ...... 18.5 /total for soc. and ind. sector/
IRA before Project  ...*  18.9 /total for soc. and ind. sector/
Difference  ....   0.4
The difference of 0.4 is negligible, therefore it is
right to conclude that the Project is economically a very
successful achievement.
Matters to consider
From the commencement of the Project till 1988 the. a
were no significant economical and financial problems and
those less important were sojed in the course of the Project
realilation.
However, in the financial sphere from 1987 on there
has been a problem of ensuring financial funds for continuous
agricultura 1 production. Even when the funds are ensured
the Droduction costs are high especially because of interest
rates. The problem is not "resent only in "3enberija" but
in the whole economy of the country.



49
CONCLUSION
Taking into consideration everything previously stated
and explained the Project may be said to have been completed
successfully and on time while its main objectives have also
been fulfilled.
The construction of watermanagement structures has
created favourable conditions for regular cultivation of soil
as well as conditions for sowing of all crops especially
sugar beet.
Besides this, there has been a land consolidation, by-which
an access to every lot has been ensured. Lots in the indi-
vidual sector have been alotted nerer villages. The land
consolidation has ensured more economical cultivation, de-
creased costs, and made the production in the area more pro-
fitable.
Owing to procured equipment, stores, sheds, workshibps
for repair and servicing of machines and operation and main-
tenance facilities it is possible to operate the system
successfully and to apply modern technical and technological
achievements.
In order to make such and similar projects even more
successful attention should be drawn to certain 'atters:
1. It is necessary to have sufficient time for the
nreparation of nroject documentation especially where there
is a need for nedological and hydrological maps;
2. In cases where there is a land consolidation project
narallel to a land reelRmqtion nroject it is an imnerative
to coordinate works on zeneral design of land consolidation
with general design of lind reclamation;



50
3. Special attantion should be drawn to forest clearance
in order to avoid changes in physical scone of work in
the course of nroject realisation. It is also very import-
ant how tree stumps should be removed;
4. The best solution for a succesful implementation
of a project and timely completion of it is to choose one
contractor wvhereever it is possible.
Eliminating these and similar problems, which apneraed
in this nroject as well, would make future Droject similar to
this one even more successful and more economical.



51
A P PE B  D I X
I



SIEMRIJA LAID RECLAMATION PROJECT                                                                               SUPPLEMENT 1Ili
AGRICULTURAL CROPS SOWING PATTERN
- INDIVIDUAL SECTOR -
IN HA
C R O P S                                                             Y E A R
1984.     1985.     1986.      1987.     1988.     1989.      1990.     1991 - 2005.
VHEAT                                     520      1.942     2.o90     2.649      2.579    3.o8o     3.388          3.763
CORN                                    5.o6o     5.6o2      5.846     5.573     4.285    3.78o      3.204          2.900
OTHER CERIALS                              19        lo7        76        58         50       50        50            -
CERIALS - SUBTOTAL                      5.599     7.651      8.o12     8.280     6.914    6.91o      6.642          6.663
SUGAR BEET                                398       722        974     1.124     1.976    2.336      2.569          2.825
OTHER CASH CROPS                           24         47       123       189        75o      270       200             _
CASH CROPS-SUBTOTAL                       422       769      1.o97     1.313     2.726    2.6o6      2.769         2.825
POTATOES                                  155       189        219       185       21o       210       200           220 o
GREEN PAPPER                              159       175        201       215       21o       220       250            28o
TOMATOES                                   89      18         117       123       12o       129       135            175
STRING BEANS AND PEAS                       -        31         37        _    -              -         - 
CABBAGE                                   lo7       123        137       148       15o       16o       170            175
OTHER VEGETABLES                          337       416        443       549       600       531       42o            15o
VEGETABLES-SUBTOTAL                       847     1.o42      1.154     1.22o     1.290    1.250      1.175         1.000
ALFALFA                                   572       881        973       932     1.310    1.454      1.624         1.702
OTHER FORAGE CROPS                        166       185        170       567       330       350       36o            38o
FORAGE CROPS - SUBTOTAL                   738     l.o66      1.143     1.449     1.64o    1.804      1.984         2.o82
SOWING - TOTAL                          7.6o6    lo.528    11.4o6    12.312    12.570   12.570    12.507          12.570
UNSOWN PLOVLAND                         3.414     1.275        707       258      _         _         _             _
PLOVLAND TOTAL                         l1.o2o    11.803    12.113    12.570    12.57o   12.570    12.570          12.570



53
0
o     o'r        t O o  o on                                                 U'
0     0 N        UN  0 U    0   , 
g          ~H                                                  -  H
u*%    Lrn     0                       ~ 
r4%  a'Oa''                                               4 
8~~~~I 0Nt o   HINs II                   I i   1     1      I I A        I
0                                                 0
>~~~~-    -------------------------------------W___                       ---_____________
|   z           .   ~~H                                                     H  H
0
0C    0n 0         0a'0O0                  A                         4 4 U
a'    o  U       NU   N o o o      i            lol              ia, U
c  o      o0     o  s  o  aol             UN                       0t     I
CH       U- uo   Ics4   CY %0   I  I                  I  I  I  I 1% 1I  |
C  n 4 m H    f-4 F >                                               4
oa   4 I        H       n   o   I  I  I  I  I  I           I       I   Ia
I                                    - ----H ---                     H    a
|z~r~-    t~a            LA         r, 
Ha'I H  N    H                                                    C I I   I     I  I    II  I  I
'IO    UN        C-
'QcV o    cm0   CM I t 0 4  a  n          R          0             I e  %
0.4'N        CO   Na                                    a' oa'  u                 J
a'%   4  t-       H   H4   C     I I  I       I  I       I  I
cV. 0
E-4
co            UN              O UN a  0  -                         o                 cm   O
o IHr4 tI                                                     i    Ii  I  IH  N
H
t. _e _ ..
S                    IA %O  0                                                     H
i~~~~~~~~4 rn            ¢                  I Iz I?        I                 IE t- UN g    0E
..   .   .'                     f                g    E        iHc  e   Z          c   
'- 1-4                                                     '
ce~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~
0     ~~                         C'3 ~~~0  e                      LE'.
1     M       -cc  I *Wor. 'r') 5



SEMBERIJA LAND RECLAMACION PROJECT                                                              SUPPLEMENT 1/C
AGRICULTURAL CROPS SOWING PATTERN
-T O T A L-
IN HA
C R o P S                   1984.     1985.      1986.     1987.     198B.      1989.     1990.     1991-2oo5.
WHEAT                         914    2.338       2.515    3.264    3.031    3.780          4.o68         4.463
CORN                        5.226    6.oll       6.516    5.869    4.830    4.285          3.719         3.455
OTHER CERTALS                  19       107          76        58       163        5o         50           _
CERIALS-SUBTOTAL            6.159    8.456       9.139    9.191    8.o24    8.115          7.837         7.918
SUGAR BEET                    440       836      1.175    1.589    2.494    2.826          3.o69         3.325
OTHER CASH CROPS               99       196         30o       441    1.o67        470        390           190
CASH CROPS-SUBTOTAL           539    1.o32       1.475    2.o30    3.561    3.296          3.459         3.515
PATATOES                      155       189        219        185       21o       210        200           22o
GREEN PAPPER                  159       175         201       215       21o       22o        250           28o
TOMATOES                       89       108         117       123       12o       129        135           175
STRING BEANS AND !EAS          49        89         12o       -          _         50         6o            _
CABBAGE                       107       123         137       148       150       160        170           175
OTHER VEGETABLES              337       416         4;3       549       6oo       531        42o           150
VEGETABLES - SUBTOTAL         896    1.loo       1.244    1.22o    1.290    1.300          1.235         1.ooo
ALFALFA                       572       881        973        932    1.310    1.454        1.624         1.702
OTHER FORAGE CROPS            166       185         170       567       33o       350        36o           38o
FORAGE CROPS-SUBTOTAL         738    l.o66       1.143    1.499    1.64o    1.8o4          1.984         2.o82
SOWING - TOTAL              8.332   11.654    13.ool   13.94o   14.515   14.515    14.515               14.515
UNSOVN PLOWLAND             3.978    1.387       1.o54        572      -          -          -             _
PLOWLAND TOTAL            12.310   13.o41       14.o55   14.512   14.515   14.515    14.515            14.515



ErLBERIJA LAND RECLA14ATION PROJECT
SUPPLEMENT 2/a
AGRICULTURAL CROPS YIELDS
- INDIVIDUAL SECTOR -
________________________                                        ~~~~~~~~~TONS/HA
C________O ___P___S___| I    1984.  a 1985.  * 1986.  5 1987.   5 1988.       1989.  3 199o.  1j991-2005
'I       a    ~ ~~ I                    i                  r        I 1
WEE3AT                3      4,191    3,2      3 3,2   5  3,4    ! 3,8         4,1  31  4    3 4,8
CORN C L                     55       49   4     5 9       5,1    |6,5    16,5   |6,5   |6,8
OTHER CERIALS                                             92,5      2,6        2,8   52,8   5
SC.AR BEET                  ko,         7       46,3   , 37,2    * 45,9       4 9,8   ! 5°,°    5o,5
OTHER CAS- CROPS             2,o      2,o   5  1,8         2,1      2,2    1 2,2   1 2,5   I  -
POTATOEX                    13,1      7,9        9,4   !  6,3        7,8      12,8   1 13,5   315,o
G2J;10"  PAPPER             16,7  l 17,o   1 13,1         13,1    5 18,8    1 2o,5   1 23,5   I 25,o
TOI4ATOEX             |    21,2  5' 243   5 21,1   3 21,3    3 27,6    3 31,5   3 37,8   1 4o,o
STRTNG Bi3ANS AND PEAS  5    -        1,8   '  2,2         -        -          -        -        -
CABBAR                1    24,9  1  23,9 9      21,5   3 23,5   1 26,9        3o,,2   I 38,o   1 4o,o
OTHET;lt VECETABLES   1      7to  1 lo,o    '  '9,   t 10,8   1 18,5          25,o   ' 32,o   ' 64,o
ALFALFA               |      4,9      3,5   3  4,o   1  4,2   1, 4,7    36,6   3 8,8   3 lo,o
OTHER FORAGE CROPS           4,o      2,3   '  2,6   t  4,2    1 3,8        I 6,6   | 8,5   I lo,o
t                     I                    I          I                 I t
*  *  a     a         a          a        a      -a~~~~~~~~
I~~ ~ ~ ~   ~    ~    ~     ~    ~    ~   ~    ~   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I           



_    .,               _       ;                    ~~~~~~~~~~56
I    n  U)          o  UN
__ _______________________________                                  5
N ~~~~~U
*o    o  o          o       o             o
v-I a       I    I  a7C;II               '  
H                   U
90E                 08     00              OUO                 0
E     o%   o  o          UN                 a
N              0'~~ U't- II",T I N           I          I  I O   I  I
C  H                    U.
ON          I   0        I      II  t        I
A     co              a  a                  a
5 -  &n8N t,  ;P  I  IE, HO  I                
4    to         -----    -----   ----    -----   ----   -----    ----
14 ~ ~ ~ ~
a, ~   ~      L    t,c3n
' n       90   4T O     IO             I   I  II
__ '- ,    _ _   ,      _      _      _
'-4~~~~~~~~~P
0~ ~~
'.0 t Cf'.   Co 0



EMBERIJA LAND RECLAMATION PROJECT                                                                    Supplement 3/a
PHYSICAL SCOPE OF CROP PRODUCTION
- individual sector -
____________________ _ .____                                                Tons
Y E A R
C R O P S
1984.  3   1985.       1986.       1987.      1988.       1989.       1990.     1991-2005
Wheat                       2.145       6.307       6.726      9.o7o       9.800      12.628      14.9o7       18.o62
Corn                       27.984      24.671      34.722     28.846      27.852     24.570       2o.826       19.720
Other cerials                   56        268         167        147         llo         llo          125        -
Cerials-subtotal           3o.185      31.246    41.615       38.o63      37.762      37.3o8      35.858       37.782
Sugar beet                 16.135      28.677      45.o88     41.758      9o.6o6    116.332      128.45o      142.662
Other cash crops               39          96         184        28o       1.65o         594         500         -
Cash crops-subtotal        16.174      28.773      45.272     42.o38      92.256    116.926      128.95o      142.662
Potatoes                    2.o35       1.498       2.o69      1.161       1.638       2.688       2.70o        3.3oo
Green Papper                2.665       2.981       2.631      2.712       3.948       4.510       5.875        7.ooo
Tomatoes                    1.889       2.411       2.473      2.62o       3.312       4.o63       5.103        7.ooo
String Beans and peks          76          57          83        -           -           -           -           -
Cabbage                     2.57o       2.937       2.949      3.474       4.o35      4.832        6.46o        7.ooo
Other vegetables            2.669       4.35o       4.634      5 951      1l.loo     13.275       13.44o        9.6oo
Vegetables-subtotal        11.9o04     14.234      14.839     15.918      24.o33     29.368       33.578       33.9oo
Alfalfa                     2.828       3.o67       3.893      3.917       6.157       9.596      14.291       12.o2o
Other forage crops          1.329         541       1.359      2.381       1.254       2.310       3.o6o        3.8oo
Forage crops-subtotal       4.157       3.6o8      2.252       6.298       7.411     11.9o6       17.351       2o.82o
Sowing total               62.42o      77.861    1o6.978    102.317    161.462    195.5o8        215.737      235.164



,1BERIJA LAND R$ECLAMATION PROJECT                                             SUPPLEVtEXIT 3/b
PHYSICAL SCOPE OF CROP PRODUCTION
- SOCIAL SECTOR -                            'ros
C R OP S                                            Y   E   A   R
1_ 1984.  . 1985.! 1986.!  1987.,.  1988. i  1989. 'I  1990.   I  1991-2oo5
1.268   | 1.o38  1.631 | 2.521 | 1.8o8   3.15o  I 3.4oo    I   3.85o
CORN                    j  976   a 2.ol5 a 3.274 a 1.453 ' 3.270 1 3.282    3.6o6           4.162
O'THER CERIALS                                                3 3 9 I  _   1   339 t  -  a    -
CERIALS - SUJBTOTAL     a 2.244  | 3.o53 t 4.905 1 3.974 1 5.417 1 6.432  1 7.oo6    1   8.ol2
I        I       I       I       I        I        I           I
SUGAR, BEET               1.596    3.245 15.558 117.577 1 2o.928 122.54o  | 25.5oo 0       27.5oo
OTHER CASH CROPS        t  13o  1  16o a  234 1  63o *   793 !         o 5°o    475    a      475
a      a       a      aI               I         I           I                O
CASH CROPS - SUBTOTAL   1 1.726  t 3.405 1 5.792 118.207 1 21.721 123.o40  1 25.975    i  27.975
POTATOE3                S  -                 -       -        -       -   a   -               -
GREEN PAPPER                -        -       -       - t  - '  - i     - *  I
TOItlATC'ES ~ ~             I            I  a                            
TOMATOEIa-                        a                  - I - I -                           
STRING BEANS AND PEAS       244  1  319    313 |   578 j   30                   360
CABBAGE                 ,   -        -   !  -  I  -           -   ,   -   a   -        a
OTHER VEGTABLES         a  _         -   t  -  I  -   *           *        , -
VEGETABLES - SUBTOTAL   a  244  a  319 1'  313 j   578|   -   j   300 '   360    a            -
ALFALFA                     _        _       _       _ I _ I _                  _             _
OTHER FORAGE CROPa  -   I  -  I  -                            -   a |      a   - _ _
OFORAGE CROPS  SUBTOTAL     -        -       -       -                          -             -
SOV[ING TOTAL ,           4.289  1 6.771 '111.,75 ' 22.181 127.138  | 29.772    5.341    a  35.987
*                                     I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



SEMBERIJA LAND RECLAM ATION PROJECT                                                            SUPPLEMENT 3/c
PHYSICAL SCOPE OF CROP PRODUCTION
-T O T A L-
________________________________                                                tons
C   R OP   S                      _  _  _  _  _  _    __Y   E   A         R                  _   _  _  _  _  _
1984.      1985.       1986.       1987.      1988.       1989.       1990.      1991-2o05
wheat                         3.413     7.345       8.357       11.591     11.6o8      15.778      18.307        21.912
corn                         28.96o    26.686      37.996       3o.399     31. L22     27.852      24.432        23.882
other cerials                    56       268         167          147        449         110         125          _
cerials- subtotal            32.429    34.299      46.52o       42.o37     43.179      43.74o      42.864        45.794
sugar beet                   17.731    31.922      50.646       59.335    111.534    138.872    153.950        17o.162
other cash crops                169       256         418          910      2.443       1.o94         975           475
cash crops- sutbtotal        17.900    32.178      51.o64       6o.245    113.977    139.966    154.925        17o.637
potatoes                      2.035     1.498       2.o69        1.161      1.638       2.688       2.7oo         3.300
green papper                  2.665     2.981       2.631        2.712      3.948       4.51o       5.875         7.000
tomatoes                      1.889     2.411       2.473        2.62o      3.312       4.o63       5.103        7.ooo
string beans and peas           395       370         661          -          -           300         360           _
cabbage                       2.570     2.937       2.949        3.474      4.o35       1.832       6.46o         7.ooo
other vegetables              2.669     4.35o       4.634        5.951     11.loo      131.275     13.44o         9.6oc
vegetables-subtotal          12.223    14.54T      15.417       15.918     24.o33      29.668      33.938        33.900
alfalfa                       2.828     3.o67       3.893        3.917      6.157       9.596      14.291       17.o2o
other forage krops            1.329       541       1.359        2.381      1.254       2.31o       3.o6o         3.80o
forage krops - subtotal       4.157     3.6o8       5.252        6.298      7.411      11.906      17.351       2o.82o
sowing total                 66.7o9    84.632    118.253      124.498   188.6oo       225.28o    249.078       271.151



SEMEERIJA LAND RECLAMATION                                                                          SUPPLEMENT 4
PROIHCTION ANT COST VALUE
SUIMARY
Prices in Juli 1988.                          In mill. dinars
I T E M S              ,YEAR
1984.      1985.       1986.       1987.      1988.       1989.       199o.       1991-2005
I  Production value               16.263       19.116     18.289      23.106      31.o56    34.538       37.391       40.717
II Costs
al Dirt't                          9.231       lo.493      7.722      11.354      17.868    18.227       18.336       18.407
b/ Indirect                        1.395        2.o85      1.924       2.992       4.o5o      4.183       4.271        4.318
-   Overhead costs                    72          449         321        459         663        676         68o          679
-   Insurance                         92           67         280        437         669        731        765           812            o
-   Interest                         495          832         327        514       1.104      1.118      1.128         1.loo
- Taxes nd contri budions            46o          498         596      1.116       1.292      1.336      1.376         1.4o5
- ProJect marintenance               276          239         350        466         322        322         322         322
m   Total cost Ia+b/              lo.626       12.578      9.646      14.346      21.918    22.410      22.6o7        22.725
IV  Diference is positive          5.637        6.538      8.643       8.737       9.138    12.128      14.783        17.992
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.



SEMBRIJA LAND RECLAMATION                                                                              SUPPLENT 5.
ECONOMICAL ANALYSIS
INTERNAL RATE OF RETURN /SUMARY FOR THE PROJECT/
In mill. dinars
fear              Investment               Rem_ins             Base               Internal rate of return
'12         18            19
11                  2                       3                  4             5           6              7
982.              7.283                     _                7.283         6.5o3        6.172         6.12o              0
983.             13.539                     -               13.539        10.793        9.724         9.561
984.             2o0.o36                  5.637             14.399        10.249        8.763         8.544
985.             18.895                   6.538             12.357         7.853        6.373         6.162
986.             l1.308                   8.643              2.665         1.512        1.165         1.117
987.                _                     8.737              8.737         4.426        3.236         3.o76
988.                -                    79.138             79.138         4.133        2.868         2.7o4
989.                -                    12.128             12.128         4.898        3.226         3.ol6
990.                _                    14.783             14.783         5.330        3.333         3.o9o
991-2oo5            _                    i.§§2              17.992        14.496       20.655        18.568
71.o61              X                                    26.o67    +  1.121   -    1.o5o
Internal  Rate of return is 18,5



62
.... ~SEbMBERIJA
LAND RECLAMATION  PROJECT -  LOAN 2161-YU
UPI SARAJEVO WO AB "SEMBERIJA"
BOAL "HIDROMEBLIORATION S3F1BERIJA"
DIRECTOR                   ~">
FINANCIAL  TECHNICAL    ADMINISTRATIVE AGRICUL
DIRECTOR      AND       DIRECTOR        TURAL
CONSTRUCTION                DIRECTOR
DIRECTOR
I                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~BOAL
BOOKKEEPER              ADMINISTRATIVE                 CROPPRODUCTION
STAFF
ENGINEERS                                   BOAL
/engaged when                              IESTOCK
needed/
BOAL
REPAIR



63
ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 2
The World Bank
Agriculture, Infrastrueture and Rman
Resources Division
Operations Evaluation Department
1818 E Street, N.W
Washirgton, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
(202) 477-1234                       Sarajevo, February 25,1991
Dear Mr. Dcaaldson,
We have received your report on implementation of the
SemberiJa Drainage Project (Loan 2161 YU). We have read the
report carefully and concluded that it was prepared highly
professionally and that it covered all important elements
relative to the Project.
We were glad to find out that participation of our Institu-
te was highly appraised.
We would like to inform you that the new director of our
Institute is mr Tomislav Oberman,  and that the task of
cooperation with the World Bank is assigned to Mr. Bogoljub
Rikalo, B.Sc. in C.E.
We would also like you to know that the Semberija Drainage
Project was the first project in the field of land reclama-
tion to be implemented entirely in our Republic and that it
was initiated by the Bank after implementation of the Sava
Project. The acquired experience and high criteria of the
Bank were later on used in adjacent regions in realization
of new drainage projects.
The benefits of the Semberija Drainage Project were fur;her
qualifying and expansion of our Institute, which now has
about 300 employees. A new modernly equipped laboratory was
built, employing highly trained specialists. A now computer
m^VAta van estblatshed.



64
ANNEX 1
page 2 of 2
We think that it would be of great benefit for our Institu-
te to register as a Consultant organization with the Bank.
Therefore we kindly ask you, it you agree with our sugges-
tion, to send us the appropriate forms.
Please note that the Institute for Water Resources Develop-
ment is registered with FAO, UNIDO and the INRES Center.
Yours sincerely,
Institute for Water Resources Development
71000 Sara4evo
Bratstva i jedinstva 39 a
Yugoslaviga
Fax. 071/653-169



I-
1000         0           1           2           3          4            5
METERS                           KILOMETERS                                                        /J
- --t to which it ia ott ch d                                              _           I                                                                            Z --  I
TOPOLOVAC                                             /          *                                               I
7-nt on ths 1I t tUg of                                \/                 \         I           L
y bV 0r ny omcet                                                                                  \                                                                     /  /~~/ 
AUSTR~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IA ___....S 1_ \    I                                                                                       fiY
Ostojidevo
r el~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
.'^-t   .-:t  H U N GARY   t                                               \                                      t                 /~~~~~~~~~~~~/ /
tSZOVEW/A r   \>  S   *J  s    ROMAN IA                                            \                                  \                /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o  4
Vie mop has been prepared by tOe
'odd Bank a staff exclusively for
* Commenenc of thW readers of
L!---Z-t to which It is attachos4
te denominatios usd aond the
NMadWI.' #hown on this map
ono       On   pan of th
wod Ban Van :Y  ffiliates, any
*w.n.nt on the legl status of
V teniftoy or any endorsement
acceptnce of such boundaries.
IOVENIAC                          ,               O, MAN IA
CRAOA F/A        ~        A/OVODIANZ)
-  \h'R?E$OVI N    '%Prj*ctlocation   ?
*    0         ?A        I
ITALY                                     jNAfAO /AA                                                                                                 BIJE,JINA
- -A. PANIA



