Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 3841-YU
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SEMBERIJA DRAINAGE PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA - SR BOSNIA-HERZEGOVINA
May 10, 1982
Regional Projects Department
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
Agriculture III
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



(i)
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS*
US$ 1                                             Dinars (Din) 43.67840
Din 1                                             US$ 0.022895
Din 1,000,000                                     US$ 22,894.61
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 kilogram (kg)                                   2.20 pounds
1 quintal                                         100 kilograms
I metric ton (m ton)                              1,000 kilograms
1 metric ton (m ton)                              0.98 long ton
1 millimeter (mm)                                 0.04 inch
1 centimeter (cm)                                 0.39 inch
1 meter (m)                                       1.09 yards
1 kilometer (km)                                  0.62 mile
I hectare (ha)                                    2.47 acres
1 square meter (m2)                               10.76 square feet
I square kilometer (km2)                          0.384 square mile
1 liter (1)                                       0.264 gallon
1 cubic meter (m3)                                1.31 cubic yards
ABBREVIATIONS
BOAL     =  Basic Organization of Associated Labor
BOCF     =  Basic Organization of Cooperative Farmers
COAL UPI    Complex Organization of Associated Labor of the United
Agriculture, Marketing and Industry
CBO      =  Cooperative Basic Organizations
ICB         International Competitive Bidding
IWRD     =  Institute of Water Resources Development
LCB      =  Local Competitive Bidding
OCC      =  Opportunity Cost of Capital
OVZ      =  Basic Self-Managing Community of Interest
PAC         Project Advisory Committee
PBS      =  Privredna Banka Sarajevo - Udruzena Banka
SDK      =  Social Accounting Service
SFRY     =  Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
SIZ      =  Self-Managed Water Management Community of Interest for Water
Economy
SRBH     =  Socialist Republic of Bosnia-Herzegovina
W.O.        Work Organization
W.O.A.E. =  Work Organization Agricultural Estate Semberija
Semberija
* The Yugoslav Dinar has been floating since July 13, 1973. The currency
equivalents given above are those effective on February 15, 1982, which have
been used in this report.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
(ii)
APPRAISAL OF
SEMBERIJA DRAINAGE PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA - SR BOSNIA-HEWRZEGOVINA
Table of Contents
I.       THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
A. Agriculture in Yugoslavia
B. Bank's Role and Agricultural Lending Strategy
C. Agricultural Development Issues in SR Bosnia-Herzegovina
II.      THE PROJECT AREA
A. Description of the Project Area
B. Agricultural Situation in the Project Area
C. Principal Institutions Participating in the Project
III.     THE PROJECT
A. Objectives
B. Detailed Features
C. Description of the Project
D. Land Consolidation
E. Status of Engineering
F. Cost Estimate
G. Financing and On-lending
H. Procurement and Retroactive Financing
I. Implementation Schedule
J. Disbursements
K. Environmental Impact
L. Role of Women
IV.      AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION
A. Land Use, Cropping Pattern, Yields, and Production
B. Farm Inputs
C. Agricultural Support Services
D. On-Farm Agricultural Development
V.       PROJECT ORGANIZATION AND IMPLEMENTATION
A. The Borrower
B. Implementing Agencies and Responsibilities
C. Operation and Maintenance
D. Accounts and Audits
E. Project Monitoring and Completion Reports
VI.      MARKETING, FARM INCOME, PROJECT CHARGES AND FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
A. Marketing Prospects, Processing Requirements and Storage
B. Farm Incomes
C. Project Charges and Cost Recovery
D. Financial Analysis
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission to Yugoslavia
during October-November 1981, consisting of Messrs. Mahmud H. Tirmazi, Roderic
Buller, Barkat Ali (Consultant) and Mesdames Linda Likar and Robin Glantz
(Young Professionals).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



( iii)
Table of Contents (Cont'd)
VII.       PROJECT JUSTIFICATION
A. Benefits
B. Economic Analysis
VIII.      SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
Annexes
Annex 1               Climatological Data
Annex 2               Data on Pumping Stations
Annex 3    Table 1    Operation and Maintenance Equipment and Experimental
Equipment for Field Drains
Table 2    Agricultural Equipment
Table 3    Agricultural Research and Extension Equipment
Annex 4    Table 1    Cost Estimates
Table 2    Estimated Schedule of Expenditures
Table 3    Procurement Packages for Construction and
Procurement of Equipment
Table 4    Financing Plan
Annex 5               Program of Drainage and Reclamation
Annex 6               Schedule of Disbursements
Annex 7               Cropping Pattern on Arable Land
Annex 8    Table 1    Crop Production, Gross Value, and
Incremental-Individual
Sector
Table 2      Crop Production, Gross Value, and Incremental-Social
Sector
Table 3    Crop Production, Gross Value, and Incremental -
Both Sectors Combined
Annex 9               Fertilizer Application Rates and Total Requirement
Annex 10              Annual Operation and Maintenance Costs
Annex 11               Individual Sector Farm Model
Annex 12              Financial and Economic Prices
Annex 13   Table 1    Financial Analysis Individual Sector
Table 2    Financial Analysis Social Sector
Table 3    Financial Analysis Total Project
Annex 14              Economic Prices for Tradeable Inputs and Outputs
Annex 15              Economic Rate of Return
Annex 16               Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
Charts
Chart-World Bank-23654    Implementation Schedule
Chart-World Bank-23657    BOAL Hydromelioration Semberija - Organizational
Chart
IBRD  No. 16222           Map of Semberija Drainage Project



APPRAISAL OF
SEMBERIJA DRAINAGE PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA - SR BOSNIA-HERZEGOVINA
I.  The Agricultural Sector
A. Agriculture in Yugoslavia
1.01     Yugoslavia is endowed with relatively favorable land resources and
diverse climatic conditions that permit wide ranging agricultural pursuits.
About 44% of the total territory is mountainous and 56% is agricultural, two
thirds of which or 7.08 million ha is arable land. A varied production
pattern has developed within and among the republics which emphasizes cereals
and industrial crops in the eastern and central plains along the Danube and
Sava, livestock in the hilly and more mountainous areas of the far north and
south, and vineyards, olives and citrus fruits along the Adriatic Coast.
1.02     Of the 22.3 million people in Yugoslavia, an estimated 54% still live
in rural areas. Agricultural production engages about 30% of the country's
active population compared to 50% in 1961. In 1980, agricultural output
accounted for about 14% of GMP (29% in 1961), and about 14% of foreign
exchange earnings (34% in 1961). In this sense, agricultural development in
Yugoslavia has followed a path similar to that of any industrializing
economy. But, despite this relative decline in contribution, agriculture
remains an important source of food, employment, income, industrial raw
materials, and foreign exchange earnings. In addition, many activities in the
manufacturing, transport, and service sectors are related either to the supply
of agricultural inputs or the processing of agricultural output.
1.03     A key feature of the agricultural sector is the ownership of about
84% of the land by nearly 2.6 million individual farmers making it the only
sector of the Yugoslav economy which is predominantly privately owned. With
an average holding per family of 3.2 ha, and 95% of the total agricultural
labor force, the individual sector produces 85% of the maize, 60% of the
wheat, 75% of the vegetables and owns between 85 and 90% of all livestock.
The individual sector co-exists with the social sector agrokombinats that
developed out of post-war collectivization. Agrokombinats operate as
integrated factory farms engaged in primary production, agro-processing,
distribution and marketing. All agricultural services, credit, marketing and
processing activities are in the hands of the social sector. In addition to
the agrokombinats, the social sector includes other institutions, namely
cooperatives and research organizations, which all together control 15% of the
arable land, produce 28% of the nation's total output, and account for 5% of
the rural work force. The reasons for the disproportionate contributions from
the two sectors stem from Yugoslavia's agricultural development strategy which
promotes the growth of social sector agriculture as the principal means to\
achieve large-scale market production and self-sufficiency in food.
Agricultural production during 1971-1980 grew at an annual rate of 5.4% in the
social sector compared to 1.2% in the same period for the individual sector.
However, the relative performance of the social sector has not been as good as
the growth rates suggest. Investments per hectare have been three times



higher in the social sector than in the individual sector while productivity
has only been about twice as great.
1.04     The individual sector's development, at least since the mid-1970's,
has been sought through the cooperation of farmers with the social sector.
Since the social sector is the only seller of inputs and buyer of outputs on
organized markets, all individual farmers have dealings with it. But the
government seeks more extensive cooperation; for example, (i) associated
farmers in a basic organization of associated labor of an agrokombinat or (ii)
as members of producer cooperatives or finally (iii) as farmers entering
production contracts with social sector organizations. Although there are
benefits to be derived from closer cooperation, farmers have been reluctant to
associate themselves more closely with the social sector and consequently a
large number of individual farmers have remained as a relative poverty group
in Yugoslavia. The wide income disparity between individual farm and social
sector incomes has caused substantial migration of the young labor force which
has also hindered more rapid growth in the sector over all. If Yugoslavia is
to improve agricultural performance and reduce income disparities, it will
need to reassess some of the policies which have impeded faster growth in the
individual sector.
1.05     The 1981-1985 Agricultural Development Plan expects a substantial
improvement in agricultural production. An overall 4.5% annual production
growth rate is projected with estimated increases of 6% for the social sector,
4% for the individual sector, 7% for agro-industries and a 10% growth in
agricultural exports. Based on the sluggish performance during the past five
years (1.6% annual growth rate compared to the goal of 4%) this new plan is
especially ambitious. The proposed strategy relies on improved land use and
the development of social sector holdings as the main vehicles for growth.
1.06     Yugoslavia has experienced a net decline in arable land since 1959 of
an estimated 600,000 ha, primarily due to the encroachment of expanding urban
centers and industrial development. According to the present plan, this
situation is to turn around over the next 5 years through land amelioration
and reclamation works. Total arable land is assumed to increase from the
present 7.08 million ha to 7.30 million by 1985 -- with the entire additional
220,000 ha accruing to the social sector. Total arable land in the individual
sector is expected to remain constant at 5.83 million ha, because expansion
due to reclamation will be offset by sales of land to the social sector.
Agricultural planners recognize the need to develop the individual sector as a
means of addressing the problems of unemployment, rural poverty, regional
income disparities and low productivity and feel this will best be achieved
through increased cooperation with the social sector. They further maintain
that the slower growth rate targeted for the sector reflects the institutional
deficiencies leading to difficulties in providing large numbers of small
farmers with adequate inputs and markets.
1.07     The challenge in the 1980's for Yugoslav agriculture is to increase
production in, and incomes of, the large individual sector, increase
productivity in the social sector, and expand the export base of agricultural
products. This challenge is being recognized by the Government, as evidenced



- 3 -
by the reorientation towards primary production in the 1981 - 1985 Plan.
Despite the Government's granting of priority status to agriculture and
recognition of the need to make changes in its policies and investment
programs, the sector still tends to suffer from major problems. These
problems are; (a) inadequate investment; (b) imbalance toward agricultural
processing; (c) inadequate agricultural credit facilities and extension
services; and (d) inadequate institutional arrangements and services for the
large individual sector. Instead of continued reliance on the growth of
social sector agriculture as the principal means to achieve the Plan's goals,
the Government also needs to take simultaneous steps towards the development
of Yugoslavia's largest agricultural resource, the individual farmer.
Bank's Role and Agricultural Lending Strategy
1.08     The interrelated objectives which the Bank has pursued in lending to
Yugoslavia are:
(a)  to support Yugoslav efforts to address the critical issues of
regional disparities and unemployment;
(b)  to promote the development of primary production in the social
sector and particularly in the individual sector in recognition
of the fact that the major output increases can be expected from
the largest resource block;
(c)  to encourage structural reforms in major sectors through
improved coordination, institution building and technical
assistance;
(d)  to help in identifying and financing gaps in basic
infrastructure; and
(e)  to alleviate critical shortages of convertible foreign exchange
by providing part of the required long-term capital, encouraging
and promoting Yugoslavia's efforts to tap other sources of
medium and long-term capital and supporting projects which
generate or conserve foreign exchange.
In the future, because of existing unutilized capacities, the Bank will
support only rehabilitation and reconstruction of agro-processing capacities.
There will also be more emphasis on investment in land improvement (drainage
and reclamation) to help reverse the long-term decline in the area under
cultivation. Bank strategy and lending policy is consistent with and closely
parallels the country's development strategies. The Bank assisted in the
formulation of the 1973 "Green Plan", a comprehensive framework for
agricultural development, which emphasized the need to support the individual
farm sector in order to accelerate agricultural growth. This policy has been
pursued still further and about 40% of the 1981-85 proposed World Bank lending
program to Yugoslavia is expected to be in the agricultural sector. The
Bank's strategy focuses, as far as possible, in channelling its resources to
the lesser developed regions in the primary production sector and related



-4-
processing facilities. In the Republics of Serbia and Croatia which together
with the Autonomous Province of Vojvodina constitute the middle income
regions, two agricultural projects in the Morava and one in the Sava basins
have been financed and are intended, inter alia, to demonstrate how the
problems of the poor agricultural communes in the relatively developed regions
can be addressed. The Bank has already made a total of 13 loans for
agriculture in Yugoslavia, amounting to US$766 million, constituting about 24%
of the Bank's total lending to Yugoslavia. In addition, two multi-purpose
projects have major irrigation components. In the future, the emphasis on the
agricultural sector is expected to increase further.
1.09     Role of the Project.  The present project under consideration
continues the Bank's poverty alleviation focus as agricultural income levels
in Semberija are among the lowest in Yugoslavia. However, through this
project a shift would be made from the less developed and more moutainous
southern regions to the development of primary production in the northern
flat-lands which count among the most productive in Yugoslavia. The project
would help to reverse the trend of declining arable land. Almost 700,000 ha
of agricultural land has gone out of cultivation in the past two decades
partly due to deterioration of land due to flooding and water logging. The
project would stress primary production, particularly cereals and industrial
crops, lack of which have contributed to the growing deficit in the
agricultural balace of trade. In 1979 and 1980, almost one million tons of
cereals were imported, although Yugoslavia was once a net exporter. Finally,
the project would begin to address some of the institutional and policy issues
retarding agricultural growth. Provisions to improve extension services,
promote land consolidation, and studies of the economics of small-holder
agriculture -- including the impact of price policy -- are included in this
project. In this way, the project would attempt to move beyond poverty and
employment objectives to begin to address some of the structural problems
affecting the Yugoslav economy -- external adjustments, inadequate growth and
the lagging contribution of the agricultural sector.
C. Agricultural Development Issues in SR Bosnia-Herzegovina (SRBH)
1.10     Overview.  The Socialist Republic of Bosnia-Herzegovina is located in
the south central part of the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (SFRY)
and comprises 5.11 million hectares or 20% of the total area of Yugoslavia.
As of 1980, average per capita income was US$1,737 or approximately two-thirds
of the national average, making SR Bosnia-Herzegovina one of the lower income
regions. Presently farm families account for 30% of the Republic's total
estimated population of 4.2 million and have an average per capita income of
US$454. The depressed incomes in agriculture, which employs 48% of the active
labor force (compared to 30% of the labor force in SFRY), are one of the main
reasons for such wide income differentials between SRBH and SFRY.
1.11     From 1971 to 1980 rural population in SR Bosnia-Herzegovina decreased
by 1.8%. Shortages in non-agricultural employment point out the importance of
creating better living conditions and increased employment in rural areas. By
helping to create the conditions for faster growth in agricultural production,
the Government will be addressing serious problems within the economy viz:



- 5 -
(i) rural poverty and the huge disparity of incomes between agricultural and
non-agricultural sectors; (ii) urban population's growing demand for more and
higher quality food products; (iii) raw material requirements for growing
industrial production; and (iv) the savings of foreign exchange through
reduced food imports and expanded exports. The Government realizes that in
order to attain these goals for the agricultural sector, at least two factors
will be critical: the more optimum use of low land areas and extensive
cooperation among individual farmers who own 95% of arable land.
1.12     The Individual Farmer.  Presently the private sector's land is
subdivided into tiny plots located in disparate areas with a total average
holding per family of 3.5 ha. The Government is encouraging private farmers
to pool their labor and capital to form cooperative organizations. These
organizations can provide farmers with benefits they otherwise would have
considerable difficulty obtaining: i.e. credit facilities, access to rental of
expensive farm equipment; price assurances and market guarantees; advice and
counseling; as well as medical/pension plan arrangements. The disadvantages
to the individual farmers are loss of flexibility and in some cases lower
product prices paid by the Basic Cooperative Organizations. Because they make
allowances for operating costs, product prices may be reduced accordingly and
in some instances become too low to provide incentives to expand production.
Although the policy appears to be a well-reasoned solution to the need to
increase on-farm production, in practice it seems to have been less
successful. This may in part be due to insufficient financial incentives as
well as the historical disinclination of individual farmers to become part of
organized labor groups or cooperatives.
1.13     Land Use.  Due to its mountainous terrain, only 21% (1.61 million ha)
of SRBH's total area is arable land (compared to 28% for SFRY). Of this
amount, about 0.5 million ha are flatlands in the Sava River Basin which are
among the most productive and fertile lands in all of SFRY. Within this
Basin, about 150,000 ha are in need of drainage, of which 15,700 ha are
covered in this project. The effects of this periodic flooding has been a 25%
under-utilization of arable land. This situation has prevailed in SRBH since
1960 because the Republic has relied more heavily on livestock which can
utilize the hilly mountainous area while the production of cereals and
industrial crops has remained limited. The need to alter this situation has
received prominance from agricultural planners who intend to increase planted
areas in SR Bosnia Herzegovina by 20% by 1985, through the successful
implementation of land reclamation and improvement programs primarily in
lowland areas of which the current project is one of the components.
1.14     Agricultural Production.  Agricultural performance has been sporadic
over the last 5 years as production increased on average by only 2.65%, and
its share in total production fell from 14% in 1975 to 11.5% by 1980. Output
is expected to increase by an annual rate of 4% over the next five years (8%
for the social sector, 3.5% for the individual sector). Production of grains
alone is to be expanded by 70% and an even larger increase in other industrial
crops is anticipated which would contribute to import substitution for wheat
and barley and increased export potential for other cereals. To achieve these
objectives, the plan allocates Dinars 17,000 million (US$390 million) to the



- 6 -
agricultural sector which represents 5.5% of total outlays compared to 2.1%
for the 1976-1980 plan. Most of this amount has been allocated to primary
production. The plan's projected 4% growth target is ambitious, particularly
in view of the last plan's performance. Nevertheless, the prerequisites for
attaining these growth rates have been recognized by the Government, namely:
the improvement and enlargement of cultivated land; redirection of investment
toward raw material production; and more extensive cooperation among
individual farmers.



II. The Project Area
A. Description of the Project Area
2.01     Location.  The project area of 19,000 ha, which lies within the low
plain of Semberija, is located in the north-eastern corner of the SR
Bosnia-Herzegovina at the confluence of the Sava and Drina Rivers. These two
rivers border the project site on the north and east, respectively. The
Seliste and Majevica canals form its southern and western borders,
respectively. The project area, which comprises nine villages, is located
within the Commune of Bijeljina, the sixth most populous commune in the
Republic. The City of Bijeljina, with 30,000 inhabitants, is 12 km from the
project area.
2.02     Topography.  The project area comprises the lowest part of the
Semberija plain, with elevations ranging from 80 to 88 meters above sea
level. Land slope is generally from south to north toward the Sava and Drina
Rivers. However, due to the relatively small slope (below 0.2%) and land
configuration close to the Sava River, flooding occurs in the larger
depressions, ravines and low-lying land after medium and heavy rains. Further
away from the Sava River there are some local, smaller depressions and
elevated mounds. Prior to the installation of flood protection dikes, the
project area was regularly flooded by the two rivers. Old river beds now
protected by the dikes represent the lowest part of the land.
Climate
2.03     Temperature.  The Semberija plain has a moderate continental climate
with cold winters, warm summers and a relatively uniform rain distribution,
well adapted to agriculture. The average annual temperature is 10.8°C.
July is the hottest month and January the coldest, averaging temperatures of
20.80C and -0.80C, respectively. The last frost usually occurs in the
beginning of April, so planting of sugarbeet, maize and frost-sensitive
vegetables begins in mid-April.
2.04     Precipitation.  The average annual rainfall is 750 mm, of which 434
mm occur during the vegetation period (April to September). The wettest
months are May and June, with 75 mm and 88 mm, respectively (Annex 1). There
is no pronounced soil-water deficit during the summer except in extremely dry
years. By contrast, waterlogging occurs regularly in spring, early summer and
autumn in low-lying areas with heavy impermeable soils.
2.05     Wind and Relative Humidity.  Winds are mostly moderate and do not
present a serious problem to crop production. Hail, which occurs sporadically
in localized areas, very rarely damages the crops. The relative air humidity
ranges from 70% to 80%, with no marked variations between months. Generally,
the climate is suitable for the normal growth of crops, particularly for
cereals (wheat and maize), industrial crops (sugarbeet and sunflower), forage
crops (alfalfa, clover, legume-grass mixtures and maize silage), and
vegetables (potatoes and cabbage). Only the drought-sensitive vegetables
under intensive cultivation, such as tomatoes and peppers, require
supplementary irrigation.



- 8-
2. 06     Soils and Land Capability.  The project area of 19,000 ha is divided
into two main zones; one of 15,570 ha requiring reclamation and land
improvement and the other of 3,430 ha requiring only land improvement. Three
main soil types and nine subtypes have been distinguished and are briefly
described below:
(a)  The predominant soil type is semigleysol, covering 63% of the
reclamation zone and 100% outside the reclamation zone. They
are heavy textured, deep and among the most fertile soils within
the Semberija plain. These are old valley soils and not
subjected to regular floodings for a long period of time. The
water table is deep, causing gleyzation in the lower portion of
the profile, usually below one meter. These soils have been
for-med on calcaric sediments and range from slightly below to
slightly above the neutral point. Available phosphorus content
is low, potassium is low to moderate and the humus content in
the upper horizon is three to four percent.
(b)  The second most common soil is eugleysol, covering 33% of the
reclamation zone. Due to their heavy texture, high groundwater
level and low infiltration rate, these soils are subject to
waterlogging. While potentially fertile, these soils require
special drainage measures. The pH reaction ranges from neutral
to alkaline, humus from three to five percent and available
phosphorus and potassium is low to moderate.
(c)  Fluvisols, which extend along the Sava and Drina rivers
representing about 4% of the reclamation zone, are typical young
alluvial soils, poor in humus, but possessing generally
favorable physical and chemical properties. A portion of these
soils represent the old river course and consequently are under
water for a considerable part of the year.
A land capability classification of the project area was done, according to
USBR methodology, both under present conditions and after land reclamation.
This resulted in dividing the land into four main classes and 16 subclasses.
The division into main classes is shown below:
Present Situation                           After Land Reclamation
Class             ha               %             Class               ha              %/
2            4,920              32               1               4,920            32
3            5, 960             38               1               4, 250           2 7
2               1, 710           11
4            3,970              25               2               1,500             9
3               2,470            16
5               720              5               2                 720             5
Total          15,570            100                              15,570           100
/I Summary; Class 1 (59%), Class 2 (25%), Class 3 (16%)



- 9 -
The land capability classification indicates that generally the soils are
potentially good for intensive crop production, but they require drainage
measures to regulate the water regime, which under present conditions, is the
principal constraint. After land reclamation and improvement (clearing,
levelling, deep plowing, fertilization), the capability classification of the
land improves.
2.07     Population, Employment and Incomes.  There are 17,000 inhabitants
currently in the project area. Population has declined seven percent over the
past 20 years: a much lower rate than for other regions of Yugoslavia. Rural
population constitutes about 88% of the total with slight fluctuations over
the years due to change of activity without change of residence and also due
to migration. The rural population is young: up to age 19, 34%; from 20 to
39, 30%; from 40 to 49, 14%; and over 50 years, 22%. The rural population is
engaged primarily in crop production, cattle and pig raising, maintenance of
buildings and equipment, and marketing of produce. The active rural
population is estimated at 6,730 man years equivalent./l From the table
below, it can be seen that the current requirements for agricultural
activities require only about 42% of the available active rural labour force.
Another 20% are estimated to be engaged in household activities, and in some
minor employment in industry. The surplus labour force available to
agriculture, for incremental production under the project, is estimated at
about 2,534 man years equivalent.
Annual Labor Balance Present Situation
Activity                    Available       Required       Balance
- - - -  Man Years Equivalent- - - -
Crop production              3,994          1,460              2,534
Animal husbandry             1,060          1,060                   -
Post-farm activities           330            330
Industry and household       1,346          1,346                   -
Total                        6,730          4,196               2,534
Approximately 15,000 people (4,700 farm families) or 90% of the total
population in the area are in the target group and are primarily subsisting
on an estimated average per capita income of about US$440.00. Target per
capita income for SFRY is about US$850./2
2.08     Land Use - Present.  The current distribution of land is shown in
the table on the following page. The project covers a gross area of 19,000
ha, of which only 57% can currently be considered as arable. Waterlogging
renders otherwise arable land (7.6%) uncultivable and another 8.5% and 15.7%
remain in low-grade natural grasslands, and degraded woodland and brush,
respectively. Only about one third of the forest land, which mostly is in
the individual sector, is of commercial value. Fruit trees and vineyards
(3%) are scattered around the dwellings of the individual farmers. The
percentage of arable land in the individual sector is considerably higher
than in the social, because historically private farms have been located on
more favorable higher ground. Land reclamation and improvement under the
project will greatly increase the amount of arable land in both sectors
(para 4.01).
/1 Man year equivalent defined as 216 days/year at 8 hrs/day for animal
production and household activities and 140 days/year at 10 hrs/day for
crop production.
/2 Average and target per capita incomes refer to 1980.



- 10 -
Land Use - Present Sitaution
Individual Sector        Social Sector          Total
Land Category              ha           %          ha        %       ha          %
Agricultural Land
Arable Cultivated   10,130        64.5          730    22.2   10,860    57.2
Arable Uncultivated    890         5.7         560    17.0    1,450        7.6
Subtotal Arable   11,020        70.2       1,290    39.2   12,310    64.8
Fruits and Grapes        580       3.7          -       -         580      3.1
Natural Meadows          440       2.8          -       -         440      2.3
Natural Pastures         570       3.6         610    18.5    1,180        6.2
Subtotal Perm.
Crops               1,590      10.1         610    18.5    2,200    11.6
Total Agricultural
Land                   12,610      80.3       1,900    57.7   14,510    76.4
Non-Agricultural Land
Forests and Brush    2,770        17.6         220      6.7    2,990    15.7
Roads, Works,
Farm yards             330       2.1       1,170    35.6    1,500        7.9
Total Non-Agricultural
Land                    3,100      19.7       1,390    42.3    4,490    23.6
Total Land Area          15,710    100.0        3,290   100.0   19,000   100.0
2.09     Land Tenure.  From the total project area of 19,000 ha, 83%
belongs to the individual sector and 17% to the social. The farm size
distribution of the 15,710 ha in the individual sector in 1971 was as
follows;
Land Tenure Pattern in the Project Area
Individual Sector
Farm Size    Households or Farms                Area            Average Farm Size
ha          Number        %            ha             %              ha
Up to 1         679         15.16            475       3.02               0.7
1 - 2           821         18.324         1,231       7.83               1.5
2 - 3           786         17.56          1,965      12.50               2.5
3 - 4           689         15.39          2,411      15.35               3.5.
4 - 5           494         11.05          2,223      14.15               4.5
5 - 6           344          7.68          1,893      12.05               5.5
6 - 8           414          9.25          3,022      19.24               7.3
Over 8          249           5.56         2,490      15.86              10.0
Total         4,476 /1    100.00          15,710    100.00                3.5
/1  In addition, there are 184 households without land giving a total of
4,660.



- 11 -
The average farm size in the individual sector is 3.5 ha. According to the
1981 cadastral survey, which registers 44,650 individual plots and 4,700
households owning land in the project area, the average farm has 9.5 plots.
Land fragmentation is a serious problem, not only because of labor and power
wastage while moving within and between small, scattered plots, but also
because of loss of land and shading caused by the accumulation of vegetation
between the plot boundaries. The social sector land of 3,290 ha is owned by
two enterprises: the Work Organization Agricultural Estate Semberija (1,280
ha) and the Work Organization Sava (2,010 ha). Prior to the end of 1982, the
former enterprise would acquire the land of the latter, and thereby become the
sole enterprise in the project area. These social sector holdings are mostly
concentrated in the northern portion of the project area.
2.10     Existing Infrastructure.  Transport facilities, power supply, schools
and health services are generally well established in the project area. Five
main asphalt roads (30 km) and the railway line, Bijeljina-Bosanska-Raca-Sid,
link the project area with other parts of the Republic. In addition, local
paved roads (60 km) connect the nine villages within the project area. All
settlements are connected to the electrical power network.
B. Agricultural Situation in the Project Area
Crop Production
2.11     Cereals.  Cereals are the most important crop, covering 79% of the
cultivated area, of which maize is the traditional crop with 49%. Crop
production is erratic and adherance to a well defined cropping pattern is
impossible because of unpredictable waterlogged conditions which vary from
place to place and year to year, affecting from 800 to 2,000 ha annually.
Excessive soil water frequently necessitates late spring planting and the
subsequent use of short maturing varieties, which produce low yields.
Cultural practices are minimal and although fertilizer and other inputs are
used, crop response is below expectations because of excessive moisture.
Average yields obtained by private farmers (1977-1980) were 2.7 t/ha of wheat
and 3.3 t/ha of maize. Social sector yields were slightly higher.
2.12     Industrial Crops.  Traditionally, industrial crops have been of minor
importance; however, sugarbeet was introduced two years ago to help meet the
requirements of a sugar factory located on the fringe of the project area.
Currently, only a small portion of the factory's capacity (400,000 tons) has
been supplied from the project area (14,000 tons on 470 ha).  In fact, the
mill has operated at less than 30% of its capacity since opening.
2.13     Vegetables and Forage Crops.  Vegetable crops (750 ha) are primarily
grown by the individual sector. They include potatoes, cabbage, green pepper
and tomatoes. Tomato and green pepper are often sprinkler irrigated from
small wells and drainage canals. Small amounts of industrial peas and string
beans (70 ha) are grown by the social sector. Forage crops are grown only by
the private sector of which alfalfa (510 ha) is the most important and is
grown mostly on selected high land. Use of annual forage crops is very
limited.



- 12 -
2.14     Agricultural Practices.  In the zone outside the reclamation area,
where waterlogging is absent, wheat and maize are equally represented in a
two-year crop rotation. However, in the area where waterlogging currently is
a problem, maize is frequently repeated on the same plot, because of
difficulties with fall sowing of wheat and the impossibility of establishing a
crop rotation. The relatively small amount of sugarbeet grown by the
individual sector is on an ad hoc basis; whereas, in the social sector it is
usually grown in a four-year crop rotation of wheat-maize-wheat-sugarbeet.
Forage crops and vegetables, grown by the individual sector, are each included
in self-contained flexible rotations on selected higher ground. The
prevailing level of technological "know-how" is rather good, but because the
risk of waterlogging in the major portion of the project area causes
uncertainties, the farmers are reluctant to apply this technology in terms of
optimal levels of inputs. Certified seed of high potential yielding crop
varieties, plant protection chemicals, and fertilizers are all available
through reasonably well organized channels of the agrokombinats and the Basic
Organizations of Cooperative Farmers. The social sector uses only certified
seed of the latest varieties; whereas, the private sector also uses unselected
seed of traditional varieties. Herbicides are applied on half the area
planted to cereals in the private sector, but not on vegetables. In the
social sector, herbicides are applied on all crops. Fertilizers are used on
almost all annual crops. Fertilizer rates in the social sector exceed those
in the private, although useage by the latter is on the increase. Basic
fertilization at planting time is commonly foregone on waterlogged land due to
late sowing. In these cases, side and top-dressings are applied to the crops
during the growing period. Details concerning fertilizer usage by both
sectors is given in para 4.05. Farming operations are reasonably well
mechanized in the social sector, while in the individual sector they are
restricted to basic land preparation. Most of the seeding, weeding, and
vegetable and fodder harvesting are performed manually. In addition to
privately owned tractors, the Work Organization of Cooperative Farmers
Podrinje rents machinery to its cooperative members. Specialized machinery
such as for sugarbeet is completely lacking in both sectors. Additional farm
machinery and equipment would be provided by the project (para. 3.13 and Annex
3, Table 2)
2.15     Livestock Production.  Practically all individual farmers keep some
cattle and pigs (1 to 3 head of cattle and 3 to 5 pigs, according to farm
size). Animal husbandry engages about 45% of the farm labor, particularly
housewives and elderly men and women. It provides year-round income and
represents a significant source of financial means for the private household.
There are no livestock in -he social sector within the project area. The
number of cattle and pigs is increasing; whereas, sheep and horses are
declining, as seen from the table below:
Livestock Census (Number of Head)
1971                  1979
Cattle                                   4,103                 5,087
Pigs                                    18,046                20,000
Sheep                                    2,270                    454
Horses                                   3,000                  1,200



- 13 -
Milk (1,400 1 per cow/year) is mainly for home consumption, although when a
surplus occurs, it is marketed through cooperative channels. Cattle graze
pasture and fallow crop-land during the summer. In winter they are fed hay
and dry roughage plus some concentrate feed. Most farmers produce pork and
poultry meat for their own needs, and a limited number of pigs are fattened
for market. There is a nationwide program of animal husbandry improvement,
which together with World Bank financed Projects (Loans 1129-YU, 1477-YU and
1801-YU), is contributing to development of meat and milk production in the
project area.
2.16     Agroindustries and Markets.  A well developed, but highly
under-utilized agroindustry exists in and close to the project area. It
consists of the following major enterprises; (1) a sugar factory with total
capacity of 400,000 tons of sugarbeet each season, which began operations in
1979; (2) a vegetable and fruit canning plant for processing 16,000 tons of
primary production; (3) a vegetable dehydration plant for 12,000 tons of
carrots, parsley and onions, which started in 1979; (4) a flour mill with a
milling capacity for 36,000 tons of wheat, with an allied industrial bakery
and feed mixing plant; and (5) a slaughterhouse capable of handling 10,000
head of cattle and 50,000 head of pigs annually. In addition to the above
mentioned processing industries, outlets for primary production in the area
are through wholesale and retail channels, local markets and home consumption.
2.17     Agricultural Research.  BOAL Agricultural Institute of Bijeljina,
which is one of 11 specialized basic organizations of the Work Organization
Research and Development Institute associated with UPI, is the principal
source of new technology in crop production for the project area. Its
activities include; breeding and improvement of crop varieties; variety
testing; testing of plant protection chemicals; fertilizer use; and seed
production. The experimental trials and seed production are conducted on 133
ha owned by the Institute and by a staff of 33. The staff comprises eight
university graduates, six high school graduates, seven at intermediate level
and the remainder semi-skilled labor. The transfer of research results to
individual farmers is an important function of the Institute. This is
accomplished through demonstration plots in the Institute's own fields, on
farmers' fields and socially owned estates and by maintaining a close
relationship with the extension agents of W.O. Podrinje. In addition, the
Institute's staff organizes lectures, seminars and special courses in
cooperation with the extension agents and teaching staff of the nearby Work
Organization Agricultural Education Center. The Institute produces about 30%
of the needs of the Semberija region for seeds of wheat, maize and sugarbeet.
It also provides foundation seed to W.O. A.E. Semberija, which then multiplies
it either for its own use or for distribution to the individual sector through
the cooperatives. Funds for the Institute are drawn from the Republic budget,
from UPI and from contracts with cooperatives and food industries. The
project would provide additional vehicles and equipment to the Institute
(para. 4.09 and Annex 3, Table 3).



- 14 -
2.18     Agricultural Extension.  W.O. Podrinje is the principal provider of
agricultural extension services to the individual farmer in the project area.
The extension agents which currently number 30 (3 university and 27
intermediate level) operate out of the offices of six Basic Organizations of
Cooperative Farmers (BOCF) located in the project area. These six BOCFs plus
nine others located outside the project area together form the W.O. Podrinje,
which has its main headquarters in the city of Bijeljina. In the project area
about 80% of the individual farm households (680 permanent and 3,100
cooperating members) belong to the six BOCFs and, therefore, have access to
extension advice and other inputs and services provided by the BOCFs. Under
present conditions, each extension worker covers 126 farms or approximately
300 ha of arable land: a ratio which reflects the inability of the BOCFs to
provide adequate extension service to its members. The difficulty is further
compounded because extension agents devote about half their time negotiating
crop contracts with the farmers. The project would provide vehicles and
supporting material for the extension service of W.O. Podrinje (para 4.09 and
Annex 3, Table 3). The sugar mill also provides technical advice to those
farmers under contract for growing sugarbeets. This is done through a special
unit of the mill composed of 10 university graduates who cooperate with the
Association of Agricultural Engineers and in close cooperation with the BOCFs,
the Agricultural Institute and the Agricultural Education Center.
2.19     Other Support Services.  The W.O. Agricultural Education Center,
located in Bijeljina, trains agricultural technicians and skilled workers in
crop production, animal husbandry, farm machinery and food processing. It
comprises a main building, residence hall and a 300 ha farm where students
gain practical experience. The Center has 34 teachers and an annual
enrollment of 1,200. Three types of programs are offered; four years
terminating in agricultural technicans, three years for skilled workers, and
part-time instruction during four years for workers who continue their regular
employment. In addition, the Center offers courses and seminars for farmers.
The staff maintains close contact with the BOAL Agricultural Institute, W.O.
Podrinje and the BOCFs. The BOAL Veterinary Department, which is a unit of
the Regional Veterinary Center in Tuzla, is located at the Agricultural
Education Center of Bijeljina. It provides preventive and diagnostic
veterinary assistance to both sectors through a staff of 36, of which 13 are
university graduates. The veterinarians also offer lectures at the
Agricultural Education Center.
C. Principal Institutions Participating in the Project
2.20     Privredna Banka Sarajevo Udruzena Banka (PBS).  PBS would be the
borrower for the proposed project. It is one of the participating banks in
the First, Second and Third Agricultural Credit Projects (Loans 1129-YU,
1477-YU and 1801-YU), and five industrial Credit Projects since 1972 and is
the sole borrower from the Bank under Bosanska Krajina Project (Loan 1621-YU)
and the recently approved Bosnia-Herzegovina Agricultural Development
Project. Banks in Yugoslavia operate not to maximize profits but to earn an
income adequate to cover expenses and from the residual to make annual
contributions for various reserve funds. A financial assessment of PBS's
performance was completed in October, 1981 as part of the appraisal of the



- 15 -
Sixth Industrial Credit Project. PBS's financial performance has been
satisfactory, and it continues to be credit worthy.
2.21     Complex Organization of Associated Labor of the United Agriculture,
Marketing and Industry (COAL UPI). UPI is a vertically integrated social
sector enterprise dealing with primary agricultural production, food
processing, distribution, retail marketing and tourism, concentrated almost
entirely in SR Bosnia-Herzegovina, with headquarters in Sarajevo. UPI
associations involved in agricultural production hold 33.6% of the Republic's
agricultural land. Its food industry represents 36% of the Republic's food
industry besides being responsible for 32.8% of total transport for that
sector. UPI is composed of 53 work organizations (W.O.) which consist of 309
basic associations of associated labor (BOAL), 126 cooperative basic
organizations (CBO), and 54 work communities. The structure is based on a
pooling of labor and resources, and relationships and commitments are governed
by self-management agreements. UPI has 33,000 employees and production
cooperation with 47,000 agricultural households in the individual sector. The
UPI affiliated organizations involved in the Semberija Drainage Project, which
are described in the following paragraphs, include W.O. Agricultural Estate
Semberija and its three BOALs; W.O. Podrinje and six of its 15 BOCFs; W.O.
Sava; W.O.Research of Development Institute and its BOAL Agricultural
Institute of Bijeljina and W.O. Agricultural Education Center.
2.22     Work Organization Agricultural Estate Semberija.  This is a work
organization associated with COAL UPI, and is the proposed as the sole
investor for carrying out the project. Headquartered in Nova Selo, near the
Commune of Bijeljina, it is the largest social sector agricultural enterprise
in the project area. W.O.A.E. Semberija, which operates in the fields of crop
and livestock production, employs 353 people and owns a total of 7,640 ha of
land, of which 3,290 ha (43%) are in the project area. The activities of
W.O.A.E. Semberija are carried out through three BOALs, namely: BOAL for Crop
Production; BOAL Stocarstvo for Livestock Production; and BOAL for Machine
Overhauling. Each of these BOALs is a legally constituted entity whose
autonomy, legal rights and obligations were established through a Self
Managing Agreement with W.O.A.E. Semberija under coal UPI. BOAL for Crop
Production would be directly involved in the project. Its activities include
production and trade of seeds, cereals, sugarbeet, fruit, and forest
seedlings, and final processing of all seeds, fruit and vegetables.
Forty-three percent of BOAL for Crop Production's arable land in the project
area is uncultivated annually due to flooding. The project would increase the
amount of arable land by 1,350 ha as well as significantly improve crop
yields. W.O.A.E. Semberija is a financially viable organization whose profits
meet all legal and contractual obligations and salaries as well as provide a
yearly contribution to its equity funds. The liquidity status is also highly
satisfactory, with a 1979-1980 current ratio of 1.90. Assurances have been
obtained during negotiations that, until the Closing Date of the proposed
loan, W.O.A.E. Semberija will not understake or execute any project unless it
has provided evidence satisfactory to the Bank, that any such project or
development will not affect substantially and materially the execution of the
project, or W.O.A.E. Semberija's operation and financial situation.



- 16 -
2.23     Work Organization of Cooperative Farmers Podrinje.  W.O. Podrinje, an
agricultural cooperative that organizes individual farmers in cooperation with
the social sector, is associated with COAL UPI and was founded in 1977. W.O.
Podrinje is composed of 15 Basic Organizations of Cooperative Farmers (BOCF)
of which six are in the project area. Association with W.O. Podrinje and
contribution of labor and capital is voluntary and ownership of land and
assets is not changed by joining a BOCF. The BOCFs have three types of
members: united farmers linked with the cooperative through a five-year
renewable contract; cooperants who sign a short-term (usually one year)
renewable contract; and workers. At present, 80% of the total 4,700 farmers
who own land in the project area are associated with a BOCF, 679 as permanent
members (united farmers) and 3,077 as cooperants. W.O. Podrinje's membership
goal, which coincides with Yugoslavia's agricultural development strategy, is
to associate 100% of the private farmers. The headquarters of the work
organization provides support services such as accounting, statistics and
financial planning. The primary services and advantages accruing to its
associated farmers are provision of agricultural inputs (seeds, equipment,
fertilizers, chemicals, animal feed, equipment and credit), supervision of
production through seminars, lectures and visits of the extension agents, and
assured marketing of agricultural production. The important function of
agricultural extension to individual farmers is also provided by W.O. Podrinje
through the BOCFs (para 4.09). Within the context of a Five Year Development
Plan, W.O. Podrinje is responsible for establishing an annual operation plan
which takes into account the capabilities and needs of both the individual
farmers and the agro-processing facilities that utilize the farmers'
production. W.O. Podrinje also contracts through its BOCFs all production
delivered by the farmers according to these annual production plans.
2.24     Basic Organization of Associated Labor Water Management Semberija.
This BOAL, located in Bijeljina, is one of 14 BOALs which constitute the W.O.
for Water Management of SR Bosnia-Herzegovina, an agency responsible for
management of water resources in the Republic. This W.O. receives work
contracts from the Self-Managing Community of Interest for Water Economy in SR
Bosnia-Herzegovina (SIZ) and its fourteen OZs /1. BOAL Water Management
Semberija's scope of activities includes monitoring the water levels in the
Sava and Drina Rivers for the purpose of flood protection, carrying out any
necessary protection measures, construction and maintenance of engineering
works, preparation of water management plans for approval by the SIZ assembly
and determination of the level of drainage charge corresponding to the cost of
operation of the dike on the Drina River. Within the project area, BOAL Water
Management Semberija has recently completed the construction of the Drina dike
and is presesently constructing other protection facilities, as well as
maintaining the Drina River banks, dikes and pumping stations. This BOAL
would be responsible for operation and maintenance of the project facilities
upon their completion (para. 5.06).
/1       SIZ is a Republic level body responsible for planning, investigation,
construction, management, and protection of water resources in the
Republic. Local water management activities in SR Bosnia-Herzegovina
are handled by 14 Basic Self-Managing Communities, OZs.



- 17 -
III. THE PROJECT
A. Objectives
3.01     The main objectives of the project are to increase and stabilize crop
production, to feed agro-based industries (some existing but operating at very
low capacities) and to raise labour productivity (para. 1.09). These would be
achieved by providing drainage facilities in an area of about 15,600 ha gross
(12,200 ha net) and land improvement without drainage over an additional area
of about 3,500 ha gross (3,000 ha net).
B. Detailed Features
3.02     The project aims at safeguarding the area from external and internal
waters and at land improvement through the following works;
(a) extension of Seliste Interceptor Drain, about 8 km long with
out-fall discharge of about 8.0 m3/sec, to intercept flood
run-off descending from the southern uplands;
(b) reconstruction of Sava River dike along the northern boundary in
a length of about 14.5 km to provide protection from Sava River
floods;
(c) construction of surface drainage network including remodelling
of existing channels, over an area of about 15,600 ha gross
(12,200 ha net) to deal with internal excess waters;
(d) installation of sub-surface drainage system including mole
drains in an area of about 1,900 ha gross (1,500 ha net) for
draining heavy clay soils, and in relation thereto, carrying out
of field experiments on the performance of alternative designs;
(e) construction of wide bedding on about 4,470 ha gross (3,500 ha
net) for removal of surface waters;
(f) construction of one new pumping station for a discharge of about
15.5 m3/sec, increasing discharge capacity of an existing
pumping station by about 6.0 m3/sec and repairs to two
existing pumping stations;
(g) construction of about 80 km of paved and about 90 km of unpaved
access roads for maintenance of project works;
(h) on-farm development in the project area on about 19,100 ha gross
(15,150 ha net) (including about 3,500 ha gross, 3,000 ha net,
without drainage) consisting of land clearance, land levelling,
deep plowing, construction of workshops and machinery sheds and
installation of power lines;
(i) provision of equipment for operation and maintenance of drainage
and flood protection works;



- 18 -
(k) provision of farm equipment to intensify agriculture in the
area.
(1) vehicles and equipment for extension and research services;
(m) training of agricultural extension personnel; and
(n) miscellaneous feasibility studies for future land and water
development projects in SR Bosnia-Herzegovina.
Brief description of these components is given in paras. 3.03 to 3.15. Major
features of the project are shown on Map IBRD 16222.
C. Description of the Project
Works
3.03     Seliste Interceptor.  This drainage channel of about 13 km length of
which about 5 km have already been completed runs along the south-eastern
boundary of the project area. The left bank of this drainage canal would be
converted into a dike, using the excavated material and would intercept
surface run-off from the southern uplands. The design discharge in the
proposed section of about 8 km would range from about 1.5 m3/sec to about 8
m3/sec, which corresponds to a return period of 20 years. The channel would
be excavated to a bottom width of 1.0 to 1.5 m with corresponding depths of
1.72 to 2.15 m and side slopes of 1.5:1. This would involve excavation of
about 0.15 million m3 of earthwork.
3.04     Sava Dike.  The existing dike along the right bank of Sava River in a
length of about 14.5 km is badly eroded and is unsafe against a 50-year flood
for which it was originally designed. The top width is narrow and impassible
during flood emergencies while the side slopes are completely eroded. Leakages
also occur at a number of places during high floods. The dike would be raised
to its original design level and strengthened to provide a top width of 5 m
and a free-board of 1.2 m above the water levels generated in a 50-year
flood. The river side slope would be 1:3 (bottom) and 1:2 (top) and the
landside slope 1:1.5, with a berm to cover the line of seepage. The height of
the dike would vary from about 3.4 m to 5.5 m, depending on ground elevation
and would involve excavation and handling of about 0.8 million m3 of
earthwork.
3.05     Surface Drainage.  The project area is distinctly divided into 2
sub-areas, western and eastern, by an old interceptor canal (Dasnica), now
abandoned after the construction of periphery interceptor canals. The western
sub-area covering 5,770 ha, has some existing drainage canals which feed two
existing pumping stations, but the system is insufficient to drain out the
area. The eastern sub-area covering 9,800 ha has no drainage channel. The
surface drainage system to be provided under the project comprises
construction of 500 km of new drainage canals and remodelling 12.2 km of
existing drainage canals for timely evacuation of surplus water. The main
drainage canals would run along natural depressions with secondary drainage



- 19 -
canals joining them from either side at 800-1,600 m.  The new drainage canals
would include 37 km of main, 108 km of secondary and 355 km of tertiary
canals, giving a density of about 32 m/ha. Specific discharge resulting from
a storm-run-off of 5% probability varies from 2.98 to 9.84 1/sec/ha depending
upon the characteristics of catchment areas for different canals. The depths
vary from 1.5 to 3.5 m for main, 1.5 to 2.5 for secondary and 1.3 to 2.3 for
tertiary canals. Total quantity of earthwork involved would be 3.2 million
m . The drainage effluent would be disposed of in the Sava River through 3
pumping stations, including the two existing ones.
3.06     Sub-surface Drainage.  Under the project, tile drainage would be
provided in a pilot area of 1,500 ha in the social sector only. This area
consists of gleyed soils in deep profiles with a permeability coefficient of
about 3-5 cm/day. Corrugated plastic pipes of 5 cm diameter would be laid at
0.85-1.15 m depth at a slope of 0.2 percent and a spacing of 20 m to deal with
a specific discharge of 0.9 1/sec/ha resulting from a storm of 5%
probability. These tubes would discharge into tertiary canals at 40-50 cms
above their bed in order to avoid submergence of their outlets. Mole drainage
at 0.55 m depth and 2 m spacing would be carried out to loosen the soil and
provide drainage flow towards the tile drains. Every third trench would be
filled with river gravel of grain size 1-3 cm up to about 30 cm below the
ground surface. Mole drains from a land width of 30 m on either side would
empty into the trench filter at about 25 cm below its top level. The soil
being carbonatic (hydraulically stable) the two trenches would be back filled
with the granulated excavated soil under optimum moisture conditions.
However, in view of the variability of the heavy clay surfaces and sub-soils
of the area, two additional variant designs (differing in trench design and
spacing) would be incorporated in the pilot-area so that their cost and
performance could be monitored to provide technical and economic data for
improved design of future tile drainage projects. Assurances to this effect
were obtained during negotiations (para. 8.01(a)).
3.07     Pumping Stations.  Repairs would be carried out to two pumping
stations Domuz-Skela and Topolovac which already exist in the western sub-area
with capacities of 2.8 and   3.3 m3/sec and working heads of 3.26 and 3.72 m
respectively. These would be utilized to meet the existing and future needs.
An additional pumping station with a capacity of 5.7 m3/sec and a head of
4.67 m would be built near the Topolovac pumping station with an additional
installed capacity to 5.7 m3/sec.  Another new station, at Begov-Put would
be constructed in the eastern sub-area with a capacity of 15.3 m3/sec and a
head of 2.27 m. These capacities would cater for 50-60% of the peak discharge
generated by a rainstorm of 20 years return period. The balance amount would
be temporarily stored within the excess capacity available in the upper
sections of drainage canals and would be evacuated within 40-70 hours without
causing damage to the crops. The pumping units would be vertical propeller
type coupled with electric motors. Sluice gates would be provided on the
outlet channels of pumping stations so as to permit gravity outflow when the
river levels are low. Three variant designs for foundations (i) wells, (ii)
reinforced concrete raft and (iii) piles were considered in view of the clayey
stratum of the sub-soil. However, existence of a gravel stratum close to the
lowest foundation levels favours a more economical design on wells. The loads



- 20 -
of the stations are approximately the same as those of the materials to be
excavated from the foundations thus eliminating the possibilities of excessive
settlement. Relevant data on pumping stations are given in Annex 2.
3.08     Wide Bedding.  An area of 4,470 ha gross (3,500 ha net) in the
private sector would be provided with wide-bedding. This would be carried out
by a system of back-furrowing to create gradual convexing of the land in the
centre and lowering the edges at a spacing of 30 meters. The depressions at
the edges would be connected with outlet pipes discharging into tertiary
drains.
3.09     Road.  Provision has been made for improvement of road network
through upgrading of existing roads and construction of about 78 km of paved
and 89 km of unpaved roads. Culverts and bridges have been provided over
waterways. Each part of the project area would be well connected with
important communication links of the region for quick movement of agricultural
inputs and outputs as well as for operation and maintenance of project works.
3.10     On-Farm Development.  The project would provide for clearance of
brushwood, removal of trees and stumps from an area of 19,100 ha, (including
3,500 ha without drainage), clearing of landmarks (green line boundaries)
formed as a result of excessive land fragmentation from 1,160 ha, and plowing
of natural grassland (in low lying patches) over 1,620 ha. This would be
followed by removal of timber, levelling of the fields, deep plowing and
division of land into large plots for increased agricultural production.
Provision has also been made for setting up facilities like small workshops
for routine repairs and maintenance of farm machinery, storage sheds for
fertilizer, seeds, insecticides, herbicides and installation and extension of
electrical network to these facilities.
Equipment
3.11     Equipment for Operation and Maintenance and Experimental Equipment
for Field Drains. The equipment listed in Annex 3, Table 1 is considered
necessary to supplement existing equipment for the operation and maintenance
of the project facility already available with the BOAL Water Management
Semberija. One drain master to assist in execution of variant design has also
been provided (para. 3.06). Provision for this equipment is made in the cost
estimate.
3.12     Farm Equipment.  The project would supplement existing agricultural
equipment to partly replace old equipment and partly meet the additional
requirements generated by the project (Annex 3, Table 2). Necessary provision
for this purpose has been made in the cost estimate.
Miscellaneous
3.13     Extension and Research Services.  In order to achieve the project's
production objective it would be necessary to increase the technical staff and
provide vehicles, audio-visual aids and office and laboratory equipment for
both the agricultural extension and research services (Annex 3, Table 3).



- 21 -
Necessary provision for vehicles and equipment has been made in the cost
estimate.
3.14     Training of Personnel.  In order to ensure the recruitment of the
requisite number of well-trained staff for the agricultural extension services
of W.O. Podrinje, it would be necessary, according to Yugoslav practice, to
pay or reimburse the two-year university fees and provide agricultural
extension agents with short fellowships (about 14 man-months), and specialized
training courses (para. 4.09). Provision for this training has been made in
the cost estimate.
3.15     Miscellaneous Feasibility Studies;  Construction of irrigation and
drainage projects in the Sava River Basin and in the karst flood plains in SR
Bosnia-Herzegovina began in the early 1950's. Development of irrigation and
drainage has been proceeding slowly, at an average rate of about 2,000 ha
annually. No long range review of SR Bosnia Herzegovina's requirements in
this sub-sector has been done, however, the following projects have been
identified;
Name of Irrigation and Drainage Project Approximate Area (ha)
l.  Mostarsko Blato                                   10,000
2.  Nevesinjsko Polje                                  1,400
3.  Duvanjsko Polje                                    2,400
4.  Bekijsko Polje                                     3,600
5.  Modrica                                            2,200
6.  Odzak                                              2,060
7.  Ivanjsko Polje (Near Bos. Brod)                    2,800
8.  "Nerventa"                                         2,700
9.  Posavina & Brcko                                  17,000
10.  Tuzla Spreca                                      3,000
11.  Bos. Samac                                        4,500
Preliminary feasibility work on some of these projects has been carried out,
however, extensive additional preparatory work would be necessary to bring the
projects to a level acceptable for international financing. Feasibility
studies for the development of land and water resources of a selected number
of projects would be carried out by the Borrower, with the assistance of the
Committee for Agriculture, Forestry and Water Power Engineering,
SR Bosnia-Ilerzegovina, through engineering consultants acceptable to the Bank,
who would be supported by specialized engineering consultants whose



- 22 -
qualifications, experience and terms of conditions of employment and scope of
work would be satisfactory to the Bank. The technical, economic and financial
feasibility studies would be preceeded by a preliminary feasibility study for
all projects to enable selection of suitable components; and detailed
feasibility studies for the selected projects, following an exchange of views
with the Bank by September 30, 1983, would cover preliminary engineering
design, technical agricultural preparation and recommendations on institutions
and organizations. In addition to the hydrological, pedological, foundations,
material, and other studies, the assignment is estimated to require about 70
man-months of consultant's time, for which provision has been made in the cost
estimate. The above specified consultants would be employed before December
31, 1982 for which assurances were obtained during negotiations (para.
8.01(b)).
D. Land Consolidation
3.16          Land in the project area is presently divided into 44,650 plots
with average sizes ranging from 0.33 ha in the private sector to 0.94 ha in
the social sector. Each of the 4,700 farms, therefore, has an average number
of 9.5 scattered plots. This excessive land fragmentation has led to
considerable loss of land now falling under plot boundaries. Small plot sizes
also inhibit use of agricultural machinery and rational use of family or hired
labour. The proposed program of land consolidation would reduce the total
number of plots in the individual sector to about 12,000, with each farm
family owning about 3 plots as compared to present holdings of about 9.5
plots. The total social sector holdings would be readjusted into 18 plots.
Land consolidation, combined with clearing of degenerated forests, bushes and
land boundaries, would result in an increase of 2,840 ha in arable land, of
which about 770 ha are expected to be reserved for rural infrastructure and
future residential areas. The program of land consolidation has been phased
in such a manner that the drainage project can be carried out un-impeded. The
process would normally require three years with the following schedule of
completion, including physical transfer of new plots:
Year                    Area (ha)
1983                    4,657
1984                    7,191
1985                    7,152
Total             19,000
Land consolidation would be carried out under the auspices of the Commune
Assembly of Bijeljina, which would establish the commission and
sub-commissions foreseen by the Yugoslav law for the preparation of the land
consolidation. The Geodetic Institute of Sarajevo or another specialized firm
would be contracted to carry out the necessary surveys. The law foresees a
two-year period for completion of the land consolidation process up to the
time the farmer is on his new plot. The Commune Assembly of Bijeljina has
already started the land consolidation procedures. In a referendum in April
1981, a majority of 84 percent voted in favour of land consolidation. The
Commune Assembly plans to start the work on 4,657 ha in 1982. No major
difficulties should therefore be anticipated in implementing land



- 23 -
consolidation in the area of the project. If the above schedule is not met,
the Commune Assembly of Bijeljina would acquire the land falling under the
drainage infrastructure, in accordance with Yugoslav law, to avoid any delays
in the implementation of the project. Assurances to this effect were obtained
during negotiations (para. 8.01(c)).
E. Status of Engineering
3.17     The project and its various alternatives have been studied by the
Institute of Water Resources Development (IWRD) and a feasibility report,
based on preliminary design and cost estimates, has been prepared with the
assistance of the FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program. The drainage and land
improvement works described above, including the strengthening of the Sava
Dike, are the most economical and appropriate; this choice is acceptable to
the Bank. The same Institute has already been entrusted with the work of
preparing final designs, cost estimates, and bidding documents. The final
designs and bidding document for the first year's contracts (1982) have
already been completed. It is expected that the remaining final designs and
bidding documents would be completed by Board presentation. Assurances to
this effect were obtained during negotiations (para. 8.01(d)). Sub-soil
drainage component would include field experiments and data collection on the
performance of a few alternative designs to provide the basis for economic
designs for future tile drainage works in the region.
F. Cost Estimate
3.18     The total project cost, including physical and price contingencies,
and the front-end fee, is Din. 3,209.6 million (US$73.5 million)/!. The
foreign exchange component which includes both direct and indirect foreign
costs is estimated at about US$34.6 million or about 47% of the total cost.
The estimate includes taxes and duties/2 and reflects prices ending June
1982. The cost estimate is based on unit rates currently applicable on
similar works in Yugoslavia. Since final designs have not yet been prepared,
physical contingencies at 15% of the base cost have been added, except for
sub-surface drainage where, due to the need for detailed field-by-field
design, 25% contingencies have been provided. Price contingencies on local
costs have been compounded annually at 17.5% for July-December 1982, 25% for
1983, and at 20% for 1984, 1985, and 1986. On foreign costs these are
compounded annually at 4.25% for July-December 1982, at 7.5% for 1983, 1984
and 1985, and at 6% for 1986. Cost estimates are summarized in the following
table; further details are in Annex 4, Table 1.
/1 Using an exchange rate of US$1 = Dinar 43.6784
/2 Taxes and duties have been estimated at about US$1.8 million.



- 24 -
Foreign
Item                    Local    Foreign  Total  Local   Foreign  Total  Exch.
- - -Dinars Mi. - - -   - - - - US$ Million - -
Civil Works
Seliste interceptor        11.0      14.0   25.0     0.3     0.3       0.6    56
Surface drainage          229.5    257.8  487.3      5.2     5.9      11.1    53
Sub-surface drainage       32.8      50.9   83.7     0.7     1.2       1.9   61
Pumping stations           62.6      98.6  161.2     1.5     2.3       3.6    61
Flood control works       101.3    129.6  230.9      2.3     3.0       5.3    56
Roads                     109.5    114.7  224.2      2.5     2.6       5.1    51
On-farm development and
miscellaneous works      151.4    177.3  328.7     3.4     4.1       7.5    54
Equipment for O&M            3.9      8.2   12.1     0.1     0.2       0.3    68
Farm equipment             42.8      90.9  133.7     1.0     2.1       3.1    68
Land consolidation        100.7       -    100.7     2.3     -         2.3     -
Equipment for extension
services                 10.6      22.5   33.1     0.2     0.5      0.7    68
Engineering                22.5      70.7   93.2     0.5     1.6       2.1    76
Organization and
management               15.9       -     15.9     0.4     -         0.4     -
Training of personnel       -         6.9    6.9     -       0.2       0.2   100
Miscellaneous feasibility
studies                  12.4      73.5   85.9     0.3     1.7      2.0   86
Base cost                 906.9  1,115.7 2,022.6   20.7    25.7      46.4   55
Physical contingencies    139.4    172.4  311.8      3.2     3.9       7.1    55
Price contingencies       654.5    198.4  852.9    15.0      4.5      19.5   23
Total contingencies       793.9    370.8 1,164.7   18.2      8.4      26.6    32
Total project cost      1,700.8  1,486.5 3,187.3   38.9    34.1       73.0   47
Front-end Fee               -        22.3    22.3    -       0.5      0.5   100
Total                 1,700.8  1,508.8 3,209.6   38.9    34.6       73.5   47
G. Financing and On-Lending
3.19     Financing.  The financing plan for the project was received during
negotiations and is summarized below; further details are in Annex 4, Table 4.
Amount Financed
Interest
During Construction
Source of Funding       Project Cost       on Bank Loan       Total   Percent
-----------------------US$ million --------
World Bank                  34.6 (47%)           -              34.6     43.4
Federal Fund                 10.4 (14%)          3.6            14.0      17.5
Republic Fund                2.7 (4%)            0.2             2.9       3.7
PBS Udruzena Bank            9.5 (13%)           1.7            11.2      14.1
PBS Basic Bank Bijeljina     2.9 (4%)            0.2             3.1       3.8
Social Sector Equity
Contributions/I           13.4 (18%)           0.5            13.9     17.5
Total                       73.5 (100%)          6.2            79.7    100.0
/1 About 10.2% of the project cost would be equity
contribution by SIZ SR Bosnia-Herzegovina (details at Annex  4, Table 4)



- 25 -
The proposed Bank loan of US$34.6 million would finance approximately 47% of
the total project cost equivalent to 100% of the foreign exchange cost. The
Government requests that front end fee, or about US$0.5 million, be financed
out of the Bank loan. The proposed Bank loan would be for a period of 15
years, including 3 years grace. Financing for project from sources other than
the Bank would be made available in accordance with the schedule of
expenditures. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that an updated
financing plan, including a revised schedule of expenditures, taking into
account the effects of inflation on cost, will be prepared by the Borrower by
January 31, each year and submitted to the Bank before March 1 of each year.
Assurances were also obtained during negotiations that PBS would provide funds
to cover all cost over-runs for completion of the project and request other
project financiers to provide, or provide itself funds to cover operating and
debt service obligations of W.O.A.E. Semberija, when such funds are not
available to it(para 8.01(e)). The procedure to annually update the financing
plan and to provide for cost over-runs is in line with the stabilization
measures adopted by SFR Yugoslavia and the legal instruments 1/ recently
promulgated by the Federal and Republic Governments.
3.20         On-lending Terms.  The on-lending rates for borrowed funds which
constitute 82% of the project costs, would be as follows:
(a) IBRD Funds - Interest at 11.6% plus on-lending margin of 0.5% ani
front end fee of 1.5% of the loan;
(b) PBS Funds - Interest at minimum of 15%;
(c) Federal and Republic Funds - Current interest rates.
(d) W.O.A.E. Semberija will bear the foreign exchange risk on IBRD
funds.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that PBS would charge an interest
rate of not less than 15% on its domestic funds (para 8.01(f)).This 15% on
lending rate for local funds represents a significant increase over the 10%
rate charged in recent Bank agricultural projects in SFRY. In the context of
future projections of overall inflation rates over the term of the Bank Loan,
this on-lending rate of 15% is expected to result in a real positive interest
rate. The policy dialogue on interest rates, as initiated under the Fifth
Industrial Credit Project, will continue and interest rates in Yugoslavia will
be reviewed on an annual basis.
H.  Procurement and Retroactive Financing
3.21    During negotiations assurances were obtained that contracts for
construction of project works costing about US$48.8 million, and purchase of
equipment for operation and maintenance, farm machinery, and agricultural
research and extension equipment, for about US$6.0 million would be procured
in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in the current
edition of the Guidelines for Procurement under "World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977, on the basis of international
competitive bidding (ICB) (para. 8.01(g)). Yugoslav manufacturers offering
goods manufactured in Yugoslavia would be allowed a preference of 15% or the
1/      a.  Savezni Zakon 0 Odobravanjo Kredita Za Investicije i Obezlijedenje
Sredstava Za Pakrice Prekoracenja na
b. Republic Zakon Ili Drustveni Dogovor 0 Investicijana (1981)



- 26 -
applicable customs duty, whichever is lower. However, the pumping stations,
costing about US$4.9 million which are on the central path for project
completion by 1986, would be procured on the basis of local competitive
bidding (LCB) in accordance with local procedures which are acceptable to the
Bank. If these pumping stations are not started in early 1982, the entire
schedule of construction would have to be extended by another year. In
addition mole drains, wide bedding and deep ploughing costing about US$2.5
million, which would be carried out yearly according to requirements, would be
procured on the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally and in
accordance with local procedure acceptable to the Bank. Details of
procurement packages are given in Annex 4, Table 3.
3.22    The Institute for Water Resources Development (IWRD) Sarajevo had been
responsible for carrying out the preliminary alternative designs and the
feasibility study for the project. The completion of the final designs, cost
estimate and bidding documents has also been entrusted to this Institute.
Expert engineering services for the project, services of agricultural economic
institute and the engineering consultants required for the feasibility studies
will be procured in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth
in the current edition of Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers, August, 1981.
3.23    Retroactive financing would be required to cover the expenditures
incurred up to the date of signing of the proposed loan, on the following
items:
(a)  Pumping Stations                                  US$0.4 million
(b) Engineering services for final design,
cost estimates and
bidding documents (para. 3.18)                   US$1.5 million
Total              US$1.9 million
I. Implementation Schedule
3.24    The project would be completed in 5 years (1982 to 1986) in accordance
with the implementation schedule in Chart 23654.  Drainage would become
effective in part of the area in 1983 and successive areas would be reclaimed
till 1986. An estimated schedule of expenditure is given in Annex 4, Table 2,
and the program of drainage and reclamation is given in Annex 5. A summary of
both is presented below:
Calendar Year                     1982      1983       1984       1985        1986
- - - - -  US$ Million Equivalent - - - -
Annual estimated expenditure    4.5         19.6       24.7       17.4         7.3
Cummulative expenditure           4.5       24.1       48.8       66.2        73.5
---------ha '000-----
Yearly development of
drained area                   -          3,050      4,610       5,340    2,150
Cumulative development           -          3,050      7,600      13,000   15,150



- 27 -
J. Disbursements
3.25     The proposed Bank loan of US$34.6 million would be disbursed over six
years as follows:
Amount
of the Loan
Allocated            % of
(Expressed        Expenditures
Category                  in $ Equiv.)      to be Financed
(a)  Civil works                   21,000,000            45%
(b)  Equipment                                    100% of foreign expenditure
and 100% of local
6,000,000    expenditures (ex-factory)
(c)  Engineering expert services                        100%
and training                   3,000,000
(d)  Feasibility studies            2,700,000           100%
(e)  Front-end fee                    511,330          Amount due
(f)  Unallocated                    1,388,670
Total                 34,600,000
A tentative disbursement schedule is given in Annex 6.  This proposed schedule
conforms to the profile for agricultural projects in Yugoslavia.
K. Environmental Impact
3.26     The project is not expected to have any adverse environmental impact
on the project area, and is likely to have beneficial effects by providing
drainage to the water-logged land in several areas. Most of the flood control
works have already been constructed. No detrimental effects on the
physical/chemical/biological regime of the water are expected.
L. Role of Women
3.27     The demographic structure by sex and by agricultural population for
all of Yugoslavia, SR Bosnia-Herzegovina, and the project area is shown below:



- 28 -
SFR Yugoslavia /1 SR Bosnia-Herzegovina Semberija
Total population                  22.34 million            4.23 million   17,000
Agricultural pop. as %
of total                         38                     40                    88
Women as % of agricultural
pop.                             53                     53                    52
Active agricultural
population as % of total
agricultural population          54                     47                    50
Women as X of active
agricultural population          42                      N.A.                 36
While opportunities do exist for women outside the agricultural sector, they
are active participants in this sector, both in primary production and in
agro-industires. Although the number of women in the project area as a
percentage of the agricultural population is the same as in SFR Yugoslavia and
SR Bosnia-Herzegovina (52%), women as a percentage of the active agricultural
population in Bijeljina is 36%, slightly less than for the country as a whole
(42%). This is due to low deagrarization and migration tendencies in the
area, implying that a large percentage of men earn their livelihood from
agriculture. However, as more employment opportunities arise outside the farm
sector, women will become even more directly involved in primary production,
often assuming responsibilities previously performed by men. It is expected
that women will benefit from the increased employment opportunities in primary
production as well as in secondary and tertiary industries resulting from both
the social and individual sector components of the project (para. 7.02).
Women also play an important role in the institutions which are involved in
the proposed project, W.O.A.E. Semberija, W.0. Podrinje, W.0. Sava, PBS, and
the various agricultural institutes and training centers, and are particularly
well represented at the intermediate levels of the professional staff.
/1 Source: Yugoslavia Statistical Yearbook 1981.



- 29 -
IV. Agricultural Production
A. Land Use, Cropping Pattern, Yields, and Production
4.01     Land Use - Future.  Land use with the project upon completion of the
land reclamation and improvement works would be as follows:
Land Use - Future
Individual Sector  Social Sector           Total
ha        %        ha        %        ha        %
Agricultural Land
Arable                  13,070       85.1   2,080      57.0   15,150      79.7
Fruit & grapes             580        3.8      -          -      580       3.1
Total Agric. Land       13,650       88.9   2,080      57.0   15,730      82.8
Non Agricultural Land
Forests                  1,000        6.5      -          -    1,000       5.3
Roads, works, farm
yards                    700        4.6   1,570     43.0    2,270       11.9
Total Non-Agric. Land   1,700        11.1   1,570      43.0    3,270      17.2
Total Land Area           15,350      100.0   3,650    100.0   19,000    100.0
Total arable land would increase from 10,860 ha at present to 15,150 ha with
the project. This gain of 4,290 ha would come from land currently abandoned
due to waterlogging and the conversion of poor grassland and low yielding,
degraded forests and bush into cultivable land. The gain in arable land is
2,940 ha and 1,350 ha for the private and social sectors, respectively. One
thousand hectares of forests having commercial value would remain in the
individual sector.
4.02     Cropping Pattern and Crop Rotation.  Changes in cropping pattern on
the arable land from the present to the future with the project at full
development are given in Annex 7 and are summarized below:



- 30 -
Cropping Pattern
Present Situation              Future Situation
Individual Sector         '000 ha         %              '000 ha         %
Wheat                      2.94         29.0               4.17        31.9
Maize                      5.15         50.8               2.91        22.3
Sugarbeet                  0.31          3.1               2.92        22.3
Vegetables                 0.75          7.4               1.00/1       7.7
Annual fodder              0.18          1.8               0.41         3.1
Perennial forage           0.80          7.9               1.66        12.7
Subtotal                  10.13        100.0              13.07       100.0
Social Sector
Wheat                      0.30         41.1               0.69        33.2
Maize                      0.20         27.4               0.69        33.2
Sugarbeet                  0.16         21.9               0.70        33.6
Vegetables                 0.07          9.6               -              -
Subtotal                   0.73        100.0               2.08       100.0
Both Sectors Combined
Wheat                      3.24         29.8               4.86        32.1
Maize                      5.35         49.3               3.60        23.7
Sugarbeet                  0.47          4.3               3.62        23.9
Vegetables                 0.82          7.6               1.00         6.6
Annual fodder              0.18          1.6               0.41         2.7
Perennial forage           0.80          7.4               1.66        11.0
Total Arable              10.86        100.0              15.15       100.0
Cereals (maize, wheat) would continue to dominate, occupying over half of the
arable land. The most significant innovation is the expansion of sugarbeet,
with an eight-fold increase in area, representing 24% of the total arable land
at full development. The greatest increase in sugarbeet area (about ten-fold)
occurs in the individual sector. Vegetables (7%), fodder (3%) and perennial
forage crops (11%), would be grown exclusively in the individual sector. The
main crop rotation on social sector land would be a three-year, wheat-maize-
sugarbeet rotation, presently applied successfully on large farms in the
northern plains of Yugoslavia. This same rotation would be used on about half
of the individual sector land, particularly on first class soils. On the
remainder, the rotation would be extended to four years using wheat-maize-
wheat-sugarbeet, a practice currently adopted by some farmers in the project
/1 Plus 550 ha of second crop cabbage.



- 31 -
area having land not affected by waterlogging. Farmers who would also grow
fodder and forage crops would follow a five-year rotation on a portion of
their land with four years of alfalfa and one year of annual fodder, such as
maize for silage or green cut. Vegetable growers would apply a four-year
rotation, consisting mainly of potatoes, green pepper, cabbage and tomato. In
addition, cabbage would be planted as a second crop on 550 ha, mostly
following wheat; a practice currently followed by some individual farmers in
the project area.
4.03     Crop Yields.  Crop yields would increase with the project due to; (1)
improvement in soil-plant-water relations as a result of drainage and land
improvement measures; (2) greater and more efficient use of inputs, such as
mechanization, fertilizers, certified seed of high yielding varieties, plant
protection materials and general cultural practices; (3) an expanded and more
efficient extension service; (4) reduction in competition from vegetation in
plot boundaries; and (5) better overall farm planning and management resulting
in more timely cultural operations. The expected average yields at full
development with the project are based on; (1) land capability classes after
land reclamation and improvement; (2) experimental results in the project
area; (3) yields on farms in and around the project area not affected by
waterlogging; (4) and those achieved by progressive farmers. The results of
field competitions for individual farmers organized under the auspices of the
Commune of Bijeljina are proof that considerable expertise and crop production
potential exist in the project area. In these competitions, farmers generally
follow the technology proposed by the specialists of the BOAL Agricultural
Institute of Bijeljina. The highest yields obtained by winning farmers in the
project area are as follows;
1978                 1979                1980
Wheat                     4.9 - 5.8            5.5 - 7.0           5.0 - 6.0
Maize                    11.8 - 12.0          13.9 - 17.8         10.7 - 16.0
Sugarbeet                   75.0                 73.0                72.0
Experience has demonstrated that, in the absence of waterlogging, results such
as these are obtainable because of timely land preparation and planting; use
of high yielding varieties; effective weed control and plant protection; and
adequate levels of fertilization. Maize yields ranged from 7.1 to 9.8 t/ha on
a neighbouring social sector enterprise in areas exceeding 2,000 ha and on
land similar to the project area which had been drained. The Agricultural
Institute of Bijeljina has reported the following yields from experimental
plots: wheat 7-8 t/ha; maize 15-18 t/ha; and sugarbeet 70-80 t/ha. Naturally,
yields of this magnitude cannot be expected for the total project area;
however, they provide not only a measure of yield potential but also a high
degree of confidence that the projected average yields at full development in
the project area are attainable. Average yields before the project and those
expected at full development with the project are shown below;



- 32 -
Average Crop Yields
Present Situation          Future With Project
 - - - - - - - - -t/ha - - - - - - - - - -
Individual Sector
Wheat                                  2.7                       4.8
Maize                                  3.3                       6.5
Sugarbeet                             24.7                      50.0
Potatoes                               5.3                      15.0
Green Pepper                          12.5                      25.0
Tomatoes                              15.2                      40.0
Cabbage                               30.0                     40.0
Cabbage (second crop)                 15.0                      30.0
Alfalfa (dry weight)                   5.4                      10.0
Annual fodder (dry weight)             5.8                      10.0
Social Sector
Wheat                                  3.0                       5.5
Maize                                  3.4                       7.5
Sugarbeet                            37.5                      55.0
On the average, yields increase 100% with the project and for the three main
crops (wheat, maize, sugarbeet), social sector yields are 10 to 15% higher
than in the individual sector.  Full yield would build up gradually over a
period of five years at the rate of 15%, 35%, 55%, 75% and 100% of incremental
yields, upon the completion of project works on any given tract of land.
4.04     Agricultural Production.  The project would increase agricultural
production substantially because of higher per hectare crop yields and
increased cropped area. The following table summarizes the annual production
of primary products expected from the project. Details are in Annex 8, Tables
I to 3.
Crop Production
Present             Future             Incremental
- - - - - - - - -   tons - - - - - - - - - - -
Food Crops
Wheat                         8,838               23,811                 14,973
Maize                        17,675              24,090                   6,415
Sugarbeet                    13,657             184,500                 170,843
Vegetables                   10,765              45,000                  34,235
Subtotal Food Crops          50,935             277,401                 226,466
Non-Food Crops
Forage and Grassland          6,368              20,700                  14,332
Subtotal Non-Food Crops       6,368              20,700                  14,332
Total                        57,303             298,101                 240,798



- 33 -
B. Farm Inputs
4.05     Fertilizer.  Fertilizer application rates with the project are basec
on results obtained at the Agricultural Institute of Bijeljina, experience of
progressive farmers in the area without drainage problems, and field and
laboratory investigations conducted by the Institute of Agropedology,
Sarajevo. Full fertilizer use on each crop would build up over five years at
the rate of 20, 40, 60, 80 and 100% of the incremental between current and
future application rates. Average annual fertilizer rates (expressed as
active substance) used at present and those estimated to be optimum levels to
achieve crop yields with the project at full development are given in Annex 9,
Tables 1, 2, and 3 and are summarized below;
Fertilizer Rates
Present                         Future
N      P205       K20            N       P205    K20
- - - - - - - - - - - kg/ha - - - - - - - -  - -
Individual Sector
Wheat                     40      35        30            130      120      120
Maize                     50      40        35            140      130      100
Sugarbeet                 55      50        60            170      150     240
Vegetables                70      55        55            160      180      185
Alfalfa                   25      25        25             25       70       72
Annual fodder             30      30        30             90      125      125
Social Sector
Wheat                     60      60        55            150      140      120
Maize                     60      80        65            170      150      120
Sugarbeet                 70      75        60            200      170     290
The total project requirement reflects a significant increase in annual
fertilizer useage from 1,355 tons of active substance at present to 6,534 tons
at full development (Annex 9). Fertilizer use and crop response will require
close monitoring during project implementation through the mechanism of the
annual agricultural development plan and the agricultural economic institute
(para 4.10). Through the plan it would be possible to modify and refine the
fertilizer rates used on crops in any given year, based on actual field
results obtained during the previous year.
4.06     Seeds and Plant Protection.  Certified seed of high yielding crop
varieties would be used by both sectors. It is readily available for all
crops that would be grown. W.O.A.E. Semberija produces certified seed of
cereals and vegetables for which the Agricultural Institute of Bijeljina
provides much of the foundation seed. Besides supplying its own needs, this
social enterprise also provides seed to the six BOCFs in the project area,
which in turn distributes it through their service shops and warehouses. The
sugar mill provides the total requirement for sugarbeet seeds in both
sectors. In addition, the Agricultural Institute developed an improved
variety of cabbage well adapted to the Semberija plain, of which it produces
high quality seed. Judicious use of pesticides, fungicides and weed killers
would increase with the project. Plant protection materials for the
individual farmers are marketed through the service shops of the BOCFs.



- 34 -
4.07     Labor.  The project will increase the labor requirement because of
the larger area of arable land, the introduction of more labor intensive
crops, as sugarbeet and alfalfa; higher crop yields; and more modern and
intensive cultural practices. Even with the project, sufficient labour is
available for the incremental agricultural production as shown below:
Annual Labour Balance (Future Situation)
Available        Required      Balance
Activity                          - - - - - - - Man-Year - - - - - - -
Crop production              3,994            1,770          2,224
Animal husbandry             1,060            1,240       (-)  180
Post farm activities           330              490       (-)  160
Industrial and houshold    1,346              1,346             -
6,730            4,846          1,884 (28% surplus)
4.08     Mechanization.  The use of machinery is generally adopted.  In the
social sector cultural operations and cereal harvesting are almost fully
mechanized, while in the individual sector only land preparation and wheat
harvesting are done by machines. All remaining operations such as seeding,
weeding and vegetable and fodder harvesting are done manually. Individual
farmers own 457 tractors, mostly of less than 50 hp, and the W.O. Podrinje,
which serves cooperative members, owns 21 tractors. Although the individual
sector is well supplied with tractors, many are old and only equipped with the
basic implements as plows and harrows. The social sector owns 130 tractors,
mostly of the medium type (60-65 hp), and 42 combines, which are also used
outside the project area. Many of the tractors are relatively old and not
equipped with specialized machinery. The project would provide for a portion
of the agricultural equipment requirement that would be needed to manage the
increased arable land and the new crops introduced into the cropping pattern,
as well as for replacements (para. 3.13 and Annex 3, Table 2). All
agricultural equipment to be provided under the project would be acquired by
the investor, W.O.A.E. Semberija, who would assign a portion to W.O. Podrinje
for use by the individual farmers. Maintenance and servicing of social sector
machinery would continue to be done in existing shops of W.O.A.E. Semberija,
which are adequately equipped and staffed to handle the increaaed volume with
the project. Also, the existing workshops in the project area would maintain
the private sector machinery although it would be necessary to train
additional machine operators at the Agricultural Education Center.
C. Agricultural Support Services
4.09     W.O. Podrinje and the six BOCFs in the project area would be
strengthened to undertake the additional agricultural extension work generated
by the project.  The number of extension agents in the BOCFs would be
increased from the current 30 to 65, corresponding to about 200 ha or about 60
farms per extension agent, and which includes both members and non-members of
the BOCFs. The employment of additional extension agents would commence from
January 1984, and full strength would be achieved by January 1987.   During
negotiations, assurances were obtained that funds would be made available by
SR Bosnia-Herzegovina for employing extension agents to provide advisory



- 35 -
services to individual farmers that are not members of the BOCFs (para.
8.01(h)). The main tasks of the extension service would be to advise farmers
on improved farming techniques through individual visits, conferences,
demonstration plots and field days. Extension work would concentrate more
specificially on new crops as sugarbeet and fodder crops and on
intensification of production of crops now under cultivation. Technical
backstopping to the extension service would be.provided by the Agricultural
Institute of Bijeljina. The linkage of the extension agents to the research
and training facilities would be institutionalized through regular courses,
seminars and contacts with research institutes' faculties and other relevant
institutes in Bijeljina and SR Bosnia-Herzegovina. To enable the Agricultural
Institute to perform its task in a systematic and effective manner, it would
be necessary to strengthen it with additional staff and materials. This
additional staff, consisting mainly of agronomists, would be responsible for
coordinating the research activities of the Institute and the extension work
requirements, preparing extension materials for the extension agents,
providing training on specific topics to them, and generally assisting the
extension service with field demonstrations and other related activities with
the farmers. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that this
additional staff would be acquired (para. 8.01(i)). The project would provide
vehicles, audio-visual aids, office and laboratory equipment for the extension
and research programs (para. 3.14, Annex 3, Table 3).
4.10     On-farm agricultural development is vital to the success of the
project since the benefits of the project will accrue from increased primary
production, upon the completion of flood control, drainage, and land
reclamation and improvement works. To ensure adequate on-farm agricultural
development BOAL Hydromelioration Semberija (para. 5.03) in collaboration with
W.O. Podrinje, would prepare annual plans for agricultural production in the
project area. These plans would be based on market projections, raw material
requirements of UPI's food processing plants and produce market distribution
network, as well as the social sector and individual farmers' own needs. The
plans would be formalized through crop contracts with the individual farmers.
In addition, the plans would specify the following requirements: cropping
pattern; expected crop yields and production; inputs such as fertilizers, seed
and plant protection materials; and farmer credit. The annual plans would be
approved by the Commune Assembly of Bijeljina by January 31, each year, and
implemented by W.O. Podrinje and W.O.A.E. Semberija under guidance of the
Project Advisory Committee (para 5.04). The agricultural director of the BOAL
Hydromelioration Semberija (para 5.03) would be responsible for consolidating
and supervising the annual plans of agricultural production and forwarding
these to the Bank through W.O.A.E. Semberija. In addition, an agricultural
economic institute would be employed by W.O.A.E. Semberija not later than
July 31, 1983, to undertake the annual monitoring and evaluation of the
agricultural development plan and to make suitable recommendations for
improvement. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that annual plans
of agricultural production would be submitted to the Bank by October 31 (first
plan due October 31, 1983) and that W.O.A.E. Semberija would employ a suitable
economic institute to carry out the monitoring and evaluation functions (para.
8.01(j)). The annual report on monitoring and evaluation of the benefits of
the annual agricultural development plan would be submitted to the Bank.



- 36 -
V. Project Organization and Implementatior
A. The Borrower
5.01     Privredna Banka Sarajevo - Udruzena Banka (PBS).  Privredna Banka
Sarajevo - Udruzena Banka (PBS) would be the borrower of the proposed loan
and would enter into a subsidiary loan agreement with W.O.A.Es Semberija, the
sole investor. The execution of this agreement on terms and conditions
acceptable to the Bank would be a condition of effectiveness (para. 8.02).
PBS would on-lend the Bank funds, together with its own resources and funds
from the Federal and Republic sources, to W.O.A.E. Semberija, the investor,
under terms set forth in para 3.20, On-Lending Terms. The organization,
management, business policies and financial condition of PBS are satisfactory
to the Bank. In previous Bank financed credit type projects, performance of
PBS has been somewhat lacking; however, increased staffing agreed under other
recent projects to strengthen the supervision and disbursements and
repayments units would help project implementation in the future. The role
of PBS in this project would be confined to that of an on-lending bank for
construction of infrastructure and would not involve any sub-project
appraisals.
B. Implementing Agencies and Responsibilities
5.02     W.O.A.E. Semberija.  W.O.A.E. Semberija would be the investor and
would be solely responsible for carrying out the entire project. Pursuant to
the self-management agreement it has entered into with all project financiers
it has thereby been vested with the authority to be the sole investor (para.
8.0l(k)(i)). The Bank and W.O.A.E. Semberija and the Commune Assembly of
Bijeljina would sign a project agreement at the time of signature of the loan
agreement; (para. 8.01(k)(ii)) and W.O.A.E. Semberija would sign the
subsidiary loan agrement (para. 8.02) with PBS, the borrower. As the
investor, W.O.A.E. Semberija would have the direct responsibility to:
(a) finalize designs and *prepare bid documents for all contracts;
(b) ensure procurement for construction of drainage and flood
control works;
(c) oversee subsoil drainage;
(d) coordinate and supervise construction on all other project
related works such as buildings and roads and all additional
procurement including farm machinery, construction equipment,
operation and maintenance equipment, and equipment for
extension and research.
(e) ensure on-farm agricultural development in collaboration with
W.O. Podrinje. W.O.A.E. Semberija would enter into a
self-management agreement with W.O. Podrinje to ensure on-farm
agricultural development such as preparation of annual
agricultural production plans and engagement of an agricultural
economic institute to undertake the preparation and annual
monitoring and evaluation of these plans (para 4.10).



- 37 -
W.O.A.E. Semberija is considered to be a suitable organization to act as
investor and to carry out the project. Balance sheet and income statement
indicate that W.O.A.E. Semberija would have adequate financial resources to
provide its share of the project investment.
5.03     BOAL Hydromelioration Semberija.  During negotiations W.O.A.E.
Semberija informed the Bank that BOAL Hydromelioration Semberija has been
established and shall be maintained in operation within its organization.
The BOAL shall be responsible for the implementation of the entire
project. This BOAL would be headed on a full-time basis by an engineer,
assisted by, among others, a financial director and an agricultural director
whose qualifications and experience shall be acceptable to the Bank. A
proposed organizational chart of this new BOAL is presented in Chart 23657.
Following the completion of construction of civil works, the staff of this
BOAL would be absorbed by BOAL Water Management Semberija to cover its
additional operation and maintenance staff requirements. Assurances were
obtained during negotiations that except as the Bank shall otherwise agree
SR Bosnia-Herzegovina shall not take or concur in any action which would
result in the dissolution or disestablishment of BOAL Hydromelioration
Semberija or in the suspension of BOAL Hydromelioration Semberija's
operations (para. 8.01(1)). The Republic would sign an agreement of
obligations at the time of signature of the loan agreement, which, inter
alia, would include this obligation (para. 8.01(1)).
5.04     Project Advisory Committee.  During negotiations, assurances were
obtained that a Project Advisory Committee (PAC) would be established by the
Commune Assembly of Bijeljina by October 31, 1983, chaired by the Mayor of
the Commune or another suitable person and composed of the President of the
Executive Committee, the Chairmen of the Working Councils of BOAL
Hydromelioration Semberija, W.O. Podrinje, W.O. Sava, SIZ and BOAL Water
Management Semberija (para. 8.01(m)). A representative of the local basic
Privredna Bank would participate in the Committee Meetings when financial or
related matters come under discussion. The Director of BOAL
Hydromelioration Semberija would act as Secretary to the Committee. The PAC
would meet three to four times a year and provide an opportunity for
coordination of project activities among the entities concerned and the
beneficiaries.
5.05     W.O. Podrinje.  W.O. Podrinje would be responsible for on-farm
agricultural production plans. Agricultural extension would be provided to
all individual farmers through W.O. Podrinje and the six BOCFs in the
project area, which would be suitably strengthened to carry out this
function (para. 4.09). W.O. Podrinje's financial condition is satisfactory
to the Bank and would allow it to fully carry out its responsibilities
under the project.
C. Operation and Maintenance
5.06     The overall control for operation and maintenance of project works
upon completion would rest with BOAL Water Management Semberija, which is
located in Bijeljina. It is currently in charge of the existing drainage



- 38 -
channels and two pumping stations in the project area. To meet the
increased needs, additional staff, operation and maintenance equipment, and
buildings would be provided under the project. The annual operation and
maintenance cost of the project works is estimated at Din. 23.8 million
(US$0.5 million). 0 & M cost per hectare works out to Din. 1,574
(US$ 36.0) Details of the estimate are given in Annex 10. Assurances have
been obtained during negotiations that SIZ Bosnia-Herzegovina shall provide
funds for covering the operating and maintenance costs of the Sava River
Dike, the main drains, the flood canals and the pumping stations and W.O.
Semberija and W.O. Podrinje would provide the funds for the operating and
maintenance cost of the remaining project works (para. 8.01(n)).
D. Accounts and Audits
5.07     Privredna Banka Sarajevo, W.O.A.E. Semberija, and BOAL
Hydromelioration Semberija would maintain separate accounts for the
Project. Those of W.O.A.E. Semberija and its new BOAL would be open for
inspection at any time.
5.08     As required by Yugoslav law, all banks and enterprises are audited
annually by the Social Accounting Service (SDK), whose methods are
acceptable to the Bank. Privredna Banka Sarajevo would submit its audited
accounts to the Bank within six months of the close of each fiscal year.
W.O.A.E. Semberija and BOAL Hydromelioration Semberija would submit their
audited accounts to the Bank within eight months of the close of each fiscal
year. Assurances were obtained to this effect during negotiations (para
8.01(o)), and the first such audits would be done on June 30, 1983 and
August 31, 1983 respectively.
E. Project Monitoring and Completion Report
5.09     Project Monitoring and Key Project Indicators.  PBS, in cooperation
with W.O.A.E. Semberija, would submit quarterly and annual reports to the
Bank, the information necessary to measure systematically project execution
against the proposed implementation schedule, and project performance after
completion of construction against project benefits foreseen during
appraisal. The reports would include data on the progress of construction
of all physical facilities under various project components, progress in the
procurement of equipment materials, and data on project expenditures.
Agricultural data indicating the areas reclaimed and drained, cropping
patterns applied, crop yields and output, and information on the operation
and maintenance costs of irrigation and drainage works would be submitted
annually. Assurances were obtained during negotiations for the timely
submission of the reports, and in a format acceptable to the Bank (para.
8.01(p)).
5.10     Project Completion Report.  Promptly after completion of the
project, but no later than six months after the closing date, PBS in
cooperation with W.O.A.E. Semberija would prepare and furnish to the Bank a
report on the execution and initial operation of the project, its costs and
the benefits derived and to be derived from it. The report would also
discuss the performance by the Bank PBS, W.O.A.E. Semberija, Commune



- 39 - .
Assembly of Bijelijina and SR Bosnia-Herzegovina, their respective
obligations under the proposed loan agreement, project agreement and
agreement with SR Bosnia-Herzegovina, and the accomplishment of the purposes
of the proposed loan. During negotiations assurances were obtained for the
timely submission of the report, and in a format acceptable to the Bank
(para. 8.01(p)).



- 40 -
VI. Marketing, Farm Incomes, Project Charges and Financial Analysis
A. Marketing Prospects, Processing Requirements and Storage
6.01     The main marketing channels for project output would be those
prevailing in and close to the city of Bijeljina and the project area. There
are four existing major processing plants; all are Work Organizations within
COAL UPI and are operating much below capacity. They consist of a sugar
factory, flour mill, animal feed mill and vegetable canning factory. Fresh
produce would reach the local and regional markets or supply the retail
outlets and supermarkets associated with UPI's food distribution system. In
addition, there is a vegetable dehydration plant with a 12,000 ton raw
material capacity, which is one of the BOALs of UPI, located in Janja, 25 km
from the project area. Raw matarial requirements are now supplied from the
region around Janja; however, in the future the project area also may provide
vegetables. The disposal pattern of primary production from the project by
sectors is shown below:
Processing   Wholesale/Retail   Local Market   Own Needs   Total
Wheat
Individual   75                    9               -             16       100
Social       92                    -               -              8       100
Maize
Individual   53                   15               -             32       100
Social       95                    -               -              5       100
Vegetables
Individual   44                   13              35              8       100
The entire sugarbeet crop would be processed and all forage and fodder would
be used for domestic needs. The sugar factory (400,000 tons input capacity)
which began pilot production in 1979, has operated at less than 30% of its
capacity because of raw material shortage.  Financial losses have been great.
The vegetable canning factory, which currently processes 8,000 tons of raw
material and is operating at 90% of capacity, plans to double its capacity by
1985. It has static cold storage capacity of 3,500 tons and normal storage of
6,300 tons. The flour mill, which also includes an industrial bakery and
concentrate animal feed mill currently operating at 90% capacity, handles
36,000 tons of cereal grains with a 35% increase planned for 1985 along with
grain and flour silos currently under construction with capacities of 15,000
and 2,000 tons, respectively. W.O.A.E. Semberija has its own facilities for
handling cereals (maize silos for 300 tons, corn cribs for 12,000 tons,
warehouse with 500 m2, cereal driers for 346 tons per 24 hours), mixing
animal feed (90 tons per 24 hours), and for treating seeds (3,000 m2).  Even
after full project development the requirements of the processing facilities
in the area would only be partially met (wheat 62%, maize 65%, sugarbeet 72%,
and vegetables 41%). Additional primary production would be supplied from
other areas in Bijeljina and adjacent communes. W.O. Podrinje and the six
BOCFs in the project area serve an important role in marketing of produce
through crop contracts with the individual farmers. One of the primary
functions of the BOCFs is the collection and purchase of contracted cereals,



- 41 -
sugarbeets and vegetables at collection stations, of which there are 56 in the
region with a total covered storage capacity of 9,400 m2 for cereals and
vegetables.  In summary, no problems are anticipated with the disposal of the
incremental production from the project area.
B. Farm Income
6.02     There are approximately 4,700 agricultural farm families in the
individual sector, with an average farm size of 3.5 ha. The 1981 agricultural
annual income per capita for farmers is approximately $350. Another 20% of
the family income accrues from sources outside the farm. A budget and cash
flow statement have been prepared (Annex 11), for a representative individual
sector farm of 3.5 hectares. The arable area under the project would increase
from 2.7 ha to 3.3 ha. Revenues and agricultural production costs are an
average per hectare, based on the financial analysis model prepared for the
individual sector (para 6.08). As a result of the project, the value of crop
production (i.e. crop revenues) increases by 223% while agricultural
production costs increase by only 125%. Farm family annual income from crop
production (before subtraction of home consumption) at full development will
increase by over 300%. Assuming a farm family of 4 persons, the per capita
annual income from crop production (including home consumption) will rise from
about 9,166 Dinars (US$210) to about 27,735 Dinars (US$635) at full
development during payment of project levy, and to Dinars 40,808 (US$934) once
the project levy terminates. The cash flows (after subtraction of home
consumption) indicates that farmers will be in a liquid financial position
throughout the project. Their incremental cash flow, after payment of the
project levy and the operation and maintenance charge, is positive in all
years except the first and second years of land development, when the farmer
would pay his 50% of the land consolidation cost.
C. Project Charges and Recovery
6.03     Investment Recovery.  The capital costs would be financed by 18%
equity contribution, 18% by grant and 64% by borrowed funds (para. 3.19).
Debt service (principal and interest) on these loans (except for land
consolidation) would be recovered from project beneficiaries in the form of an
annual per hectare project levy which would be charged commencing two years
after completion of construction. Assurances have been obtained during
negotiations that if the project levy is not sufficient to cover the full debt
service assumed by W.O.A.E. Semberija, the Commune of Bijeljina or PBS would
provide necessary funds to W.O.A.E. Semberija (para. 8.01(q)). 50% of the
cost of land consolidation would be repaid by the farmers in 2 equal amounts
in the year their land is consolidated and in the following one. The
remaining 50% would be given as a grant by the municipality budget. The
project levy for the social sector is expected to be about 29,770
Dinars/hectare, and that for the individual sector, 16,730 Dinars/hectare at
full development. As is required by Yugoslav law, this project levy would be
expected to cover full debt service amortization. The levy in the social
sector is higher as all sub-surface drainage is located therein. Farm
equipment, operation and maintenance equipment, and equipment for extension



- 42 -
and research services would be financed and procured by the invester, W.O.A.E.
Semberija (para. 5.02). During negotiations assurances have been obtained
that W.O.A.E. Semberija would transfer them in a timely manner to W.O.
Podrinje, BOAL Water Management Semberija and W.O. Research and Development
Institute, including its BOAL Agricultural Institute, respectively, through
separate self-management agreements acceptable to the Bank (para. 8.01)(r).
These self-management agreements would set down the terms and conditions of
the internal cost recovery of this equipment.
6.04      Land Tax.  The individual farmers pay a land tax calculated on the
basis of the cadastral value of the land determined every few years by local
authorities according to the land's estimated productivity. Land tax is
directed towards social services such as education, health insurance, and to
SIZ. This tax is paid to local communities and therefore any incremental land
tax revenue accruing to these communities as a result of the project can be
considered to be an indirect recovery of capital outlays made on behalf of the
individual sector from community budgets. It is estimated that this tax would
increase as a result of the improvement in the land from the current level of
1,350 Dinars/hectare to 1,850 Dinars/hectare at full development.
6.05      Social Sector Income Tax.  All agricultural social sector enterprises
in SR Bosnia Herzegovina pay a tax equal to 10.2% of revenue less agricultural
production and operation and maintenance costs. This tax is applied to
health, insurance, and education services, Republic taxes and water
contribution. As would be the case for land taxes, any incremental income tax
revenue accruing to the commune as a result of the project would be considered
an indirect recovery of project costs.
6.06     Operation and Maintenance Recovery.  Operation and maintenance costs
associated with the drainage system would be recovered commencing in 1984
through an appropriate annual per hectare charge collected by the local fiscal
agency of the Commune Assembly of Bijeljina for administration of funds,
calculated to be 1,350 Dinars/hectare for the individual sector and 2,979
Dinars/hectare for the social sector at full development. The social sector
would bear the maintenance and operation costs of the sub-surface drains.
Collection from the individual sector farmers would be based on 'an ability to
pay' and on the intention of providing an incentive for these farmers to
participate in the project. The operation and maintenance charge would be
approximately 6% of a typical individual sector farmer's incremental cash flow
at full development during payment of the project levy and 4% thereafter (Farm
Model - Annex 11).   This incremental cash flow would be sufficient to pay
these charges during all years. However, since operation and maintenance
charges begin in year 2 of construction, while the farmers do not obtain
benefits from their land until year 3 when land is brought into the project
stream, some subsidy would be required during this year. Assurances were
obtained during negotiations that any operation and maintenance deficits
during the period of construction of the drainage works would be covered by
provision of additional funds by the Commune Assembly of Bijeljina and the
Borrower (para. 8.01(s)).



- 43 -
6.07     Recovery Index.  Based on the project levy and the operation and
maintenance charge, two recovery indices have been calculated. The cost
recovery index measures, in present value terms and in constant prices, the
extent to which the outlays are covered through project related charges.
The numerator is composed of the project levy, operation and maintenance
charge and incremental income and land tax collected from the project. The
denominator consists of the total operation and maintenance costs and the
investment costs after subtraction of the social sector 18% equity
contribution, and 18% grants, and 100% of land consolidation costs/l. This
ratio discounted at 12%, denominated in constant prices, indicate a cost
recovery of 41% of the investment. Alternatively, if this project levy is
defined to recover the public sector grants, the cost recovery index would
be 29%. The second index, the project charges versus incremental benefits
ratio, shows what percentage of the farmer's incremental cash flow goes
toward payment of project related charges. It divides the present value of
the project related charges (in constant prices) paid by the individual
sector farms, by the present value of his incremental benefits over the life
of the project, discounted at 12%. If the project levy is designed not to
recover the grants, the ratio is 17%, indicating that the farmer retains a
high portion of his incremental income to provide incentive for him to
participate in the project. Once the project levy is redefined to include
recovery of the grant, the ratio increases to 24%. Assurances were obtained
during negotiations that these calculations of farmers' disposal income and
the recovery indices would be annually carried out by the agricultural
economic institute (para. 7.03) simultaneously with the annual agricultural
development plan (para. 4.10) and would be prepared and submitted annually
in a manner acceptable to the Bank. These studies on cost recovery are
expected to reflect the effect of annual inflation on project charges.
D Financial Analysis
6.08     Summary financial results based on final prices prevailing in
Yugoslavia (Annex 12) are given below in para. 6.09. The base financial
rates of return (FRR) for the individual sector -- 20%, the social sector --
14% and the project as a whole -- 19% exceed both the current blend
on-lending rate of 11.43% and the opportunity cost of capital (OCC) of 12%
by a reasonable margin, indicating that the project is financially viable.
The lower rate of return for the social sector correlates with a higher
financial investment cost per ha (not including price contingencies) -
177,380 Dinars/hectare or $4,061/hectare for the social sector, versus
129,973 Dinaras/hectare or $2,976/hectare for the individual sector -
because the social sector will bear the entire cost of sub-surface drainage
on 1,500 hectares. (Annex 13, Tables I to 3)
6.09     The financial performance of the project components is scrutinized
by sensitivity analysis assuming plausible changes in cost and benefit
estimates and by examining the main switching values. The lower FRR for the
social sector component implies that all its switching values will be lower
than those of the individual sector component. The project is relatively
/1 The investment costs include interest during construction and
physical contingencies, but exclude price contingencies.



- 44 -
insensitive to adverse changes in investment and agricultural production
costs, with rates of return remaining well above the OCC (Opportunity Cost
of Capital) and on-lending rate. Indeed, the switching value for investment
costs for the project as a whole is 81%. The project is most sensitive to
changes in revenues as is usually the case in agricultural projects. This
is because the revenue stream is the most significant one in the project;
the NPV of the revenue stream is 2.5 times that of agricultural production
costs. However, even if the operating margin were to be squeezed by 20%
(revenues down 10%, agricultural production costs up 10%), the FRR for the
total project would be 14%. Revenues of the individual sector can decline
by 20%, those of the social sector by 7% and those of the total project by
19%, before the FRR would equal the OCC.
Table - Financial Analysis - Summary Results
FRR Individual Sector Social Sector Total
- - - - - - - percent- - - - - - - - -
Project
Base case                                      20                 14         19
Revenues - 10%                                 16                 10         15
Revenues - 10%, agr. prod. costs
+ 10% (operating margin)                       14                  8         14
Revenues lag 1 year                            15                 10         14
Revenues lag 2 years                           12                  8         11
Revenues lag 1 year, agr. prod. cost
lag 1 yr.                                      16                 12         16
Agr. prod. costs up 10%                        18                 12         17
Investment costs up 20%                        17                 12         16
Investment costs lag 1 year, revenues
lag 1 yr                                   16                11          16
Investment costs up 10% and revenues
down 10%                                   15                  9         14
Switching values (Opportunity Cost of Capital of 12%)
Investment costs                              +86                +17        +74
Operating costs                               +50                +13        +45
Revenues -24%                                 -19                 -6        -17



- 45 -
VII. Project Justification
A. Benefits.
7.01     Production and Foreign Exchange.  The quantifiable benefits from
the proposed project derive from the development of currently unexploited
and/or underutilized land resources in the Semberija basin. The drainage
works, land consolidation, and amelioration will permit more productive
cropping patterns and will result in improved and stable yields on an area
of some 19,100 ha. Arable land will increase by a total of 4,290 ha --
2,940 ha for the individual sector and 1,350 ha for the social sector. In
total, the project at full development would generate annually, as its
principal economic benefit, an estimated 15,000 tons of incremental wheat,
6,400 tons of maize, 170,800 tons of sugarbeet as well as increased
production of various vegetables and an assortment of fodder crops primarily
for on-farm consumption. Much of the output of major crops is intended for
domestic use and for the raw material supply of sugarbeet to the new sugar
factory in the project area which is presently operating at very low
capacity utilization. In addition, the production of maize will contribute
to foreign exchange earnings for Yugoslavia, while increased
self-sufficiency in wheat, and industrial crops will help to save foreign
exchange. The indirect effects on livestock production and its increased
export potential are also an important consideration in view of the
incremental production of fodder crops (14,300 tons). These increases are
particularly noteworthy given Yugoslavia's 1980 trade deficit of Dinars
149.6 billion (US$5.0 billion)/l. The Government of SFRY expects this
situation to be reversed over the course of the plan period, and the
agricultural sector's contribution to an improved trade balance is
significant; a 60% planned increase in the value of agricultural exports
and a 25% decrease in agricultural imports.
7.02     Employment and Income Effects.  Of the 17,000 people in the project
area, approximately 15,000 or 90% subsist on agriculture. The active
available rural population in the area amounts to 6,730 worker/years
equivalent (based on an average 8 hr/day, 216 days/year) but only 42% of
that group presently have full yearly employment in agriculture. As
agricultural production expands, employment opportunities directly involved
in individual sector agriculture will increase by about 25%, with the
largest increase in crop production which accounts for 50% of total
employment in agriculture. Secondary and tertiary industries such as food
processing, expanded sales of produce in local markets, transportation
services, and equipment maintenance and operation, etc.,would also develop
thereby increasing further opportunities for economic growth and
employment. These activities would help to alleviate the high unemployment
in agriculture (28%) that is expected to remain even after full
implementation of the project. The breakdown of activities by those
employed without and with the project is shown on the following page.
/1 IFS, Vol. XXXV, No. 2, February 1982, page 435.



- 46 -
Agricultural Employment Possibilities
For Individual Sector /1
No. of         Share of    No. of        Share of       Total
Type of          Jobs With-      Total      Jobs With      Total         Incre-
Activity         out Project Employment   Project          Employment   mental
man-year         %        (man-year          %       (man-year
equivalent)               equivalent)                equivalent)
Animal
production          1,060           37.2       1,240           35.4         180
Post farm
activities            330           11.6         490           14.0         160
Crop production    1,460            51.2       1,770           50.6         310
2,850          100.0      3,500           100.0        650
Total available
active popula-
tion                6,730                      6,730
Of which
employed in
agriculture         2,850           42.4       3,500           52.1
Employed in
industry or
household
activities         1,346            20.0       1,346           20.0
Unemployed or
underemployed      2,534            38.0       1,884           28.0
Finally, direct employment from the actual construction and future maintenance
of the drainage system including land improvement and civil works will also
create 65 additional highly skilled and skilled jobs. The gross value of
production (at constant 1981 dollars) by the time of full project
implementation would increase by about 227% (US$20.0 million) for the project
as a whole and 210% for the individual sector. As a result, the project would
create a more viable financial base for some 4,700 farm families, subsisting
on an average estimated per capita income of US$440. Target per capita income
for SFRY is about US$850 (1980). (See para. 6.02 on-farm incomes)
/1 Source: Preparation Reports, Annexes I and 6.



- 47 -
7.03     Institution Building.  Because crop performance is vital to the
success of this project, explicit provisions have been made to ensure
intensive on-farm development and adequate extension service to the
individual sector through existing institutions. Most of this work is to be
carried out through the farm cooperative, W.O. Podrinje, thereby enhancing
the importance of organized cooperation both among the individual farmers
themselves and with the social sector organizations. In this way, the
agricultural part of the project's implementation will give various
institutions in the area greater responsibilities for the promotion of
increased crop production. Some of these in addition to W.O. Podrinje
include: Agricultural Research and Training Centers; the BOCFs in charge of
extension; W.O.A.E. Semberija, the investor; and the Commune Asaembly of
Bijeljina. An independent agricultural economic institute will also be
selected to prepare for monitoring and evaluating the agricultural
production plans of the BOCFs. As concerns the technical implementation of
the project, a new BOAL will be created having full responsibility for the
completion of the drainage system, land amelioration and civil works. The
increased strength and stature of these institutions should improve
relations between social and individual sector farmers and also help to
facilitate the process of land consolidation which is essential to a more
efficient use of agricultural land in Semberija and in the Republic as a
whole.
B. Economic Analysis
7.04     Paramaters for Evaluation.  About 80% of the area planted at full
project development is for cereals and industrial crops which have been
priced as tradeables based on their border equivalent values with adjustment
for transportation. The economic value of fertilizers has also been based
on border price equivalents and adjusted accordingly. (Annex 14) Changes
in international input and output prices, as forecast by the Bank's
Commodities and Export Projections Division, are incorporated over time.
The financial prices of all other goods and services are those presently
prevailing in SR Bosnia-Herzegovina and are converted to economic values by
applying the appropriate conversion factors. The factors used in the
economic analysis are consistent with those used in previous projects in
Yugoslavia (Annex 14). The economic evaluation of the project has been done
using internal Economic Rate of Return (ERR) and Net Present Value (NPV)
estimations. (Annex 15) Benefits quantified include gross revenues from
sales or consumption of incremental output from project investments. Costs
quantified cover all capital and operating costs, inclusive of physical
contingencies of about 15%. The project would have an anticipated life of
40 years with year I of the project 1982 corresponding to the first year of
construction. Project implementation would require five years for
construction (1982-1986) and six years after land becomes available for crop
production to reach full expected yields. The resulting internal rates of
return for the project are summarized in the following table.



- 48 -
Economic Analysis
ERR                                                            %
Base case                                                     20.8
Benefits - 10%                                                17.0
Operating costs + 10%.                                        19.4
Investment costs + 20%                                        18.0
Benefits lag one year                                         15.6
Benefits - 10% and investment costs + 10%                     15.8
Investment Costs and Benefits lag one year                    17.3
Switching Values (12% Opportunity Cost for Capital)
Benefits                                                     -22.4
Investment costs                                             +95.5
Operation and maintenance costs                           +1,252.5
Operating costs                                              +62.2
Net present value at 12%                              1,184,961.5
(Din.     '000)
7.05     Sensitivity Analysis.  The economy of Yugoslavia would realize an
economic rate of return from total project investments of about 21%.
Sensitivity tests were performed to assess the impact of variations in
incremental cost and benefit streams on the project's viability. Switching
values were also calculated assuming a 12% opportunity cost for capital.
The test results and switching values demonstrate that the project can bear
a relatively large amount of shock and still retain economic viability.
For example, assuming a 12% rate of return, investment costs would have to
increase by about 95%. The Switching Values also indicate that the project
would remain economically attractive with up to a 22% reduction in crop
benefits. (Annex 15)
7.06     Risks.  Full realization of estimated benefits is dependent upon
successful implementation of the drainage program with complementary strong
institutional support and effective agricultural extension for the
individual sector. The Yugoslav parties concerned including the Investor,
other social sector organizations, and SR Bosnia-Herzegovina are giving
high priority to institution building. The institution selected to hold
primary implementation responsibility would be an independent BOAL, headed
on a full-time basis by an engineer, and assisted by, among others, a
financial director and an agricultural director. All technology for the
project is already in existence within SFRY and therefore can be viewed in
operation. The project also contains provision for farm machinery to
complement and replace worn out existing equipment. The number of
extension agents serving the individual sector has been significantly
increaaed to include all individual sector farmers, not only those dealing
with the social sector. The incorporation into the project design of
agricultural production plans in the individual and social sectors which
would be prepared annually and monitored and evaluated by an independent
agricultural economic institute would ensure balanced cropping patterns,
secure markets, guaranteed inputs and access to the latest agricultural
technology.



- 49 -
Among its objectives, the monitoring of inputs will be particularly
important because the projected yields at full development require a
significant increase in fertilizer use.
7.07     Project procurement has been advanced in order to minimize
implementation delays and cost over-runs which have occurred in the SFRY as
a result of high domestic inflation. Inflation is expected to slow down.
Import restrictions which have resulted from counter-inflationary measures
had hampered implementation of all Bank-financed projects in Yugoslavia.
However, the Federal Government has recently decided to exempt Bank
project-related imports. With the above measures, no significant risks are
anticipated in project execution and realization of benefits.



- 50 -
VIII. Summary of Agreements Reached
8.01     During negotiations, the following assurances and agreements were
obtained.
Assurances and Agreements
(a) Field experiments and data collection on the performance of
alternative designs would be continued during this project to
provide the basis for economic designs for future sub-surface
drainage works in the Sava River Basin (para. 3.06). (From:
W.O.A.E. Semberija)
(b) Feasibility studies for future projects would be completed by
consulting engineers acceptable to the Bank by December 31,
1985 to be employed by December 31, 1982 (para. 3.15).
(From; PBS)
(c) Land consolidation would be carried out under the auspices of
the Commune Assembly of Bijeljina and if the proposed schedule
is not met, the Commune Assembly would acquire the land
falling under drainage infrastructure in accordance with
Yugoslav law to avoid any delays in the implementation of the
drainage project. (para. 3.16). (From: Commune)
(d) All final designs, cost estimates, and bidding documents would
be completed prior to Board presentation to meet the
requirementa of OMS 2.28 (para 3.17). (From: W.O.A.E.
Semberija)
(e) An updated financing plan including a revised schedule of
expenditures would be prepared annually and furnished to the
Bank by March 1. Financing for any cost over-runs would be
provided by PBS, as well as funds for operating and debt
service obligations of W.O.A.E. Semberija, when such funds are
not available to it. (para. 3.19) (From: PBS)
(f) The on-lending rate set by PBS to the investor W.O.A.E.
Semberija on domestic (PBS) fund would not be less than 15%
(para. 3.20). (From: PBS)
(g) Procurement of equipment and works listed in Annex 4, Table 3
would be arranged following interational competitive bidding
in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines (except for the
procurement of pumping stations, mole drainage, wide bedding
and deep ploughing) (para 3.21). (From: W.O.A.E. Semberija)
(h) Funds would be made available by SR Bosnia-Herzegovina for
employing additional extension agents to provide advisory
services to all farmers who are not members of the BOCFs
(para. 4.09). (From: SR Bosnia-Herzegovina)



- 51 -
(i)  Additional staff would be employed by W.O. Podrinje in order
to carry out the coordination of research activities,
extension work requirements, and other related duties (para.
4.09). (From: W.O.A.E. Semberija)
(j)  W.O.A.E. Semberija would submit the annual plans of
agricultural production to the Bank by October 31, each year,
commencing 1983, and would employ by July 31, 1983 a suitable
agricultural economic institute to assist in the preparation
of the plans and carry out the monitoring and evaluation
functions as well as an annual economic and financial analysis
for determining the recovery indices. (para. 4.10) (From:
W.O.A.E. Semberija)
(k)  (i)  Prior to Board presentation, W.O.A.E. Semberija would
enter into a self-management agreement with all project
financiers whereby it would be vested with the authority
to be the sole investor (para 5.02); (from: W.O.A.E.
Semberija)
(ii) The Bank, W.O.A.E. Semberija and the Commune Assembly of
Bijeljina would sign a project agreement at the time of
signature of the loan agreement (para. 5.02);
(1)  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, SR
Bosnia-Herzegovina shall not take or concur in any action
which would result in the dissolution or disestablishment of
BOAL Hydromelioration Semberija or in the suspension of BOAL
Hydromelioration Semberija's operations and that the Republic
would sign an agreement of obligations at the time of
signature of the loan agreement which, inter alia, would
include this obligation (para. 5.03). (From; SR
Bosnia-Herzegovina)
(m)  A Project Advisory Committee (PAC) would be established in
Bijeljina by October 31, 1983 chaired by the Mayor of the
Commune or another suitable person and composed of the
President of the Executive Committee, the Chairmen of the
Working Councils of BOAL Hydromelioration, W.O. Podrinje, W.O.
Sava, SIZ, and BOAL Water Management Semberija (para. 5.04).
(From: Commune)
(n)  BOAL Water Management Semberija would be responsible for
operation and maintenance of the project works. SIZ shall
provide funds for covering the operating and maintenance cost
of the Sava River dike, the main drains, the flood canals and
the pumping stations and W.O. Semberija and W.0. Podrinje
would provide the operation and maintenance cost of the
remaining project works. (para. 5.06) (From: W.O.A.E.
Semberija)



- 52 -
(o) A report on prolect accounts and annual financial statements
of PBS, W.O.A.E. Semberija and BOAL Hydromelioration Semberija
audited by the SDK, would be aubmitted to the Bank annually:
PBS - within six months of the close of the Yugoalav fiscal
year.
W.O.A.E. Semberija and BOAL Hydromelioration - within eight
months of the close of the Yugoslav fiscal year.
(para. 5.08)
(From: PBS, W.O.A.E. Semberija)
(p) PBS, in cooperation with WOO.A.E. Semberija would submit
quarterly, annual, and project completion reports presented in
a format acceptable to the Bank, concerning project
performance after completion of construction (para. 5.09 and
5.10). (From; PBS, W.O.A.E. Semberija)
(q) In case the project levy is not sufficient to cover the full
debt services assumed by W.O.A.E. Semberija, the Commune of
Bijeljina or PBS would provide necessary funds to the W.O.A.E.
Semberija. (para. 6.03) (From: Commune and PBS)
(r) Farm equipment, operation and maintenance equipment and the
equipment for extension services would be financed and
procured by W.O.A.E. Semberija and transferred in a timely
manner to W.O. Podrinje, BOAL Water Management Semberija and
the W.O. Research and Development Institute, including its
BOAL Agricultural Institute, respectively, through separate
self-management agreements acceptable to the Bank. (para.
6.03) (From: W.O.A.E. Semberija)
(s) The drainage levy shall be set at levels acceptable and in a
manner which shall provide farmers in the individual sector
incentives to participate in the benefits of the project and
will take into consideration the farmers ability to pay.
Operation and maintenance deficits if any during the period of
construction of the drainage works would be covered by
provision of additional funds by the Commune and the Borrower
(para. 6.06). (From: Commune, Borrower)
8.02     The execution and authorization of a subsidiary loan agreement
between PBS and W.O.A.E. Semberija on terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Bank will be condition of effectiveness.
8.03     With the above assurances and agreements, the project is suitable
for Bank loan of US$34.6 million to Privredna Banka Sarajevo - Udruzena
Banka, the major portion of which will be on lent to W.O.A.E. Semberija.



- 53 -
Annex 1
APPRAISAL OF
SEMBERIJA DRAINAGE PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA - BOSNIA-HERZEGOVINA
Climatological Data /1
Average Temperature            Average Rainfall
°C                         mm
January                           -0.8                         50
February                           1.7                         50
March                              5.7                         45
April                             11.2                         63
May                               15.7                         75
June                              19.3                         88
July                              20.8                         73
August                            20.5                         70
September                         16.8                         52
October                           11.3                         51
November                           6.4                         68
December                           1.6                         65
Average Annual                    10.8
Total Annual                                                  750
/1 Based on 25 years data collected at the Bijeljina Meterological Station
about 10 km from the project area



- 54 -
Annex 2
APPRAISAL OF
SEMBERIJA DRAINAGE PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA - SR BOSNIA-HERZEGOVINA
Data on Pumping Stations
Designed                      Units
Pumping          Catchment        Discharge        Designed   No. & Capacity
Stations          Area              m3/sec          Lift         of each
No. & Name        (ha)         Old  New  Total      (m)        in m3/sec        Remarks
Western Sub-area
1. Domuz--Skela    1,400      2.8   -   2.8          3.26          2x1.4      Along Sava dike
2. Topolovac       4,370       3.3  5.7  9.0      3.72 (old)       2x1.65 (old)        do
4.67 (new)       3xl.9  (new)
Eastern Sub-area
3. Begov Put       9,800        -  15.3 15.3      2.27             4x3.4+lxl.7       - do -
Total       15,570       6.1 21.0 27.1                        12 units



- 55 -                    Annex 3
Table 1
APPRAISAL OF
SEMBERIJA DRAINAGE PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA - SR BOSNIA HERZEGOVINA
Operation and Maintenance Equipment and
Experimental Equipment for Field Drains
Estimated    Estimated
Item                                  Quantity      Unit Cost    Total Cost
- - - - Din. '000 - - -
Mowers (Universal)                         4               700        2,800
Mowers (small)                             4               125          500
Motorcycle                                 7                40          280
Graders                                    1             3,000        3,000
Excavators                                 1             2,800        2,800
High pressure pipe cleaner
with nozzles, etc.                         1             1,200        1,200
Trucks                                     1             1,500        1,500
Drain-master for field drains              1             8,650        8,650
Base cost                                                         20,730
Spare parts and contingencies                                      6,960
Total                                                             27,690



-  6                Annex 3
Table 2
APPRAISAL OF
SEMBERIJA DRAINAGE PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA - SR BOSNIA HERZEGOVINA
Agricultural Equipment
No of              Estimated Cost
Units         Per Unit             Total
Din '000 - - - -
Tractors (120 hp)                           10            1,685              16,850
Tractors (70 hp)                            10               800              8,000
Cereal combines (small grains and maize)  8               2,000              16,000
Small grain combines                        10              700               7,000
Combine for beans                            1            2,000               2,000
Combine for peas                             1            2,000               2,000
Maize pickers                               75              325              24,350
Sugarbeet harvesters                        63              500              31,500
Forage harvesters                           30            1,000              30,000
Base cost                                                              137,700
Spare parts and contingencies                                           46,130
Total                                                                  183,830



57                        Annex 3
Table 3
Appraisal of
Semberija Drainage Project
Yugoslavia - SR Bosnia Herzegovina
Agricultural Research and Extension Equipment
Estimated Cost
No. of      Per Unit         Total
Units       - - -  Din. '000 - - -
Scientific equipment for laboratories
of soils, crop production and
improvement, crop protection and
seeds                                    L.S.                        10,700
Equipment for field experimentation
and demonstration                        L.S.                         7,000
Audio-visual aid equipment                 L.S.                         3,000
Office equipment                           L.S.                         1,000
Field vehicles                             10              800          8,000
Motorcycles                                10               40            400
Trucks                                      2            1,500          3,000
Base cost                                                           33,100
Spare parts and contingencies                                       16,270
Total                                                               49,370



-58 -                                                    Annex 4
Table 1
APPRAISAL OF
SEMBERIJA DRAINAGE PROJECT
YUGO,SLAVIA - SR BOSNIA--ERZEGOVINA
Project Cost Summary
(Dinars Million)                  (US5 Million)            x of
Foreign
Local    Foreign  Total    Local   Foreign Total           Exchange
A.  Civil works
1. Seliste intercepter
Earthwork                          8.0        10.3   18.3        0,2        0.2    0.4           56.1
Structures                         3.0         3.7    6.7        0.1        0.1    0,2           56.1
Sub-total leliste interceoter        11.0         14.0   25.0       0.3         0,3    0,6           56.1
2. Main surface drains
Earthwork                         49.4        63.3  112.8        1.1        1.4    2.5           56.1
Structures                        24.7        31.7   56.4        0.6        0,7    1.3           56.1
Sub-total main surface drains        74.2        95,0  169.2        1.7         2.1    3.8           56.1
3. Secondary & tertiary surface
drains
Earthwork                        139.9       146.7  286.6        3.2        3.4    6.6           51.2
Structures                        15.4        16.1   31.5        0.3        0.t    0.7           51.2
Sub-total secondary & tertiary
surface drains                      155.3        162,8  318.1        3.5        3.8    7.3           51.2
4. Sub-surface drains
Tile drainage                     30.1        47.3   77.4        0.7        1,1    1.8           61.1
Mole drainage                      2.7          3.6    6,3       0.0        0.1    0.1           56.1
Sub-total sub-surface drains         32,8         50.9   83.7       0.7         1.2    1.9           60.7
5. Pumping stations
Earthwork                          2.3         3.7   60.0        0.1        0.1    0.2           61.1
Structures                        21.1        33.2   54.3        0.5        0.8    1.3           61.1
Electro-hydromech equipment    39.2           61.7  100.9        0.9        1.4    2.3           61.1
Sub-total pumping stations           62.6        98.6  161.2        1.5         2.3    3.8           61.1
6. Flood control works
Earthwork (Sava Dike)             99.3       127.0  226.3        2.3        2.9    5.2           56.1
Structures                         2.0         2.6    4.6        0.0        0.1    0,1           56,1
Sub-total flood control works    101.3          129.6  230.9        2.3         3.3    5.3           56.1
7. Roads
Earthwork                         86.8        90.8  177.6        2.0        2.1    4.1           51.1
Structures                        22.7        23.9   46.6        0.5        0.5    1.0           51.3
Sub-total roads                     I0q9.5       1147  224.2         2.5        A±     51
Sub-total civil works               546.7       665.6 1,212.3    12.5         15.3   27.8            54.9
B. On-farm development & miscellaneous
works
Removal of brushwood & tree stump  82.5           105.6  188.1        1.9        2.4    4.3           56,1
Land levelling                         12.6        13.5   26,1        0.3        0.3    0.6           51.9
Wide bedding                            5,1         8.0   13.2        0.1        0.2    0.3           61.1
Deep plowing                          16.0         25.2   41.2       0.3         0.6    0.9           61.1
Facilities for O&M                     35.2        25.0   60.1       0.8         0.6    1.4           41.5
Sub-total on-farm development &
miscellaneous works                      151.4       177.3  328.7        3.4        4.1    7.5           53.9
C. Equipment & machinery
1. Equipment for O&M                   3.9          8.2   12.1       0.1        0,2    0.3            68.0
2. Farm equipment                     42.8        90.9  133.7        1.0         2.1    3.1           68.0
Sub-total equipment & machinery           46.7        99.2  145.9        1.1        2.3    3.4           68.0
D. Land consolidation                    100.7         -    100.7        2,3          -     2.3           - -
E. Equipment for extension services   10.6            22.5   33.1        0,2        4.5    0.7           68.0
F. Engineering                            22.5        70.7   93.2        0.5        1.6    2.1           75.9
G. Organization & management              15.9         _      15.9       0.4         -      0.4           -
H. Training of personnel                    -          6.9    6.9         -         0,2    0.2          100.0
I. Miscellaneous feasibility studies  12.4            73.5   85.9        0.3        1.7    2.0           85.6
Total baseline costs                     906.9    1,115.7 2,022.6    20.7          25.7   46.4           55.2
Physical contingencies                 139.4       172.4  311.8        3.2        3.9    7.1           55.3
Price contingencies                    654.5       198.4  852.9       15.0        4,5   19.5           23.3
Total contingencies                    7° .        370.8 1,164.7    18.2          8.4   26.6           31.6
Total project costs                 1,700.8    1,486.5 3,187.3    38.9           34.1   73.0           46.6
Front end fee                             -         22.3   22.3         -         0.5    0.5          100.0
Total                                1,700.8    1,508.0 3,209.6    38.9          34.6   73.5           47,0



APPRAISAL IF
SFMBERIJA DRAINAGE PROJTECT
YUGOAVIAA - SF BOSNTA-fERSFOCVFIRA
Esti-ated Schedule of toe-dit-r
Toa~l                           1')o 12                                                146'4                        l3-                        19               Forign
Item                               Loca    Fore.ign   Total   Locl   Foreign   Total   Local   Forign   Total   local   Foreign   Total Lcl    Foreign   Total tl                        P-crege   Total   E. ha
Civil worka
-  athwork                        3.o1     0s..8                                            1      0          7       10       c                                                           
- oa....~~~~a,,.....    3.0   ~~~~7    67            -         -        -       2.1       2.9      5         <        58      14        -         ---                                             0
sub-total               IT       11.        'c.        -                          E        11.2       .         .       2.0       .0 6              -        -                    -
Main ewarfac drain
E Erthwork                      49.5    69.93      112.8      -                   -     19.8      25.3      15.1    19.3      25.0    45.1        1.2o.6    22.5              --                  -         5
-  tZturea                     24.7    31-        36. 4                                 10.0     2. 8331            10.0     3,2.     22.7       4±7        6.4.             -                              6
30k-total  71.2    90.0  I8~~~~2  -          -        -      29.11     38.0     60.0    29.8       1.~~~~ .0    771  14.6       19.0     3.        --                 -
See . & tar..arfate drai.a
-Earthwo.rk                    119q.9   116.7     599¾"       -                   -      3.0        1.7    71.7    42.0        11,0    9650      12.0       U..     9(.Cl     00.9       22.0    12.9       51
- itruotrno             15.      16.        '10        -         -9        -       7         10:     75. I     ,       1I2      9.0       1~7        1--      3.         .c        p1        7      0
sal-total         19~~~755. 3   12.0  318.1      -                          53        1.7     70       37        113     57         77        171       00       2.         777    r7.7
- Tile drelnaga          3~~~~~~0.1    47.9  77.4      -          -        -      -         --               12.5      11.9    30.9       12.0      19.9    90.3        61         9.5    15.6      6i
-Mole drainage                   2.7      3.6        6.3       -         -        -       -         -       -         1.1       1.4     2.5       1.1        i.L      2.0 5Q                       ..       56
Sal-total                32      55o3        91.7      -                                                     Y 3.1     7oo    33         1131       757      73         6.       I7J       I
-  ntkwaRt                      2.3      .7        60        16        .C       .7       .7         .1     1.9      -         -        -         -        ---                                    -        6
-Striuctorc                     2i.1    33.2        0413      8.9      13.3    21.9    10.0        16.6    27.1       2.1       3.3       .4                                   --                 -         6
El-etr-Iydro-neoh. equin. 4.             .b    %00.       11.5      18.5    30.      1215         .      50:4      7.9     12.3    20.2        -                 -         -                  i-         6
.b  r                   777           ~           ~           0.0      15.6    250         -                 -         -               
Flood eontral worka
F Erthwark (Savn Dike)          99.3   127.0       126.3      -          -        -      49.7      63.5    113.2    19.6,    63.5   113.1         -         -        -         --                 -         56
-Streeturno                      3.0      D.'        1.        -         -        -       1.0       1.3      2.3      1.0       1.3     2.3       -         -        -        --                  -         56
Sal-total              101.3   129.)-                            -               357       6872   1737     soP         07      10.        -         -        -         --                  -
-Earthwork                      86.9    90.4F    177.6         -          -       -      57        2"7  07:          26.0     27.9    53.3       26.0       27.3    93.9      13.1
-siraotarea                     20.7    23.9        46.6       -         -        -       5.7       6.0    11.7       6.9       7.2    11.0       6.9        7.2    11.0
30k-total              109.5   111.7       212         -          -       -      27.        29.7    96.1    92.        31.0     7.3       12.1       15      177      11          W2      'f
30k-local at olyll worka  ...S&ze  .ra.s  s.aa.j....  21.9    94.1    3~,7    186.2    232.0 488.2 232  ,]41224.9  .1.0.0 4 9.10=- M                        6-        .u.      4 so      AO
Rema  of braahwood and
tree ata                          82.5  105.6        188.1                               21.8        51.6    96.1    32.9      42.4      75.9    24.ft       31.6    s6.1       -5                            6
land levelling                   12.6    1 3.5        26'.1     -                           .9       1'.0     7.8      9.0       5.5     10.       3.8        4.0      7.8      --                 -         52
Wide kedding                       5.1    91.'        13.1      -          -       -       -         -        -        1.9       2.1      hs    o. 6          4.0o     6.6r      1.2        1.9      3.1     61
Deep) plowitg                    16.o    20.2         1yhl.                        -       -                           -         -        -       5l1        17.7    29.9        l1 .0    12. 3              61
P0116cfor 8AM              35.2    JOe         60.2       -         -        -       -         -       -       21.3       15.1      16j.4 Is             223c                                          42
30k-total               19.4 157             297721                                         35.     075      51          T       2.6     %          6:- 3T3              7        s
91q,1499tp343-ch419n
tqui;ae tRAFow                     3.9      8.1        12.2 P                                        -       -         2.0      4.i        6.1     1.1         L.2     6 1      --                  -        68
Farm  equipment                  42.8    ±22.        15397      -          -       -      21.4      45.5    66.9    21.1,    us.'         66.9     -               -                       -        .        68
Sub-total               46.7    99.2      iE2  -                         -       177       T95     5          3'      W          2.      1.9       13782    1771                 - 
L.ad  IoCoiatn10. 7    -                               100.7      20.1       -      2  1   20.1        -       20.1    201.0       -        20.2    20.0       -        20.2      1001       -       2.1       -
Esteasian and  -earh -eric-o  10.6    22.5              93.1      -         -                 .2        6.7     9.9      3.2       6.7       9.9C    2.1        4.6      6.7       2.1        4.5     6.6      68
Engineering                        22.9    70.7         93.2       15.7    49.5    60.2    1.8          0.6     7.1      1.9       s. 6      7.1     1.6        00       (6        16         00       .6      76
Org.nnlztiaa & management           15.9    -           19.9       1.6       -       1.6      .                  I.e     I.e,      -         1I.e)    I..-,.                       23                 2.5       -
Traiinag of  ersomnel               -        6.          (.9      -          2.7     2.7     -          2.1     2.1      -         2.1       2.1     -         -        -         -- -                        150
ala.  fe-atbllity atadies          12.1    73.5         80.9      -         -        -       4.9      29.4    34.3       1.9     29.4       31.0     2.6       11-.7    17.3      --                 -86
Total lace coot                   906.9 1,110.7    2.02.6,        59.3    86.6   145.9   270.2    336.9   627.1   303.1    383.3          Omn.4  190.9       2110.1   010.2     711.0      70.n   IL          no
Ceniingenelo                                                                                                                                                                                                            5.
Phyatee   oaigece                139.4   172.L7       311.8      1.9      13.0   21.9      40.6      53.5   91.1       4t.0     59.5    106.3   30.7         94.0    6o.5      96.1.      I1.,    24.0       5         
Price eoatlngeeoiea  651.5   335,31,   ~~~~~85,2.9  6.o       2.      .1    100.0      3337  AUS        215.4      720       8.121.            63.5   276.1    105          .73 147.8          2
Total project coet               1,700.8 i,486.5    3,197.3        74.2    101.7  175.9    110.8    44o.q  851.7    o65.'          1t'1,090.1  1 96.2         s16.    755.'    211.'       103.7   320.9       17
Front-md f.m-.                               15         11  22. .     3             22.      -                   -       -         -        -        --                  -       --                  -
Tmin1                            1,700.R 1,ta.         ,209.6      74.2   124.0   19§.2   410.8    413.9  851.7         565.3   511.8   1,o80.1 439.2         316.6   755.8   211.!        109.0    j21.S      47



APPRATSAL OF
SEMBERIJA DRATNAGE PROJFCT
YUGOSLAVIA - SR BOSNTA-14ERZEGOVTNA
Procurement Package for Construction & Procurement of Fquipment
No. of  Seliste  Surface  Tile           Pumping    Sava  Roads                  On-farm Development                        Fouipment       Farm
Packages Inter-   Drainage Drainage Stations   Dike                Removal    Land           Wide   Deep        Facilities  for O&M   Eauipmexnt
and Mole                                      of Brush- Levelling  Bedding Plowing          for O&M
Drains                                       wood &
Tree
Stumps
S.   Procurement Pkge.  No. of    (km)          (ha)       (ha)      (m3/sec) (km)             (ha)        (ha)       (ha)      (ha)                       %
No.   Description          Pkge.                          (appr.)                      (appr.)
1            2               3          4          5         6           7          8    9       10         ll          12       13            14           15           16
1  Western sub-area          I          -       5,770   l,o00 o                         29    9,200/1   9,200/1   3,000          800           37            -            -
(paved)
49
(unpaved)
2  Eastern sub-area          I          -       9,800      500           -          -   33    9,800       9,800         500       700          73
(paved)9,800      9,800         500      700           63
56
(unpaved)
3  Pumping stations
- Begovpiut (Ext.)    I           -           -        -          15.3        -    -         -         -             -       -           -
- Topolovac (New)    I            -           -        -           5 .7       -    -         -         _             _       _           _
4/ E Puipment for O&M        I          -           -        -           -         -    -         -          -            -       -            _             100
5   Farm equipment                             -         -                -         -    -         -          -            -       -            -             -         100
8) Flood Protection /2
and Main Drains        1
- Sava bike                        -          -         -                   14. 5
Seliste Intercepter             7.96                        - 
Main Drains                     c9 0
Total                              p6.986   15,570   1,500            21.1    14.5  78    19,000   19,000           3,500  1,500            100           100       100
(paved)
89
(unpaved)                                                                              3 >
/1  Including 3,430 ha urider land improvement without drainage.                                                                                                                1-x
/2  Flood Protection and Main Drains have been placed in one pracurement package as excavation from main drains
would be used for strengthening of Sava Dike.
Note:  (a)   All procurement would be under ICB with the exception of Item 3
(b)   In addition, contracts for mole drainage, wide bedding and deep plowing would also be
procured under LCB.



APPRAISAL OF
SEMBERIJA DRAINAGE PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA - SR BOSNIA-HERZEGOVINA
Financial Plan /1
SIZ Vodoprivreda            UPI Semberija                                        Total
Interest                       Interest               PBS               Interest
Invest-   During           Invest-         During              (FOR    Invest-    During
ment    Const.   Total   ment        Construction  Total   Studies) ment        Construction  Total
 - - - -  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - Dinars Million - - - - -                 ---  - - - - - - - - - -  -
1. World Bank         269.6        -      269.6   1,122.4            -    1,122.4    119.3   1,511.3            -      1,511.3   43.4
2. Federal Fund       249.2      73.0    322.2       204.0          83.5    287.5        -        453.2        156.5      609.7   17.5
3. Republic Fund        -          -        -        120.0          10.0    130.0        -        120.0         10.0      130.0    3.7
4. PBS Udruzena Bank   -           -        -        416.0          74.0    490.0        -        416.0         74.0      490.0   14.1
5. PBS - Basic Bank
Bijeljina         -          -        -       126.3            8.7    135.0        -       126.3           8.7     130.6    3.8
6. Equity Contribu-
tion            327.0        -     327.0      260.2           23.Y    2"24.0      -        587.2         23.8      611.0   17.5
Total             845.8      73.0    918.8   2,244.5           200.0  2,444.5    119.3   3,209.6           273.0   3,482.6   100
Details of Equity Contributions:
SIZ Vodoprivreda          Din.  327.0 mil,
UPI Semberija             Din.  184.0 mil.
Commune of Brijeljina   Din.  AO0.0 mil.                                         x|
Total                   Din.  611.0 mil.                                       X.-
/1 Received on March 2, 1982 during negotiations.



- 62 -                        Annex 5
APPRAISAL OF
SEMBERIJA DRAINAGE PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA - SR BOSNTA-HERZEGOVINA
Program of Drainage and Reclamation /1
Item                                         - -           Years - - - - - - - -
Type of Drainage (Total Area)                1983       1984       1985        1986
Drainage & Land Improvement                  - - - - - - - - ha - - - - - - - -
Surface drainage (10,570)                    2,640      3,170    3,170       1,590
Tile drainage (1,500)                          -           600       600        300
Wide bedding (3,500)                           -           850    1,800         850
Total  (15,570)                       2,640       4,620    5,570       2,740
Accumulative program (gross)                 2,640      7±2    12,830    15, 570
(net)                          (2,070)    (5,700) (10,050)   (12,200)
Land Improvement Without Drainage
Land clearance & levelling                   1,140      1,140    1,150          -
Accumulative program (gross)                 1,140      2,280    3,430        3,430
(net)                            (980)    (1,960)   (2,950)    (2,950)
Total Project (Accumulative)
(gross)               3,780      9,540   16,260    19,000
(net)                (3,050)   (7,660) (13,000)   (15,150)
/1 Above program indicates status of construction and land improvement up to
December 31 of each target year. Development of agriculture and resulting
benefits are anticipated in the following year.



-63-                     Annex 6
APPRAISAL OF
SEMBERIJA DRAINAGE PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA - SR BOSNIA HERZEGOVINA
Schedule of Disbursements
Cumulative                               Comparison
IBRD Fiscal        Disbursement    Cumulative    Bank Agri.   Yugoslavia Agri.
Year & Qtr.         US Million            %          Projects         Projects
1982/83
Sept. 30, 1982            0.5             1.4,
Dec.  31, 1982            0.5              1.4            0.6             0.3
Mar.  31, 1983            1.0             2.9
June  30, 1983            2.4             7.0             3.6             2.5
1983/84
Sept. 30, 1983            4.1            11.9
Dec.  31, 1983            5.0            14.5             7.2             8.6
Mar.  31, 1984            5.8            16.8
June  30, 1984            6.8            19.7            13.4            19.1
1984/85
Sept. 30, 1984            9.0            26.1
Dec.  31, 1984           11.0            31.9            19.5            32.2
Mar.  31, 1985           13.2            38.3
June  30, 1985           15.7            45.5            29.0            46.3
1985/86
Sept. 30, 1985           18.0            52.2
Dec.  31, 1985           20.4            59.1            36.0            60.0
Mar.  31, 1986           22.3            64.6
June  30, 1986           24.3            70.4           46.7             72.250
1986/87
Sept. 30, 1986           26.0            75.4
Dec.  31, 1986           27.6            80.0            54.2            82.2
Mar.  31, 1987           29.0            84.1
June  30, 1987           30.3            87.8           64.7             90.0
1987/88
Sept. 30, 1987           31.0            89.9
Dec.  31, 1986           32.3            93.6            71.2            95.9
Mar.  31, 1987           32.4            93.9
June  30, 1987           34.5           100.0           80.3            100.0



APPRATSAT OF
SFMBFRT.TA lRATNACF PRO.TFCT
YPCOSITAVTA - SR _OSNTA-_41R7GC0VTNA
Cropping Pattern on Arable land
Precent Situation__               _                                uture Situation With Project
Jndividual  Sector          Social Sector                 Tota]           Tndividual Sector           Social Sector                  Total
ha          z              ha         '               ha       P            ha                       ha         S             ha         S
Annual Crops
Cereals
Wheat                             ?,40        2q.0               300     41.1           3,2?40    ?9.8        4,170      31.9             69n      33.?          4,860    32.1
Maize                             5,150       50.8               200     27.4           5,350    49.3         2,910      2?.3             690      33.?           3,600    ?3.7
Total (Cereals                        8,090       79.8              500      6R.5          8,590    79.1          7,080      54.7          1,380      66.4           8,460    55.8
Industriai Crops
Sugarbeet                               310         1160                      1.9             470     4.3        2,2O0       ?2.3             700      13.6          3,620    23.9
TotaL Tndustrial Crops                  310        3.t              160      21.9             470     4.3         2,920     ?2.3              7n0      33.6          3,620    23.9
Vegetableb
Potatoes                                210        2.1                                        210     1.9           250       1.9                                       250     1.7
Green Pepper                            200        2.0                                        200     1.8           350       2.7                                       350     2.3
Tomatoes                                100 o.0                                               100     0.9           ?n2       1.5                                       200      1.3
Peas, string beans                       70        0.7               70       9.6             140     I.3
Cabhage                                 170        1.6                                        570     1.6           ?00       1.5                                       ?00     1.3
Cabbage (Sc) /J                                                                                        .           (950)    (4.2)                                     (550)  (3.6)
l'Total Vegetables                      750        7.4               70       9.6             820      7.6        1,000       7.7                                    1,000      6.6
Fodder                                       180        1.8                                        180     1.6           410       3.1                                       410     2.7
Perennial Crops
Forage
Alfalfa, clover-grass               800         7.9                                       800      7.4
Alfalfa                                                                                             .         1,660      17.7                                     1,660    11.0
Total Forage                            80o        7.9                                        8O0      7.4        1,860      12.7                                     ],6      11.0
Total Arable l.and                       10,130       100.0              730    100.0          10,860   100.0        1t3,070    100.0           2,080    111O.0          15,150   100.0
71 .Secod Crop late cabbage mostly following wheat
Is



APPRAISAL OF
SEMBERIJA DRAINAGE PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA - SR BOSNIA-HERZEGOVINA
Crop Production, Gross Value, and Incremental
Individual Sector
Present Situation                              Future Situation with Project
Gross Value                                                Gross Value             Incremental
Area    Yield  Production   Value    Production           Area    Yield  Production   Value    Production    Production   Gross Value
Crop                         ha      t/ha        t         din/t         din            ha      T/ha        t         din/t         din             t           '000 din
FOOD CROPS
Cereals
Wneat                  2,940       2.7       7,938   11,500    91,287,000         4,170       4.8    20,016    11,500    230,184,000          12,078       138,897.0
Maize                  5,150       3.3      16,995    8,500   144,457,500         2,910       6.5    18,915       8,500    160,777,500         1,920        16,320.0
Total Cereals              8,090                24,933              235,744,500       7,080               38,931                390,961,500       13,998        155,217.0
Industrial Crops
Sugarbeet                310      24.7       7,657    2,000    15,314,000         2,920      50.0   146,000       2,000    292,000,000    138,343          276,686.0
Total Industrial Crops       310                 7,657               15,314,000       2,920              146,000                292,000,000    138,343          276,686.0
Vegetables
Potatoes                 210       5.3       1,113    9,000    10,017,000           250      15.0      3,750      9,000      33,750,000        2,637        23,733.0
Green pepper             200      12.5       2,500   10,000    25,000,000           350      25.0      8,750    10,000       87,500,000        6,250        62,500.0
Tomato                   100      15.2       1,520    7,000    10,640,000           200      40.0      8,000      7,000      56,000,000        6,480        45,360.0
Peas                      70       2.7         189   10,000       1,890,000                                                                     (189)       (1,890.0)
Cabbage                  170      30.0       5,100    4,000    20,400,000           200      40.0      8,000      4,000      32,000,000        2,900        11,600.0
Cabbage (sc)              _                                                        (550)    30.0    16,500        4,000      66,000,000       16,500        66,000.0 >
Total Vegetables              750                10,422              67,947,000       1,000               45,000                 275,250,000      34,578        207,303.0 u-
TOTAL FOOD CROPS           9,150                43,012              319,005,500    11,000                229,931                958,211,500    186,919          639,206.0
NON-FOOD CROPS
Forage and Grassland /1
Alfalfa, clover-grass  800         5.0       4,000    5,750    23,000,000                                                                     (4,000)       (23,000.0)
Alfalfa                                                                           1,660      10.0    16,600       6,500    107,900,000        16,600       107,900.0
Fodder                   180       5.8       1,044    4,500       4,698,000         410      10.0      4,100      4,500      18,450,000        3,056         13,752.0
Natural meadow           440       1.4         616    3,000       1,848,000                                                                     (616)        (1,848.0)
Natural pasture          570       0.6         342    3,000       1,026,000      _                                                              (342)        (1,026.0)
Total Forage and
Grassland                1,990                 6,002               30,572,000       2,070               20,700                126,350,000       14,698         95,778.0
TOTAL NON-FOOD             1,990                 6,002               30,572,000       2,070               20,700                 126,350,000      14,698         95,_778.0
GRAND TOTAL               11,140                49,014              349,577,500    13,070                250,631              1,084,561,500    201,617          734,984.0
/1 Forage and grassland yields expressed on dry weight basis
Pb 00



APPRAISAIL OF
SEMBERIJA DRAINAGE PROJECT
YUCOSILAVIA - SR BOSNTA-HERZEGOVTNA
Crop Production, Gross Value, and Incremental
Social Sector
Present Situation                               Future Situation with Project
Gross Value                                                 Gross Value       _       ncremental
Area    Yield  Production   Value    Production             Area    Yield  Production   Value    Prodtiction    Production   Gross Value
Crop)                         ha       t/ha        t         din/t        din             ha      t/ha         t         din/t        din              t           '000 din
FOOD CROPS
Cereals
Wheat                     300       3.0         900   11,500    10,350,000            690       5.5      3,795     11,500       43,642,500        2,895         33,292.5
Maize                     200       3.4         680    8,500       5,780,000         690        7.5      5,175      8,500      43,987,500         4,495        38,207.5
Total Cereals                 500                  1,580               16,130,000       1,380                8,970                  87,630,000        7,390         71,500.0
Industrial Crops
Sugarbeet                 160      37.5       6,000    2,000    12,000,000            700      B5.0    38,500       2,()00      77,000,000       32,500         65,000.0
Total Industrial Crops        160                 6,000                12,000,000         700               38,500                  77,000,0()0      32,500         65,000.0 0
Vegetables
Peas, string beans         70      4.9          343   10,000       3,430,000                                                                       (343)       (3,430.0)
Total Vegetables               70                    343                3,430,000                                                                      (343)        (3,430.0)
TOTAL FOOD CROIPS             730                 7,.923               31,560,000       2,080               47,470                 164,630,000       39,547        133,070.0
NO)N-FOOD CROPS
Natural pasture               6h10      0.6          366    3,0(0       1,098,000                                                                      (366)        (1,098.0)
I(OTAL NON-FOOD               6lU                   366                 1,098,000                                                                      (366)        (1,098.0)
GRAND IOIAL                 1,340                 8,289                32,658,000       2,()8()             47,470                 164,640,000       39,181        131,972.0         < >
____r (D X



APPRAISAL OF
SEMBERIJA DRAINAGE PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA - SR BOSNIA-HERZEGOVINA
Crop Production, Gross Value, and Incremental
Both Sectors Combined
Present Situation                             Future Situation with Project
Gross Value                                               Gross Value             Incremental
Area    Yield  Production   Value    Production          Area    Yield  Production   Value    Production    Production   Gross Value
Crop                         ha      t/ha        t        din/t        din            ha      t/ha        t         din/t        din              t          '000 din
FOOD CROPS
Cereals
Wheat                 3,240        2.73     8,838   11,500   101,637,000        4,860       4.90   23,811    11,500    273,826,500         14,973        172,189.5
Maize                 5,350       3.30    17,675    8,500   150,237,500         3,600       6.69   24,090       8,500    204,765,000        6,415         54,527.5
Total Cereals              8,590                26,513             251,874,500      8,460               47,901                478,591,500       21,388       226,717.0
Industrial Crops
Sugarbeet               470      29.06    13,657    2,000    27,314,000         3,620      50.97  184,500       2,000    369,000,000    170,843         341,686.0
Total Industrial Crops       470               13,657               27,314,000      3,620              184,500                369,000,000    170,843         341,686.0
Vegetables
Potatoes                210       5.30      1,113    9,000    10,017,000          250      15.00    3,750       9,000      33,750,000       2,637        23,733.0
Green pepper            200      12.50      2,500   10,000    25,000,000          350      25.00    8,750    10,000        87,500,000       6,250        62,500.0
Tomato                   100     15.20      1,520    7,000    10,640,000          200      40.00    8,000       7,000      56,000,000       6,480        45,360.0
Peas, string beans      140       3.80        532   10,000       5,320,000                                                                   (532)       (5,320.0)
Cabbage                 170      30.00      5,100    4,000    20,400,000          200      40.00    8,000       4,000      32,000,000       2,900        11,600.0
Cabbage (sc)             _                                                       (550)    30.00   16,500        4,000      66,000,000      16,500        66,000.0
Total Vegetables             820                10,765              71,377,000       1,000              45,000                275,250,000       34,235       203,873.0
TOTAL FOOD CROPS           9,880               50,935              350,565,500    13,080               277,401              1,122,841,500    226,466         772,276.0
NON-FOOD CROPS
Forage and Grassland
Alfalfa, clover-grass  800         5.00     4,000    5,750    23,000,000                                                                   (4,000)       (23,000.0)
Alfalfa                                                                         1,660      10.00   16,600       6,500    107,900,000       16,600       107,900.0
Fodder                  180       5.80      1,044    4,500       4,698,000        410      10.00    4,100       4,500      18,450,000       3,056        13,752.0    5'D
Natural meadow          440       1.40        616    3,000       1,848,000                                                                   (616)       (1,848.0)      x
Natural pasture       1,180       0.60        708    3,000       2,124,000                                                                   (708)       (2,124.0)      X
Total Forage and
Grassland               2,600                 6,368               31,670,000      2,070               20,700                126,350,000      14,332        94,680.0
TOTAL NON-FOOD            2,600                 6,368               31,670,000      2,070               20,700                126,350,000      14,332         94,680.0
GRAND TOTAL               12,480               57,303              382,235,500    15,150               298,101              1,249,191,500    240,798         866,956.0



APPRAISAL OF
SEMBFRTJA DRAINAGE PROJECT
YGOST.AVTA - SR BOSNTA-NFRZFCOVTNA
Fertilizer Application Rates and Total Reouirement
(Expressed as active substance)
Present Situation                                                   Future Situation With Project
Area             Rate - kg/ha                 Reauirement - tons               Area              Rate - kg/ha                  Pequirement - tons
Crop                           ha          N       P205       K20          N        P205        K20           ha          N       P205         K20          P        P205        K20
Tndividual Sector
Wheat                       2,940         4n         35         30       118         103          88       4,170        13n         120         l?0       542         500         500
M aIze                      5,154         50         40         35       258         206         180       2,910        140         130         Ino       407         378         291
Sugarbeet                     310         55         50         60        17         1lf          19       2,920        170         150        240        496         438         701
Vegetables                    750         70         55         55        53          41          41       1,550 /1   160           18n         185       248         279         287
Fodder                        180         30         30         3n         5           5           5         440         90         125         125        37          51          51
Altalfa, clover-grass         800         25         25         25        20          20          20
Alfalfa                                                                   _                                1,660         25          70          72        42         116         120
Subtotat                1 6,--36                                      W471         391        R53       13,620                                        1,772      1,762       1,950
Social Sector
0'
Wheat                         300         60         fO         55        18          18          17          690       1 "         140         17n       104          97          8)         I
Maize                         200         60          80        65         12         16          13          690       170         150         120       117         104          83
Sugarteet                     160         70         75         60        11          12          In         700        200         170        290        140         119         203
Vegetables                     70         45         80         60          3          6           4
Subtotal                    730                                         44          52         44         ,o80n                                         361         320        369
Total                      10,860                                        515         443         397      15,700                                        ?,133       2,082       2,319
i Inocludes 550 ha of second crop late cabbage
71.- -inc cf-es~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



- 69 -
Annex 10
APPRAISAL OF
SEMBERIJA DRAINAGE PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA - SR BOSNIA-HERZEGOVINA
Annual Operation and Maintenance Costs
Item                                                    Estimated Annual Cost
Operating Personnel
Pumping stations                                             1,188
Drainage network and dikes                                     861
Sub-total                                        2,049   55.0
Equipment
Transport for supervision and routine repairs                2,145   58.0
Power Supply
Pumping stations                                             1,775   48.0
Maintenance of Works
Dikes                                                        1,375
Surface drainage network                                     9,969
Sub-surface drainage system                                  3,488
Interceptor canals                                           1,514
Roads                                                        1,287
Pump houses and watchmen houses                                 106
Telephone system                                                 40
Sub-total                                        17,779  481.0
Miscellaneous
Lubricants and materials                                         73
Tools and office equipment                                       24
Sub-total                                            97    2.6
Total                                      23,845  644.6
O&M cost per hectare- = Din. 1,574 (US$42.5)
/1 Total arable area = 15,150 ha



APPRAISAL OF SEMBERIJA DRAINAGE PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA-SR BOSNIA-HERZEGOVINA
INDIVIDUAL SECTOR CASH FLOW
FARM MODEL - 3,5 HA
(DIINARS 000)
PROJECT LEVY-GRANT NOT RECOVERED
WO/ PROJ     1-2        3       4        5        6       7        8       9   10-15        16      17       18       19   20-40
CASH INFLOW
REVENUES                    84.66   84,66  102.32  133.59  176,47  209.50  234.58  255.48  269,38  273.62  273.62  273.62  273.62  273.62  273.62
CASH OUTFLOW
AGR PROD COSTS              44.37   44,37   51.74   63.99   79.89   90,29   95.27   98.51   99.69   99,82   99.82   99,82   99.82   99.82   99.82
PROJECT LEVY                     -       -        -       -        -       -        -   55.21   55.21   55,21   51,22   35.08   16.90    4.13            -
LAND TAX                     3.65    3.65    3.81    4.05    4,33    4,46    4.79    5.29    5,87    6.11 6l11    6.11    6.11    6.11    6.11
50% - LAND CONSOLIDATION         -   11,76        -       -        -       -        -        -       -        -       -        -        -       -        -
SUBTOTAL                    36.64   24.88   46.77   65.55   92,25  114.75  134,52   96,47  108.61  112,48  116.47  132.61  150,79  163.56  167.69
HOME CONSUMFTION            21.17   21.17   22.23   23,29   24,35   25.40   25,40   25.40   25,40   25,40   25.40   25,40   25.40   25.40   25.40
CASH FLOW W FROJ                      3.71   24,54   42,26   67,90   89,35  109.12   71.07   83,21   87.08   91.07  107.21  125.39  138.16  142.29
CASH FLOW WO FPROJ          15.47   15.47   15.47   15.47   15,47   15.47   15,47   15.47   15.47   15.47   15.47   15,47   15.47   15.47   15,47
tJ
(D
INCREMENTAL CASH FLOW           -  -11,76    9,07   26.79   52.43   73.88   93.65   55,60   67,74   71.61   75.60   91.74  109.92  122.69  126.82                 x
50%                              -   -5.88    4.54   13.39   26.22   36.94   46.83   27,80   33.87   35,80   37,80   45.87   54.96   61.35   63.41                 H
OPERATION 9 MAINTENANCE          -       -    1,?2    3,32    4,17    4,46    4.46    4,46    4,46    4,46    4.46    4.46    4.46    4.46    4.46
SURPLUS./DEFICIT                 -   -5.88    2.62   10.07   22,05   32.48   42,37   23,34   29,41   31,34   33.34   41.41   50.50   56.89   58.95



-71 -
Annex 12
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
SEMBERIJA DRAINAGE PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA - SR BOSNIA HERZEGOVINA
Financial and Economic Prices
October, 1981         1981
Farm or Factory    Economic Farm
Item                        Unit           Gate Price            Prices
(Dinars)           (Dinars)
Outputs
Main Crops                   kg
Wheat                        kg               11.50                 8.92
Maize                        kg                8.50                 4.32
Sugarbeet                   kg                 2.00                 1.20
Vegetables                   kg
Potato                      kg                 9.00                 6.30
Peas                         kg               10.00                 7.00
String beans                kg                10.00                 7.00
Cabbage                     kg                 4.00                 2.80
Tomatoes                     kg                7.00                 4.90
Green pepper                kg                10.00                 7.00
Fodder and Dry Weight       kg
Alfalfa, clover-grass       kg                 5.75                 4.00
Alfalfa                     kg                 6.50                 4.60
Fodder                      kg                 4.50                 3.20
Natural meadow              kg                 3.00                 2.10
Natural pasture             kg                 3.00                 2.10
By-Products                  kg
Maize stalks                kg                 0.70                /1
Maize cobs                  kg                 0.35
Sugarbeet tops              kg                0.40
Wheat straw                 kg                 0.80
/1 These items are not included in the economic or financial analysis.



_72 _
Annex 12
Page 2
October, 1981           1981
Farm or Factory        Economic Farm
Item                          Unit         Gate Price              Prices
(Dinars)`rs
Inputs
Seeds
Wheat                         kg                17.35            12.10
Maize                         kg                70.65            49.50
Sugarbeet                     kg            1,500.00         1,050.00
Potato                        kg               18.00             12.60
Peas, string beans            kg               70.00             49.00
Peas                          kg               50.00             35.00
Cabbage                       seedling          0.30              0.21
Tomatoes                      seedling          0.30              0.21
Green pepper                  seedling          0.30              0.21
Forage and Fodder             kg
Alfalfa, clover-grass         kg              215.00             15.05
Alfalfa                       kg              250.00            175.00
Fodder                        kg               60.00             42.00
Fertilizers                   kg
(100% active ingredient)
Nitrogen                      kg               18.52             17.5
Phosphate                     kg               30.47             17.9
Potash                        kg               15.95              8.4



_ 73 -
Annex 12
Page 3
October, 1981         1981
Farm or Factory    Economic Farm
Item                         Unit          Gate Price           Prices
(Dinars)          (Dinars)
Plant Protection Materials /1
Deherban                     kg              100.00
Lindane                      kg               21.05
Atrazine                     kg              115.00
Penolesalin                  L               230.00
Pirazinon                    kg              446.00
Cikloat                      kg              300.00
Sevin P-5                    kg               26.00
Karbavil                     kg              110.00
Fosfamid                     L               130.00
Trifluralin                  L               302.00
Metonyl                      kg              710.00
Cinel                        kg               81.00
Foksin                       kg               35.00
Bakreni Oksihlorid           kg               75.00
Prometryn                    kg              140.00
Propinebe                    kg              105.00
Propinel & bakar             kg               93.00
Napropamide                  kg              340.00
2, 4-D+MCPA                  kg               70.00
Atrazine & prometryn         kg              150.00
Metolachlor                  kg              270.00
Forat                        kg               40.00
Supplementary Plant Protection Materials
Geolin                       kg               18.00
Stomp                        kg              230.00
Pyromin                      kg              440.00
Ro-Neet                      kg              300.00
Metasystox                   kg              130.00
Timet                        kg               40.00
Enovit                       kg              500.00
Monoson                      kg               70.00
Apropin                      kg              150.00
Volaton                      kg               35.00
Dual                         kg              270.00
Treflan                      kg              302.00
/1 Weighted averages per crop by area were calculated and a conversion factor
of 0.7 was applied to derive economic value.



- 74 -                Annex 12
Page 4
October, 1981        1981
Farm or Factory    Economic Farm
Item                         Unit           Gate Price          Prices
(Dinars)            (Dinars)
Fuel
Gasoline                      L                26.50            26.50
Diesel                        L                24.00            24.00
Motor oil                     L                60.00            60.00
Labor
Skilled                      day
Semi-skilled                 day
Unskilled                     day             300.00 (gross)  120.00
Machine Operation
Heavy tractor                 day           6,200            3,720.00
Medium tractor                day           2,426            1,455.60
Light tractor                 day           1,704.           1,022.40
Cereal combine               day            6,990            4,194.00
Maize harvester               day           6,990            4,194.00
Sugarbeet harvester          day           7,350            4,410.00
Pea harvester                 day           8,176            4,905.60
Irrigation pump              day            1,617              970.20
Mower                         day           1,050              630.00
Animal traction               day             500              300.00



APPRAISAL OUF SEMBERIJA DRtINAGE PROJECT
YUGOSLVAIA - S"R BOSNIA HERZECOVINA
FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
INtDIVIDUAL SECTOR
(DINARS 000!
YEAR         ' ?2^    1983    1984    1985    1986    1987    1988          1989    1990991-2021
CASH iNFLOW
F"Et.' NUES                       -        -  :2 37021  163S50  651769  829729  929077 1011D66  1066915 108370'
CASH OUTFLOW
AGR PROD COSTS                    -        -   64375  166881  291698  3!!7609  3j7327  390162  394835  395362
INV;STMENT COSTS             124820  5033B0  523000  375530  112110            -        -        -        -        -
REPLACEMENT COST                  -        -                          -        -        -        -        -
OPERATION i MAINTENANCE           -    1802    .'662   13153   16502   1/648   17648   17648   1?648   1?648
LAND TAX                                   -     15/    8928   15139   17645   18958   20? 91   23252   24180
LAHiU CONSOLI9ATION           19950   1950   20040   20040   19950             -        -                 -        -
INCOME TAX                        -        -        -        -        -             -            -        -
SUBTOTAL                     144?70  525132  b8623 "I  5441532  *'155398  392?02 2.l3933  4 8761 8 6 14257   437191
CASH FLOW WITH F'FROJECT   -144770 -525132 -8 81602 -180582  196371  4s6B26  5151 o  583102z  6A1120  646514
CHSH FLOW WO PFOJECT              -        -   30386   76493  129706  131Ii2  1'r11!2  151172  151172  15117'2
INCREMENTHL CASH FLOW    -144?70 -525132 -511988 -257075   66665  285654  3                 !3968  '31930  480008  495342
NEi PRESPHijl VALUE Al 12.0% = 1063228,
INTERFNAL FATE 0, RETU,RkN -   19S9.



APPRAISAL OF SEMPERIJA DRAN.A'GE PROJECT
YUGOSLAYIA - SR BOSWI(l HER7EGOYINA
FINANlCIAL ANALYSIS
SOCIAL SEClORF
TOINARS Ooo.:
eE         -1?32     1983     1984      1985     1986     1987     1988    1989    1990991-209         20060?7-Q,l
CASH INFLIOW4
FE.NUES -E-   2197   56615  101007  127858  142221  54191  162150  1 6458  164578  16457v8
CASH OUTFI.OW
AGS  PROD COSTS                    -        -   i0585   2/732   49010   60814   h4771   6/0'55   67793   6./8.°2  e/872   678b:
1NIJESTMENT COSTS             19860   78300  123170   93920   37770                  - 
REPLCACEMENT COST                  -        -                                                                             0-  -  -  -  -  i4630
PFERATION I MAINTENANCE            -      287     1219     3448    5337    6197    6197    6197          6197    619?    6197       6197
LAN  TAX
v.NO CO)El^QNHOC!!L:L:LATI[! N  7:37/7 ...170.....   3170  31i90    31.2        ,         l/0  -            - 3- - 3
INCOINE  AX                        -      -2       91P -    5Y4    4759    6206    7268    8256    S 9'    Y9 32            1  9232
SUBfTOTAL                     23030   81728  139143  130805  100046   73217   78236   81508   )2982   83301   83301   83301
CASH FLOW WITH FFROJECT    -23030  -81728 -117746  -74270            961   t74641   63985   72683   7168   81277  -23353    81277
CASH FLOW WO PROJECT               -        -    297?    7495   12709   14813   14813   14813   14813   14813   14813   14813
INCREMENTAL CASH FLOW        -23030  -81728 -120723  -81765   11748   39828   49172   57820   64356   66464  -38166   66464
NE! FRESFttT YAIIE Al 12,0%.  46352 .
INTFRNAL RAIE OF RETURN        13,9%
H') a



APPSM.I'SL OF SEMPERIJA liRAINAGtP F$OJME
YUGOSLVAIA - SR BOSNIA HFRZEGOVI)NA
FINAtrICAL ANALfSi8
rOTAL PF'OJELI
iMSNAS 000Q
YEtFf        192    1983    1984    1985    1986    !?8.7    1988    1969    1990991-20K5    2006007-2021
CASH INFLOW
FC'NEDl ES                        -       -    8418  420)565J  752776  957586 107129'4 1166054 1229,065 1248283 1248283 124828)3,
CASH OUTFLOW
Ii"'ESTMENT COSTS           144680  581680  6V61/0  429450  149880                                                        -
REPLACEMENT COST                  -        -       -        -        -                 -        -        -       -  i04630
hGF FROD COSTS                    -        -   74960  194613  340708  4142'3  442098  457217  46262B  463236  At63236  l 63236
OFEFATION 1 MAINTENANCE           -    2089    8881   16601   21838   23845   23845   23845   23845   23845   23845   23845
LtNP TAX                          -        -    3547    BS28   15139   17645   18958   20951   23252   24180   24180   24180
LhNT! CONSOLIDATION          23120   23120   23230   23230   23120            -        -        -        -       -        -        -
I.AC>{LE TAX                      -     -29      978    't94    4759    6206    7268    82r56    H992    9 2332         232    9232
SU8TCTAL                    167800  606860  757766  675417  555444  466119  492169  510269  518717  520492  520492  5204924?
CASH FLOW WITH FROJECT   -167800 -606860 -599348 -254852  197332  491467  579125  655785  710349  727791  623161  727791
C^SH FLOW WO PROJECT              -       -   33363   83988  142415  165985  165985  165985  165985  165985  165985  165985                              F 
L ICF'ENENT4L CASH FLOW    -167800 -606860 -632711 -338840   5491!  323482  413140  489800  r44364  561806  457176  5l61806
EET  YrESEH k YLUE OT 121.07 - 1109579.
INTERNAL RATE OF RETURN -   18S



APPRAISAL OF
SEMBERIJA DRAINAGE PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA - SR BOSNTA-HERZEGOVINA
Economic Prices for Tradeable Inputs and Outputs
717301 Constant US$)
World      International Yugoslav        Source or Basis       Internal       Port       Ex-factory Ex-farm
Outputs           Unit      Price 1990    Transport  Border Price         for Price /A       Transport    liandling   Price       Price
Wheat             Tons        263            30           293        Import parity          16.00            5.00                   314
Maize              Tons       217            20           197        Export parity         , 16.00           5.00                   176
Barley            Tons       219             20           23'3       Import parity          16.0o            5.00                   260
Sugar/P (beet)   Tons        )1i6            40           396        Export parity          16.oo            5.00        375          8.9
Inputs
Fertilizers/3
Nitrogen (N)      Tons       652             20           632        Export parity           l6.00           5.00                   611
Phosphate (P205) Tons         533            20           553        Import parity          16.00            5.00                   574
Potash (K20)      Tons       203             12           215        Import parity          16.00            5.00                  236
Conversion Factors
Standard          0.7
Mechanization    O.6
Transport         0.
Construction      o.6
Investment        o.6
Consumption       0.7
Intermediaries   0.7
Unskilled labor  0.4
/1  Based on World Bank Price Projections, July 1981. Transport/handl.ing added for import parity items and deducted for
export parity.
/2  Conversion Rate from Sugar, ex-factory price to Sugarbeet ex-farm price of  .13.
/3  Based on 100( Active Ingredient.
I-.



APPRAISAL OF SEMBERIJA DRAINAGE PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA - SR BOSNIA-HERZEGOVINA
TOTAL ECONOMIC RATE RETURN
TOTAL PROJECT
(DINARS 000)
YEAR         1982    1983    1984    1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990991-2005    2006007-2021
CASH INFLOW
REVENUES                         -        -  121505  350124  627104  799161  895842  976695 1030839 1047100 1047100 1047100
CASH OUTFLOW
AGR PRODUCTION COSTS             -        -   55448  146427  257327  317883  338067  351420  356974  357493  357493  357493
OPERATIONS I MAINTENANCE         -    1288    5942   11107   14610   15953   15953   15953   15953   15953   15953   15953
INVESTMENT COSTS            148500  500200  560000  362200  142800          -        -        -        -       -        -        -
REPLACEMENTS COSTS               -        -        -       -        -        -       -        -        -        -   58140        -
SUBTOTAL                    148500  501488  621389  519734  414737  333836  354019  367373  372927  373446  431586  373446
CASH FLOW WITH PROJECT   -148500 -501488 -499885 -169609  212367  465325  541822  609322  657912  673654  615514  673654
CASH FLOW WO PROJECT             -        -   26357   78093  132225  154497  154878  155285  155649  155649  155649  155649
INCREMENTAL CASH FLOW    -148500 -501488 -526242 -247702   80143  310829  386944  454037  502263  518005  459865  518005
NET PRESENT VALUE AT 12.0Z = 1184962,
INTERNAL RATE OF RETURN =   20.8Z
U,



- 80 -                         Annex 16
APPRAISAL OF SlMBERlJA DRAINAGE PROJECT
YUlJ)OSLAVIA - SR B0SNIA-11ERZECOVINA
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A.   Selected Reports on SR Bosnia-Berzegovina and the Agricultural Sector
A-1   Social Plan of the Socialist Republic of Bosnia-llerzegovi.na for the
Period from 1981 to 1985.
A-2   Agricultural Sector Plan Review:  1981-1985, Ag. Division III,
EMENA Projects (October 30, 1981).
A-3   Draft Review of SFRY 1981-1985 Plan, by Programs Department (July
19 81) .
B.   Selected Reports and Studies Relating to the Project
"Yugoslavia - Socialist Republic of Bosnia-Ulerzegovina, semberija Land
Reclamation Project, Preparation Report" :
B-1   Main Text
B-2   Annex 1 - The Project Area
B-3   Annex 2 - Soils & Field Drainage
B-4   Annex 3 - Hydrology
B-5   Annex 4 - Main organizations and Institutions Related to the Project
B-6   Annex 5 - Engineering Work, Part one
B-7   Annex 6 - Agricultural Development
B-8   Annex 7 - Land Consolidation
B-9   Annex 8 - Markets, Marketing & Prices
B-10  Annex 9 - Economic Analysis
B-li  Additional Preparation Report dated October 5, 1981
C.   Appraisal  =orking Papers
C-1   Engineering, Project Investment, and Operation and Maintenance Costs
C-2   Economic Analysis - Prices, Background Data and Assumption
C-3   Financial Analysis - Prices, Background Data, Assumptions,
Individual Sector Farm Model, Cost Recovery
C-4   Institutions - Financial and Managerial Data
C-5   Incremental Agricultural Production
C-6   Crop Production Inputs
C-7   Seventeen (17) Project Implementation Files
C-8   Disbursement Profiles



- 81 -
APPRAISAL OF
SEMBERIJA DRAINAGE PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA - SR. BOSNIA HERZEGOVINA
TIME SCHEDULE OF IMPLEMENTATION
IBAD FISCAL YEAR    1932         1983               1984               1985              l88            197
CALENDER YEAR          1982              1983               1984               1985             198
_.          -               ///~~~~7,      // t///            // /77             // 7/7            // /77             7
777O,          // //7             // ///            // /7/             // 7/7            //
C-IVIL WORKS                         7,/    7                          7///    7                             ////
SELISTE INTERCEPTOR                  ,,,           // /        80%     j  §720%          // Z              // ''o
-EARTHWORK                         1/I, /7`//                     //   /,-"            // 7/7             7/ ///
/7,  ~~~~~~  ~~~    80%   / //20%            /    7
-STRUCTURES                        /7,            7/    7 /          /  ///            7/ 77/             "/ ///
MAIN SURFACE DRAINS                  /"Z           // ///             // /        40%       / "            "' 2'              /
S.NESR ERN/7'  /7 7'   2540%                4 o  40%       20' """    3%   ""   1%
-EARTHWORK                          ,"",          KZ                 / /Z/  ///    3                          /  i
P N T/7,  70%  // /7/  40%    ~~/X          40%    ,  7/720%          /7  /7/            /
-STRUCTURES                         /7Z,            ////   Z//_//  77                               /    i"'                zz
-ELECT-HYDROMECH., EQIMN7t3%/  7/7                          /7/70,'           /7 /7/.            7/ /7/             /
SEC. AND TEA. SURFACE DRAINS          /            7"'  "'                 ,       40   "  .Q              7/ 0'/             /
." -TILE DRAINAGE  z   /25%    Z 6  3            30%   /   7/   15%        z
-EARTHWORK                         ,I,,           "   G,              '                             /         /i/  15%      /7
/7,o          X   Z//   25%   /   Z         30%   /7   //    30%               15%
-STRUCTURES                           ,           /7  / /, "/ _//S'   /7/,//
S L N I,      /     /    50       / /       50     //  //.  3
-EARTHWORK                         tV/,            /  7/   _         /  //              /  //                               /7
//,       4/%  //4     50%                0 %      // //              7/  /7            /7
-STRUCTURES                         /7,                               // /              / / / //  /    /  /7   /            /7
30%// O//    50%   /  /'/ 20%            /7         30%   ,,  /
-ELECT-HYDROMECH. EQUIPMENT         o'I        in//   o        i11 o f11 '11O// ,'/
LAND LEVLLING             'Z,     ~      /7  Z// __         /  z"7         _    /7     /      /    ///,            o " 
-IDBDINZ  z        , / Z/7    /   7   ",/           //    /            7/ //7
SUB-SURFACE DRAINAGE                 (a,,            / 0//            / W //'            // OW             /' oj
2o',          /   2'/           7/ 2,,                        40% //   2 07  /2
-TILE DRAINAGE R1'/,                             7/ </7             /   <'7           /   :III IIm                          /<
,/,           /7  0/7    50%      ' //~ /   50%   "7  ""/    4%          //'4'/ /20%o
-MOLE DRAINAGE                      2",           /7  2/l /                 7_  Z / S/ Z            /         Z///
ROADS                  ~                            7&                 /~7'    '                            "
LAND C /                 25%           /    30%                0     /     '/  15%      /X
-EARTHWORK                         l'.,,          // 'I-/     ~     // W         ,/ /                        
ENGINEERING~~~~~~~~~~~Z/                       _i-                              __5%_z
2"/o   40% 1   /  ///    30z%/ 25%  /3             / 30%                  z    1
-STRUCTURES                        /ZZ,           /     /    ,/             /                -'/fl'
SAVA FLOOD CONTROL DIKE        ~                    77/        5%~50%    /   '"'                      ~         "
7/,    /7          ~          /7/           /7 77/             7/ /7//7
-EARTHWORK                          7/,            /  /7        '' ////                /  /7/ / /i"
7/,           7/  ///    50%   /7 77/    50%   /7  //.               """ "/             /
-STRUCTURES                         /,7                  7    ,'           ~ i "            7             '""/
EXTNSIN  NO ESERC SEVICS    /7,           7/  //             // ///            /7  /7//-          /  ///            7/
/7/ ,      !7      ///// // /7// /77/    //                           /7 /7///           /7/
ON-FARMODEV. AND MISC.WVORKS7/7/ /7////7//"/7
_    /7 .,        /"  /7/,., /    /77//  .Z/7                            /7  7/7  _         /,
-REMOVAL OF BRUSHWOOD AND           7/,       ~               30%   "'i """    40%   "~ """"'   30%  's /7  oB
TREE-STUMPS7//7 //                                              / 7/// /                        7       7 i'
/7,  ~~~~~~  ~~~    30~%   7///       40%   /7  /7    30% /7//7
-LAND LEVELLING                     /,/                   /      "          /     - / /          / n s///
7/,  /7  /7/        /7  /7/        ~~~~~~~ ~~~~~25%  '7   50%   / j7'25%
WIDE BEDDING                        -,-"-"'                         ""i           a         "                7//
-DEEP PLOWING                      /7,/    7                         7//X7% /47   0
~FACILITIES FORO0AND M/
EQUIPMENT AND MACHINERY              /,7    7                                     0      "   "" 
-EQUIPMENT FOR 0 AND M
/7,    7/ /7/   ~~~~~~~50%   7///     50%    7 /77,/
-FARM EQUIPMENT7/                                  //        in          //       m     / /7"
7   20%    /7 ~       20%     '  "        o%     '"7        20%   "    "    20%
LAND CONSOLIDATION                         7%       T
ENGINEERiNG                                                                                                                    / ;
/, 10%     /7//       25%   /7//         25%   /7//         25%              15      "
ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT                                                              /7  //            //15
TRAINING OF PERSONNEL                   /7                 7    ~      /    $"
MISC. FEASIBILITY STUDIES/77, ;;                                   %; 
7/,  ~~~~~~  ~~~ ~30%    7///         30%   /7//         20%  ~    "' 20%          /
EXTENSION AND RESEARCH SERVICES      7//7 7                       '        /       m     /77/""'. -./
WorlId Bank-2365.4



- 82 -
APPRAISAL OF SEMBERIJA DRAINAGE PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA - SR. BOSNIA HERZEGOVINA
BOAL SEMBERIJA DRAINAGE
(FOR CONSTRUCTION)
PROJECT DIRECTOR
PROJECT
SECRETARIAT
FINANCIAL                          TECHNICAL AND      ADMINISTRATIVE      AGRICULTURAL
DIRECTOR                           CONSTRUCTION          DIRECTCR           DIRECTOR
DIRECTOR
LEGAL     |
ENGINEERS
UNIT FOR               UNIT FOR                UNIT FOR
MAIN                SECONDARY                  DIKES                 UNIT FOR
DRAINAGE             AND TERTIARY              AND ROAD           LAND IMPROVEMENT
NETWORK                NETWORK                 NETWORK           AND FIELD DRAINAGE
L_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  ( _   AUXILIARY
STAFF
World Bank- 23657



IBRD 16222
O   1  2  3  4   5   )OM.JZ S  ,. .,KELA'                                                                    ' 0-                                       )      FEBRUARY 1989
1000   0                 2       3       4                     )CM SEL                                                                                                      
METERS                 KL .OMETERS
PUNJACA 
TOPOLCA14 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                             oST SREMSKA RACA
YUGOSLAVIA
SR. BOSNIA-HERZEGOVINA
Bsi<nviG                      -                                               SEMBERIJA DRAINAGE PROJECT
Drainage area boundary               Main roads
Subarea boundary                     Secondary roads:
Dikes:                      ~~~~~~Existing
Thta  h-pb.. .ptcp at.d.ythe d- (, ..-/  Existing                                                                                                                                                                  Proposed
Woldh cnYks -sttteh, ---y                                                                       = 0                                                                           To be constructed                  Railway
th.  -,oe,e-c  of te -ed-t of                                                                                                                                                                                    Rala
the 'epo-  to  h,oh  -t   a-ahed.
Th  d,t-tt -a,o  -sd-etd ttte
b-tnd-t,h-o -t Otth,a tt.                                   \                                                                                                               Interceptor canals;                  Areas under file drainage
do not --ply on de pt,t of the                                   uTnde
,ld--1-h.aa,.at-e,ty jf                                                                                                                                                       Existing                            Areas underwidebedding
htdhtttti0th, legan mosamtOs |f                                                                                                                                                                                                     bedding t,\    t 
oany tenototytetthnceoflv-b-d-e                       )                                                                                                                       Proposed                           Villages
'._AUSTRIA,                        ,                                                                                                                                          Drains:                     _        Rivers
.  -/    \,   HUNGOARY
ITALYh57OV                                                                                                                                                                     Exis t in  ROMANIA  g  f      \x Streams
N._^,n,t  >'~'J'l  xfl   //   /    -->-g  \              \                      \       //                                                   Proposed:
fft, CRO<AT, ,,  , 0'vo j D0/NA                                                                                                                           _          Main
dOSNI        *'i-t. BeIsoode~ i                                                                                                                   ___Ard      Secondary-                        Republic boundaries
yX   <2< o-'YLGO  S LBA V I A         (k<r                                                                                                                     XS\x-  -  Tertiary         ...- _.-T    Autonomous province
Pumping stations:                    boundaries
NEGRO~-                                           -                                           ~                                                 Essting-- IIternational boundaries
' Proposed
ITALY     )                      ACf ONIA                     _-        C                             BIJELJINA
I            r  GREEcE                                                              :.



