Document of
The World Bank                          L:
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3308-YU
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
PRIVREDNA BANKA SARAJEVO - UDRUZENA BANKA
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE SOCIALIST FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
FOR A
SEMBERIJA DRAINAGE PROJECT
May 10, 1982
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfprmance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS*
Calendar 1981             February 15, 1982
Currency Unit               Yugoslav Dinar
US$ 1                    Din. 41.82                    Din.  43.678
Din 1                    US$   0.024                   US$    0.022
Din 1,000,000            US$  23.910                   US$   22,895
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
GDP               =   Gross Domestic Product
GMP               =   Gross Material Product
BOAL              =   Basic Organization of Associated Labor
BOCF                  Basic Organization of Cooperative Farmers
COAL UPI          =   Complex Organization of Associated Labor of the
United Agriculture, Marketing and Industry
ICB                   International Competitive Bidding
IWRD              =   Institute of Water Resources Development
LCB               =   Local Competitive Bidding
PAC               =   Project Advisory Committee
PBS               =   Privredna Banka Sarajevo - Udruzena Banka
SDK               =   Social Accounting Service
SFRY              =   Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
SIZ               =   Self-Managed Water Management Community of
Interest for Water Economy
SRBH              =   Socialist Republic of Bosnia-Herzegovina
W.O.              =   Work Organization
W.O.A.E.          =   Work Organization Agricultural Estate Semberija
Semberija
*   The Yugoslav Dinar has been floating since July 13, 1973.  The currency
equivalents effective on February 15, 1982 have been used in this
report.
.p



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
YUGOSLAVIA
SEMBERIJA DRAINAGE PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:                Privredna Banka Sarajevo - Udruzena Banka (PBS).
Guarantor:               Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia.
Beneficiary:            Work Organization Agricultural Estate Semberija
(W. 0. A. E. Semberija).
Amount:                  US$34.6 million, equivalent in various currencies,
including capitalized front end fee of US$511,330-
Terms:                  Amortization in 15 years, including three years
grace, with interest at 11.60%.
Re-Lending Terms         The proceeds of the Bank's loan (except for US$2.7
million for feasibility studies) would be on-lent to
the beneficiary (who would bear the foreign exchange
risk) at 11.60%, plus an 0.5% fee to cover PBS's
administration costs.
Project Description:   The main objectives of the project are:  (a)
increasing and stabilizing crop production; (b)
supplying raw materials for agro-based industries;
(c) raising labor and land productivity; (d) helping
reverse decline in agricultural trade balance; (e)
improving agricultural services; and (f) reversing
the trend of declining arable land. These would be
achieved by providing land improvement and drainage
facilities in an area of about 15,600 hectares, and
land improvement without drainage over an additional
area of about 3,500 hectares. The project would
include: (a) extension of Seliste interceptor by
about 8 kms; (b) reconstruction of about 14.5 kms
of Sava river dike; (c) construction of sub-surface
and surface drainage systems; (d) construction of
one new pumping station, increasing capacity of an
existing pumping station and repair of two pumping
stations; (e) construction of about 170 kms of paved
and unpaved roads; (f) land consolidation and
on-farm development; (g) provision of equipment for
project operation and maintenance; (h) provision
of farm equipment to intensify agriculture; (i)
provision of equipment for agricultural extension
and research ; and (j) feasibility studies for
future land and water development projects in
Socialist Republic of Bosnia-Herzegovina (SRBH).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- 11 -
Beneficiaries of the project would be some 4,700
farm families, all of which belong to the target
group, with average per capita income of $440.
Employment opportunities would increase by 25% in
individual sector agriculture (about 650 new jobs).
Direct employment from actual project works and
future maintenance would create about 65 additional
highly skilled and skilled jobs. The annual
estimated gross value of production at full
development would increase by about 200% (US$20.0
million) for the project as a whole. An estimated
15,000 tons of incremental wheat, 6,400 tons of
maize and 170,800 tons of sugar beet, as well as
increased production of various vegetables and
fodder crops would result from the project. Foreign
exchange earnings would result from increased
production of maize and foreign exchange savings are
expected from an increased self-sufficiency in wheat
and industrial crops. The project faces no special
risks.
-----------(US$ Million)-----
Estimated Cost:                   Local          Foreign          Total
Seliste interceptor              0.3             0.3             0.6
Surface drainage                 5.2             5.9            11.1
Sub-surface drainage             0.7             1.2             1.9
Pumping stations                 1.5             2.3             3.8
Flood control works              2.3             3.0             5.3
Roads                            2.5             2.6             5.1
On-farm development and
miscellaneous works             3.4             4.1             7.5
Equipment for O&M                0.1             0.2             0.3
Farm Equipment                   1.0             2.1             3.1
Land consolidation               2.3             -               2.3
Extension and research
services                        0.2             0.5             0.7
Engineering                      0.5             1.6             2.1
Organization and management    0.4               -               0.4
Training of personnel            -               0.2             0.2
Miscellaneous feasibility
studies                         0.3             1.7             2.0
20.7            25.7            46.4



- iii1 -
- (US$ Million) -----------
Estimated Cost (cont.)            Local          Foreign          Total
Base Cost                       20.7            25.7            46.4
Physical contingencies           3.2             3.9             7.1
Price contingencies             15.0             4.5            19.5
Total Contingencies             18.2             8.4            26.6
Total Project Cost 1/           38.9            34.1            73.0
Front end fee on Bank loan       -               0.5            0.5
Total Financing Required        38.9            34.6            73.5
Financing Plan                            --(US$ Million)------   % of Total
Sources                              Local    Foreign    Total    Financing
IBRD (Loan and front-end fee)        -       34.6       34.6         47
Federal Fund                        10.4                10.4         14
Republic Fund                        2.7                 2.7          4
PBS - Basic Bank Bijeljina           2.9                 2.9          4
PBS - Udruzena Banka                 9.5                 9.5         13
Social Sector equity
contributions                     13.4                13.4         18
Total Project Financial
Requirements                           38.9      34.6      73.5        100.0
Estimated Disbursements: -----------------(US$ Million)-----------------
IBRD Fiscal Year   FY83      FY84      FY85     FY86      FY87      FY88
Annual               2.4      4.4       8.9       8.6      7.2       3.1
Cumulative           2.4      6.8      15.7      24.3     31.5      34.6
Rate of Return:  About 21%
Appraisal Report: Report No. 3841-YU, dated May 6, 1982.
1/ Including import duties and taxes estimated at US$1.8 million



I



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
PRIVREDNA BANKA SARAJEVO - UDRUZENA BANKA
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE SOCIALIST FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
FOR A SEMBERIJA DRAINAGE PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to Privredna Banka Sarajevo - Udruzena Banfka (PBS) for the equivalent
of $US34.6 million , with the guarantee of the Socialist Federal Republic
of Yugoslavia, to help finance a Semberija Drainage Project in the
Socialist Republic of Bosnia-Herzegovina (SRBH). The loan would have a
term of 15 years, including three years of grace, with interest at 11.60%
per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.       A Basic Economic Mission visited Yugoslavia in October and
November 1976. Its report entitled, "Yugoslavia: Self-Management
Socialism and the Challenges of Development", 1615a-YU, was distributed
to the Executive Directors on April 5, 1978. An economic mission visited
Yugoslavia in November, 1979; its report entitled "Yugoslavia: Export
Performance and Policies", 2972-YU, was distributed to the Executive
Directors on November 5, 1980. In November 1980 an economic mission
visited Yugoslavia and its report entitled "Raising Productivity in
Yugoslav Industry: Some Issues", 3383a-YU was distributed to the Executive
Directors on August 3, 1981. Basic data on the economy are given in Annex I.
Institutional Setting
3.       The social sector in Yugoslavia, which includes government,
enterprises and public institutions plays the leading role in economic and
social development. It accounts for 85% of GDP and employs over half the
total labor force. The private sector consists predominantly of peasant
farms and small enterprises, mainly engaged in handicrafts, construction,
trade, transport and tourism. Decision making at all levels is governed
by the principle of workers' self-management, involving a unique set of
institutions and instruments of economic policy. The current system has
evolved over the years with major changes introduced through the
constitution of 1974. Responsibility for important social and economic
decisions has been shifted from the Federation to the Republics, autonomous
provinces and Communes. Concurrently, the control of workers' collectives
over the socially-owned means of production has been increased by a
1/ Part I of this report is substantially unchanged from Part I of the
Report and Recommendation of the President for the Sixth Industrial
Credit Project (Report No. P-3188-YU) of April 2, 1982.



-2-
restructuring of all economic organizations into legally autonomous Basic
Organizations of Associated Labor (BOALs) which are the smallest production
units producing a marketable output.
4.       In addition to this strengthening of workers' participation at the
microeconomic level, the concept of workers' management has been extended
to encompass macroeconomic decisions. A set of instruments called social
compacts and self-management agreements have gradually become a part of the
system of macroeconomic management. These measures enable the
participation of all economic agents in the formulation of macroeconomic
policy while maintaining decentralized responsibility for policy
implementation. Beginning with the last medium-term plan (1976-80) these
instruments have been used to augment more conventional monetary and fiscal
policy measures, particularly in the areas of prices, incomes, and
employment.
5.       The 1974 Constitution also introduced a new framework for economic
and social planning, designed to reconcile decentralized-decision making
with consistent and coordinated action. The system of planning first seeks
to establish a national consensus on the major medium-term goals for the
economy. Thereafter, plan formulation is based on participation of all
economic and social units, including government bodies, on a
non-hierarchical basis. An exhaustive interchange of information and
several iterations are required to achieve consistency among the plans of
economic units concurrent with broader social objectives. Once consistency
is achieved, economic units enter into legally binding medium-term
agreements on supply, demand and investment intentions. In case agreements
cannot be reached by the prescribed date, the state is permitted to
intervene, but only on a temporary basis.
Economic Trends and Development Issues
6.       The economic development of Yugoslavia over the past two decades
has been impressive, characterized by rapid economic growth and structural
transformation. Between 1960 and 1980, GDP grew at an average annual rate
of about 6% in real terms. The share of investment in GDP has been high
throughout the period, above 30% in recent years. As population growth has
been only 1% per annum, real per capita income has more than doubled during
the period. Per capita GNP in 1980 is estimated to be US$2,620 at 1980
market prices. 1/ The social sector, in particular industry, has been the
driving force of the economy between 1960 and 1980 with the share of
industry in GDP increasing to around 45% while agriculture has declined to
about 12%. The past two decades have also been associated with the growing
integration of Yugoslavia into the world economy. Between 1960 and 1980
merchandise exports and imports grew by around 6% and 8% per annum in real
terms, respectively; much of this was with markets in the convertible
currency areas.
1/ According to World Bank Atlas methodology.



- 3 -
7.       While overall growth performance has been impressive, large
regional income disparities persist. The Republics of Bosnia-Herzegovina,
Macedonia and Montenegro, each with two-thirds of the national average per
capita income, and the Autonomous Province of Kosovo, with one-third, are
officially designated as less developed regions (LDR). The difference
between the most developed region, Slovenia, and the least developed,
Kosovo, is 6 to 1. In addition to these interregional disparities there
are large intraregional disparities with differences in per capita income
between communes as high as 10 to 1 . These disparities reflect several
factors, notably the greater incidence of low productivity agriculture in
the LDR and their higher dependency ratios and population growth rates.
Since 1971 sizeable concessionary credits (with about 50% grant element),
equal to about 10% of the social product of the LDR, have been transferred
to the LDR through the Federal Fund for the Accelerated Development of the
Less Developed Regions, which is financed through a tax on all social
sector enterprises in the economy.
8.       Linked to the issue of regional income disparities has been the
problem of providing adequate employment opportunities in the modern
sector. Since 1954 employment in the modern social sector has increased by
around 4% per annum, facilitating rapid outflows from the agricultural
sector. Despite this impressive record, substantial productivity and
income differentials remain between the modern (mainly social) and the
traditional (private or individual agricultural) sectors. The persistence
of these differentials has resulted in high demand for modern sector
employment on the part of the rural labor force. The increase of the
working age population caused by relatively high population growth in the
LDR has further added to employment demand. Large numbers of Yugoslavs
have sought temporary employment abroad since the late 1960s. At its peak
in 1973 Yugoslavia had about 1.1 million external migrants. However, since
1973, with changes in policy and the slower growth in the host countries,
this trend has been reversed, accentuating domestic imbalances and placing
added pressure on the social sector to create new work places.
Unemployment rates have risen rapidly from about 7% in 1971 to over 12% in
1980. 1/ The incidence of unemployment is highly regionalized, because
population and labor force growth rates, as well as the proportion of
agricultural employment, are all much higher in the LDR. In 1980
unemployment rates ranged from 28.0% in Kosovo to 1.4% in Slovenia.
Recent Developments
9.       Yugoslavia was successful in maintaining a relatively high growth
rate over much of its recent (1976-80) economic plan. Over the first four
years of the plan GDP growth exceeded 5% per year. The pattern of growth
1/ These rates are not strictly comparable to those in other countries.
They represent the ratio of registered job-seekers (including some
currently employed) to social sector labor force. The ratio of
registered job seekers to total resident labor force would have been
about 9.0% in 1980.



-4-
was, however, markedly cyclical and heavily influenced by policy responses
to balance of payments difficulties and to inflation. Following slow
growth in 1976, macroeconomic policy became more expansionary in 1977,
which resulted in three years of rapid growth. This revival at a time when
the world economy was relatively sluggish put pressure on Yugoslavia's
balance of payments. These strains were considerably worsened by special
developments in 1979 including sharp increases in the price of imported
oil, poor agricultural conditions and an earthquake in Montenegro. As a
consequence the deficit in the current account of the balance of payments
reached $3.7 billion in 1979, or about 5.4% of GDP. Faster growth and
renewed international inflation also led to significant worsening in
domestic inflation. In response to these developments, the tone of
macro-policy became sharply contractionary since late 1979, and economic
management has been dominated by the goal of improving the balance of
payments. As a result of the determined application of a stabilization
program, the current account deficit was reduced to less than $0.8 billion
in 1981 compared with a target level for that year of $1.8 billion largely
reflecting an improvement in the trade deficit. The elements of the
program (which is being supported by a standby arrangement with the IMF)
included a cumulative 57% devaluation of the dinar between June 1980 and
December 1981, tight monetary and fiscal policy, reductions in real
personal incomes and cutbacks in investment, particularly for non-economic
purposes. As a result of these measures output growth was reduced from
previous years, and gross domestic product is estimated to have grown by
about 2% both in 1980 and 1981.
10.      The main source of Yugoslavia's economic growth in the 1976-80
plan was industry. While industrial production rose by only 4% in 1980,
this followed growth of almost 7% per year in the preceding four years.
The plan placed particular emphasis on production of energy, raw materials
and intermediate goods to increase import substitution. These priority
sectors performed well during the first three years of the plan although
production fell slightly short of planned targets, while non-priority
sectors, particularly consumer goods, grew at a rate faster than
projected. Climatic factors have resulted in marked annual fluctuations in
agricultural output, which rose between 1976 and 1980 at an average annual
rate of 1.6% (compared to a target of 4%).
11.      Fixed investment grew at an average rate of almost 9.5% between
1976 and 1979, exceeding the 8.0% plan target. This investment drive was
successful in raising the overall share of the priority sectors in total
investment; however, within the industrial sector investment in
non-priority branches grew at a faster rate than planned. The share of
gross fixed investment in GDP rose from 28% in 1975 to almost 32% in 1979.
In 1980 and 1981, real investment is estimated to have declined by 1.6% and
4.5% respectively, as a result of increasing restrictions placed on
investment activity, particularly in non-priority fields. Overall social
sector employment growth in the plan has been rapid, at about 4% per annum
(compared to a plan target of 3.5%) and has been even faster in the LDR
where the bulk of the structural unemployment is located. Despite these
achievements, the combined impact of net immigration, demographic factors
and the contraction in the rural labor force increased the ratio of
job-seekers to social sector labor force.



-5-
12.      Inflation rates have varied widely over the course of the 1976-80
plan period. Stabilization measures introduced in 1975 and 1976 reduced
the inflation rate (as measured by the retail price index) from 26% in 1975
to 9% in 1976. The subsequent revival in economic activity was accompanied
by a resurgence of inflation. In both 1977 and 1978 inflation was 13%; in
1979, in part due to increases in indirect taxes and fuel prices it
increased to 22%. The sharp reduction in economic activity in 1980
affected the inflation rate much less than had been hoped, and the rate of
inflation was 30%, in contrast to the 17% that had been projected. Part of
the deterioration in price performance can be attributed to the higher
prices of imported goods, resulting from both a higher rate of
international inflation and the effects of the devaluation of the dinar.
There has also been some dismantling of domestic price controls in order to
promote efficient resource allocation in manufacturing as well as price
increase-s administered to stimulate agricultural production and to
rationalize energy use. As a result of effective incomes policies, wage
pressures were muted in 1980, with real personal income in the social
sector falling by 7%. Although real personal incomes declined by a further
6% in 1981, prices increased by 39%. Most of the inflationary pressure
occurred in the first six months of 1981, however, when the retail price
index increased at an annual rate of 56%. Stricter price controls were
introduced during June 1981. These together with the austere stabilization
program, had a significant effect on the rate of inflation and it is
estimated that the rate of inflation slowed to about 25% during the last
half of the year. The Government has announced its intention to curb
inflation further with an official target of 15% for 1982.
13.      As noted above, Yugoslavia's balance of payments has remained an
issue of concern to policymakers throughout the plan. The plan itself
proposed substantial import substitution while maintaining an export growth
rate of 8%. While import growth fluctuated widely between 1976 and 1980
overall it remained below the 4.5% annual rate targeted in the plan,
primarily by the imposition of deep import cuts in 1976 and 1980. Export
performance however was disappointing; despite a recovery in 1980, when
merchandise exports grew by an estimated 11%, export growth over the plan
was about 4.6% per year instead of the 8% targeted. The consequences of
this export shortfall were exacerbated by the deterioration in the terms of
trade and other special factors referred to earlier. Even though workers'
remittances were more buoyant than nhd been anticipated, the cumulative
current account deficit over the plan period was 60% higher than had been
planned. The Government's program to put the balance of payments on a more
secure footing was supported by a two-year standby arrangement concluded
with the IMF in June 1980 in the amount of SDR 339 million per year. This
standby was replaced in January 1981 by a three year program for a total
amount of SDR 1662 million. The Government's annual plan for 1982
continues to stress stabilization of the economy in pursuit of balance of
payments adjustment. The current account deficit for 1982 is targeted at
$0.5 billion; this is to be achieved through export growth of 8.5% coupled
with a 0.5% limit on the growth of overall import volume, and a reduction
in imports of capital goods. Social product is expected to grow by 2.5%;
this slow growth will be reconciled with the export target by further cuts
in fixed capital formation.



6
Medium Term Prospects
14.      The Federal Five Year Plan for 1981-85 was adopted in March 1981,
but in view of the external constraints on the economic growth- and the
authorities' decision to limit its external borrowing the plan has been
substantially revised. Although the detailed targets for production and
investment have still to be finalized, the main strategic elements of the
plan have already been enunciated.  The revised plan projects continued
slow growth in social product and even slower growth in domestic
expenditure to allow resources to be released for exports; this strategy
also implies continued reductions in the rate of fixed capital formation.
As before, the plan projects simultaneous import substitution and export
promotion. It aims to achieve a current account surplus before the end of
the plan period. The priorities stressed are the development of domestic
energy sources and raw materials, production of basic metals, basic
chemicals and capital goods. The plan also stresses agricultural
development in order to reduce food imports and to expand food exports.
15.      Slower growth will make it more difficult for the social sector to
generate additional employment at the pace of the past plan while the
demand for new work places will remain high. Given these difficulties,
more emphasis is being laid on the development of labor intensive
activities including small-scale enterprises.
16.      Finally, the reduction of regional disparities remains a major
objective of Yugoslavia's economic planning. Financial transfers between
Republics will play an important role in this process, and the transfer
mechanisms for the plan lay particular stress on encouraging social sector
enterprises in the more developed regions (MDR) to make direct investments
in the LDR. As experience is gained, these joint ventures could make a
significant contribution to the overall efficiency of production within the
LDR by facilitating the transfer of technological and managerial know-how
within Yugoslavia. Regional disparities, however, are expected to remain
significant over the medium-term.
Creditworthiness
17.      Gross medium- and long-term capital inflows declined from $4.2
billion in 1980 to an estimated $3.2 billion in 1981.  Total medium- and
long-term debt, outstanding and disbursed, is estimated at about $16.6
billion at the end of 1981 while short-term debt at the end of September
1981 stood at about $1.8 billion. Total foreign exchange reserves at the
end of 1981 stood at $3.4 billion. There was some restocking of official
foreign exchange reserves in 1981, and at the end of the year these
amounted to $1.6 billion, or roughly one month of imports of goods and
services from the convertible currency area. It is expected that the
resources provided by the IMF will permit Yugoslavia to retire some of its
short-term debt, and to build up official foreign exchange reserves further
in 1982.



- 7 -
18.      About three-quarters of the debt contracted by Yugoslavia in
recent years has been provided in convertible currencies through commer-
cial sources. The bulk of this commercial credit has been in the form of
suppliers' credits. Nevertheless, financial credits obtained in the
eurocurrency market have become increasingly important for financing the
economy's foreign exchange requirements. The World Bank is the principal
source of non-commercial long-term credit to Yugoslavia.  Yugoslavia will
continue to require a substantial inflow of foreign lending if it is to
achieve its medium-term objectives. Taking account of workers' remittances
the debt service ratio on aggregate medium- and long-term debt averaged 15%
between 1976 and 1980, while the debt service ratio in convertible curren-
cies averaged 18% over the same period. The aggregate debt service ratio
is not expected to increase substantially during the next medium term plan
(1981-85). Given Yugoslavia's past debt service record, pragmatism and its
demonstrated capacity to implement firm stabilization policies when these
are called for, it remains creditworthy for a substantial level of Bank
lending.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN YUGOSLAVIA _/
19.      The proposed project would be the 73rd operation by the Bank in
Yugoslavia totalling about $3,261.7 million. 2/ Of this, approximately 38%
($1,248.4 million) has been for 23 operations in the transportation sector
-- 12 for highways, 7 for railways, and one each for a natural gas pipeline
and an oil pipeline, and two for a port project. Historically, Bank lend-
ing has concentrated on infrastructure including, in addition to the trans-
portation loans, five power loans, one telecommunications loan, three
water supply and sewerage and three multipurpose loans (two of which
include substantial irrigation components). In recent years, Bank lending
has increasingly focussed on the agriculture sector for which thirteen
operations totalling $772 million (about 24% of the total) have been made.
Twenty-one loans amounting to $475 million (about 15% of the total) have
also been made for industry. Two loans have been made for tourism and the
first Bank loan for air pollution control was approved in 1976. In addi-
tion, IFC has made fifteen investments in Yugoslavia totalling about $302
million.
20.      Yugoslavia's disbursement performance (disbursements as a per-
centage of total commitments) deteriorated somewhat in 1981 largely due to
a shortage of local funds arising from financial constraints. Following an
implementation review of the whole loan portfolio with Borrowers in the
1/ Part II of this report is substantially unchanged from Part II of the
Report and Recommendation of the President for the Sixth Industrial
Credit Project (Report No. P-3188-YU) of April 2, 1982.
2/ The 71st and 72nd operations, namely the Sixth Industrial Credit
(US$66 million loan) and the Bosnia-Herzegovina Agricultural
Development Project (US$35 million loan) were approved by the Executive
Directors on April 27 and May 4, 1982 respectively.



Fall of 1981, performance has markedly improved in the first quarter of
1982. Yugoslavia's performance now, as traditionally, compares most favor-
ably with Bank- 7ide and regional averages and with most other countries
of a sirnilar per capita income. Annex II contains a summary statement of
Bank loans and IFC investments as of March 31, 1982, and notes on the
execti on of ongoing projects.
21.      Ihe interrelated objectives which the Bank has pursued in its
lending to Yugoslavia remain essentially unchanged.  These objectives
are to; (i) to increase exports and improve the efficiency of import
substitution; (ii) increase the efficiency of domestic investment with a
view to increasing production with the more limited investment resources
available; (iii) improve access to capital markets; and (iv) reduce
unemployment, particularly in the LDR. It is obvious that not every Bank
operation can address all these objectives nor be entirely oriented towards
the LDR, but the basic thrust of the Bank's activities in Yugoslavia has
increasingly been towards the development of the LDR and the agricultural
sector in particular. Reinforcing this strategy are the economic surveys
of the four LDR undertaken by the Bank and intensified Bank assistance in
project formulation and ongoing economic and sector analysis.
22.      The Bank's emphasis on assuring the accelerated development of the
LDR is fully in accord with the Federal Government's policies embodied in
the 1981-85 Development Plan. As in the last plan period, the Federal
Government agreed with its constituents on the level of domestic resources
to be channeled to the LDR through the Federal Fund mechanism (para. 7) as
well as the distribution of external resources including Bank lending. The
distribution of Bank lending was determined broadly on the basis of income
levels and population size of particular regions. Over the past five
years, almost two-thirds of Bank lending has been to the LDR through
operations for transportation, power, agricultural development and
lndustrial credit. In the next few years significant Bank lending to
the LDR through similar operations is expected to continue.
23.      Decentralized management, the cornerstone of Yugoslavia's
socio-economic philosophy, adds to the inherent difficulties involved in
formulating coherent sector plans. One of the principal features of the
1974 Constitutional changes and subsequent legislation, however, has been
to revamp the institutional framework and to introduce mechanisms for
coordination. Given the complexity of the Yugoslav system (para. 5),
the process of evolving acceptable solutions to problems is cumbersome.
The Bank has therefore put increased emphasis on having an impact on the
shaping of the policy framework and fostering coordination, particularly
in the transport and energy sectors where significant progress has been
achieved. Through its future operations the Bank will seek to consolidate
past successes in institutional reform. Further development of the project
preparation, appraisal and supervisory capabilities of the regional banks
through which a large amount of Bank funds are channelled will remain a
major objectiVe.  In transport, intermodal coordination will be sought
through the implementation of the results of the rail costs and road user



-9-
studies undertaken under the Eighth Highway Project (Loan No. 1377-YU
approved March 15, 1977). The Bank will concentrate its lending operations
in areas where its incremental institutional and/or policy coordination
impact has most potential.
24.      A persistent foreign resource gap looms as the major impediment
to Yugoslavia's ability to maintain its growth momentum and to address the
critical issues of unemployment and regional disparities. The Bank has
helped to attract additional sources of credit through co-financing
arrangements and forge banking relationships for Yugoslavia. The Bank,
however, is the major source of long-term external capital and will remain
so in the near future. Its significant level of operations in Yugoslavia
is regarded by foreign financiers as evidence of confidence in Yugoslavia's
economic performance, policies and prospects. In its future lending to
Yugoslavia, the Bank intends to put increased emphasis on co-financing.
However, in view of the present commercial market constraints that
Yugoslavia is facing and because of the country's complex banking and
foreign exchange allocation system, the extent and form of co-financing
related to Bank projects will have to be handled flexibly.
25.      Yugoslavia's debt to the Bank in 1981 amounted to about 9.0% of
its total debt outstanding and disbursed and this ratio is expected to
remain fairly stable. Service on Bank loans as a proportion of total
debt service was 5.4% in 1981 and is projected to be about 6% by 1986.
26.      IFC started its involvement in Yugoslavia in 1970; since then,
IFC has made 19 investments in the country and, as of January 31, 1982,
IFC's portfolio amounted to $317 million gross and $154 million net of
participation and repayments. The basic objectives of IFC in Yugoslavia
are to: (a) assist priority subsectors in industry and natural resources
development; (b) encourage foreign investment on a joint venture basis;
(c) foster technological transfers; and (d) mobilize other financial
resources in addition to IFC's own funds. Also, IFC continues to give
special, although not exclusive, emphasis to the less developed regions
of the country.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURE SECTOR
Agriculture in Yugoslavia
27.      The agriculture sector, which occupied about 30% of the population
and accounted for about 14% of the GMP 1/ in 1980, has grown at an average
annual rate of about 1.6% over the last plan period (1976-80). Agricultural
1/   GMP (Gross Material Product) corresponds to GDP (Gross Domestic
Product) less output of certain services, such as public
administration, defense, education, health and social insurance.



- 10 -
development in Yugoslavia is of crucial importance to (a) 7ctet en
estimated 4% annual increase in domestic consumption requirements;
(b) provide for increases in exports and reductions in imports; (c) meet
the raw material requirements for the agro-industries subsector; and
(d) achieve employment and income objectives primarily through development
of the individual sector. For these reasons, Yugoslavia's 1981-85 Five
Year Plan stresses agricultural development as one of the country's
highest priorities.
28.      An important feature of Yugoslav agriculture is the co-existence
of social and individual farm sectors. The social sector, which grew out
of postwar collectivization, is made up of a number of institutions,
including kombinats (large scale integrated factory farms), cooperatives
and research institutions. This sector accounts for about 28% of total
agricultural output, controls 16% of agricultural land, and employs about
5% of agricultural manpower. In contrast, the individual farm sector,
which consists essentially of privately held family plots not exceeding
10 hectares of arable land, controls 84% of the cultivated land and
employs about 95% of agricultural manpower and has been relatively
neglected in terms of provision of basic infrastructure, financing and
technology. For the most part, these two sectors are intricately linked
through marketing and other complementary activities.
29.      Yugoslavia's principal strategy in agricultural development has
been to emphasize growth of the social sector as the principal means to
achieve large-scale production, marketing and self-sufficiency in food.
As a result, agricultural production in the social sector grew at an
average annual rate of 5.2% during 1969-79. In contrast, during the same
period agricultural production in the individual sector grew at an annual
rate of 1.2%. While the objective of self-sufficiency in food had been
substantially achieved through this emphasis on social sector growth,
during the past several years growth has stagnated at less than 2.0%
and the balance of agricultural trade has turned more sharply negative.
Moreover, there remain large income differentials, with average incomes
among individual farmers ranging from less than a third to less than half
of those of workers in the social sector. There has been a rapid deple-
tion of the labor force in the agriculture sector which has contributed
to rural-urban migration and increased overall unemployment in the economy.
30.      The strategy of Yugoslavia's 1981-85 Agricultural Development
Plan is based on continued development of social sector holdings as the
main vehicle for growth, and increased organization of the individual farm
sector into cooperatives or associations with social sector enterprises.
The Plan stresses the importance of agricultural development and outlines
measures to develop the individual sector as a means of addressing the
problems of unemployment, rural poverty, regional income disparities and
low productivity. The Plan aims at growth in agricultural production of
4.5% per annum, based on annual growth in the social sector of 6% and in
the individual sector of 4%. Agro-industries are to expand annually by 7%



- 11 -
to meet consumer demand and agricultural exports by 10%. The proposed
strategy relies on improved land use and the development of social sectow
holdings. On the basis of past performance these growth rates seem
optimistic, although they represent somewhat more realistic targets than
in the previous plan period.
31.      Yugoslavia has experienced a net decline in arable land since
1959 of an estimated 600,000 hectares, primarily due to the encroachment
of expanding urban centers and industrial development. According to the
present plan, this situation is to turn around over the next five years
through land amelioration and reclamation works. Total arable land is
assumed to increase from the present 7.08 million hectares to 7.30 million
by 1985 -- with the entire additional 220,000 hectares accruing to the
social sector. Total arable land in the individual sector is expected
to remain constant at 5.83 million hectares, because expansion due to
reclamation will be offset by sales of land to the social sector.
Agricultural planners recognize the need to develop the individual sector
and feel this will best be achieved through increased cooperation with the
social sector. They further maintain that the slower growth rate targeted
for that sector reflects institutional deficiencies leading to the
difficulties in providing large numbers of small farmers with adequate
inputs and markets.
32.      Responsibility for formulating agricultural policy and plans
rests with the six Republics and two Autonomous Provinces, all of which
are represented on the Federal Committee for Agriculture, the President
of which is a member of the Federal Executive Council with the rank of
Minister. Due to decentralized decision-making, all functions associated
with policy and plan implementation rest with autonomous self-governing
organizations, such as agrokombinats and cooperatives.
33.      The challenge in the 1980s for Yugoslav agriculture is to
increase production in and incomes of the large individual sector and
increase productivity in the social sector, while at the same time
expanding the export base of agricultural products. This challenge
is being recognized by the Government, as evidenced by the reorientation
toward primary production in the 1981-85 Plan. Despite the Government's
granting of priority status to agriculture and recognition of the need to
make changes in its policies and invest-.nent programs, the sector still
tends to suffer from major problems. These problems are: (a) inadequate
investment; (b) imbalance toward agricultural processing; (c) inadequate
agricultural credit facilities and extension services; and (d) inadequate
institutional arrangements and services for the large individual sector.
The Bank is continuing a dialogue with the Government to redress these
problems in the context of the projects financed by the Bank and, as part
of its sector operations, the Bank is discussing the possibility of
conducting an agricultural sector survey in the near future.



- 12 -
Agriculture in Bosnia-Herzegovina
34.      The Socialist Republic of Bosnia-Herzegovina (SRBH) is located in
the south central part of the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
(SFRY), and comprises 5.11 million hectares or 20% of the total area of
Yugoslavia. As of 1980, average per capita income was US$1,737 or
approximately two-thirds of the national average, making SRBH one of the
lower income regions. Presently farm families account for 30% of the
Republic's total estimated population of 4.2 million and have an average
per capita income of US$454. The depressed incomes in agriculture, which
employs 48% of the active labor force (compared to 30% of the labor force
in SFRY), are one of the main reasons for such wide income differentials
between SRBH and SFRY.
35.      From 1971 to 1980 rural population in SRBH decreased annually by
1.8%. Shortages in non-agricultural employment point out the importance
of creating better living conditions and increased employment in rural
areas. The Government plans to create the conditions for faster growth in
agricultural production by addressing the following problems within the
economy: (i) rural poverty and the disparity of incomes between
agricultural and non-agricultural sectors; (ii) urban population's growing
demand for more and higher quality food products; (iii) raw material
requirements for growing industrial production; and (iv) the savings of
foreign exchange through reduced food imports and expanded exports. To
attain these goals for the agricultural sector, at least two areas will be
critical: the optimum use of low land areas and extensive cooperation
between the social sector organizations and the individual farmers who own
95% of arable land.
36.      Presently the private sector land is subdivided into tiny plots
located in disparate areas, with a total average holding per family of 3.5
hectares. The Government is encouraging private farmers to pool their
labor and capital to form cooperative organizations through which they can
gain access to facilities like credit, rental of expensive farm equipment,
price assurances and market guarantees, extension advice, as well as
medical/pension plan arrangements. The disadvantages to the individual
farmers are loss of flexibility and in some cases lower product prices
paid by the Basic Cooperative Organizations. Although the policy appears
to be a well-reasoned solution to the need to increase on-farm production,
in practice it seems to have been less successful. This may in part be
due to insufficient financial incentives, as well as the traditional
disinclination of individual farmers to become part of organized labor
groups or cooperatives.
37.      Due to its mountainous terrain, only 21% (1.61 million hectares)
of SRBH's total area is arable land (compared to 28% for SFRY). Of this
amount, about 0.5 million hectares are flatlands in the Sava River Basin,
which are among the most productive and fertile lands in all of SFRY.
Within this Basin, about 150,000 hectares are in need of drainage, of
which 15,700 hectares are included in this project. The effect of



- 13 -
periodic flooding has been a 25% under-utilization of arable land. In
the past, SRBH has relied more heavily on livestock which can utilize the
hilly mountainous area while the production of cereals and industrial
crops has remained limited. SRBH plans to alter this situation by
increasing planted areas by 20% by 1985, through the successful
implementation of land reclamation and improvement programs primarily
in lowland areas.
38.      Agricultural performance in SRBH has been sporadic over the last
five years as production increased on average by only 2.65%, and its share
in total production fell from 14% in 1975 to 11% in 1980. Output is
expected to increase by an annual rate of 4% over the next five years
(8% for the social sector, 3.5% for the individual sector). Production
of grains alone is to be expanded by 70%, and an even larger increase in
other industrial crops is anticipated which would contribute to import
substitution for wheat and barley and increased export potential for other
cereals. To achieve these objectives, the 1981-85 plan allocates US$390
million to the agricultural sector, which represents 5.5% of total outlays
compared to 2.1% in the 1976-1980 Plan. Most of this has been allocated
for primary production. The plan's projected 4% growth target is ambi-
tious, particularly in view of the last plan's performance. Nevertheless,
the prerequisites for attaining these growth rates have been recognized
by the Government, namely: the improvement and enlargement of cultivated
land; redirection of investment toward raw material production; and more
extensive cooperation among individual farmers.
Bank Involvement in Yugoslavia's Agriculture Sector
39.      The proposed Semberija Drainage Project would represent the
fourteenth Bank loan for agriculture and agro-industries in Yugoslavia.
Since 1971, when it first became involved in the agriculture sector in
Yugoslavia, the Bank has financed three nationwide agricultural credit
projects (Loan Nos. 1129-YU, 1477-YU and 1801-YU), seven agriculture and
agro-industry projects in Macedonia, Montenegro, Bosnia-Herzegovina,
Serbia and Kosovo (Loan Nos. 894-YU, 1370-YU, 1371-YU, 1621-YU, 1951-YU,
1993-YU and 2039-YU), one drainage project in Croatia (Loan No. 1756-YU),
and a large scale irrigation project in Macedonia (Loan No. 1616-YU). In
addition, financing was provided for two multipurpose projects in Kosovo
with significant irrigation components (Loan Nos. 777-YU and 1360-YU).
Another project, the Bosnia Agriculture Development, was presented to the
Executive Directors on May 4, 1982. The Bank's involvement in these
projects has been both in the social and individual sectors. As
summarized in Annex II, these projects are generally proceeding
satisfactorily. Two projects have recently been completed, Macedonia
Agro-Industries I (894-YU) and Agricultural Credit I (1129-YU); no project
completion or performance audit reports have yet been issued.
40.      Within the framework of Yugoslavia's Agricultural Development
Plan and the Governments's objectives, substantial Bank lending for
agriculture is an essential element of the Bank's strategy to support



- 14 -
the less developed regions, improve income distribution, ;              pocket-
of rural poverty, increase rural productivity and productive employment
opportunities, reversing the trend of declining arable laid, assst ins
tutional development for credit, extension and research, and contribute to
a reduction of imports and an expansion of exports. The Bank emphasizes
the development of primary agricultural production (irrigated and rainfed)
in the individual sector and agricultural processing facilities in the
social sector to provide the outlet for this production. In recent years
both Yugoslavia and the Bank have increased their commitment to the
development of the individual sector. The mix between involvement in the
social and individual agricultural sectors in Bank projects in Yugoslavia
is determined in each particular case, taking into account factors, such
as the Federal and Republican/Provincial Government's own efforts for the
social and individual farm sectors and the relative investment require-
ments in each Republic or Province needed to bring about a balanced
agricultural development between primary production, drainage and land
improvement, and processing capability.
Performance Under Previous Agricultural and Agro-Industrial Projects in
Bosnia-Herzegovina
41.      The borrower under this project, Privredna Banka
Sarajevo-Udruzena Banka (PBS), has been one of the participating banks in
all three Agricultural Credit Projects, four Industrial Credit Projects
(Loans Nos. 1013-YU, 1277-YU, 1612-YU and 1910-YU), and the borrower for
the Bosanska-Krajina Agriculture and Agro-industries Project (Loan No.
1621-YU). The First Agricultural Credit project has been completed, as
has the Bosnia-Herzegovina Industrial Credit Project. Implementation of
the two other Agricultural Credit projects is progressing, but behind
schedule. Overall commitment levels under the Third Agricultural Credit
Project are close to the original appraisal schedule but, disbursements as
of March 31, 1982 are 13% of the loan amount vs. a 21% appraisal
estimate. Under this loan, PBS has committed about 95%, with
disbursements amounting to 9%. The problems are due in large part to the
general inflationary situation, deteriorating balance of payments and
resultant corrective measures. The Yugoslav authorities are taking these
implementation problems seriously and have taken some specific measures
(e.g., granting priority status to Bank project related imports,
increasing availability of local credit) to reduce the effects of the
overall economic corrective measures on implementation of Bank financed
projects. The Bosanska- Krajina Project is two years behind schedule,
which can be attributed to domestic resource constraints fueled by high
rate of inflation and organizational shortcomings in PBS. The management
has recently taken important measures to supervise sub-projects, monitor
implementation and liaise with AIPK (Agroindustrijske i Prometni Kombinat
Bosanska Krajina), the executing agency, more closely. These steps are
contributing towards faster project implementation and resolving specific
project problems.



- 15 -
42.      Under two projects presented to the Executive Directors in FY82,
(the Bosnia-Herzegovina Agricultural Development Project and the Sixth
Industrial Credit Project) for which PBS is a borrower, agreements have
been reached to strengthen PBS's project supervision and coordination
capacity by expanding the staff in its supervision unit for Bank-financed
projects, and engaging services of consultants where necessary. However,
the role of PBS in this project (Semberija Drainage) would be confined to
that of an on-lending channel.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
43.      The proposed project is the first drainage project financed by
the Bank in the Socialist Republic of Bosnia-Herzegovina (SRBH), and is
in line with the SRBH's and the Bank's strategy to increase agricultural
production and income, to contribute to foreign exchange earnings through
exports and to increase self-sufficiency in food stuffs and industrial
crops. The project was prepared by the Complex Organization of Associated
Labor of the United Agriculture, Marketing and Industry (COALUPI) with the
assistance of the FAO Cooperative Program. The project was appraised in
October-November 1981. Negotiations were held on April 1-7, 1982 in
Washington. The Yugoslav delegation was led by Mr. Obrad Piljak,
Secretary for Finance, Executive Council for S.R.B.H. Annex III
summarizes key events leading to the presentation to the Executive
Directors and special conditions provided for in the Loan Agreement.
Project Objectives and Description
44.      The proposed loan and project are summarized in the Loan and
Project Summary at the beginning of this report and described in detail
in the report "Staff Appraisal Report on the Semberija Drainage Project,"
Report No. 3841-YU, dated May 6, 1982. This report is being distributed
separately to the Executive Directors.
45.      The project's main objectives are:  (a) increasing and stabiliz-
ing crop production; (b) increasing supply of raw materials to agro-based
industries; (c) raising labor and land productivity; (d) helping reverse
decline in agricultural trade balance; (e) improving agricultural
services; and (f) reversing the trend of declining arable land. These
would be achieved by providing land improvement and drainage facilities
in an area of about 15,600 hectares, land improvement without drainage
over an additional area of about 3,500 hectares, on-farm development
and research and extension services to intensify agriculture. While
continuing with the emphasis of previous Bank projects on improving
income and employment levels in less developed regions, the present
project emphasizes development of the northern flatlands of S.R.B.H.
which are among the most productive in Yugoslavia, and institutional
and policy issues retarding agricultural growth. The project, therefore,
begins to address some of the structural problems affecting the Yugoslav
economy, external adjustment, inadequate growth and the lagging
contribution of the agricultural sector.



- 16 -
46.      The project would include:  (a) extension of Seliste interceptor
by about 8 km long to intercept flood run-off descending from the southern
uplands; (b) reconstruction of Sava river dike in a length of about 14.5
km to provide protection from Sava river floods; (c) construction of a
surface drainage network, including the construction of new channels and
remodelling of existing channels, over an area of about 15,600 hectares
for facilitating timely evacuation of excess internal waters; (d) instal-
lation of a sub-surface drainage system, including mole drains in a pilot
area of about 1,900 hectares for draining heavy clay soils and field
experiments in relation thereto on performance of alternative designs;
(e) construction of wide bedding on about 4,500 hectares for removal of
excess surface water; (f) construction of one new pumping station with
a discharge of about 15.5 m3/sec., increasing capacity of an existing
pumping station by about 6.0 m3/sec. and repair of two pumping stations;
(g) construction of about 80 km. of paved and about 90 km. of unpaved
access roads for operation and maintenance of project works; (h) land
consolidation and on-farm development in an area of about 19,000 hectares
consisting of land clearance and levelling, deep plowing, construction
of workshops and machinery and storage sheds, including the installation
of power lines therefor; (i) provision of equipment for operation and
maintenance of drainage and flood protection works; (j) provision of farm
equipment to intensify agriculture in the area; (k) provision of vehicles
and equipment for extension and research services; (1) training of agri-
cultural extension personnel; and (m) feasibility studies for future land
and water development projects in S.R.B.H.
Project Organization and Implementation
47.      Institutional Arrangements.  The borrower of the proposed loan
would be Privredna Banka Sarajevo - Udruzena Banka (PBS). It would
undertake to provide all necessary local finance, from the Federal and
Republican funds, from the social sector participants, as well from its
own resources and that of its Basic Bank in Bijeljina.
48.      PBS, an associated bank, is the major bank in SRBH which,
together with its constituent basic banks (formerly branch offices), plays
a prominent role in mobilizing investment resources in SRBH and obtaining
foreign credits. PBS has maintained an adequate level of net income, and
has been increasing its asset base. PBS has a-long-standing relationship
with the Bank. Though project implementation has been somewhat less than
fully satisfactory, PBS has shown institutional improvements recently
(e.g. expanding staff in its supervision unit for Bank financed pro-
jects). This trend is expected to continue. PBS's overall financial
situation is generally satisfactory and it continues to be creditworthy.
Implementation Procedures
49.      Work Organization Agricultural Estate (WOAE Semberija) which is
part of a large agricultural-kombinat COAL UPI, would be solely responsi-
ble for carrying out the project except for the feasibility studies. It
has been vested with this authority by the other project financiers in



- 17 -
accordance with the self-management agreement entered into between the
financiers, the Commune Assembly of Bijeljina and WOAE Semberija. It has
also been authorized to be the recipient of all financing for the project
and will sign a subsidiary loan agreement with PBS for the re-lending and
lending of the Bank loan and the funds provided by PBS and its Basic Bank
in Bijeljina. The execution and authorization of this Agreement would be
a condition of loan effectiveness (Loan Agreement, Sec. 3.01(b) and
7.01). WOAE Semberija is the largest social sector organization in the
project area which operates mainly in the fields of crops and livestock
production. It employs 353 people and is considered to be a suitable
organization to act as the implementing agency for the project.
50.      W.O.A.E. Semberija has established and will maintain in operation
within its organization, a Basic Organization of Associated Labor (BOAL
Hydromelioration Semberija) which shall be responsible for implementation
of the entire project. This BOAL would be headed on a full-time basis by
an engineer, assisted by a financial director and an agricultural director
whose qualifications and 2xperience shall be acceptable to the Bank
(Project Agreement, Sec. 2.01 (b)). Following the completion of construc-
tion of civil works, W.O.A.E. Semberija shall entrust BOAL Water Manage-
ment Semberija with the responsibility for operation and maintenance of
the facilities constructed under the project (Project Agreement, Sec.
3.05(a)). Assurances have been received that, except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, SRBH shall not take or concur in any action which
would result in the dissolution of BOAL Hydromelioration Semberija or in
the suspension of its operations (SRBH Agreement, Sec. 2.01(b)). Field
experiments would be carried out under this project to provide the basis
for economic designs for future sub-surface drainage works in the Sava
River Basin (Project Agreement, Sec. 2.09).
51.      W.O.A.E. Semberija, in cooperation with WO Podrinje, will ensure
on-farm agricultural development in accordance with annual agricultural
production plans. These plans would be submitted to the Bank by October
31 of each year, commencing 1983. W.O.A.E. Semberija would engage an
agricultural economic institute by July 31, 1983, to prepare and then
annually monitor and evaluate the plans (Project Agreement, Section
2.03). W. 0. Podrinje is an agricultural cooperative which organizes
individual farmers in cooperation with the social sector. It is associ-
ated with COALUPI and was founded in 1977. Agricultural extension would
be provided to all individual farmers by W. 0. Podrinje through its Basic
Organizations of Cooperative Farmers (BOCF), six of which are in the
project area. These BOCFs would be suitably strengthened to carry out
this function. Funds would be provided by SRBH for the recruitment of
additional extension agents to provide services to individual farmers
who are not members of the BOCFs (SRBH Agreement, Sec. 2.03).
52.      The Commune Assembly of Bijeljina would be responsible for land
consolidation in the project area. The procedures, which take about three
years, were started through a referendum in April 1981. A majority of the
farmers (84%) favored land consolidation and, therefore, no difficulties
are anticipated in this regard. Assurances have been received, however,



- 18 -
that should delays arise, land required for land consolidat --n ,-"l1d be
acquired by the commune in accordance with Yugoslav laws (Project
Agreement, Sec. 5.01(b)).
53.      A Project Advisory Committee (PAC) would be established by
October 31, 1983 in Bijeljina, headquarters of the local commune, composed
of representatives of the commune, various enterprises concerned with the
project execution, and PBS for coordination of project activities and
guidance to W.O.A.E. Semberija and W. 0. Podrinje for the implementation
of the annual agricultural production plans (Project Agreement, Sec. 5.04).
54.      Eleven priority drainage and irrigation projects have been
identified in Bosnia-Herzegovina for which preparatory work is still
required. PBS, in cooperation with the Committee for Agriculture, Fores-
try and Water Power Engineering of Bosnia-Herzegovina, would carry out the
required preliminary engineering studies to be followed by feasibility
studies for projects selected after an exchange of views with the Bank by
September 30, 1983. PBS would employ engineering consultants acceptable
to the Bank and supported by specialized consultants with terms and
conditions of employment satisfactory to the Bank by December 31, 1982.
The studies would be completed by December 31, 1985, for which assurances
have been obtained during negotiations (Loan Agreement, Sec. 3.02).
55.      Project Monitoring.  PBS, with the assistance of W.O.A.E.
Semberija, would be responsible, in cooperation with Semberija, for fur-
nishing, through periodic reports to the Bank, the information necessary
to measure systematically project execution against the proposed implemen-
tation schedule. Agricultural data indicating the areas reclaimed and
drained, cropping patterns applied, crop yields and output, and informa-
tion on the operation and maintenance costs of irrigation and drainage
works would be furnished annually. Promptly after completion of the
project, PBS, in cooperation with Semberija, would prepare and furnish to
the Bank a report on the execution and initial operation of the project,
its costs and the benefits derived and to be derived from it, the per-
formance by the Bank, PBS, W.O.A.E. Semberija, Commune Assembly of
Semberija, and SRBH of their respective obligations under the proposed
loan agreement, project agreement, and SRBH agreement, and the accomplish-
ment of the purposes of the proposed loan (Loan Agreement, Sec. 3.03).
Project Cost and Financing Plan.
56.      The total project financing requirement, including physical and
price contingencies and front end fee of 1.5% of the loan amount, is
estimated at US$73.5 million. The foreign exchange component, which
includes both direct and indirect foreign costs, is estimated at US$34.6
million. The cost estimates include import duties and taxes estimated at
US$1.8 million. Since final designs are under preparation, physical
contingencies at 15% of the base cost have been added, except for
sub-surface drainage where, due to the need for detailed field-by-field
design, 25% contingencies have been added. Price contingencies on



- 19 -
local costs have been compounded at 17.5% for July-December 1982, 25% for
1983, and at 20% for 1984, 1985 and 1986. On foreign costs, these are
compounded at 4.25% for July-December 1982, at 7.5% for 1983, 1984 and
1985, and at 6% for 1986. The provisions for local contingencies are
somewhat higher than the projected trend in retail price movements in
Yugoslavia. This is justified both by project specific circumstances and
uncertainties in price projections in a period of major shifts in
macro-economic policy leading to a marked decline in overall inflation
with different effects on different sectors (see para. 58).
57.      The proposed Bank loan of US$34.6 million, including the front
end fee, would finance the entire foreign exchange component of the
project or 47% of the total cost. The balance of the project costs,
US$38.9 million, would be financed as follows: PBS and its basic bank
in Bijeljina would provide US$12.4 million, the Federal and Republic Funds
US$13.1 million, and the social sector participants (SIZ and W.O.A.E.
Semberija) US$13.4 million (equity contribution). Assurances have been
obtained that PBS would ensure that these funds and any cost overrun would
be made available in accordance with the schedule of expenditures of the
project based on annual revisions of the projects financing plan (Loan
Agreement, Sec. 3.01(a) and 5.01). The Bank loan would be made to PBS for
15 years, including three years of grace. Funds of PBS and its basic bank
in Bejeljina would be lent to W.O.A.E. Semberija at a minimum rate of
15%. Bank funds would be on-lent at 11.60%. An 0.5% lending margin on
World Bank funds would be added to cover PBS's adminis- tration costs.
The execution of a subsidary loan agreement for lending and on-lending
these funds, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, would be a
condition of effectiveness of the loan (Loan Agreement, Sec. 7.01). As
this is not a credit project involving sub-loan apprai- sals, and PBS's
role would be to act as an on-lending channel, the 0.5% on-lending margin
would be sufficient to cover PBS's costs. The Federal and Republic Funds
would be provided at current rates for these funds (about 4-6%). These
funds allocated to SRBH are only administered by PBS and the interest
rates are determined by the Federal and Republican Governments. W.O.A.E.
Semberija would bear the foreign exchange risk on World Bank funds.
Interest Rates
58.      Nominal interest rates on domestic currency loans in Yugoslavia
have been traditionally negative in real terms. In order to gradually
correct this situation, understandings have been reached under Industrial
Credit V Project (IC V) (Loans 1909-1912 YU), approved in November 1980,
that banks would increase the lending rate in Bank financed subprojects on
loans from their own local currency sources from a minimum of 7% to 10%.
The banks have complied with the above agreement. The inflation rate in
Yugoslavia increased from an annual average of 16.8% during 1970-79 to 30%



- 20 -
in 1980 and 56%, on an annual basis, in the first half of 1981. However,
it declined substantially to 25% on an annual basis in the second-half of
1981 due to the Government's anti-inflationary measures resulting in an
increase in prices of 39% for 1981 as a whole. The official target is to
limit the inflation rate to 15% in 1982 and the intention is to keep the
rate in the range of 13-15% during the remainder of the current five-year
social plan (1981-85). Given the monetary and fiscal policies which are
to be implemented in 1982, in accordance with the agreements reached with
the IMF, these targets for lowering inflation should be achievable in the
short-term. Further improvements over the medium-term can also be
expected as a result of the Government's commitment to continued anti-
inflationary measures which have already proven to be effective in the
recent past.
59.      While there appears to be an increasing recognition within
Yugoslavia for the need to use interest rates as a more meaningful
instrument in the mobilization and allocation of resources, policy
makers point to the need for a gradual adjustment. In accordance with
this strategy, and following consultations with the IMF (end January 1982)
the Yugoslav Government has recently decided to increase interest rates on
sight and time deposits and on lending by the National Bank of Yugoslavia,
and the commercial banks. The requirement under this project for PBS to
charge a minimum interest rate of 15% on long-term local currency loans
provided from its own resources would ensure a marginally positive rate
in real terms over the life of the loan if the inflation rate in the next
three years in Yugoslavia is in the range of 13-15% and remains at this
level beyond 1985. Apart from the specific agreements on interest rates
obtained under Industrial Credit VI and this project, the policy dialogue,
as provided under IC V, will continue and interest rates in Yugoslavia
will be reviewed on an annual basis.
60.      There will be no floor rates on long-term local currency loans
from the Federal and Regional funds. These funds are obligatory contri-
butions imposed on enterprises to meet specific social objectives and,
therefore, their mobilization and allocation are inelastic to interest
rate changes.
61.      Since the proposed Bank loan would be on-lent by the borrower
after adding a spread of 0.5% on the Bank's interest rate and W.O.A.E.
Semberija will carry the foreign exchange risk, the real cost of the
Bank's funds to W.O.A.E. Semberija would be very close to that of
international commercial sources taking into account the currency
pooling system and current international lending rates.
Cost Recovery
62.      The capital costs would be financed by 18% equity contribution,
18% by grant, and 64% by borrowed funds. In 1982 constant prices, 41% of
capital costs (other than equity, grant and land consolidation costs)
would be recovered through an annual per hectare project levy commencing
two years after completion of construction. If the grant element is added



- 21 -
to the recoverable capital cost, the recovery rate would be 29%. Fifty
percent of the cost of land consolidation would be paid by the farmers and
the remaining 50% would be borne by the budget of the local commune. The
operation and maintenance costs would be fully recovered from the social
sector beneficiaries. Collection from the individual sector farmers would
be based on their "ability to pay" in order to provide an incentive to
participate in the project (Project Agreement, Sec. 5.06). The incre-
mental incomes of the individual farmers are expected to be sufficient
to pay full costs of operation and maintenance except during the first
two years of development of their land. Assurances have been obtained
tnat any operation and maintenance deficits during the period of con-
struction would be subsidized by the Commune Assembly of Bijeljina or
PBS (Project Agreement, Sec. 5.06).
Productions and Markets
63.      Investments under the project would induce about 200% increase in
gross value of production of agricultural products at full development
(estimated at an annual value of US$20.0 million). An estimated 15,000
tons of incremental wheat, 6,400 tons of maize and 170,800 tons of sugar
beet, as well as increased production of various vegetables and fodder
crops will result from the project. The main marketing channels for
project output would be those prevailing in and close to the city of
Bijeljina and the project area. There are four existing major processing
plants which are operating much below capacity. They consist of a sugar
factory, flour mill, animal feed mill and vegetable canning factory.
Fresh produce would reach the local and regional markets or supply the
retail outlets and supermarkets associated with UPI's food distribution
system. In addition, there is a vegetable dehydration plant with a 12,000
cOI raw mate4.Lai capacity, which is one vf the BOALs of UPI, located in
Janja, 25 km. from the project area. Raw material requirements are now
supplied from the region around Janja; however, in the future, the project
area also may provide vegetables. The entire sugar beet crop would be
processed for consumption within Yugoslavia having a per capita consump-
tion among the lowest of the East European countries. All forage and
fodder would be used for farm needs. The sugar factory (400,000 tons
input capacity), which began pilot production in 1979, has operated at
less than 30% of its capacity because of raw material shortage. The
vegetable canning factory, which currently processes 8,000 tons of raw
material operating at 90% capacity, plans to double its capacity by 1985.
64.      The flour mill, which includes an industrial bakery and
concentrate animal feed mill currently operating at 90% capacity, handles
36,000 tons of cereal grains with a 35% increase planned for 1985, along
with grain and flour silos currently under construction with capacities
of 15,000 and 2,000 tons, respectively. W.O.A.E. Semberija has its own
facilities for handling cereals, mixing animal feed and for treating
seeds. Even after full project development, the requirements of the
processing facilities in the area would only be partially met (wheat
62%, maize 65%, sugar beet 72%, and vegetables 41%). Additional primary
production would be supplied from other areas in Bijeljina and adjacent
communes. W.O. Podrinje and the six Basic Organizations of Cooperative
Farmers (BOCF) in the project area serve an important role in marketing



- 22 -
of produce through crop contracts with the individual farmers. No
problems are therefore anticipated with the disposal of the incremental
production from the project area.
Accounts and Audits
65.      PBS, W.O.A.E. Semberija, and BOAL Hydromelioration Semberija
would maintain separate accounts for the project. As required by Yugoslav
law, all banks and enterprises are audited annually by the Social
Accounting Service (SDK), whose methods are acceptable to the Bank.
Audited accounts would be submitted to the Bank within six to eight months
of the close of each fiscal year (Loan Agreement, Sec. 5.03(b) and Project
Agreement, Sec. 4.02(b)).
Procurement and Disbursement.
66.      Contracts for construction of project works costing about US$48.8
million and for purchase of equipment for operation and maintenance, farm
machinery, and agricultural extension research equipment for about US$6.0
million would be awarded in accordance with Bank guidelines on the basis
of international competitive bidding (ICB). Domestic manufacturers would
receive a 15% margin of preference or the actual level of import duty,
whichever is less in bid comparisons.  However, contracts for the pumping
stations costing about US$4.9 million which are on the critical path, and
for mole drains, wide bedding and deep plowing costing about US$2.5
million, would be procured on the basis of competitive bidding advertised
locally and in accordance with local procedures which have been found
acceptable to the Bank. Construction and repairs of these pumping
stations should be started during the current year's construction season,
beginning May 1982, so that these would be ready in time to service the
first and second year's development areas. Retroactive financing
totalling US$1.9 million is recommended on the following items: (a)
pumping stations - US$0.4 million; and (b) engineering services for final
designs and preparation of bidding documents - US$1.5 million (Loan
Agreement, Schedule 1, para. 4).
67.      Bank disbursements would take about six years.  The expected
annual disbursement of the proposed loan is given in the Loan and Project
Summary. Disbursements of the Bank loan would be made as follows: (a)
civil works 45%; (b) equipment, 100% of foreign expenditure and 100% of
local expenditures (ex-factory); (c) engineering services and experts'
services for preparation and evaluation of the annual agricultural produc-
tion plans, training of personnel and feasibility studies for future proj-
ects, 100%.
Benefits and Risks.
68.      Production and Foreign Exchange.  The beneficial effects of the
proposed project derive from the development of under-utilized land
resources in the Sava river basin by draining the water-logged land. No
detrimental effects on the chemical or biological regime of the water are
expected. The drainage works, land consolidation and amelioration under
the project would permit more productive cropping patterns and result in
improved and stable yields on some 19,000 hectares. Arable land will



- 23 -
increase by a total of 4,290 hectares -- 2,940 hectares for the individual
sector and 1,350 hectares for the social sector. In total, the project at
full development would generate annually, as its principal economic bene-
fit, an estimated 15,000 tons of incremental wheat, 6,400 tons of maize,
170,000 tons of sugar beet, as well as increased production of various
vegetables and an assortment of fodder crops primarily for on-farm
consumption. Much of the output of major crops is intended for domestic
use and for the supply of sugar beet to the new sugar factory in the
project area, presently operating at very low capacity utilization. In
addition, the production of maize will contribute to foreign exchange
earnings, while increased self-sufficiency in wheat, barley, cats .r-d
industrial crops will help to save foreign exchange. The indirect effects
on livestock production and its increased export potential are also an
important consideration in view of the incremental production of fodder
crops (14,300 tons).
69.      Employment and Income Effects.  As a result of the project,
employment opportunities directly involved in private sector agriculture
would increase by about 25%, with the largest increase in crop production,
which accounts for 50% of total employment in agriculture. Secondary and
tertiary industries, such as food processing, expanded sales of produce in
local markets, transportation services and equipment maintenance and
operation, etc., would also develop thereby increasing further
opportunities for economic growth and employment. These activities would
help to alleviate the high unemployment in agriculture (28%) that is
expected to remain even after full implementation of the project.
Finally, direct employment from the actual construction and future
maintenance of the drainage system, including land improvement and civil
works, will also create about 65 additional highly skilled and skilled
Jobs. In agriculture, women, comprising 35% of the active =r:ri
population, would benefit from the increased employment opportunities in
both the individual and social sector components of the project. The
gross value of production (at constant 1981 dollars) at full development
would increase by about 200%, creating a more viable financial base for
some 4,700 farm families which are presently subsisting on an average per
capita income of US$440.
70.      Institution Building Effects.  Because crop performance is vital
to the success of this project, explicit provisions have been made to
ensure intensive on-farm development and adequate extension service to the
individual sector through existing institutions.  Most of this work is to
be carried out through the farm cooperative, W.O. Podrinje, thereby
enhancing the importance of organized cooperation both among the
individual farmers themselves and with the social sector organizations.
The agricultural part of the project will give various institutions in the
area greater responsibilities for the promotion of increased crop
production. These include the Agricultural Research and Training Centers,
the BOCFs in charge of extension in the project area,   W.O.A.E.
Semberija, and the Commune Assembly of Bijeljina. An independent
agricultural economic institute will also be selected to help prepare,
monitor and evaluate the annual agricultural production plans.



- 24 -
71.      Economic Rate of Return.  The economic rate of return of the
project is about 21%. With 95.5% increase in investment costs, the rate
of return would be reduced to 12%; with a 22% reduction in crop benefits,
a 12% rate of return would be obtained. If benefits go down by 10% and
investment costs rise by 10%, the economic rate of return still remains
attractive at about 16%.
72.      Risks.  Full realization of estimated benefits is dependent upon
successful implementation of the drainage program with complementary
strong institutional support and effective agricultural extension for the
individual sector. As stated in paragraph 70, institution building would
receive high priority under the project. In view of the technology which
already exists in Yugoslavia, together with the provisions that would be
made for farm machinery, training, annual review of agricultural plans and
imputs, scheduling of procurement to minimize delays and the exemption of
Bank financed imports from licensing restrictions, no significant risks
are anticipated in project execution and realization of benefits.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
73.      The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and Privredna Banka
Sarajevo - Udruzena Banka, the draft Guarantee Agreement between the
Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and the Bank, the draft Project
Agreement between the Bank, the W.O.A.E. Semberija and the Commune
Assembly of Bijeljina, the draft Agreement for Obligations of the
Socialist Republic of Bosnia-Herzegovina in connection with the project
between the Bank and the Socialist Republic of Bosnia-Herzegovina, and the
Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii), of
the Articles of Agreement of the Bank, are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately.
74.      In addition to the features of interest of the loan which are
referred to in the text and listed in Section III of Annex III, special
conditions of effectiveness are:
(i) the execution and authorization of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement
between the borrower and W.O.A.E. Semberija (Loan Agreement, Sec.
7.01(a));
(ii) the entering into an agreement in form and substance satisfactory
to the Bank between the Commune Assembly of Bijeljina, W.O.A.E.
Semberija, W.O. Podrinje, W.O. Sava and SIZV BiH for determining
their respective shares for the financing of the Project,
including the provision of cost overruns, and their respective
responsibilities for assisting W.O.A.E Semberija in the
debt-service obligation undertaken for the carrying out of the
Project (Loan Agreement, Sec. 7.01(b)); and
(iii) the authorization of the Project and Bosnia-Herzegovina Agreements
(Loan Agreement, Sec. 7.02).



- 25 -
75.      I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
76.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
by Ernest Stern
Attachments
May 10, 1982
Washington, D.C.



- 26 -
ANNX I
TABLE 3A
YUGOSLAVIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET                                     Page  1  of  &
YUGOSLAVIA                             REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                                 -  MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
TOTAL             255.8                                       MOST RECENT             MIDDLE INCOME          INDUSTRIALIZED
AGRICULTURAL      142.8                   1960  lb    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b                EUROPE             MARKET ECONOMIES
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                       370.0       830.0    2430.0                    2609.1                     9444.0
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)          875.1       1554.3    2440.3                    2368.4                     7896.6
PoPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)    18402.0        20371.0   22139.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL)    27.9           34.8       41.5                     53.2                       76.4
PUPLATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                             25.8
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                               29.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                        2065
POPULATION DENS ITY
PER SQ. KM.                            71.9         79.6       86.5                     80.6                     142.7
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND         124.0        139.0      153.7                    133.9                     523.3
POPULAiTION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                              30.5         27.4       24.8                     30.1                       22.8
15-b4 YRS.                              63.2         64.8       66.3                     61.5                      65.6
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                        6.3          7.8        8.8                      8.3                       11.6
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                   1.2          1.0        0.9                      1.5                        0.8
URBAN                                   3.6          3.2        2.9                      3.1                        1.3
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)          23.2         18.8       17.5                     22.9                       14.5
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)           9.8          9.0        8.5                      9.1                        9.5
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                    1.4          1.3       1.1                      1.6                        0.9
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)         ..         59.0
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71=100)               85.0         93.0      117.0                   119.8                      112.7
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREilENTS)                      125.0        130.0      136.0                    125.7                     131.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)               93.0         93.0      101.0                     92.5                      98.1
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE            28.0         32.0       39.0                     39.7                      62.2
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE           5.0          2.6        1.5                      3.4                       0.6
HEALTH.
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)         63.2         66.9       70.3                     68.9                       73.8
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                                87.7         55.5       33.6                     25.2                       12.9
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULAT ION)
TOTAL                                     ..        33.6
URBAN                                  42.4         62.0
RURAL                                    ..         12.3
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                     ..          ..
URBAN                                    ..           ..
RURAL                                     ..          ..
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN               1616.0       1000.0      762.4                    973.3                      621.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON          1350.0/c      410.0      409.0                    896.6                     217.4
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                                 200.0        179.0      166.0                    262.3                     119.4
URBAN                                    ..         70.0      101.6                    191.8                      120.9
RURAL                                     ..      1610.0    1836.9
ADMISSIUNS PER HOSPITAL BED                 ..        17.0       18.2                     18.2                       17.9
hOUS liG
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEIIOLD
TOTAL                                   4.0          3.8        3.8
URBAN                                   3.3          3.2        3.3
RUIAL                                   4.4          4.3        4.1
AVERAGE NU,iBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                   1.6          1.4
URBAN                                   1.7          1.3
RURAL                                   1.5          1.5
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                  54.5         87.9
URBAN                                  92.7         98.4
RURAL                                  36.1         80.1



- 27 -
TABLE 3A                                                            ANNEX  I
YUGOSLAVIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET                                Page  2  of  6
YUGOSLAVIA                          REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVlAGES
- IMOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
MOST RECENT            MIDDLE INCOME            INDUSTRIALIZED
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b                EUROPE             MARKFT ECONOMIES
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 111.0        106.0      99.0                    105.9                      99.6
MALE                 113.0        108.0      100.0                   109.6                     102.1
FEMALE               108.0        103.0       98.0                   102.2                     101.8
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  58.0         69.0       82.0                    66.3                      89.3
MALE                  63.0         78.0       86.0                    73.2                      83.3
FEMALE                53.0         58.0       78.0                    59.5                      85.0
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (D OF SECONDARY)    ..           26.0       21.0                     28.4                     18.1
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             33.0         27.0      25.0                     26.8                      21.2
SECONDARY                           13.0         22.0       19.0                    23.6                      16.4
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         77.0         83.5       85.0                     75.4                     98.9
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           3.0         35.4      88.5                     83.9                     349.7
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          84.9        165.5     209.1                    181.6                    1018.0
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           1.4         88.2     170.2                    131.1                     400.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   69.0         85.3       95.9                   123.8                     336.7
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  7.0            4.0        3.4                     5.7                       4.3
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)       8302.0       8837.6/d  9381.7/d
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    35.0         35.9      36.0                     32.9                      36.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               63.0         51.0       30.9                    34.0                       6.1
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  18.0         23.0      32.9                     28.7                      37.7
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 45.1         43.4       42.4                    42.3                      45.7
-ALE                                  60.0         56.6       55.0                    56.5                      58.9
FEMALE                                30.9         30.6       30.1                    28.5                      33.0
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                0.8          0.8        0.8                      0.9                      0.8
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   16.4/e         15.1/f    13.1
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  41.57i         41.47T    38.7
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    6.9/e          6.6/f      6.6
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   19.07o         18.4/f    18.7
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                -                ..
RURAL                                 ..
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..
RURAL                                 ..           ..     430.0                    385.1
ESTDIATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..
RURAL                                 ..
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
Ia   The group averages for each indicator are population-weigheted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
lb   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1976 and 1979.
/c   1962; /d Including migrants workers abroad; /e 1963; /f 1968.
May, 1981



-28 -                                                                                              ANNEX I
Page 3 of 6
ttF~iTlIObt OF Sh0aL ONDICATORt
Notes:  ALeOhra9h the date are draet frt  stret  generally judged the t-s   -th-t-a-V and  -e2.bahi, it shrub   ajar it  rted that they eay  tehbt Lnte-
ratinaly ttyaabd .beaus  ofrhI      jc  of anardruined  dflietets and -tretege   usd by doff-ster  erreente  OrJ.            ent   ttdt,tedaase   re
themes,usefulte desribe teeet tOnagettde, uidileeetn...ds  and  he-tatejt  tetetie s_jon   ffentrees betae-  en Iehe
rfhe subject  ton (-,  ene        r I Cyesiloelot01Oprte                    rpeee    toddle lo-ne teeth ufc-co ad niddle tEo' is ehene beta-  no  enreger
eret-totrel sttnteel .It the tfo-tee- gnrp danatheuete.r  puetornsethoed  accati    etsFtne td itatt  s   tre  -oyhoe.  ..
dwiL sing  (t-resetd  eq.kd.).-                                                                        pulut It T t-  --ttna -n  -1  Ioa.  pric        i.6ant hooo-ruohce         icel
-Ftita at-F ree   urtite area urhtee-y led area ara enOtdAtr.uenanrcrldjdebyhneetehn toeecItytelhu
fat I..rFe  .. Fastues. serket etd kttehe  nadens     to lie tai1re; 1979 jets.                    htaill nt-i- tennees                       I.. tFisaeeebI Orh--r  ye.n...n. y1 stafed
1sF  F0  AFiO  (lIlj - 00   -r -ayi-e eatsenc   e            -tre.   ake,t eru. -si-             d-a ar   r   tr tOded .  jRei hnar.,   Oti            te  c,Itldensh
tuisied byts..re.etoo       r eetotrdaa4or.Iu9neI      ae-jll.197O-79 b-ssj;i19t0.                    and edital ennerer   yeee.-tnetyunf-              ttpyscir1 b
0970.end :979 jets                                                                                     editaiat1 te          ,  ur,elef,tnt) -bi h lto a  in-thi-etetar
dantre and erteide     ii.ec    ltrtr   edlee  fartiutie.F-etesee-
ENtoIl iNtltfyTO9 FF1 iytId  - unusi ..n ..e.tt . to t-.nc-  rt-gy (.e:e-                  total ..u..ae  urbar hrtyieals include dOlt             I rica,eeonlOtita
end Ogteretss eers  ssadt _I-,ueornsenss ltOee                                                        atdr-rI --sett           -1 -cet1 rrrre -itrayt-siee1 enessdsaely
let gny   On I  ..rg .an    to trel  E..tlntFecatd .. 96..      097d   and1979                     teees.     -Foltied hreyinais art t-tjoic r-1rutdetac
dat.                                                                                               Admosiuee yet MtKt-   te d - Itel tanbon cfsiOetc tocdcat
Fesbelasd.inded by n   onbe  nO.b.  bnds.-
FOPLLIATIIN ANl VITAL STATISTICS
Frea I              Miete.Nd-Y-ean   . jeaurda   - Ae rf July 1: 1960j, 1970. aed 1979           NOOSING
mA_gErune.i. c 1960, 0970,.,td 1979 data                                                           het  hros-hld fr. ttlno ,F ce
Feaant  lnerl0l-  Ciue-je-Irtlnrtoettesebuoedrnlogt                                              btonoopeeerns  cttricitr1 .ban , ,tc dtu-elutriod                        I'll,tot
ett1 F-ralatto   by age en enad  thot .. rninyen..r..           y           rte.oei ns,n                            -ye -tey~  -eeiiigo  etc ltd en     ecee    Aeutute  o
FenJenelt     --o-               .1,- psoetr..etnsitetntsyie ofth...let-ln  aste-                urtrindat
ilgl llfennyecntayef  'birth -           ig  i   -netlrtttoterrs  yenos-ueaoerr-o              Aet-etto l-ttntnmtre    Oeein)ttluh    se-.deeal--
in_a, adFemaleIt                ..n..tt  Atatoltotogan 77.0 yeats.  The Para-                    Canteen..ot. bdeeliteont  eanttn    tiole                   str  so ytr-nrr05
bot    __otr  it th_n ass.e.     eeoLhatie   rhratn    f  ntotohncco
tSta-nresr  terPIlatlt   Ins  ta              -.tay    -rla -n 1het-  hs"n,entcon                   emn       bn  - t2tal, male end femal  - Core  nto-1  sale end tentle
ttebtnnhesettsoort1eutbedetttranesrd  ol_n hesssnateee                                           tIllsnfalS_ent    prisaye_             a    etoattnseer
Otheys-pl     nl-o    nod1    ithIon..neo rFdninc-feelfnyotnrdyisn-te-rdrrhhnl-eou    laleedeeye-oay                                                    -etetro ;sttndar
sOne hue been teatbodLed.                                                                 usrsllynFlo lnn=1111~ l7  beant     l f age; teetFredert  enresst  innat
_onltlo  tlee                                                                                         t-tlue.l                 I..-    L-   .l f   p.d i                 i
etol1 ae:1960, 1970 and 1979 datall. Osue -ehetel1, tdaea,r   te    arn  rhnth ne-ran  tedo,.d-
yet a. Ins agreulnaa  l-d - Crsputnd es  bene lee agri-1-tona  land                           _rey atsodpaiensfsendar- nttu  oa
rely:  'l 91. 070 re  1970 dana.                                                                 Fyu-ereret    rse . sd soena                          -Fra   etudentaenrrlled to
ituaeo  astnrcsChren)-itdtidr     (0-ic y-at).  -rektg-agc  (it-                                    Fein-e  and ecnedany tenets dtitdod ty nu. ehs nO tof sth en  Inthe
64 Festl, end  -tenord 965 ynars and  -oo) to y-erntngee of  id-yno  FF-                              -eretFrdlrg   -Lel..
ltn;1960. 1970, sod 1979 dana.                                                                 Me.lt lneten can Lesres---I - 'iten.... Adultsabi ,en rea-d end antote
Porelo rnoebRae   een tj- ttl - Annual geo-tt ese                f  otel1 nid-                    asegnteg    f tota  edult p-ti- ion  gcd it yersed tree.
yea  pOFtltttrnt for 19.0-h.. 1960-70.  n  1970-79.
Pnua    -tlnth Rate joeneent) -ur-a-jnAo..   g-eth ret   f urban pnot-                     CONSUMPTIfON
isinn   OneII  1950-61. 1960-70  end 1970-79.                                                    Aess`ee  Ceee je- thousan.d ropolationt - resgetr  tnes   oe
itoo  trb  ot  jenhnsed)-  nnallue   tehspe  touAnd of sOd-yost                    eAtstene   lecs than tight   --ton;  Aoldsablns,hasean
spiop ttnoI,; 1960, 1970, and 1979 data.                                                           olnetbet
trde Soetsnelnntoad -nnadctaynbtadanet-eeidosenee   Iep-  thoo...d.ndroai-o L-hIl tre  rF:~ enetce    netei
FooCtt  1960, 29Ff1, and .1909 dora.                                                          tn-deaeerge--l nubile 9cr th-usrd nf reyrltoI; _onledn  an_
GrossR., iterotfo        s-nrge  number of darshteasonn   ol  ea  Oitneeedrceceeinesu...srie  sod Ln yeers sheregtrtinonet
hsr,rn-rIt-dc-1n  :enlItf,I              oeees            peeesnnss--A;eiFhnFer-                    sente t..     Fe;dnFnoieeyet  o                     tnrhenstehist
ntl e   ee:o lyfInyos   neae  cedin tEL  1960. 1979. sod 1979.                                     ma at    . toeies abolishd ln ig
rFi' btnbnnnolI  d_nles  sdr           FIne n...    na,.tioa ..   FsOLiy  leog   nna.general Fblin pee thousIand popnIetiro  to lde   omlinr.e. Ia eseetn-r
Fatily FInInon -bests (nerteer OF maried  -oete   - Ptteeot... ef  -aenld                             Looaerostd On, yeses thn   egerei                  f  h sets sag On effete.
masonf  hlld-beaetg ego (1510-   Acrl.ot  oat -          ie h-oel denlt.ta en_enne   uelaoeIe    Lhoutse  errolse frl                                        otttloeae            Ae
oil  a tred __se  Lt same ose g toF.                                                               n           fst s   daIly gees   neeteeFrt.deoOo   e    e  ot
Fot!,,,liten decred pi,naniily t.r....t. d,tienets:none It is eeidered
FOOD AND1 NUTITIFON                                                                                     tohb     ol    Fi    Ppee   sbo   ou   ieask
Ildos of Food Fnodun-too ret Cayina 719h91-71-i007  - Irdes of FOt eata anulBnA.una   tedne   o    aio  e.tsd  onthe  r shoe of
Fdoto,oti  nf oil food l nosndtoe.  Fenod_eintslu 1d-ecd-ud   Fee:d  sd                            nieleets sold d-inin  th  yeon, ineledtngadtse oandr On-tioso
iseo    Ie-d-r year haste.  C_soIetsetrpimay grad  (.g.ll  susseese                                eud mabitases
troted  of...gerlohith one edible and conotei nutients  lo. toffee and
tea are  seclded.  Agsg-eao   ytodneeon of ..nt t....try fe he-e  00                           las    FORCE
eallieeoeFodonee pliett      egt;1961-95, 1970. end 1979 lst..                         Tonl1 Lohb   F-ne  ltho....edsj - Enn...eteaIly  -elee  ee...a.  tee-lodieg
yen day.  Aesilahle soyy'i-taeaes  donetu   y-d-tni-n, Itpoe  lot                                nt t      arble; 1960, 0970 and 1979 dens.
e... t.Iand tihnge- in  -enen   tee au,yliassla,d,o aimalineed, seed.,                       Fol  nnct   Feenie Istee f-tt  on peree..g..o .total  .eo  f
qusntiltioeutd Ls Food yooso,ad lse   On d_ttoibo.                         eur-htnutr   rren    Laborf FoteL In Fnneeg  for--tey                                   -  Lrotgso
tent  ote    melsed by FAO hsn  on d  phytin,g,0taintds fo t.. sel set                        fishing ne peeotenge nF t-Ie 1ahb- fonn,o!960, 1971 and 1979 det,.
nity and h-1nh ton.Idoims          mitaeal :tFrtue              d, boysighte, ogo                 aey  rree   - jho  frtee  On  Lonts . _roa eto...  sA.Ifaal_II
hor,ehold it..el; 1961-h5, 1970, and 1977 does.                                                  197  so d 1979 ded
Fe n     PLY roi  of rPs     (re  rede         P- rennet ....e.  of yet  ate               Frtnroo  FateI......nt) -  otl  ml, end famale  - Feltsie
net ppFly of ford rer day.  Ne  eFplyofyfond Is doOme  es shon,l              t-               -neinityn--eeere .nuneda   tetl,1  mat  and fest  laor ent
Lorset   or  al  Iteatit_ esAbtloehed by U.i  _rnde ten so.ont                             pe tt-tg- of tonsi, male ted femle FpOFritniOtfof allIages eeeet'treiY;
alire..e..o  60 gram  ef tntl penti  yendoy end 2f g-em  of animal end                           1960, 1970. end 1979 des._th..se  .besdo  t.l    eet  geino
LaeeF oIe,of oileh 10 drama ehecodb beoaIml y                 Teln    h...esssd-           osleto    g-t   eaer    f the yoyLaenn  ad long Itse  gred,  A
animal ye_tsi  as In AnesE fehe maedIypF.ed  yFAO On tho Third                                 Ino-ir Dere-dene  Retee  - RatI.onOFoFlto   unnItsd 65 end oe
Oneld Food l..ney; 1961-65, 1970 and 1977 dote.                                                  en  the ete-I lb-e free.
Ete_tn rernee setol.yo1 FEes oniesi and pal. a- Protein erpply of food do-
riced fEe- .itol  end Fle  LIn geam-  pet day; 196i-65 , 1970 aed 1977 daIs.                 mNCOME DomIBtaooN
Child Oases 1-4) M.totlitey none (ncrtho e)-AMorel deaths tee thoosd LIt                           Fere-not  of Fel-te loonne Iboth in cas sed kindj - Reutleod by ehrts
ssgieR...i-G_  year.nntohilldte LInth0e  Sgog-oo;:f_ -aeden-rlsroe-i.oroorth-sn20 pnt-e-.yp--i  20 Fere--n.ady..nrst tO p_ereen
-ete  dens deeied  Ers- life tables; 1960, 1970 and 1979 dan.                                      o  hnootl
HEALTH                                                                     P~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OVFRTF TARGET GCIOtIF
LIfe Eptertan-e- airett ese    A-gue e ..eh. botf ces- of ILE. rosaatg                              The fo11-ingtento  sea                 ....sproimanm sourc  of gro-ee   leneic,
abln;1960, I190 and 1979 data.                                                                sod ehold be ttt-rptntdeenhlt-nslde-e1is-tti..
Ilefe-on  ffetit none jee   tho...stdj    Moral deonhe of infasnes under t.t OC                    tEnisand Abenlote F-enel Ineos tee .. 010(U$ ret tpins) -unbha  sod  -ac1
ofe    e  thousan   IntA births.                                                               Absolte p....tny Inee   leol IsIbt                   ..na  ee 1bals  str a.1    eimh
her of peopl   etl,      un-'   be, and  ..e.l  sith .e...a...   ee    t  efe                       effotlable.
mat  sFl    _nLades       . Iese    unfteneneeo..n..tetstd h           t  Enon.eee           olieeted leIteiceFeteeP ...     nsa tend  Iblt  rer o  pIne) -  -b-t and t-el
sene  haneahet fete peo,tettd bor-holes,  preis..  and ...nt-ey eselle  as                      tRsO1 -tiatn   poo-rty Inoas _  eeL us oc-tled oF..n.tes  Fete  gets
feeaee  o   hI epe ptn    FnFulatln-     On en urban  -netoA blie                             pesna.nes                -fho otry.  Unban 1one  Isde dFee beut
g_esooeodeaireodrsaebnjIeneeFeebaeaye                                                           neolehtdjs Iooef-ehthe,ra - n Flngoohs
do  o  honoynd A disytooepi...sL e pert nf the day LIn Ostnhlg the                                    o'
Fa-oly' 5st  needs.
Aceesa no fat,ten  DiatpelleeeenIO            -aalsto.-entl.t.  obat, sod anl- -
Nabe- of P.peoti  (e-sl,onat  te -rtlcond by ....... diptt.asI As
Ienentga  oF their reageoIrepgbtos                   ot    dieFsa  say_ in-lde
t1he nol ti-o and dlsFoaa.t aith o  oith-s   --ees..o, of h-.s entree.Frentic ad Soela1 Dlan  Dtioiton
anod nss-ee           serbes  ynmaothe oat of Fit petis  end snt-tetnl  aslseoad  rnjetoe                                                                                      -ateenet
Ponsiellos p-r Physteien- Pryulstire dtnlded by ebte  of gpsetieleg pEpsi-
nlsss.....l1fi;ddf-oaeoedinlse1 or     Itnnniyea.
FoeLatio ter  _unin_Fer      Fnrols.o   dt....d by   ee   fpston
sale end f-moi  -td-tee  I--            -e   -1s...e            ...-



-29-
ANNEX I
Page 4 f 6
Population: 22.3 million (mid-1980)
GNP Per Capita:  US$2,620 (1980)
YUGOSLAVIA - ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Amount                                                   Annual Growth Rates (2)
(million US$ at                                              (at constant 1972 prices)
IndLicator                   current prices)                                     Actual                                                   Projected
1980 c/          1975       1976       1977       1978        1979       1980       1981       1982      1983      1984       1985
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS-
Gross domestic product a/          69,232              0.9        5.2        8.4        8.5        4.2        2.2        2.2        2.5         3.6       3.6       3.6
Agriculture                       8,516             -2.6        6.4        5.7       -5.4        5.4        0.0        1.0         3.2        3.2      3.2       3.1
lsdustry                         28,801              7.4        4.1        9.5        9.3        8.5        3.6        1.4        2.3        4.0       4.2       4.2
Serv-ces                         24,993              1.4        5.3        7.1       13.1       -2.0       -2.2        3.4        2.5        3.3       3.1       3.1
Consumption                        48,760             -3.3        0.0        9.8       13.0         3.8       0.6       -1.1        2.8        3.5        2.7      2.8
brous Investment                   23,218             10.1        3.6       17.4       -3.2       12.0       -3.2       -1.2       -2.5        1.3       4.2       4.6
hxports of GNFS                    14,053              1.1       10.4       -2.0        4.8        2.6       12.6        9.3        7.0         6.6      6.6       6.6
Imports of GNFS                    16,799             -1.3       -8.6       16.1        2.5       12.0       -9.7       -2.6        2.6        4.3       5.2       5.7
Gross national sav-ngs             19,619             14.7       20.6        5.6       -3.1        3.4         5.8        -          -          -         -         -
PRICES
GDP deflator (1972 =100)              411            170        204        232        260        313        411            -
Exchange rate                          24.9           17.4       18.2       18.3       18.6       19.0       24.9         -
Share of GDP at Market Prices (7)                                       Average Annual Increase (7)
(at current prices) h/____                                          (at constant 1972 Prices)
1960      1970       1975      1980       1985                           1960-70   1970-75   1975-80   1980-85
Gross Domestic Product a/        100.5    100.0       100.0    100.0       100.0                              5.9        6.5        5.7        3.1
A6r-culture                     22.5      16.1       13.8      12.3       12.1                              3.3        2.9        2.4        2.7
Industry                       42.2       37.4       44.3     41.6        41.8                              6.3        8.3        7.0       -3.2
Services                        29.0      38.1       33.1      36.1       36.1                              6.9        4.7        4.3        3.1
Consumption                       67.2      72.8       74.3      70.4       69.8                              6.5        6.9        5.4         2.1
Gross investment                  36.5      32.3       33.5      30.5       27.8                              4.7        5.5        5.3         1.3
E.xports GNFS                     13.9      18.5       20.2      27.7       33.7                             10.2        6.7        5.7         7.2
Imports GNFS                      17.5      23.5       28.0      31.4       31.3                              9.8        6.7        2.5        3.1
Gross national savings              32.6      29.6       25.6      28.3       28.4                              5.3.        6.2        6.5         -
As 2 of GDP
1960     1970        1975     1980
PUBLIC FINANCE
Total revenues                    27.9      33.1       36.8      37.6
total expenditures                24.1      33.2       37.2      38.2
Surplus (s) or deficit (-)         3.3       0.1       -0.4       0.6
Foreign financing                  0.0       0.0       -0.4       0.0
1960-70  1970-75    1975-80  1980-85
OTHER INDICATORS
GNP growth rate (Z)                6.1       6.7        5.7       2.8
GNP per capita growth rate         5.0       6.6        4.7       1.9
IGOR                               5.4       4.6        5.8       9.1
Import elasticity                  1.6       1.0        0.5       1.0
a/  At market prices; components are e-pressed at factor cost and will not add due to exclusion of net indirect taxes and subsidies.
b/ Projected years at constant 1972 prices.
c/  Estimate.
EMENA IC
March 19, 1982



- 30 -
Population:  22.3 million (1980)                                                                                                                       ANNEX I
GNP Per Capita:  US$2,620 (1980)                                                                                                                        Page 5 of 6
YUGOSLAVIA - EXTERNAL TRADE
Amount                                                   Annual Growth Rates (Z)
(million US$ at                                             (at constant 1972 prices)
Indicator                    current prices)                                    Actual                                  e/              Projected
(1980)            1975       1976       1977      1978       1979       1980    1981    1982   1983    1984    1985
EXTERNAL TRADE
Merchandise exports                8,978              0.0       14.5      -5.3         1.0       4.4       11.2    10.6      7.0    6.4       6.4     6.4
Primary a/                       1,940            -3.1       16.6        3.9        1.5        5.6        2.5   -10.7      5.0    5.0      5.0      5.0
Manufactures b/                  7,038              0.4      13.9       -8.8        0.8        4.0       14.1    16.4      7.4    6.7       6.7     6.7
Merchandise Imports               15,065             -2.8      -6.5       18.5        3.8       18.8      -13.9    -4.9      2.5    4.3       5.4     6.0
Food                             1,087           -40.9       45.8        4.3      -24.2       51.9       -3.1    -5.5      1.0    1.0       3.5     4.0
Petroleum  c/                    3,549            -5.0       10.1       12.0       11.6       10.6       -8.2      0.0     3.0    5.0      5.0      5.0
Machinery and equipment          4,216            22.3       -8.8       17.8        7.1       22.4      -23.1   -19.8    -5.0    3.0        3.0     5.0
Others                           6,213           -11.9      -12.7       22.1        4.4       12.8       -9.3     4.3      6.5    5.4      6.9      6.9
PRICES (1972 = 100)
Export price index                                  172       180        202        220        253        301     331      364    393      423      453
Import price index                                 184        189        216        226        269       319      351      385    419      452      486
Terms of trade index                                 93.5      95.2       93.5       97.3       94.0       94.4    94.4    94.7   94.0    93.5    93.1
Composition of Merchandise  Trade (X)                                     Average Annual Increase (2)
(at current prices) d/                                               (at constant 1972 prices)
1960      1970       1975       1980       1985                           1960-70   1970-75   1975-80  1980-85
Exports                                    100.0      100.0      100.0     100.0      100,0                              8.1        5.7        5.1       7.4
Primary a!                                49.6       29.4      19.5       22.0       16.0                               -       -1.3        6.0       1.9
ManuTactures b!                           50.4       70.6      80.5       78.0       84.0                               -         8.1       4.7       8.8
Imports                                    100.0      100.0     100.0      100.0      100.0                              9.0        7.4        4.1       2.7
Food                                       9.1        7.2        5.5        7.2       8.6                               -         5.0       14.9      0.8
Petroleum c/                               5.4        4.8      12.3       23.6        7.9                               -        8.2         7.2      3.6
Machinery and equipment                   36.8       33.2       33.9      28.0       24.6                               -         9.4        3.1     -2.8
Others                                    48.7       54.8      48.3       41.2       58.8                               -         6.0        3.5      6.0
Share of Trade with                 Share of Trade with            Share of Trade with Capital            Share of Trade with
Industrial Countries (Z)            Developing Countries (X)          Surplus Oil Exporters (X)       Centrally Planned Ecommmies (I)
1965    1970      1975      1979     1965    1970    1975    1979   1965    1970    1975    1979           1965    1970    1975    1979
DIRECTION OF TRADE
Exports                40.1    53.3       34.0     40.5      17.4    13.6    16.8    19.3    0.4        0.7      2.1    11.5      42.1    32.4    47.1    40.3
Primary              61.0    70.2       54.0     55.0       9.1      8.2     8.9    14.2    0.2       0.2      1.9      5.8     29.7    21.4    35.2    30.7
Mansfactures         24.0    41.9       26.0     33.5      23.8    17.2    20.0    21.6    0.6         1.0     2.1    14.2      51.6    39.9    51.9    44.9
Imports                55.3    66.1       59.1     60.8      16.0    12.7    15.7       n.a.   0.1      0.1      0.6      n.a.    28.6    21.1    24.6    25.3
a/  SITC 0-4
b/  SITC 5-8
c/  SITC 3; includes lubricants, coal and electricity.
d/  Projected years at constant 1972 prices.
eJ Estimates. Owing to changes in the valuation of trade, components do not add up to totals, nor do aggregate price and volume indices equal value growth
between 1978 and 1979 shown in next table.
EMENA IC
March 19, 1982



-31 -
ANNE], I
Pags- 64
YUGOSLAVIA - BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(US$ millions)
Population:  22.3 million (mid-1980)
GNP Per Capita: US$2,620 (1980)
Indicator                                                                       Actual                                                                       Proiected
1970        1975        1976        1977        1978         1979       1980   1981 a/       1982        1983        1984    1>.85
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Exports of goods and nervices                    3,037        8,012       9,142      10,586      12,069      14,276       18,300 22,207    25,325         28,482    32,023   .n,921
-            of unuch:  Merchandise f.o.b.                   1,679       4,073       4,893       5,191       5,809        6,794       8,978 10,939    12,860         14,779     16,905   19.248
lmpurts of goods and services                    3,385       9,013        8,977      11,932      13,352      17,937      20,592 22,957    25,862         28,828    32,221    .,972
of which:  Merchandise c.i.f.                  2,874       7,697        7,367       9,789      10,439      14,019      15,065 15,758    17,709         20,114    22,915   2f4,122
Net transfers                                               -           -           -           -            -                 -       -          -            -          -         -
Current account balance                             -348      -1,001         165      -1,346      -1,283      -3,661       -2,292   -750        -537         -346       -198       --5S
Private direct investnent                             -           -           -           -           -                        -       -          -            -          -         -
NLT loans (net)                                     196         951       1,094       1,432       1,394       1,009        2,410    762         662          241        865    1,G01
Official                                          18          246         213          61         128         131           59  1,097      1,280          451         654       S42
Private                                          178          705         881       1,371       1,266         878       2,351   -335        -618          -210        211       368
other capital II/                                    38         135         119          45         541       1,487          657    143         360          600       -100      -333
clonge  mn unnerves                                 114          85      -1,378        -131        -652       1,165         -775   -155       -485          Z495       -567      -4126
lnternational reserves c/                          276       1,502        2,880       3,011       3,663       2,498       3,273  3,428       3,913        4,408      4,975    5,601
Of which;  Gold (official valuation)              51           62          62          64          69          73           78     78         78            78         78        78
Reserves as montho imports                            1.0         2.0         3.8         3.0          3.3         1.7         1.9    1.8         1.8          1.8        1.9       1.9
EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
Gross disbursements                                 611       1,647       2,096       2,665       2,800       2,438        4,156  3,223       3,282        2,660      3,642    4,423
Official grants                                                 -           -           -           -            -         -          -          -          -                -
Concesnional loans                                67          134         134         159          29          13           20     12
DAC                                              0          71           62          66          11          11          15       8                 -           -               -
OPEC                                             -           -            -           -           -           -           -       -          -            -           -         -
IDA                                              -           -            -           -           -           -           -       -          -            -           -         -
Other                                          675          63           72          93          18           2           5       4          -             -          -
Non-concessional loans                      -    573       2,037        1,962       2,506       2,671       2,425       4,136  3,211       3,282        2,660      3,642    4,423
Otticial export credits do                      39         203         283           75          74          60          85  1,375       1,534          723        931    1,145
IBRo                                            37         154         119          133         180         294         258    240         285          341        330       337
Other multilsteral                               -            -           -           -           8          24          36      16          -             -          -         -
Private                                        497       1,680       1,560       2,298        2,409       2,047       3,757  1,578       1,463        1,623      2,381    2,941
Yagoslav export credit (net)                       (-37)       (-82)      (-100)      (-183)      (-106)      (-125)       (-300) (-250)    (-230)         (-220)    (-240)   (-156)
Enternal debt
Debt outstanding and
6usbur-ed ci                                 2,053       5,820       7,172        8,956      11,117      13,608      15,446 16,458    17,350         17,811    18,916   20, 11.
Official                                       854       2,327       2,792        3,085       3,410       3,662       4,552  4,982       6,492        7,163      8,057    8,455
Private                                      1,199       3,493       4,380        5,871       7,707       9,946      10,894 11,476    10,858         10,648    10,859   11,226
Undaubursed debt                                 948       2,971       2,525        4,438       3,713       3,817       2,542  3,666       4,705        5,627      6,247    6,747
Debt service f/
Total service payments                           503        1,441       1,440       1,595       1,886       2,125       2,441  3,961       4,456        4,320      4,720    5,483
Interest R/                                    128         289         302          367         578         821         995  1,750       2,066        2,121      2,183    2,225
Paynents as X exports                              16.6        18.0        15.8        15.6        14.9        14.9         13.3   17.8        17.6         15.2       14.7      15.3
Average interest rate on new loans (2)                7.1         8.1         7.1          7.4         7.7         8.0         8.4    9.2         9.1          8.2        8.5       8.6
Official                                            7.0         8.3         7.0         7.3         7.7         -            -       -          -            -          -         -
Private                                             7.5         7.5         8.6         9.3         8.7          9.5         -       -          -            -          -         -
Average maturity of sew loana  (years)               16.5        15.2        18.3         15.4        15.1        10.8        10.1   10.2        10.3         10.7       10.5      10.3
Official                                           18.5        16.5        10.0        15.9        15.1          -           -
Private                                            10.9        10.9         5.7         7.5         -
a/  Estimates.
i/ Includes net use of IMF credit (drawings less repurchases), net use of ahort-term credit and changes in bilateral
balanes .
w      cf  Including gross foreign assets of commercial banks.
d/  After 1980, includes borrowings g-aranteed by National Bank of Yugoslavia.                                                                                    EMENA 1C
e/  External borrowing reported in the histosical balance of payments is not consistent with e-tereal debt data.                                                  March 19, 1982
f  Debt service excludes amortization and interest on export credit extended by Yugoslavia.
After 1981, includes interest payments on use of IMF resources.



- 32 -                 ANNEX II
Page 1 of 12
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN YUGOSLAVIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS (as of March 31, 1982)
US$ million
Amount (less
cancellations)
Number  Year             Borrower(s)            Purpose           Bank  Undisbursed
Thirty-two Loans fully disbursed                                 1,065.5
894    1973   Stopanska Bank Skopje          Agricultural
Industries           31.0       .1
916    1973   Naftagas                       Gas Pipeline          59.4    14.5
1060    1974   Port of Bar                    Harbor Expansion      44.0      2.0
1066    1974   Vodovod Dubrovnik              Water Supply and
Wastewater            6.0       .1
1262    1976   Republicki Fond Voda           Water Supply,
Sewerage & Water
Resources            20.0      3.0
1263    1976   Sarajevo Water Supply &        Water Supply &
Sewerage Enterprise           Sewerage             45.0      3.7
1264    1976   Sarajevo Gas Enterprise        Air Pollution
& Naftagas Gas Unit           Control              38.0      3.3
1360    1977   Management Organization        Multipurpose
"Metohija"                    Water                54.0    41.2
1370    1977   Investiciona Banka             Agriculture
Titograd                      Industries           26.0      4.5
1371    1977   Stopanska Banka Skopje         Agriculture
Industries           24.0    11.0
1377    1977   Road Organizations in
Bosnia-Herzegovina,
Serbia, Macedonia, and
Kosovo                       Roads                 56.0      0.1
1469    1977   JUGEL and six Electric
Power Organizations in       Second Power
each Republic                 Transmission         80.0    24.8
1477    1977   Vojvodjanska Banka             Second-Agricul-
tural Credit         75.0    34.9
1534    1978   Community of Yugoslav
Railways                     Railways             100.0    10.5
1535    1978   Road Organizations of
Slovenia, Croatia and
Serbia                       Roads                 80.0      1.1



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 12
US$ million
Amount (less
cancellations)
Number  Year             Borrower(s)            Purpose            Bank Undisbursed
1561    1978   Elektroprivreda
Bosnia Herzegovina           Hydro Power           73.0       22.8
1611    1978   Kosovska Banka Pristina        Third Industrial
Credit               40.0       10.2
1612    1978   Privredna Banka Sarajevo    Fourth Industrial
Credit               20.0        3.2
1613    1978   Stopanska Banka Skopje         Fourth Industrial
Credit               20.0        7.9
1614    1978   Investiciona Banka             Fourth Industrial
Titograd                      Credit               20.0        1.9
1616    1978   Stopanska Banka Skopje         Macedonia Strezevo
Irrigation           82.0       17.5
1621    1978   Privredna Banka                Bosanska Krajina
Sarajevo                      Agriculture and
Agro-Industries      55.0       43.4
1678    1979   Roads Organizations of
Kosovo, Montenegro,
Vojvodina and Heze-
govina and Macedonia         Roads                148.0       60.0
1756    1979   Zagrebacka Banka               Croatia Sava
Drainage             51.0       46.3
1759    1979   Road Organization of           Earthquake Rehab-
Montenegro                    ilitation-
Highways             21.0       12.9
1768    1979   Port of Bar                    Earthquake Rehab-
ilitation-Port
of Bar               50.0       45.3
1769    1979   Railway Organization           Earthquake Rehab-
of Montenegro                 ilitation-
Railways             14.0       10.6
1801    1980   Vojvodjanska Banka             Third Agricultural
Credit               86.0       75.1
1819    1980   Road Organizations of
Slovenia, Croatia,
Serbia and Vojvodina       Roads                 125.0      107.0
1909    1980   Kosovska Banka Pristina        Fifth Industrial
Credit              50.0       50.0



- 34 -                         ANNEX II
Page 3 of 12
US$ million
Amount (less
cancellations)
Number  Year             Borrower(s)            Purpose            Bank  Undisbursed
1910    1980   Privredna Banka Sarajevo    Fifth Industrial
Credit              30.0      27.7
1911    1980   Investiciona Banka            Fifth Industrial
Titograd                     Credit               20.0      20.0
1912    1980   Stopanska Banka               Fifth Industrial
Skopje                       Credit               10.0       8.6
1951    1980   Investbanka                   Agriculture &
Agro-Industries    87.0        87.0
1977    1980   Pristina Railway
Transport Organization    Railways                34.0      34.0
1993    1980   Kosovska Banka Pristina       Agriculture &
Agro-Industries    90.0        90.0
2039    1981   Stopanska Banka Skopje        Agriculture            80.0       71.8
2055 1/ 1981   Radna Org. Regional
Vodovod                      Kosovo Water Supply  41.0        41.0
Total (less cancellation)                               3,050.9   1,049.0
of which has been repaid                                 454.3
Total now outstanding                                   2,596.6
Amount sold                             9.2
of which: Amount repaid                9.2
Total now held by Bank                                  2,596.6
Total undisbursed                                                  1,049.0
1/  Declared effective on April 14, 1982.



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 12
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of March 31, 1982)
Fiscal                                        Type of           Amount in US$ million
Year             Obligor                     Business           Loan   Equity   Total
1970   International Investment             Investment
Corporation for Yugoslavia          Corporation        -       2.0     2.0
1970/  Zavodi Crvena Zastava Fiat S.p.A.  Automotive
1972/                                        Industry         12.4      0.6    13.0
1980
1971/  Tovarna Automobilov in Motoriev    Automotive
1980     Maribor (TAM)/Klockner-Humboldt   Industry             9.2     0.9    10.1
Deutz A.G. (KHD)
1972/  FAP-FAMOS Belgrade/Daimler-          Automotive
1980     Benz A.G.                           Industry         16.3      0.8    17.1
1972/  Sava Semperit                        Tires             12.5      2.5    15 i
1978/
1980
1973   Belisce-Bel Tvornica Papira          Pulp and Paper   70.9       -      70.9
1974   Zelezarna Jesenice/ARMCO             Special Steel    10.0       -       10.0
1974   Salonit Anhovo                       Cement Plant      10.0      -      10.0
1975   RMK Zenica                           Steel             50.0      -      50.0
1977   Frikom RO Industrija Smrznute        Food and Food
Hrane/Unilever                      Processing        4.0      2.4     6.4
1977   Tvornica Kartona i Ambalaze Cazin  Pulp and Paper
Products         15.6     2.6    18.2
1978   Soko-Mostar                          Hermetic
Compressors       7.0     -        7.0
1980   Investiciona Banka Titograd-
Udruzena Banka                     Tourism           21.0      -      21.0
1980   Radoje Dakic                         Machinery         18.7      -       18.7
1980   Eight Republican/Provincial          Small-Scale
Banks                               Enterprises      30.3      -      30.3
1982   Igalo                                Physical
Medicine
Center           16.6    -        16.6
Total Gross Commitments                               304.5    11.8   316.3
less cancellations, terminations,
exchange adjustment, repayment
and sales                                            160.6      5.2   165.8
Total commitments held by IFC                         143.9      6.6   150.5
Total Undisbursed held by IFC                          57.4      0.8    58.2



- 36 -                      ANNEX II
Page 5 of 12
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/ (As of March 31, 1982)
Loan 894 Agricultural Industries (Macedonia): US$31.0 million Loan of
May 25, 1973: Effective Date: November 28, 1973; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981.
The loan has been closed and the small residual balance is being
cancelled.
Loan 916 Naftagas Pipeline: US$59.4 Million Loan of June 25, 1973;
Effective Date: March 22, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
For a variety of reasons substantial delays occurred during the
implementation of this project (cost overruns, administrative hurdles, poor
management, etc.). In December 1979, the Government requested and the Bank
eventually agreed to entrust implementation of the pipeline in Serbia to a
different borrower. The loan was divided into two tranches, Naftagas Gas
Unit (NGU) being in charge of the pipeline in Vojvodina, and Butangas of the
pipeline in Serbia. The amendment of the loan was approved by the Bank in
November 1980, and became effective in May 1981. The pipelines in Serbia
are now under construction. Practically all the bid evaluation reports for
Butangas have been approved by the Bank and contracts have been awarded.
The main component of the project left to be implemented by NGU is telemetry
and control equipment for both loans 916-YU and 1264-YU.
Loan 1060 Port of Bar: US$44.0 Million Loan of December 11, 1974; Effective
Date: June 13, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
All major port civil works are completed. Loan closed as of
December 31, 1981, and final applications for disbursement are being
processed.
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 37 -                      ANNEX II
Page 6 of 12
Loan 1066 Dubrovnik Water Supply and Wastewater; US$6.0 Million Loan of
December 24, 1974; Effective Date: June 26, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
Construction is about 92 percent complete. Remaining work will be
finished by mid-year 1982. All funds have been committed and final with-
drawal applications are being processed.
Loan 1262 Morava Regional Development Project - Water Supply, Sewerage and
Water Resources: US$20.0 Million Loan of June 14, 1976; Effective
Date: November 3, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
The regional development study undertaken under this project
provided the basis for the preparation of the Second Morava Regional Devel-
opment Project (Loan No. 1951-YU). The flood control and water quality
studies are completed. Construction of the Vrutci Dam is about 2 years
behind schedule due to foundation, design and construction problems which,
however, are being overcome by intensified efforts of the borrower in the
supervision of the contractor and consultation with the panel of experts.
Construction is completed on the principal parts of the Cacak and Titovo
Uzice components, the remainder are well advanced. Feasibility studies on
sewage treatment plants in Cacak and Titovo Uzice have been completed. The
pilot irrigation components are in place and the evaluation of the first
year's operation has been sent to the Bank. The creation of the Republic
Water Community of Interest was delayed due to the longer than anticipated
process of seeking agreement among all the Yugoslav parties concerned on the
structure of the organization. Staffing has been strengthened in the water
authorities in Cacak and Titovo Uzice and in the Republic Water Community of
Interest. About 85% of the loan has already been disbursed. Closing date
has been extended to December 31, 1982 for completion of outstanding project
works.
Loan 1263 Sarajevo Water Supply and Sewerage: US$45.0 Million Loan of
June 8, 1976; Effective Date: November 9, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982.
Construction of the water distribution system and sewage collec-
tion is progressing satisfactorily and should be completed by mid 1982.
Construction of the sewerage treatment plant is underway and is also
expected to be completed by about mid 1982.



- 38 -                       ANNEX II
Page 7 of 12
Loan 1264 Sarajevo Air Pollution Control: US$38.0 Million Loan of June 8,
1976; Effective Date: May 31, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 195"
The gas transmission line has been completed and initital
deliveries of gas began in December 1979, one year later than originally
planned. Difficulties in finalizing contracts for the supply of gas were
the major cause of delay. Construction of the gas distribution network and
high presssure loop-line around the city of Sarajevo is proceeding
satisfactorily. The project is expected to be completed in early 1982.
Loan 1360 Metohija Multipurpose Water: US$54.0 Million Loan of February 3,
1977; Effective Date: July 27, 1977; Closing Date: December 31,
1982.
Radovic Dam, intake weir and feeder canal to the reservoir are
completed. Overall project progress is about three years behind schedule.
Procurement contracts for pipes larger than lm, automatic control system and
construction equipment are underway and it is expected that by end 1982 all
major contracts would have been awarded. While demonstration farm of 32 ha
involving 28 farmers has been highly successful, on-farm development is
slower than expected due to time consuming adjustment procedures.
Loan 1370 Montenegro Agriculture and Agro-Industries: US$26.0 Million Loan of
March 10, 1977; Effective Date: July 27, 1977; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983.
Progress expected to be completed on schedule by December 31,
1982. Winery completed and operational. Winery administration building and
cold store 80% completed. Farm center construction underway and farm roads
design and cost estimate still pending. Completed irrigation system
supplied 1,960 ha under vineyards and orchards in 1981. Only 80 ha of
vineyards remain to be planted in 1982. Loan is 73% disbursed: 15% below
appraisal estimate.
Loan 1371 Macedonia Agriculture and Second Agro-Industries: US$24.0 Million
Loan of March 10, 1977; Effective Date: July 27, 1977; Closing Date
June 30, 1982.
Sub-loans for all seven agro-industrial sub-projects have been
approved by the Borrower and loan proceeds for the individual sector have
also been fully committed and disbursed. Recently, progress in project
implementation has shown improvement as all contracts for construction of
agro-industry facilities have now come into force.



- 39 -                       ANNEX II
Page 8 of 12
Loan 1377 Eighth Highway: US$56.0 Million Loan of April 13, 1977; Effective
Date: September 7, 1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1981.
The loan has been closed and the small residual balance is being
cancelled.
Loan 1469 Second Power Transmission: US$80.0 Million Loan of July 11, 1977;
Effective Date: January 31, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
The loan is practically fully committed; however, work has
progressed rather slowly. Because of reduced load requirements and delays
in completion of certain generating plants, the borrowers intend to postpone
beyond the current closing date the construction of certain transmission
lines and a substation. Before agreeing to this modification of the project
scope, the Bank has requested the borrowers to prepare a load flow study to
ascertain whether the transmission lines in question can, in fact, be
postponed. Various studies included under the project have either been
completed or are in progress.
Loan 1477 Second Agricultural Credit: US$75.0 Million Loan of July 29, 1977-
Effective Date: January 30, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
The loan is fully committed. All agroindustry investments are in
the implementation phase. The project is about one and a half years behind
appraisal estimates. About 53% of IBRD funds are disbursed and the closing
date has been postponed to December 1982. Measures to speed-up
disbursements and overall project implementation have been discussed with
the participating banks. The project monitoring and evaluation system is
working satisfactorily.
Loan 1534 Fifth Railway: US$100 Million Loan of April 13, 1978; Effective
Date: September 28, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Bank financed investments have progressed well and disbursements
total US$89.5 million. The level of compensation payments has however
increased and substantial tariff increases have failed to keep pace with
inflation. Processing of the proposed loan for a Sixth Yugoslav Railway
Project has been made dependent on an agreed program of actions to resolve
this problem.
Loan 1535 Ninth Highway: US$80 Million Loan of April 13, 1978; Effective
Date: August 10, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
All sections open to traffic. Loan closing date extended to June
30, 1982 to facilitate procurement of equipment.



- 40 -                      ANNEX II
Page 9 of 12
Loan 1561 Middle Neretva Hydro Power: US$73 Million Loan of May 31, 1978;
Effective Date: November 15, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Part A of the project (construction of the Grabovica and Salakovac
Dams and power plants) has been completed and both Grabovica and Salakovac
have been commissioned. Part B, which is not financed by the Bank (Mostar
Dam), however, has been delayed due to additional studies needed on account
of problems of site geology. Construction of this dam and power plant is
now planned to start in September 1982, and completion is expected by end
1986. A substantial amount of loan funds (US$5.0 million) remains
uncommitted at this date.
Loan 1611 Third Industrial Credit: $40.0 Million Loan of July 26, 1978;
Effective Date: November 16, 1978; Closing Date: December 31,
1982.
The loan is fully committed. Disbursements are slightly behind
appraisal estimates mainly because of changes in the originally approved
equipment lists and often incomplete withdrawal applications. The Indus-
trial Credit Department of the borrower Kosovska Banka Pristina (KBP)
continues to be weak, especially in terms of proper project appraisal and
supervision. This matter is being focussed upon through frequent super-
vision. Also, institutional improvements will be a major component of
possible new loan to KBP.
Loans 1612, 1613 and 1614 Fourth Industrial Credit: $20.0 Million each
Loans of July 26, 1978; Effective Date: November 16, 1978;
Closing Dates: December 31, 1982.
The loans are fully committed. Disbursements for Loans 1612 and
1614 are well ahead of the disbursements expected at appraisal, while Loan
1613 is somewhat behind appraisal estimate. However, disbursements for all
three loans are expected to be completed within closing date.
Loan 1616 Macedonia Strezevo Irrigation: US$82 Million Loan of August 23,
1978; Effective Date: February 14, 1979; Closing Date:
September 30, 1982.
Construction of the alimentation canal, main canal and irrigation
network are underway. The dam and thermal pipeline have been completed.
The project is proceeding almost on schedule with completion of the remain-
ing components scheduled for September 1982.



-41 -                        ANNEX II
Page 10 of 12
Loan 1621 Bosanska-Krajina Agriculture and Agro-Industries: US$55 Million
Loan of November 6, 1978; Effective Date: March 28, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
Project implementation has been delayed by about two years and an
extension of closing date will be necessary. Cost overruns have neces-
sitated a reduction in scope of the project. Recently, the implementing
agencies have taken actions which have resulted in improvement in imple-
mentation. Main problems are being resolved and specific action programs
are being worked out with the borrower.
Loan 1678 Tenth Highway: US$148 Million Loan of April 9, 1979; Effective
Date: August 14, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
Due to shortage of local funds, three of the borrowers (Macedonia,
Kosovo and Bosnia-Herzegovina) have requested changes in their programs.
Vojvodina may be delayed in the completion of their program unless
additional local funds are found.
Loan 1756 Croatia Sava Drainage: US$51 Million Loan of October 11, 1979;
Effective Date: April 17, 1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
Decisions to award contracts for supply of equipment and construc-
tion of civil works have been finalized. Only a few contracts remain to
be signed.  Studies on subsurface drainage in experimental plots are in
progress.  Progress on civil works, although somewhat behind schedule, is
satisfactory.  Land consolidation is progressing on schedule.  Farm develop-
ment works are about to start. Disbursements are behind appraisal estimates
but are expected to improve when supply of equipment begins against the
contracts awarded.
Loan 1759 Montenegro Earthquake Rehabilitation - Highways: US$21 Million
Loan of September 21, 1979; Effective Date: December 19, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
Shortage of local funds has delayed this project to a point that
may critically affect the capability of Montenegro to completely disburse
this loan.
Loan 1768 Montenegro Earthquake Rehabilitation - Port of Bar: US$50 Million
Loan of November 30, 1979; Effective Date: April 29, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
Project implementation has shown significant improvement through
additional contracted assistance. All civil works contracts now awarded and
bids for cargo handling equipment expected shortly. Report awaited from
borrower on tugboat procurement. Borrower is optimistic that, barring
unforeseen problems, all works and procurement should be completed by
closing date. However, disbursements are still well behind schedule, but
should improve shortly.



- 42 -                       ANNEX II
Page 11 of 12
Loan 1769 Montenegro Earthquake Rehabilitation - Railways: US$14 Million loan
of November 30, 1979; Effective Date: April 29, 1980; Closing -'e^-
June 30, 1983.
Disbursements of about $3.4 million for urgent reconstruction,
works have been made. Contracting procedures for remaining works have been
slower than expected largely as result of complicated engineering design for
repairs to badly damaged tunnel.
Loan 1801 Third Agricultural Credit: US$86 Million Loan of February 29, 1980
Effective Date: August 25, 1980; Closing Date: March 31, 1985.
About 65% of the loan has been committed. With few exceptions,
most agroindustries sub-projects have been identified in the various
republics and are in the procurement phase. Some agroindustries in
Macedonia, Serbia and Kosovo are being implemented. The agroindustries
study is being finalized. The loan is about 13% disbursed.
Loan 1819 Eleventh Highway: US$125 Million Loan of April 23, 1980; Effective
Date: August 7, 1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
Slovenia and Serbia have requested changes in their programs due
to the shortage of local funds. Croatia and Vojvodina contracts have been
approved by the Bank. Toll Study Interim Report has been reviewed. The
Highway Safety Conference held in Yugoslavia in October 1981 was very
successful with over 500 participants from more than 70 countries.
Cofinanc'. g was obtained for an amount rwf TU  li1  million in 0ctoh-r 1980.
Loans 1909, 1910, 1911 and 1912 Fifth Industrial Credit: $50.0, $30.0, $20.0
and $10.0 Million, respectively, Loans of February 9, 1981;
Effective Date: August 17, 1981; Closing Dates: October 31, 1984.
Loans 1910 and 1912 are being committed rapidly while commitments
under Loans 1909 and 1911 are behind schedule. Frequent supervision of the
latter two loans are likely to result in more rapid loan commitment.
Loan 1951 Morava Regional Development II: $87 Million loan of April 13,
1981; Effective Date: August 28, 1981; Closing Date: December
31, 1986.
59% of loan proceeds committed.  Withdrawals have commenced.
Construction has started on 260 livestock farms in individual sector, 621
ha of orchards and vineyards and four out of the 14 agroindustries in the
project. Procurement actions for another eight agroindustries have been
completed and bids for one remaining agroindustry have been invited.
Project is proceeding fairly well on schedule.



- 43 -                       ANNEX II
Page 12 of 12
Loan 1977 Kosovo Railway; $34.0 Million loan of May 15, 1981; Effective
Date: November 16, 1981; Closing Date: December 31, 1984.
The loan became effective on November 16, 1981. A contract has
been placed for the provision and installation of signalling and tele-
communication equipment on which over 80% of the loan funds will be spent.
Loan 1993 Kosovo Agricultural Development: $90 Million loan of June 15,
1981; Effective Date: December 23, 1981; Closing Date: June 30,
1987.
Bids, as a result of ICB, have been received for 10 of the 12
agro-industries sub-projects and investors are finalizing contracts for
seven bids of the subprojects. The two remaining agro-industries sub-
projects are being reviewed, taking into consideration changes in market
potential of inputs and output. Individual sector sub-borrowers have
committed to make investments in 200 ha of hazel nut plantations.
Loan 2039 Macedonia III Agricultural Development: $80 Million of July 23,
1981; Effective Date: January 6, 1982; Closing Date: June 30,
1987.
Project implementation is ahead of schedule. Disbursements
(8.2 million) are about one year ahead of schedule; and by end April 1982,
the social sector vineyard (1,400 ha) and orchard (2,500 ha) components and
the cold store component (15,000 tons) will be fully committed. Feasibility
studies for all 7 small scale irrigation subprojects have been completed.
SBS appraisal, of at least 2, and possibly 3, are expected to be completed
to allow construction to commence towards the end of 1982. Individual
sector investments are also ahead of schedule but the biogas feasibility
study and the thermal water study are slightly behind schedule.
Loan 2055 Kosovo Water Supply: $41 Million loan of December 14, 1981;
Effective Date: April 14, 1982; Closing Date; June 30, 1985.
Loan declared effective on April 14, 1982. Construction is in
progress, considerably ahead of schedule.



- 44 -                      ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
YUGOSLAVIA: SEMBERIJA DRAINAGE PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken by the Country to prepare             10 months
the Project:                                     (October 1980
to July 1981)
(b)  Agencies which prepared Project:                 FAO/Cooperative
Program with
assistance from
Yugoslav consultants.
(c)  Project first presented to Bank:                 April 1980
(d)  First Bank mission to review Project:            October 1980
(e)  Departure of appraisal mission:                  October 1981
(f)  Completion of negotiations:                      April 1982
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness:                   September 1982
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
Retroactive financing of expenditures of up to US$1.9 million is
recommended to ensure employment of engineering services for final designs
and bidding documents before signature of the Loan Agreement and early
construction of two pumping stations which are on the critical path (para.
66).
Section III. Special Conditions
A. Effectiveness conditions:
(i)    execution of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the
borrower and W.O.A.E. Semberija (para. 74);
(ii)   agreement between the Commune Assembly of Bijeljina,
W.O.A.E. Semberija, W.O. Sava, SIZV BiH and W.O.
Podrinje for apportioning their respective financing
and debt-service obligations (para. 74); and
(iii) authorization of the Project and Bosnia-Herzegovina
Agreements (para. 74).



- 45 -                     ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
B. Other conditions:
(i)     financing for the project from sources other than the Bank
would be made available in accordance with the schedule o'
expenditures of the project based on annual revisions of
the project's financing plan (para. 57);
(ii)    funds would be made available by SR Bosnia-Herzegovina for
employing additional extension agents to provide services
to individual farmers (para. 51);
(iii)   annual plans of agricultural production would be furnished
to the Bank by October 31, commencing 1983, and W.O.A.E.
Semberija would employ a suitable agricultural economic
institute to help prepare the plans and carry out the
monitoring and evaluation functions. A Project Advisory
Committee would also be established (paras. 51 and 53);
(iv)    the drainage levy shall be set at levels and in a manner
which shall provide farmers in the individual sector
incentives to participate in the project and will take
into consideration the farmers' ability to pay. Operation
and maintenance deficits during the period of construction
of the project would be covered by provision of additional
funds by the Commune Assembly of Bijeljina or PBS (para.
62);
(v)     upon completion of drainage facilities, BOAL Water
Management Semberija will be responsible for operation and
maintenance of the project facilities (para. 50);
(vi)    SRBH will not take any action which would result in the
dissolution of BOAL Hydromelioration Semberija or in the
suspension of its operations (para. 50);
(vii)   consultants for feasibility studies to be employed by
December 31, 1982; the studies would be completed by
December 31, 1985 (para. 54);
(viii)  field experiments would be carried out to provide the
basis for economic designs for future sub-surface drainage
works (para. 50).



I



__________________________________                                                                                          IBRD 16222
FEBRUARY 1982
I'OM I! ZSKEL,A   . C                                                                                                        /j--
1000)     0         1        2        3        4)UI OLAs                                                     :_                                          ,                       
110FR  .....     .        . KI ' M TI * 1   ,/-G// ;\XX   
METERS                    KI' ie/TES
.<~~~~~~~~~~~~~ X                                                                                                                    J  ,               rtt.-- ^W... ............... ;   RBSI-EZGVN
IX~~~~~                                                                                                   ~~ 1/PRLIGNJACA
7;;ft'    /}    i    t   Ai   1   t  (>1  1 1 ' '                                                    N                    / DlATE E
I'm     .^. <-/.Lhv.^ ,      K -                                                         -~                                  Ii        {              \    %      I   !   1 ]   _ __ |! |   j/  /  VGSTSR E K\A R A C-A
wNldsantsstah~/1  DVc1twy .                                          I                                           -i        - -o XI'                                                              /   K 
rhe ~ ~       ~        ~       ~       > d/oma mste n  h               
do not {mplK on Ihe PV t of Ehe   Z   j             lno9O9vin~   I                           j                   I          -I              lb
A.jK-to Ihe lea5du                                                                                                                               K.:, /oo .. -/!                                 xsig::       .A                                sudrwd   edn
_.  .                                 .ro I\ /                      ,\o\.
/1 ~~~~~<5,'                   il                                   11                                                 \                                                                         \/  0  0Scn,oy--Rpbcbudle 
-7 ~ ~         ~           ~          ~          ~         /
A- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~T.                                                    -I
Dra--inasgef;- are  bounedar        -       -- teMain roads
p                                                                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Subaireca boundary  Secondary roads;
Dikes;                                       Existing
rTo,.-p    b.. uo,pou,u                /(Existing                                                                                                                                                                                       ----- Proposed
,"e,e M,-t    -                                                                                                                                                                                     To behr  Constructed                     Railway
uor,-d- .,   n  r                                                                                                                                                                                       Interceptor canals-                         Areas under tile drainage
-,, oo y,,ov-y. oni  =he
.o,id _a,ok,,,,,O _to .u.boooro _oo        /     '                                                                                                                                           -------o-.-   Existing  ;                             Areas under wide bedding
--OSOt-O of-oh ood,                     /Proposed                                                                                                                                                                                                  Villages
1_ AUSTRIA                                                                                                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Drains;  Rivers
H U  GA R Y
ITA                           R   RMSi                                                                                                                                                  --   -Existing                                        Streams
Proposed:
*  -, (fOAT/AS
'V 0ON1 i                                     )y'-                         J                                                                                                                    Main
K    ,/ 08LN1)9A       Begoo(--                                                                                                                                                            Secondary                     --'--Republic boundaries
y\`                                                                                                    ~Tertiary                                                                                                                 *.-        Autonomous province
--  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.  -~~~~~~~~~~~~~.. ~~~~~~~~~Pumping stations:                                                                                                                         budre
-,~~~  J'MONTE -.,  '~~~~~~~'~  101  >'                                                                             CX)     Existing                                  International boundariesIteratioal oundrie
MA(EDON/A                                                                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Proposed
SALT                 uiRANi4                                                :uX/L, ANIAr A
r T-BER!ECE



