OrFICIA       LOAN NUMER 2161 YU
DOCUMENTS
Loan Agreement
(Semberija Drainage Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEYLOPMET
and
PRIVREDNA BANEA SARAJEVO - UDRUZENA BANKA
Dated                                , 1982


﻿LOAN NUMBIR 2161 YU
LOAN AGRL2MENT
AGREEMENT, dated            L    -  <    -9 1982, between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (herein-
after called the Bank) and PRIVREDNA BANKA SARAJEVO - UDRUZENA
BANKA (hereinafter called the Borrower), acting pursuant to its
Self-Management Agreement and Statutes, both on its own behalf
and on behalf of its Basic Banks (as this term is hereinafter
defined).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist in
the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement by making the Loan as hereinafter provided;
(B) by an agreement, known as the Self-Management Agreement
on Mutual Cooperation and Pooling of Resources for Semberija
Drainage Project (hereinafter called the Association Agreement)
and entered into on May 5, 1982 among, inter alia, Radna Organi-
zacija Poljoprivredno dobro UPI - "Semberija" (hereinafter called
Semberija), Radna Organizacija Kooperanata UPI - "Podrinje"
(hereinafter called Podrinje), Radna Organizacija Prehrambena
Industrija UPI - "Sava" (hereinafter called Sava), Skupstina
Optine Bijeljina (Commune Assembly of Bijeljina) (hereinafter
called Bijelj.na) and Samoupravna Interesna Zajednica za Vodo-
privrede Bosne i Herzegovine (Self-Managed Water Management Com-
munity of Interest in Bosnia-Herzegovina) (hereinafter called
SIZV BiH), Semberija, Podrinje, Sava, Bijeljina and SIZV BiH have
defined their mutual rights, obligations and responsibilities
with respect to the carrying out of the Project, pursuant to
which, inter alia, Semberija has been vested by the other parties
to the Association Agreement with the authority to be the sole
investor of the Project and with the responsibility to carry out
the Project, Semberija will provide resources in an amount of
not less than two hundred eighty-four million Dinars (Dinars
284,000,000) for the carrying out of the Project and SIZV BiH
will provide to Semberija, through the Borrower, resources in an
amount of not less than three hundred twenty-seven million Dinare
(Dinars 327,000,000) for the carrying out of Part A of the Pro-
ject;
(C) by an agreement of even date herewith (hereinafter
called the Bosnia-Rerzegovina Agreement) between the Bank and the
Socialist Republic of Bosnia-Herzegovina (hereinafter called


﻿-2-
Bosnia-Herzegovina), Bosnia-Herzegovina has agreed to undertake
certain obligations with respect to the carrying out of the Pro-
ject, therein set forth;
(D) the Project will be carried out by Semberija with
Bosnia-Herzegovina's and the Borrower's assistance and, as part
of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to Semberija
the portion of the proceeds of the Loan as hereinafter provided,
a contribution towards the financing of the Project out of its
own resources and of the resources of its Basic Bank in
Bijeljina, the resources provided to it by SIZV BiH and the
resources provided by the Federal Fund and the Republic Fund for
accelerating the development of the less developed Republics and
regions in an amount of seven hundred thirty-nine million seven
hundred thousand Dinars (Dirpars 739,700,000); and
(E) the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (herein-
after called the Guarantor), in consideration of the Bank's
entering into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to
guarantee the Loan as to payment of principal, interest and other
charges;
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the
foregoing, to make the Loan available to the Borr6wer upon the
terms and conditions set forth hereinafter, in 'the Bosnia-
Herzegovina Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date
herewith between the Bank, Semberija and Bijeljina;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated October 27, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agree-
ments   of  the  Bank   being  hereinafter   called  the   General
Cond:Itions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the


﻿-3-
respective meanings therein set forth and the following addi-
tional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Project Agreement" means the agreement of even date
herewith, between the Bank, Semberija and Bijeljina, as the same
may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all
schedules   to   the  Project   Agreement   and   all   agreements
supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(b) "Self-Management Agreement of the Borrower" means the
Self-Management Agreement of the Borrower, dated December 27,
1977, as amended to the date of this Agreement;
(c) "Statutes of the Borrower" means the Statutes of the
Borrower, dated December 27, 1977, as amended to the date of this
Agreement;
(d) "Self-Management Agreement of Semberija" means the
Self-Management Agreement of Semberija, dated March 30, 1977, as
amended to the date of this Agreement;
(e)  "Statutes   of  Semberija"   means   the   Statutes  of
Semberija, dated November 8, 1979, as amended to the date of this
Agreement;
(f) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement,
between the Borrower and Semberija, as the same may be amended
from time to time;
(g) "BOAL-Hydromelioration    Semberija"  means   the  basic
organization of associated labor established within Semberija and
to be maintained pursuant to Section 2.01 (b) of the Project
Agreement;
(h) "BOCFs" means the basic organizations of cooperative
farmers in the Project Area, associated within Podrinje which
provides said farmers with extension services; and "BOCF" means
any one of the BOCFs;
(i) "Project Area" means the area referred to in the
preamble to Schedule 2 of this Agreement;
(j) "BOAL-Water Management Semberija" means the basic.
organization   of  associated   labor  established  within. Radna


﻿-4-
Organizacija Vodoprivrede BiH (Working Organization for. Water
Management in Bosnia-Herzegonia) and responsible for water
management in the Project Area;
(k)  "Basic Bank" means any bank which is, or shall become,
a party to the Self-Management Agreement of the Borrower, pur-
suant to the pertinent provisions thereof;
(1) "Social Accounting Service" means the Sluzba Drustvenog
Knjigovodstva referred to in Article 77 and in paXagraph (5) of
Article 281 of the Guarantor's Constitution; and
(m)  "Dinars" and the letters "Din" mean the currency of the
Guarantor.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or
referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
thirty-four million six hundred thousand dollars ($34,600,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for expendi-
tures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and civil works required for the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
governed by the provisions of the Schedule to the Project
Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 1987
or such later datt as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later
date.
Section 2.05. Not later than the Effective Date, the
Borrower shall pay to the Bank an amount equivalent to five


﻿-5-
hundred eleven thousand three hundred and thirty dollars
($511,330). The fee shall be payable in such currency or
currencies as the Bank shall specify. In the; event that the Bank
shall not have received full payment of the fee by the Effective
Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrowe-, withdraw from
the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount required for the
full payment of the fee in the currency or currencies specified
for the purpose.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commit-
ment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
eleven and three-fifths per cent (11-3/5%) per annum on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time.
Section 2.08. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on April 1 and October 1 in each year.
Section 2.09. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) Without any limitation or restriction upon
any of its other obligations under the Loan Agreement, the
Borrower shall cause Semberija to perform in accordance with the
provisions of   the Project Agreement all the obligations of
Semberija herein set forth, shall take or cause to be taken all
action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services
and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable Semberija
to perform its obligations, and shall not take or permit to be
taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such
performance.
(b) The Borrower shall enter into a subsidiary loan agree-
ment with Semberija under terms and conditions which shall have
been approved by the Bank, providing, inter alia: (i) for
relending to Semberija the portion of the proceeds of the Loan


﻿-6-
allocated to Parts A through D of the Project, at an annual rate
of interest of not less than twelve and ten hundredths per cent
(12.10%) on the principal amount withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, with repayment terms of the principal substantially
in conformity with Schedule 3 to this Agreement, the risk of loss
from changes in exchange rates on currencies so borrowed and
repaid being borne by Semberija; and (ii) for lending by the
Borrower to Semberija, out of the Borrower's own resources and of
the resources of its Basic Bank in Bijeljina, as a contribution
towards the financing of the Project, an amount of not less than
six hundred twenty-five million Dinars (Dinars 625,000,000) at an
annual rate of interest of not less than fifteen per cent (15%)
on the principal amount withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time, with repayment terms over fifteen (15) years including a
maximum period of grace of five (5) years.
(c) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsi-
diary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests
of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of
the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsi-
diary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. (a) In order to assist the Borrower in carry-
ing out the studies included in Part F of the Project, in cooper-
ation with the Committee for Agriculture, Forestry and Water-
power Engineering of Bosnia-Herzegovina, the Borrower shall
employ, not later than December 31, 1982 or such other date as
the Bank may agree, engineering consultants, under terms of
reference acceptable to the Bank, supported by specialized
engineering consultants whose selection, qualifications, expe-
rience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satis-
factory to the Bank; the selection and employment of said spe-
cialized consultants shall be made in accordance with the prin-
ciples and procedures described in the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
(b) The Borrower shall, not later than September 30, 1983
or such other date as the Bank may agree, exchange views with the
Bank on the recommendations and other conclusions contained in
the preparatory outline feasibility study included in Part F (a)
of the Project and, following said exchange of views, shall
select the list of feasibility studies to be carried out under
Part F (b) of the Project.


﻿-7-
(c) The Borrower shall: (i) make available to the Bank
copies of the documents prepared by the consultants in the course
of carrying out the feasibility studies included in Part F (b) of
the  Project, including    reports  and   drafts  thereof,  plans,
designs, specifications, work schedt,les and estimates of costs
and benefits; and (ii) from time to time, exchange views with the
Bank on the recommendations and other conclusions contained in
said documents.
(d) The Borrower shall ensure that the studies referred to
in the preceding paragraph shall be completed not later than
December 31, 1985 or such other date as the Bank may agree, and
shall promptly thereafter, exciange views on the findings of said
studies and on the measures proposed to be taken with respect to
further development of land and water resources in Bosnia-
Herzegovina.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records
and procedures adequate to record and monitor the progress of the
Project ('ncluding its cost and the benefits to be derived from
it), to identify the goods and services financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan, and to disclose their use in the Project; and
(ii) shall furnish to the Bank, in cooperation with Semberija:
(A) quarterly reports on the implementation of all aspects of the
Project in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request and
within 45 days of the close of the quarter concerned; and (B)
annual reports containing all such information as the Bank shall
reasonably request concerning the Project, its cost and, where
appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and services financed
out of the proceeds.
(b) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Bank, the Borrower shall, in cooperation with Semberija,
prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and in
such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execu-
tion and initial operation of the Project, its cost and the bene-
fits derived and to be derived from it, the performance by the
Borrower and the Bank of their respective obligations under the
Loan Agreement, the performance by the parties to the Project
Agreement and the Bosnia-Herzegovina Agreement of their res-
pective obligations thereunder, and the accomplishment of the
purposes of the Loan.


﻿-8-
ARTICLE IV
Management and Operations of the torrower
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall at all times continue to.
carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in accordance
with sound administrative and financial policies and practices,
under the supervision of qualified and experienced management
assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers and in accordance
with its Self-Management Agreement and Statutes.
ARTICLE V
Financial Covenants
Section 5.01. (a) Whenever there is reasonable cause to
believe that the funds available to Semberija will be inadequate
to meet the estimated expenditures requirel for the carrying out
of the Project (except for Part F thereof), the Borrower uncon-
ditionally undertakes to make arrangements satitfactory to the
Bank promptly to provide, or cause to be provided, to Semberija,
such funds in Dinars or other. currencies as needed to meet such
expenditures.
(b) Whenever there is reasonable cause to believe that the
funds available to Semberija will be inadequate to meet the oper-
ating and debt service obligations undertaken by Semberija for
the carrying out of the Project (except for Part F thereof), the
Borrower shall promptly request Bijeljina, SIZV BiH, Podrinje and
Sava, as appropriate, to make available to Semberija, through the
Borrower, or shall provide to Semberija, all necessary funds, as
set forth in the pertinent provisions of this Agreement, the
Project Agreement and the Association Agreement, respectively.
(c) For the purpose of meeting the requirements of para-
graphs (a) and (b) above, the Borrower shall prepare, or.cause to
be prepared, by January 31 of each year, an updated financing
plan including a revised schedule of estimated expenditures,
taking into account the effects of inflation on costs, and shall
furnish said updated plan and revised schedule to the Bank
promptly thereafter, but not later than March 1 of each year..
Section 5.02. The Borrower shall maintain records adequate
to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices its operations and financial condition.


﻿-9-
Section 5.03. (a) The Borrower shall establish and maintain
separate accounts for the Project and shall record in such
accounts all amounts disbursed or received for or in connection
with the Project.
(b) The Borrower shall: (i) have its accounts and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and
related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by the
Social Accounting Service or another competent and experienced
independent auditing organization acceptable to the Bank; (ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not
later than six months after the end of each such year, (A)
certified copies of its financial statements for such year as so
audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
requested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information
concerning the accounts and financial statements of the Borrower
and the audit thereof, as the Bank shall from time to time
reasonably request.
Section 5.04. (a) The Borrower represents that at the date
of this Agreement no lien exists on any of its assets as security
for any debt.
(b) The Borrower undertakes that, except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree: (i) if any lien shall be created on any assets
of the Borrower, as security for any debt, such lien will ipso
facto equally and ratably secure the payment of the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and in the creation
of any such lien express provision will be made to that effect,
at no cost to the Bank; and (ii) if any statutory lien shall be
created on any assets of the Borrower, as security for any debt,
the Borrower shall grant, at no cost to the Bank, an equivalent
lien satisfactory to the Bank to secure the payment of the
principal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan;
provided, however, that the foregoing provisions of this
paragraph shall not apply to: (A) any lien created on property,
at the time of purchase thereof, solely as security for the
payment of the purchase price of such property; or (B) any lien
arising in the ordinary course of banking transactions and
securing a debt maturing not more than one year after the date on
which it is originally incurred.


﻿- 10 -
Section 5.05. The Borrower shall take steps satisfactory to
the Bank to protect itself against the risk of losses resulting
from changes in the rates of exchange between the currencies
(including Dinars) used in its lending and borrowing operations.
Section 5.06. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, if
Semberija shall repay to the Borrower in advance of maturity any
part of the amount of the Loan relent to it under the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement, the Borrower shall promptly notify the Bank and
shall repay to the Bank on the next following interest payment
date an amount equivalent to the amount so repaid by Semberija.
All  Vhe  provisions   of  the  General  Conditions  relating   to
repayment in advance of maturity shall be applicable to any
repayment by the Borrower in accordance with this Section.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Bank
Section 6.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) Any part of the principal amount of any loan to the
Borrower having an original maturity of one year or more shall,
in accordance with its terms, have become due and payable in
advance of maturity as provided in the relative contractual
instruments, or any security for any such loan shall have become
enforceable.
(b) Semberija or Bijeljina shall have failed to perform any
of its obligations under the Project Agreement or, for Semberija
only, under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
(c) As a result of events which have occurred after the
date of the Loan Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have
arisen which shall make it improbable that Semberija or Bijeljina
will be able to perform its obligations under the Project
Agreement.
(d) The    Guarantor   or   any   other   authority   having
jurisdiction shall have taken any action for the dissolution or
disestablishment of Semberija or for the suspension of its
operations.


﻿- 11 -
(e) A change shall have been made in the respective Self-
Management Agreement or Statutes of the Borrower or of Semberija
which would materially and adversely affect the financial condi-
tion or operations of the Borrower or of Semberija or the carry-
ing out of the Project.
(f) Bosnia-Herzegovina shall have failed to perform any of
its obligations under the Bosnia-Herzegovina Agreement.
(g) The Association Agreement shall have been amended,
repealed, waived, abrogated or suspended in such a way as to
materially and adversely affect the carrying out of the Project.
(h)   The Guarantor, Bosnia-Herzegovina, Semberija or any
other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken any action
for the dissolution or disestablishment of BOAL-Hydromelioration
Semberija or for the suspension of its operations.
(i) Bosnia-Herzegonia's Agricultural Land Use and Consoli-
dation Act of 1974, published in Bosnia-Herzegovina's Official
Gazette No. 14 of May 24, 1974, shall have been amended, re-
pealed, waived, abrogated or suspended in such a way as to
materially and adversely affect the carrying out of the Project.
Section 6.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) any event specified in paragraph (b) or (e) of Sec-
tion 6.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a
period of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given
by the Bank to the Borrower and the Guarantor; and
(b) any event specified in paragraph (a), (d), (f), (g),
(h) or (i) of Section 6.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement,


﻿- 12 -
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General
Conditions:
(a) the Subsidiary Loan Agreement shall have been autho-
rized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of,
the Borrower and Semberija; and
(b) Bijeljina, Semberija, Podrinje, Sava and SIZV BiH shall
have entered into an agreement in form and substance satisfactory
to the Bank for determining their respective shares for the
financing of the Project, including the provision of cost
overruns, and their respective responsibilities for assisting
Semberija in its debt service obligations undertaken for the
carrying out of the Project.
Section 7.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by Semberija and Bijeljina and is legally binding upon
Semberija and Bijeljina in accordance with its terms;
(b) that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and Semberija and is
legally binding upon the Borrower and Semberija in accordance
with its terms; and
(c) that the Bosnia-Herzegovina Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by Bosnia-Herzegovina and is legally
binding upon Bosnia-Herzegovina in accordance with its terms.
Section 7.03. The date   wA4     14 07;, is hereby specified
for the purpose of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VIII
Addresses
Section 8.01. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:


﻿- 13 -
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT),
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For the Borrower:
Privredna Banka Sarajevo-Udruzena Banka
Obala 19
71000 Sarajevo
Yugoslavia
Cable address:                      Telex:
PRIVRED BANK                       41289 YU PBS,
Sarajevo, Yugoslavia               41449 YU PBS or
41450 YU PBS
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Colombia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Regional Vice President
Europe Middle East and North Africa
PRIVREDNA BANKA SARAJEVO-UDRUZENA BANKA
By
Authorized Representative


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated             % of
(Expressed in          Expenditures
Category              Dollar Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1) Civil works for            21,000,000          45%
Part A of the
Project
(2) Equipment for               6,000,000          100% of for-
Part B of the                                 eign expendi-
Project                                       tures and
100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory)
(3) Engineering and             3,000,000           100%
experts' services
for Parts A and
D of the Project
and training
under Part C of
the Project
(4) Feasibility studies         2,700,000           100%
under Part F of
the Project
(5) Fee                           511,330          Amount due
(6) Unallocated                 1,388,670
TOTAL          34,600,000


﻿-15-
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Guarantor and for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than the Guarantor; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Guarantor or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Guarantor.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan
shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied by, or
in the territory of, the Guarantor on goods or services, or on
the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
decreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower,
increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned
policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in-respect of payments made for expen-
ditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that with-
drawals may be made on account of payments made before that date
but after November 1, 1981: (i) for expenditures under Category
(1) for the pumping stations to be constructed under Part A.6 of
the Project, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent
of $400,000; and (ii) for expenditures under Category (3) for
engineering services, in an aggregate amount not exceeding
the equivalent of $1,500,000.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of
the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Cate-
gory, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate
to such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to
another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are not
needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if such reallocation


﻿- 16 -
cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disburse-
ment percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order
that further withdrawals under such Category may continue until
all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the pro-
curement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the
Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of
the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the
amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been eli-
gible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The main objectives of the Project are to increase and
stabilize crop production, to supply raw materials to existing
agro-based industries and to raise labor and land productivity in
thi Project Area, through, inter alia, construction of hydro-
technical works to improve drainage, including on-farm develop-
ment, and implementation of a program of land consolidation. The
Project Area is comprised of the Commune of Bijeljina and covers
about 19,"000 ha in the lowest part of the Semberija plain in the
nofth-eastern part 'of Bosnia-Herzegovina, at the confluence of
the Sava aAd Drina rivers.
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:   Works
1.   Extension of Seliste interceptor on a len th of about 8
km with out-fall discharge of about 8 m     per second,
for intercepting flood run-off from southern uplands.
2.   Reconstruction of Sava river dike on a length of about
14.5 km, for providing protection against Sava river
floods.
3.   Construction of a surfAce drainage network extending
over about 15,600 ha gross area, including the con-
struction of new canals (about 500 km) and reuiodelling
of existing canals (about 12 km), for facilitating
timely evacuation of excess internal waters.
4.   Installation of a sub-surface tile drainage system,
including mole drains, in the social sector, extending
under a pilot gross area of about 1,900 ha, for drain-
ing heaving clay soils, and in relation thereto, carry-
ing out of field experiments on the performance.- of
alternative designs.
5.   Construction of wide-bedding in the individual sector
on about 4,500 ha gross area, for preventing accumu-
lation of excess surface waters.


﻿-18-
6.   Construction of a pumping station at Begov Put with a
discharge capacity of about 15.5 m3 per second, expan-
sion of the Topolovac pumping station and repair of its
existing facilities to increase its discharge capacity
from 3.3 m3 per second to about 9 m3 per second and
repair   of  the  Doumuz-Skela   pumping   station,   for
facilitating the disposal of drainage effluent into the
Sava river.
7.   On-farm development of about 19,000 ha (including about
3,400 ha without drainage), consisting of clearance of
brushwood,   cutting  of   trees,  removal   of   stumps,
clearing of landmarks, land levelling and deep plowing,
construction of workshops, machinery and storage sheds
and installation of power lines to serve the afore-
mentioned facilities.
8.   Construction and upgrading of paved roads (about 80 km)
and construction of unpaved access roads (about 90 km),
for facilitating maintenance of facilities constructed
under the Project.
Part B:   Equipment
Provision of:
1.   equipment required for operation and maintenance of
facilities constructed under the Project and a drain
master for field experiments under Part A.4 hereof;
2.   agricultural equipment; and
3.   vehicles, audio-visual aids and office and laboratory
equipment for agricultural extension and research
services.
The list of said equipment shall be determined in agreement
between the Bank and Semberija.
Part C:   Training
Training, through short fellowships (about 14 man-months)
and specialized courses, of agricultural extension personnel.


﻿- 19 -
Part D:   Annual Plans of Agricultural Production
Preparation, execution, evaluation and monitoring of annual
plans of agricultural production based on market projections, raw
material requirements and the social and individual ,sectors' own,
needs.
Part E:   Land Consolidation
Implementation of a program of land consolidation in the
Project Area of about 19,000 ha over a three-year period.
Part F:   Feasibility Studies
(a) Carrying out of a preparatory outline feasibility study
for establishing priority for carrying out land and water
development projects in Bosnia-Herzegovina; and
(b) carrying out, as a result of (a) above, of       elected
feasibility studies.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1986.


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)*
On each April 1 and October 1
beginning October 1, 1985
through   October 1, 1996                    1,440,000
On April 1, 1997                                  1,480,000
*    The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal; see
General Conditions, Section 3.04.


﻿- 21 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                               Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                                    2.30%
More than three years but not
more than six years
before maturity                                   4.65%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                                    8.50%
More than eleven years but not
more than thirteen years
before maturity                                  10.05%
More than thirteen years
before maturity                                   11.60%


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this -        day of       , 198  .
FOR SECRETARY


