CIRCULATING COPY
TO BE RETURNED TO REPORTS DESK
FILE COPY
DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Not For Public Use
Report No. P-1645-IN
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO
INDIA
FOR THE
CHAMBAL COMMAND AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(MADHYA PRADESH)
June 5, 1975
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published,
quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept
responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as at May 8, 1975)
US$1.00                   Rs. 8.10
Rs. 1.00                  US$0.123
Rs. 1 million            US$123,446
(The Rupee is officially valued at a fixed
Pound Sterling rate. As the Pound is now
floating relative to the US Dollar, the US
Dollar/Rupee exchange rate is subject to
change. Conversions in the appraisal report
were made at US$1 to Rs. 8.00, which is the
short-term average exchange rate.)
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
CREDIT TO INDIA FOR THE CHAMBAL COMMAND AREA
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (MADHYA PRADESH)
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to India for the equivalent of US$24 million on standard
IDA terms to help finance a project for command area development in the
Chambal region of Madhya Pradesh. The proceeds of the credit - except for
part of on-farm development works (US$1.9 million) and part of technical
assistance (US$0.8 million) - would be channelled to the Government of
Madhya Pradesh in accordance with the Government of India's standard terms
and arrangements for the financing of State development projects. For
on-farm development full package works, the Government of India (GOI) would
relend US$1.9 million of the credit to the Agricultural Refinance Corporation
(ARC) for 9 and 15 years at not less than 6.75% and 7.25% per annum respec-
tively. ARC would in turn on-lend the funds to the Madhya Pradesh State
Cooperative Land Development Bank (LDB) and to participating commercial
banks in the project area at annual interest of not less than 7.5%. The
LDBs and the commercial banks would relend the funds to farmers for up to
12 years at an interest rate of not less than 10.5% annually.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An economic report, "Economic Situation and Prospects of India"
(691a-IN dated May 1, 1975) was distributed to the Executive Directors on
May 20, 1975. A country data sheet is attached as Annex I.
3.        India is exceptional among the Bank Group's member countries for
its size, diversity, and the difficulty of its economic conditions. While
India's economic policies and performance have their shortcomings, the sheer
magnitude of the task facing the Government must be recognized. Governing
a country divided into more than 20 States with a population of some 600
million and over 60 languages is an extraordinary responsibility. The
country's poverty, supplemented by a net transfer of external resources
averaging in recent years only about US$1 per head per annum, have imposed
sharp limitations on the rate of growth. Account must be taken, also, of
the uncertainties imposed by the erratic availability of water. A bad
monsoon, which is inevitable from time to time, has a pervasive influence
over the entire economy and wipes out the results of years of efforts. Thus,
the growth of national income has averaged a modest 4% during the past 25
years, but only about 1% during the last four years, which have included
two consecutive monsoon failures -- i.e., an actual decline in per capita
terms.
4.        Since independence progress has been impressive on many fronts,
but disappointing on others and has all too often fallen short of India's
massive needs. The growth of the socio-economic infrastructure (transport,



education, health services, etc.) has been spectacular, but has often been
achieved at high cost and has yielded results of variable quality. Many
industrial and agricultural investment schemes have been highly successful,
but others have taken excessively long to be completed and have operated
well below full capacity. In some regions of the country, growth and
structural change have been rapid and compare favorably with developments
in many other parts of the world, but in other regions there has been
stagnation and possibly even decline. Despite these improvements and al-
though the distribution of income in India is relatively even by comparison
with most developing countries, there has been little impact upon the living
standards of the vast masses of the urban and rural population. The Govern-
ment has become increasingly concerned about the plight of the lower income
strata, which - conservatively measured - consist of some 200 million people
with incomes of less than US$60 per head per year, and has initiated in re-
cent years a variety of programs specifically designed to alleviate poverty.
5.        The structure of the economy has been slow to change.    Agriculture
remains the dominant sector, accounting for some 45% of national product in
the early 1970s compared with around 49% twenty years previously. The share
of output contributed by the industrial sector has increased only slowly and,
since the late 1960s, has remained approximately constant at a level of 23%.
There has, however, been a shift in the composition of industrial production,
with consumer, intermediate, and capital goods now contributing about one-
third each, compared with an overwhelming preponderance of consumer goods
production 25 years ago.
6.        Despite the slow pace of change.and despite the undeniable magni-
tude of the problems confronting her, India has the potential in a number
of important fields to mount a development effort which has a reasonable
chance of success in the longer run. In agriculture, as discussed in the
economic report of May 1975, the particular opportunities of substantial
promise for a manageable Indian food situation over the next decade are:
(a) Rejuvenation of the green revolution. in wheat which
has taken place in recent years in the Northwest and
to a lesser extent in Bihar and West Bengal, but which
has been losing momentum since about 1970. This is
the result of deficiencies which can be corrected --
most importantly seed deterioration and lagging irrigation
development.
(b) Better use of the vast potentials that have been created
by surface irrigation through more expeditious project
completion and complementary land and on-farm improve-
ments to ensure better management and higher productivity of
water.
(c)  Acceleration of groundwater development, especially in the
Eastern regions, which are figuratively described as
"floating on water," where the untapped potential is large
and where consequently there are large opportunities for



- 3 -
multiple cropping, better water management and greater
crop security.
(d) Promotion of increased production of monsoon rice, based
on improved varieties which as yet have had only modest
success but which are expected, on the basis of current
research, to open the way to much greater productivity
over India's vast rain-fed rice producing areas during
the next few years.
(e) Pursuit of the promising, although somewhat less
definite, potential for greater productivity in dryland
cultivation and for extensive introduction of higher
yielding varieties of coarse grains.
Because of the difficulties likely to be encountered in the effective de-
velopment of these potentials, their realization is likely to follow uneven
time patterns, probably coming in bursts of expanded production as in the
case of the green revolution. And, along with administrative concentration
and effectiveness, they will all require provision of the supplies and serv-
ices, especially fertilizer and power for irrigation, which are essential
complements of the necessary technical and environmental changes.
7.        The revival of agricultural success would also make an important
contribution to India's perenially difficult balance of payments situation,
which is frequently aggravated by the need for large food imports. From
the balance of payments viewpoint, another essential ingredient for a
resumption of modest growth is sustained export volume growth at consider-
ably higher rates than have been achieved historically. In view of the
composition of Indian exports, the momentum for such growth would have to
be provided primarily by the rapid expansion of industrial exports which,
in addition to easing the foreign exchange constraint, would act as an
important stimulant to industrial growth -- notably absent since the mid-
sixties. In the field of energy, too, there is considerable potential in
the development of recently discovered oil resources and in the continued
expansion of coal production.
8.        It is hard, however, to conceive of the timely and effective
exploitation of these various potentials unless administrative capabilities,
which are overtaxed and diffused in an attempt to guide and control most
economic activities, are focused on these areas. The requirement for in-
dustrial export stimulation would appear to be more generous and expeditious
incentives, sufficiently attractive and reliable to induce domestic producers
to venture into the competitive pressures of world markets. Finally,
realization of India's potential will undoubtedly also require a considerable
infusion of external assistance, both to ease the payments constraints and
to supplement the limited domestic resources available for development.
9.        While there is thus potential for resuming the interrupted process
of growth, there remains the formidable obstacle of the current difficulties
facing India. The short-term problem is much the same as it appeared last



-4-
year, with the important exception that the efforts made to adjust to changed
circumstances and the responsiveness of aid givers to India's needs should
mitigate the hardships that lie ahead. Last year began with deficient winter
rains and a poor spring harvest, with one of the worst Government wheat
procurement experiences on record, with a prospective balance of payments
deficit of US$2.5 billion or twice as much as in the preceding year, with
inflation running at an annual rate of 30% and a fiscal situation seemingly
out of hand, and with serious energy and material shortages and little
prospect for alleviating them through imports within the severe constraints
of the balance of payments. It was hardly surprising in this situation that
adjustment to immediate difficulties was the prime economic preoccupation.
Growth had necessarily to take a second place to short-run exigencies in
the emphasis of economic policy in this first year of the Fifth Five-Year
Plan period.
10.       Monetary expansion, which had been running at a rate of 15% in
1973/74, was reduced through tight credit restrictions. The burden of these
restrictions was borne largely by private and Government commercial activities,
without a significant reduction in the rate of increase in net bank financ-
ing of the Government Budget. However, by curtailing credit to the commer-
cial sector and by using net reserves (through drawings on the International
Monetary Fund), the rate of monetary expansion in 1974/75 was reduced to
about 6%, or less than half that of the previous year. This, in combination
with some improvements in physical supply, relieved the upward pressure on
prices, and there was even a small price reduction in the second half of the
fiscal year. With continuing tight monetary policies, prospects are for
greater price stability this year than last.
11.       The food problem was probably the single most threatening element
on the economic scene last year. A poor harvest and low procurement in the
spring was only the start of agricultural adversities. Next was failure
of the mid-year monsoon in many key agricultural areas and a monsoon (kharif)
crop which fell below that of 1973 by about 5 million tons. The result was
a severe shortage of domestic foodgrains for the public distribution system,
with availabilities only about half of an austere level of requirements. A
real food crisis was avoided, however, by imports of more than 6 million tons
of foodgrains during the year ending in March 1975; this was almost twice as
much as the imports of 1973/74. With these imports and with relative empha-
sis on food distribution in the cities rather than the countryside, where
supply conditions were presumed to be not quite so unmanageable, the threat-
ening food situation was weathered, although not without hunger and privation
for a great many of the rural poor who were unable to afford much of what
food was available.
12.       The oil situation was managed, although at double the cost for a
reduced import level, by curbs on consumption and by substitution. Motor
spirits were heavily taxed to reduce consumption by about 20%; factories and
power plants were converted from fuel oil to coal wherever possible and
supplies of fuel oil were reduced by more than 15%; coal production, after
years of stagnation, was increased by about 13%, and, after a poor start,



transport managed to keep up with the additional coal in spite of serious
labor troubles on the railways. There was also some improvement in the
operation of the deficient power system through special efforts to raise
the low capacity utilization of thermal plants and by a more systematic allo-
cation of available power, with special priority for requirements of agri-
cultural irrigation and fertilizer production. Power shortage has remained,
nevertheless, a severe constraint on the economies of many regions. Among
other critical shortages, the supply situation eased in the course of the
year, especially for fertilizer, steel and non-ferrous metals. This happened
in fertilizer mainly because of the policy of importing all the fertilizer
available from restricted world supplies and because of lagging demand attrib-
utable largely to poor weather and sharply increased prices. Steel and other
metal supplies also improved during the year, with some increase in domestic
production in the case of steel and also because of price resistance and
uncertainty in a sluggish industrial situation.
13.       Last year's balance of payments turned out to be manageable in
spite of a 45% jump in the import bill. Economies in import volume helped.
More important, there was also an increase of 22% in the value of exports.
The main payments support, however, was an increase of about US$1 billion in
external financing, made up of large drawings on the International Monetary
Fund including the Fund's Oil Facility, larger aid from the India Consortium
including the World Bank Group, oil purchases on credit, a million tons of
wheat on loan from the USSR, and additional food aid from several other
countries. With all this, in 1974/75 India had to draw on its gross reserves
(US$1,416 million as of March 31, 1974) only by about US$40 million, but
external debt service requirements in the medium term were increased, as
were obligations to the IMF.
14.       This year (1975/76) the economic situation has started more favor-
ably than last year, with the expectation of a better harvest and larger
procurement from the spring (rabi) crop, with easier conditions in other
material supplies, and with much less inflation. The payments situation,
however, is no less critical.
15.       The 1975/76 trade deficit is projected at about US$2,025 million.
This compares with about US$1,815 million last year, but with hardly any
trade deficit at all in 1972/73, which was before India's terms of trade
worsened sharply as prices of imported oil, grain, fertilizer and other es-
sential goods went up. Adding to the 1975/76 trade deficit another US$800
million of payments on external obligations and taking account also of
probable net invisible receipts, this year's overall balance of payments
deficit seems likely to come to about US$2,635 million, or about US$160 mil-
lion more than last year. These enormous deficits persist in any reasonable
calculation of minimum import requirements of fuel, food, fertilizer and
other essentials, for which further compression seems hardly feasible, even
at the low level at which the economy is functioning.
16.       Fortunately nearly half of this year's prospective deficit (about
US$1,155 million) can be covered from gross disbursements of previously
committed foreign aid, including just over a billion dollars of Consortium



-6-
aid about evenly divided between bilateral and World Bank Group sources.
Eastern Europe is expected to provide nearly all the rest, perhaps US$100
million, which is down considerably from last year in the absence of further
food assistance from the USSR. All this leaves a balance of US$1,500 mil-
lion to be financed from disbursements out of new aid commitments in the cur-
rent year and to some extent by an inevitable drawdown of foreign exchange
reserves.
17.       India's external public debt outstanding and disbursed on March 31,
1974 stood at US$10.2 billion.  The recent increases in external borrowing
have, of course, serious implications for India's longer-term balance of
payments. To highlight the crucial variables in India's longer-term payments
outlook, the May 1975 economic report contains some projections of India's
import capability during the 10 years following 1975/76. Broadly speaking,
the conclusion which emerges is that a modest increase in India's import
capability - an average of 5.2% per annum after allowing for inflation
- could be achieved, provided: (i) new aid commitments in real terms (includ-
ing IMF facilities and the aid provided by oil producers) remain approximately
at 1974/75 levels; (ii) India's exports attain an average volume growth of
about 8% between 1976/77 and 1985/86; and (iii) the bulk of new aid continues
to be provided on concessional terms. Given the above assumptions, plus
further assumptions about world inflation and India's export price index,
the debt service ratio (expressed as a percentage of export earnings) would
rise from about 19% in 1974/75 to 23% in 1979/80 and then decline slowly.
18.       While there is thus a basis for cautious hope, the policy measures
necessary for a sustained increase in exports do not yet seem to have been
adopted by the Government. To the degree that exports fall short of the 8%
growth target, India's creditworthiness will be reduced, and she will face
greater difficulty in borrowing to meet a larger balance of payments deficit;
the result would be slower growth throughout the economy. Thus, a con-
siderably improved export performance is crucial to a successful development
effort.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
19.       Since 1949, the Bank Group has made 44 loans and 72 development
credits to India totalling US$1,437 million and US$3,404 million (both net
of cancellation), respectively. Of these amounts, US$685 million has been
repaid, and US$1,598 million was still undisbursed as of April 30, 1975.
Annex II contains a summary statement of disbursements as of April 30,
1975, and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
20.       Since 1957, IFC has made 14 comnitments in india totalling US$51.8
million, of which US$8.4 million has been repaid, US$7.6 million sold and
US$6.3 million cancelled. Of the balance of US$29.5 million, US$22.4 mil-
lion represents loans and US$7.1 million equity.   A sunmary statement of
IFC operations as of April 30, 1975, is also included in Annex II (page 2).



-7-
21.       In recent years, the emphasis o' Bank Group lending has been on
agriculture. The Bank Group has been particularly active in supporting minor
irrigation and other on farm investments through agricultural credit operations.
Major irrigation, marketing, and seed development are other agricultural
activities supported by the Bank Group. In recognition of the importance of
adequate fertilizer supplies for agricultural output, the Bank Group has been
active in financing the expansion of fe,t'lizer production. Apart from
investments in fertilizer plants, the Bank Group has lent support to the in-
dustrial sector through its sizeable assistance to development finance
institutions, in particular ICICI. IDA financing of industrial raw materials
and components for selected priority sectors has been instrumental in facil-
itating better capacity utilization in these sectors. The Bank Group has
also been active in supporting infrastructure development for power, tele-
communications and railways. Family planning, education, water supply
development and related urban investments have also received Bank Group
support in recent years.
22.       The direction of assistance under the Bank/IDA program has been
consistent with India's needs and the Government's priorities. The emphasis
of the program on agriculture, industry, power, and transport remains highly
relevant. The priority of the agricultural sector has been further enhanced
in the present world commodity situation. Thus, projects designed to foster
agricultural production through the provision of essential inputs such as
credit for on-farm investments, command area development of existing irriga-
tion schemes, fertilizer and seeds form an important aspect of the Bank
Group's program for the next years. Special emphasis will be given to
projects designed to increase the productivity of small farmers and landless
laborers. Lending in support of infrastructure and industrial investments
will focus on energy-related projects. Repeater credits for power and rail-
ways have high priority in this context, and discussions are under way with
the Government in an effort to identify and prepare projects specifically
designed to facilitate coal production and coal transport. Lending for
fertilizer projects, which has been an important feature in recent years,
is expected to continue to occupy a prominent place in the future program.
23.       The need for a substantial net transfer of external resources in
support of India's economy has been a recurrent theme of Bank economic
reports and of the discussions within the India Consortium. The need for
readily usable foreign exchange assistance is especially pressing at a time
when output and investment have to be adjusted to a radically different price
situation. Consequently, Bank Group lending for critical industrial raw
materials and components continues to be an essential element within the
overall program of assistance. As in the past, Bank Group assistance for
projects in India should include, as appropriate, the financing of local
expenditures.   India imports relatively few capital goods because of the
capacity of the domestic capital goods industry. The import component of
projects tends to be especially low in such high-priority areas as agricul-
ture, education, and family planning. For the Bank Group to be able to make
an appropriate contribution to the financing of projects in these sectors,
it is important to cover a proportion of local expenditures.



24.       Of the external assistance received by India, the proportion con-
tributed by the Bank Group has grown significantly. In 1969/70 the Bank
Group accounted for 34% of total commitments, 13% of gross disbursements,
and 12% of net disbursements as compared with an estimated 35%, 27% and 37%,
respectively, in 1973/74, and the contribution of the Bank Group is expected
to continue growing. Whereas on March 31, 1974, the Bank Group share of
India's outstanding external public debt was 23%, by 1979 it is projected
to account for about 25%. Because Bank Group assistance to India is pre-
dominantly in the form of IDA credits, debt service to the Bank Group will
rise slowly. In 1974/75 about 14% of India's total debt service payments were
to the Bank Group.
PART III - AGRICULTURE AND IRRIGATION IN INDIA
General
25.       Agriculture is the most important sector in India; it engages
70% of the labor force, has recently contributed an average of about 45% of
GNP, and accounts for a major share of exports. Consequently, investments
in agriculture have been given priority by GOI and the State Governments,
especially since the mid-1960s, and deserve continued emphasis over the next
five years.
26.       Since independence, the overall growth rate of agricultural pro-
duction has averaged about 3% per annum. This low overall rate of growth in
the agriculture sector obscures considerable variations over shorter periods
of time, between crops, and between regions. The overall rate has been very
much affected by the serious droughts in 1965 and 1966 and again in 1972
and 1974. At the same time, the success of high yielding varieties of
wheat produced increases in wheat production of about 20% p.a. between 1967
and 1971. Other foodgrain crops, notably rice, have not enjoyed anything
like the same success, as the introduction of high yielding varieties has
encountered difficulties arising from local climatic and ecological con-
ditions. The effects of the green revolution, which primarily affected
wheat, have been concentrated in north western India, very largely on
account of the availability of irrigation in that area.
27.       Despite the progress made in many aspects of food production,
India's agriculture remains heavily dependent upon the weather. A major
factor in reducing this dependence will be the rehabilitation and expansion
of irrigation and the more effective use of existing investment in irrigation
facilities. The Government is a'lso placing emphasis on the improved supply
of inputs such as seeds and fertilizer, agricultural credit, and extension
services.
Irrigation
28.       Over the first half of the twentieth century, the area under irri-
gction in India increased by only about 1% p.a. to reach slightly more than



- 9 -
20 million hectares in 1950/51, or about one fifth of India's cultivated
land. Out of these 20 million hectares, about half was served by major
and medium irrigation works.
29.       Irrigation development has appropriately received increased atten-
tion since independence, and substantial resources were devoted to it through-
out the four Five Year Plans. Outlays for irrigation development during the
first three Plans and during the three Annual Plans 1966-69 totalled Rs 26.8
billion, and the fourth Plan allocated Rs 16 billion to irrigation. While
minor surface irrigation increased only slightly from 6.4 million ha to
7.5 million ha, the area covered by major and medium systems and by ground-
water utilization more than doubled to 21.4 million hectares and 16.0
million hectares respectively compared with an estimated ultimate potential
for irrigation of 57 million hectares from major and medium schemes, 15 mil-
lion hectares from minor surface irrigation and 35 million hectares from
groundwater utilization. But of the new additional acreage of about 10 mil-
lion ha under major and medium schemes, only 80% was being utilized, and much
of that inefficiently.
30.       The Second Irrigation Commnission of 1972 and the National Commis-
sion on Agriculture, which reported in 1973, found that the under-utilization
of irrigation potential was attributable to the lack of integrated develop-
ment in the irrigated areas, insufficient farmer training and extension
service, and lack of administrative coordination. It has been estimated
that the major part of recently completed irrigation projects require additional
investments of upto US$600 per ha before they can become fully productive.
Accordingly, for the Fifth Plan period (1974-79) various measures have been
designed to improve utilization, and a Command Area Development Department
has been set up it the Ministry of Food and Agriculture to coordinate work
on a list of high priority projects.
31.       In view of the emergence of farm technologies dependent on effective
water control - and given the substantial investment India has already made
in major irrigation - the economic return on improved water delivery systems
is high. Consequently, command area development has been given high priority
under the Fifth Plan proposals, and a relatively large proportion of public
sector investment in irrigation has been allocated for this purpose. Further
funds, doubling this allocation, will be made available from institutional
sources for credit. In addition, major institutional changes have been
proposed affecting the coordination of services in command areas and the
administration of credit.
Agriculture and Irrigation in Madhya Pradesh
2
32.       Madhya Pradesh, with an area of 442,800 km , is the largest State
in India. It is a predominantly agricultural State, 84% of its 42 million
population (in 1971) being rural. About 40% of the total area of the
State is cultivated. Only 8% of the cultivated area (1.64 million ha)
is irrigated; the rest depends on rainfall, which averages about 800 mm per
year with 95% occurring from June to October.



- 10 -
33.       Agriculture an£d related activi.ies in Madhya Pradesh account for
55% of all income. The main food crops produced in the State are sorghum,
wheat, rice and gram. Imi,ortant commercial crops are oilseeds, cotton and
sugarcane. Madhya Pradesh is a surplus state for both types of crops.
As most of the land is unirrigated, average yields for crops grown in the
dry winter season are low. About 12% of the paddy, wheat and bajra hectarage
use High-Yielding Varieties, which were introduced in the area in the late
1960s. The use of fertilizer in Madhya Pradesh has increased rapidly in
recent years.
34.       Since the early 1950s, when a total area of 0.89 million hectares
was irrigated from all sources, Madhya Pradesh has been investing consider-
ably in irrigation schemes. As a result of these efforts, the area receiving
irrigation in the State nearly doubled to the present 1.64 million hectares.
Of this area, about 0.94 million hectares are served by medium and minor
irrigation schemes, while major irrigation accounts for the remaining 0.70
million hectares. Important projects of major irrigation in Madhya Pradesh
are Tawa (304,000 ha), Barna (66,000 ha), Mahanadi Canals (57,000 ha), Hasdeo
Right Bank Canal (47,000 ha) and the Chambal Irrigation Project (224,000 ha),
which is the basis for the proposed command area development project.
35.       Planning for 1975-1979 proposes further improvements in agriculture
with emphasis being placed on development of both ground and surface water,
more efficient use of irrigation water on existing projects through command
area development activities, development programs for backward and drought-
prone areas and soil and water conservation.
36.       The Bank Group has been involved in agricultural activities in Madhya
Pradesh through two previous IDA credits. The first credit (Cr. 391-IN),
US$30 million for an Agricultural Credit Project in the State, was approved
in June 1973. It assists in financing a three year program of on-farm invest-
ments in minor irrigation and land development. This project is proceeding
as scheduled. The credit is expected to be fully disbursed within the
original closing date (December 31, 1976). The second credit (Cr. 522-IN),
US$16.4 million for a Dairy Project, was approved in December 1974 and is
not yet effective. Conditions of effectiveness will have to be fulfilled by
July 15, 1975.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
37.       In November 1972, a Bank Group Irrigation Reconnaissance mission
visited India at the request of the Government of India. It identified
several comnmnd area development prolects, of which two, the Rajasthan
Canal Command Area Development Project and the Chambal Command Area Develop-
ment Project (Rajasthan) formed the basis for a US$83 million IDA credit
and a US$52 million Bank loan, respectively, approved in June and July 1974.
It also identified for possible later Bank Group assistance the proposed
project, which covers the Madhya Pradesh portion of the Chambal Irrigation
System. After further preparatory work by the FAO/IBRD Coopevrative Program,



- 11 -
the project was appraised in November/December 1974. A credit summary is
given in Annex III. A report entitled "iAppraisal of the Chambal Command
Area Development Project (Madhya Pradesh)", Report No. 698-IN, dated
May 27, 1975 is being circulated separately to the Executive Directors. Nego-
tiations of this project were held in Washington in May, 1975. The Borrower
was represented by Dr. S.K. Banerji and Mr. A. Pande. The Government of
Madhya Pradesh was represented by Mr. R.K. Pandey, Mr. P.K. Roy and Dr. K.M.
Saran. The Agricultural Refinance Corporation was represented by Mr. M.A.
Chidambaram.
The Project
38.       The proposed project is the first stage, comprising three years,
of command area development for the existing Chambal Irrigation Project in
Madhya Pradesh. The major works of the Chambal Irrigation Project were
essentially completed in 1960 for Rajasthan and about 1970 for the Madhya
Pradesh area. These works include three reservoirs and a canal system
designed to serve an irrigable area of 224,000 hectares in the Morena and Bhind
districts of Madhya Pradesh and a similar area in the neighboring State of
Rajasthan. About 93,000 families live in the Madhya Pradesh project area.
The average farm size is 2.4 hectares and the median size 1.5 hectares.
About 37% of holdings are 1 hectare or less. Practically all farms are
operated by their owners, but owners of small farms depend on additional
off-farm employment for their livelihood. The cropping intensity in the
project area is about 105%, with 80% occurring in the dry season. Wheat,
pulses and oilseeds are the most important crops grown in the dry season,
partly on residual soil moisture. The principal wet season crops are millet,
sorghum and paddy. A limited amount of sugarcane is grown perennially. Agri-
cultural production in the project area has not met earlier expectations due
to deficiencies in water control, on-farm development, drainage, the trans-
port system and agricultural supporting services.
39.       The proposed project would be the beginning of an extended program
to correct these deficiencies. It would cover infrastructure improvement
over the entire project area and on-farm development for parts of it. On-
farm development on additional parts of the project area is planned under a
second phase project, which Is tentatively scheduled for Bank Group consider-
ation in about three years time. The proposed first phase project would
include: lining of 11 km of the main canal, where seepage is excessive;
construction of 77 control structures; increasing the carrying capacity of
400 km of canals; and constructing and improving 206 km village access roads.
Over 12,000 hectares of undulating land within the 224,000 hectares project
area, a full package of on-farm development would be implemented. The full
package would include the updating of cadastral records, soil classification,
topographical survey, land levelling, construction of watercourses, drains
and access roads inside the chaks (irrigation service units of about 30 to
40 ha). Waterlogging problems on a further 20,000 hectares of the project
area would be relieved by providing drainage networks and improving 200 km
of natural drains in the chaks. 560 km of small seepage interceptor drains
would also be included in the project to protect this 20,000 hectares area
and an additional 10,000 hectares from further waterlogging. The project
would further comprise a pilot project for ravine erosion control in parts



- 1 2 -
of the project area, the gradual expansion of the rotational irrigation
svstem (warabandi) throughout the project area, and the strengthening of
agricultural extension and research services and of the cooperative system.
Feasibility studies for further staged development of the project area
would also be undertaken and would cover groundwater exploitation, increasing
delivery efficiency by canal lining, reuse of return water flows, reclamation
of saline and alkaline soils, improvement of district roads and further in-
tensive on-farm development in the command area. Works to be included in
the present first stage project were selected on a priority basis, taking
into consideration organizational constraints of the Government of Madhya
Pradesh.  In addition, the project would include assistance to GOI for the
preparation of command area development projects throughout India and the
provision of a land development specialist for a period of two years to
advise on the planning, design and construction of on-farm development.
Project Implementation
40.       The proposed project would be the third command area development
project in India receiving Bank Group assistance, and its implementation
would be similar to that of the two previous command area development
projects in Rajasthan. As in those projects, which served as prototypes for
command area development in India, particular care was given to the in-
stitutional and organizational aspects of implementation. To ensure ef-
ficient cooperation between the institutions concerned with command area
development, the Government of Madhya Pradesh (GOMP) is setting up a Command
Area Authority (CAA), headed by a Commissioner, who would have powers to
direct the activities of the various State Government departments and guide
credit institutions operating in the project area. The CAA would supervise
and coordinate the planning and implementation of all services and works
required for the development of the command area and would be in charge of
managing the project. The CAA would also be responsible for introducing
a new water allocation plan for the Project Area that GOMP would prepare
to ensure equitable distribution of -he available water (Sec. 2.05 of the
Pro'ect Agreement). A Board, comprising representatives of various GOMP
departments (Agriculture, Irrigation, Veterinary Services, Cooperatives,
Industries, Buildings and Roads, Revenue), of the two cooperative banks,
the commercial banks, the project farmers, and other GOMP organizations
as appropriate, will assist the Commissioner. Under the supervision and
coordination of the CAA, construction works for the project (irrigation,
drainage, land development, roads) would be carried out by the respective
government departments and the Agro-Industries Corporation of the State.
Project implementation would be by labor-intensive methods wherever feasible.
The use of heavy equipment, which would be supplied under the project, would
mainly be confined to land shaping and excavation of large drains.
41.       On-farm development full package works would be undertaken, when
two-thirds of the farmers within a chak agree. Unresponsive chaks would be
left for later stages of the project. The cost of on-farm development full
package works would be borne by GOMP during the construction phase. Before
completion of the works, the Soil Conservation Division of the Agriculture
Deorirtment would prepare loan applications for the farmers so that loans from



- 13 -
the land development bank and participating commercial banks can be obtained
to reimburse GOMP for the works carried out. Farmers ineligible for such
loans would remain indebted to GOMP, and on-farm development cost for their
holdings would be collected as land revenue.
42.       The agricultural extension and research services and the system of
cooperatives would be strengthened throughout the project area. The extension
service would make use of progressive farmers as parttime extension workers.
Provision has been made in the project for technical assistance and in-service
training, including the employment of a land development expert. A special
group would be set up to monitor the progress of the project. On-farm devel-
opment, in particular land shaping, would disturb the soil profile and
result in a temporary loss of fertility. To restore soil fertility to the
original level, some 2,000 tons of fertilizer would be provided under the
project and allocated to farmers, who have carried out levelling work on
their land.
Project Cost and Financing
43.       The estimated total cost of the project is US$46.63 million equiv-
alent, including US$9.72 million in foreign exchange. The principal cost
components net of contingencies are irrigation and drainage (US$15.51 million),
on-farm development full package (US$2.76 million) and roads (US$5.56 million).
The balance is made up by ravine erosion control (US$0.40 million), supple-
mentary fertilizer (US$0.60 million), project administration and operation
during implementation including the preparation of a Phase II Command Area
Development Project in the Chambal Area (US$6.22 million), technical assist-
ance to GOI for the preparation of command area development projects through-
out India and provision of a land development specialist (US$0.80 million),
and physical and price contingencies for all items (US$14.78 million).
44.       The proposed credit of US$24.0 million would cover 53% of eligi-
ble project costs, excluding US$1.5 million worth of equipment ineligible
for Bank Group financing because it is reserved for Indian procurement. The
Governments of India and of Madhya Pradesh together would finance 44%. The
balance would be contributed by the Agricultural Refinance Corporation (ARC)
and by the land development bank and participating commercial banks. Of
the proceeds of the credit, GOI would on-lend US$21.3 million to GOMP on
the standard terms on which development funds are being provided to state
governments by the center. US$1.9 million would be passed on to ARC with
9 and 15 years maturity at not less than 6.75% and 7.25% annual interest,
respectively. ARC in turn would refinance at least 75% of the land de-
velopment loans extended to farmers by participating commercial banks and
the land development bank at not less than 7.5% annual interest, repayable
in accordance with the terms of the loans to farmers. Farmers would repay
such loans over a period of not more than 12 years, including 1 year of grace,
at an interest rate of not less than 10.5%. The exchange risk associated
with the proposed IDA credit would be borne by the Indian Government.



- 14 -
Procurement and Disbursement
45.       The proceeds of the proposed credit would be used to finance:
civil works for irrigation and drainage, roads and ravine erosion control
(US$14.4 million), on-farm development full package (US$1.9 million), project
administration and phase II preparation (US$0.4 million), equipment for
these items (US$3.5 million), fertilizer (US$0.5 million), technical
assistance including the cost of the land development specialist (US$0.8
million) and physical contingencies for civil works (US$2.5 million), all
items inclusive of price contingencies.
46.       The estimated cost of equipment, including vehicles for project
management, force account construction and for hire to contractors, is
US$5.2 million. Out of this total, US$3.0 million would be subject to
international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank Group Guidelines.
A preference limited to 15% of the cif price of imported goods, or the
prevailing customs duty if lower, would be extended to local manufacturers
in the evaluation of bids. About US$0.7 million worth of equipment and
vehicles, consisting of categories of items costing less than US$100,000
each, which for reasons of efficiency and standardization are not suitable
for international tendering, would be purchased through normal GOMP procure-
ment procedures, which are satisfactory. The Indian Government has re-
quested that the balance of US$1.5 million be reserved for local procurement,
and hence it would not be eligible for reimbursement out of the proceeds
of the Credit. Fertilizer (US$0.8 million, including local handling,
transportation and US$0.2 million contingencies) would be procured by the
Government of India for reasons of economy and efficiency as part of its
regular bulk purchases in the world market. Fertilizer procurement by GOI
is based on international competition. However, because of the tight supply
situation in the world market and the limited number of suppliers, formal
advertisement would not lead to an adequate response. Instead, the Govern-
ment seeks price quotations from potential suppliers followed by price
negotiations to obtain the lowest price. This procedure is in accordance
with international practice now common in the fertilizer trade and would
be acceptable to the Association, provided at least three quotations are
invited. Fertilizers would be procured in line with allocations to the
farmers, who had carried out levelling work on their land.
47.       The civil works included in the project are individually small,
scattered over the project area, and scheduled for construction over a
three--year period. Much of the construction work and on-farm development
would be carried out intermittently as determined by seasonal weather
conditions and by the ongoing agricultural activities in the project area.
In these circumstances it would not be feasible or economic to combine any
of the categories of civil works into contracts sufficiently large to
attract internationl competition. It is therefore proposeci that the civil
works be carried out by local contractors, which are mostly small labor
contractors, or, where the use of heavy machinery is required, by force
account. Road works would be executed with small machinery procured
under the project and hired out to local contractors. Contracts would be



- 15 -
guarded in accordance with the procurem-nt procedures of GOMP, which are
satisfactory to the Association. On-farm full package works would be
carried out by GCMP's Agro-Industries Corporation, which is specialized
in such works.
48.       The proceeds of the credit would be disbursed against the cif
cost of imported equipment or against the ex-factory price of equipment
manufactured locally, and at the rate of 70% for imported equipment pro-
cured locally. Disbursements for civil works would be on a percentage
basis (68% for on-farm development full package and 60% for other civil
works).  Disbursement for force account work would be made against a
certificate of expenditure from the CAA; the supporting documentation
would not be submitted for review to the Association but would be retained
by CAA and would be held available for inspection during project progress
reviews. Disbursements for fertilizer would be made against cif cost after
the fertilizer has been distributed to the farmers in the project area.
The credit would be fully disbursed by Dec_mber 31, 1979, about one year
after project completion.
Benefits and Economic Justification
49.       The overall cropping intensity in the project area would increase
from 105% at present to 125% at full development. In the areas receiving
on-farm development, the ultimate cropping intensity would be 135%, of which
95% would be irrigated. The production of foodgrain would increase from
212,000 tons at present to 375,000 tons. Marketing prospects for all the
crops are good. Processing, storage, and marketing facilities are generally
satisfactory for the present levels of production and GG4P is implementing
investment plans, which should be adequate to meet requirements at full
project development. Crop production increase would be most rapid in the
20,000 hectares drainage area, which would respond immediately to surface
water removal, and in the 12,000 hectares on-farm development full package
area as a result of the complete set of land development, improved field
water supply and drainage, and the emphasis on better cultivation practices
and fanm inputs.
50.       Net farm incomes under the project would increase from RB. 1,100
per hectare at present to Rs. 2,400 at full development. The income of
93,000 farmers (target group), including 35,000 small farmers with farm
units of 1 hectare or less, would nearly double. Irrigation and drainage
charges, presently averaging about 30 Rs/ha, would be raised to cover the
full cost of operating and maintaining the project works. These charges,
including the service of farm credit, would leave the farmers with a subst-
antial increase in net income to provide adequate incentives for those
participating in the project. The cost of the loan to the farmer would not
exceed 20% of the -incremental income at full development. For on-farm
development full package works, Investment costs would be repaid by the
farmers either to participating banks as maturities on loans or to GCMP as
arrears of land revenue, within twelve years. For capital cost of other
project works, GOMP would within two years review and adjust the water



- 16 -
charges in the project area to ensure that all such costs (without interest)
would be recovered from beneficiaries of the project over a period of not
more than thirty years (Sec. 3.04 of the Project Agreement).
51.       The project would provide the equivalent of 12,000 additional
jobs over the next decade and would lead to an increase in the gross value
of production of Rs 242 million (US$30 mfillion) per year at full devel-
opment in eight years time. The economic rate of return on the project
investment is estimated at 22% assuming a 25-year life for the project.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
52.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between India and the
Association, the draft Project Agreement between the Association and the
State of Madhya Pradesh, the draft ARC Agreement between the Association
and the Agricultural Refinance Corporation, the Report of the Committee
provided for in Article Vs Section 1(d) of the Articles of Agreement, and
the text of a draft resolution approving the proposed credit are being
distributed to Executive Directors separately.
53.       Points of special interest are referred to in paragraphs 40
and 50. The Development Credit Agreement specifies as an additional
condition of effectiveness that a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the
Government of India and the Agricultural Refinance Corporation shall have
been executed and ratified.
54.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECONMENDATION
55.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
June 5, 1975



.ANA I
COOUNYRT DATA - INDIA                                Page 1
AREA                                               POPULATION                                  DENSITY
3,280,183 ts2I, ~TT0u!iicn (nid-1973)                                                                37       e   eo    rbcln
SOCIAL INDICATORS
J'dj.              ~     ~~~Rafer....Ca Ostriss
India          !r2~~~nWsoae Pill~ines.  U. U.
GNP MR CAP"A US4 (ATLAS BASIS) /i                         197__            1978         1970         5970
OR? PR CAPrIA Nfl (aus BasIs) /5              .            ~~~~~~~1-1 0 / ~  90 /5       220 /~      2,6li  L
DEMlGRAPSbC
Crude birlth rate (pier theousen.d)                             38b/b         38 ,ed           uS ~d           /d5.:     3
Crude death rate (Per thousand)                                 13 /5         16 ~d            19  d, e     113.9 /
Infant   ertality rats (pee thousand live births)              1319      120-lhO             ..8                       17.,
Life expectancy at birth (year)                                 Li/            0i                            0           12.~
0ense lorepdadtion rate 12                                     2.7 Lkhi      2.9              3.2          3.3           1.3
Population growth rats JT                                      2.3           2.3 /54          2.0 /,       3.
PPoplation growth rate - urban                                   3/ Ihk                                                  0.
Age struture (pereet)                                                                                                      .
5-6L6                                                                       0                i/          13 LA        3 7
65 -dl                                                        56             57              53/           51./       62.7/7.
Age dependenc.y ratio                                                                           3a                      13.6
E-onurd  dependency mtis /4                                    n              0                    u.       0.5          0.8 8
1.0    2:7            ~~1.5 
Urban Population as percent Of total                            18/            0 ah            1  /          2I.c        I   n
Fatly planntng;   H.Oof anoeptoes eom,,lti-e (ttos.)            18            20 .  k         178 /I        310?  .           /,
No. of users (% of married 1moses)5 _0
foa .lb r.fcu  (thousands)                          189,000 /5     221,000 of~      10,100 /5     13,210W       25,700 /c
Percentage employed in agriculture                            73            21    d          62 /5        56 35     
Pesoentage unemployed                                       ..3au n/                                                   .
INICr  DISLIUTO
purcnt of national louses rensived by highest 5%               27            25 Ir.s         .              1,/,        1   5
Percect of nationa1 income. raooieed by highest 12%5                r         53l,n           .             25. /r,r     35 /r,t
Poroent of national inwoo   ecaie-d by lowest 20%                  S           S/~             .      ~           v        6a
P.rcant of national inco-me ecived by 1owest L0%                                                               /a 3/.s .  2L.5.  9/,
DIS1RINUTION OP LND OWEORSHIP
% wownd by top .t10% o ofncers
% one  bysaLeT    1%  f Nr
Pouainpr   apyiniso                                  5,800 La       ,800           27,650        9,0   /          20
Population per sorsing person                                 ,160 /       5,110            9,010        5,390 A        30 
Population per huspita1 bad                                  2600 /5       i,62o LAi±       i,720          85o Lia      no LA
Per capita calorie supply as % of reqirements /595                            89               93           85          120
Per capita protein supply , total (gras per dayV46              55            63              53            65           90
Of ohloh, sniml and pulee                                    19/x           16 /oh          I /d          22/         O57/
Death rate 1-4 yesrs /7                                        61            .                .
ZONOATION
Adjus$ted /5 priesry sehool enroliasot ratio                   h2             79 /RI           71          112 a..d     no C
djue:ted iase.onrdary e~chl eorol.l,.nt ratio                 10             25 g            12            65  =j/5     72
Yer  fsholing provided, first and sensed Ienel              12            12               12           18           07
Vocatioa   enrolen    aso % of eon  school -nrollasnt           i.             6 /             28           10 mie        5
Adult litiea.cy 'ute U                                         26 La9         36 /j,j         56 I.I        72 Idl        7 
Aserage No..of persons per coon (urban)                        2.6 Lata!~t   2.8 /c.nj,ai     . kor/e
Pe racot of occpied units without piped water.                                .               .6               Ido
Access to electricity (ne % of total population)                                                            66 ..  23 ad
P_rcet of tural PoPulation, coneted to electricity                                                          23 /..  .-6
Rai iro,ers per 10000 populatioo52.                                                      166/c7/
Passenger cars per 100-0 populaticon                          0.8             2L3            2i             L /s         7231
Electric P.ow, conoueption (ksh p.c.                           66o               /a                        25  /a     0,231
Newsprint con.oPition P.c. kg per year                       0.2            106               23 0.5AtSS          7.28.
Noise1:t.Pigure  refnr either tc the 1aioot Poriods or ic           asnut of .-vlrooantal tempeatre,bd           eihs    n
the latest yearn.  Latnt-  Perindn refer in principle ic            dietributton by age and 550 of national popuitiocs.
the years 1956-60 or l966-70; the loteot yearn ic prio-         A   Protein standards (reoufnents) for all countries an enitb-
ciple in i960 and 1970.                                             limhed by iDOLE.. Iconic iaeme h Service provide for a eliscu
/I  The Per Copito GSP eetiiaoi  in at maket prinno fur             allowance of 60 greass of ttotl protein per day, and 20 grain  of
years other than 1060,aclculat.nd by the naecnerin              aimal and pulse protein, of ohich 10 gras should he animal
12technlque an the 1972 World Dank At..                           protein,  Thane standards are soeehat iowa    than those Of 75
A,Avrage cueb-r of daughters Pr woman of reproductive             gram  of total protein and 23 gram  of aninal protein ae an
ziage.                                                            averge for the worl, propoend by PAO in the Third World Pood
/5 Pbpuleti-n growth ratesar  for the decedee euding IA           Survey.
1960 and 19,70.                                             L7 Doin atudies hon e   ggeetad that crude death rates of childrnn
At  hotis of Population under 15 and 65 and ove    to Ppeplm..       ages 1 through 4 nay be used ae a first appmoxieution index of
tin of ages 15-6, for ego dependency ratio and to labor          malnutrition.
foree of ages 15-66 for ecosoml dependency ratio.           /8 Pe---tage enolled of      o,rrasponding popiiation of aohooi age
/5  .L refrec      standards represent physiologILcal ra-            an defined for such ocuntrlc.
quirenate for cereal activity and health, taking
/n 197y;  , /b  KEtinte  ---In avenge for 1963-6L haee d on results of tie national oample survy;       /0  1971;   Id    ntilvote;
/ 1965-70;   If   1973;   a5  Estimated anuaul avenge for 1951-61 hose d on analysis. of decennial census;     /h  1-951-60;
LA.i ate ie estimate hose d so births obtained by application o,f -       S  eursivele nethod to results of 1951 and 1961
cenaunes;   Li 1960-72;     A/  For the definition of urban see UN oeino     Yc eabok 1972      P. 15;    LA. Municipalities,
regency caPitals and uther places With urban chorateristice, excludn      Wet          okn n. For the deflnittio  of urban
see IN Den  ,oerhobloYle rbook 1973. p. i27;  /5  Area elassified on urban for local g-verosnt purpssen, i.e. county
borough, municipa    broughs and urban dltetrns;      /0  1966;   /5  Includee all indinidualo who participete in any
tyeof ecuoc     ciity;     /5  AJD eetiaats of labor fsree in age grasp 15-59.    IBND report gives    figur  of 180.6
million baoed on the 1971 population conasu.    The differences is dun in ohangen in the definition Of e crber.     In the
1971 cmen-u, Pereee were classified Only, so the basis of their main activities. This lad to the eacluslos of cover.i
categories, ouch as.oswie; ho          H .useholds;  /5   i967..68;  A   1968;   /u   1962;   /5  Pernonne1 in g-ner-rent
services oniy; /5 197; La2 1969; /j Including ru,ral hoepitule; /. Gbeern.ent honpito1 eotablieh-eots only;
L l960-62;   lab   19S9-7O;   Asc Estioete Which locludes ovaerge etudento;      led  1967;   lao   Not including --etional
short-ten couse;      1pf 1965;     L.a  1961;   /-h~ population of 10 yearn and ove    hosed onco   pe,rcet oo.-,PI. dota
of 1971;   La    5 Yeara and -vr;      O-i Date infer in hoanehoids;    lek  Dota honed cc nedytb.uintio n        - censu
returns;   /55  lain refer to houneholdo in cunv-tiunl dwllIngs;        /"   Inport  only;   Ra iglct-rd opplicacnt
oSioe and population make Indenia a relevot refremane coutry, alithngh it isIn inhe pnr capito incom          gru-p below
India.
soThe United Klagdon baa been ne~tetd hecapee of the important role of public esetor ont.rprises nad the ii8hly
developed system of social welfare.
57 Apr11 2, 1525



ANNEX I
ECONOMAIC DEVELOPhMENT DATA
GNP PER CAPITA IN 1972 i US $ 110
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1972/73.h                                 AINUAL RATE OF GROWTH (%, constant prices)
US S M5n.                          1961/62-1965/66    1965/66-1969/70  1970/71-1972/73
GNP at blarket Prices             57.7        100.0                       3.1               4-3               1.0
Gross Domnestic Investment         9.7         16.8
Gross National Saving              9.2         15.9
Current Account Balance           -0.5        -0.9
Resource Gap                      -0.2        -0.3
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY IN 1971
Value Added (at factor cost)       Labor Force        V.A. Per Worker
US 8 Bln.                          Min.    %          US                   A <0 of National Average
Agriculture                         23.1                44.8         130.0  72.0         178            62
Industry                           15.6                 30.2          24.6  13.7         634           22?
Services                           12.8                25.0         1274 14.3            496           174
Total/average                      51.5                100.0         180.4 100.0         285           100
GOVERNMENiT FINANCE                    General Government 2                    Central Government
(Rs. Bln)         % of GDP                (Rs. Bln)          %'of GDP
1973/74      1973/74  1971/72-1973/74     1973/74      1973/74    1971/72-1973/74
Current Receipts               88.11         15.2         15.8            50-59        8.7           9.2
Current Exuenditures           88.89         15.          16.0            49.11                      0. 1 t
Current Surolus/Deficit        -0.7e         -0.1         -0.2             1.48        0.3           0.1
Capital Expenditures   /       27.70         4.8           5.2            20.99        3.6           5.9
External Assistance (net)       3.93         0.7          0.8              3.93        0.7           0.8
MGNE'Y, CHELIT AND PHICES         1965/66    1969/70  1970/71   1971/72   1972/73   1973/7f   September 19-73  Ser-tembor 1974
(Billion Rs outstanding at end of period)
Money anc :,ua_  eoney             61.4       93.3     105.7     122.4     142.4     168.8       155.1         177.0
"ank' Credit to Public Sector      40.8      52.4      56.9      69.0      82.5       93.5        91.2         102.2
Bank Crrdit to Private Sector       28.1      48.3      56.7      64.4      76.0      85.6        79.3          90.7'
(Percentage or Index lumbers)                  iarch 19-'4     'farcl 19'5
Illoney and kuasi Money as 4 of GDP  24.0     23.6      24.3      26.3      27.9      26.8
;'T>holesale Price Index
(1';261/62 = 100)              131.6     171.6     181.1      188.4     207.1     254.0      283.6          308.5
Axnnal percentage changes in:
Kholesale Price Index               7.7       3.8       5.5       4.0        9.9      22.7                      8.8
Bank Credit to rublic Sector        12.9       1.5       8.6      21.3      19.6      13.3                      11.5 v
Bank Credit to Private Sector       12.8      15.1      17.4      13.6      18.0      12.6                      13.5 5
a The per capita GNP estimate is at 1972 market prices, calculated by the same conversion technique as the
1972 World Atlas.  All other conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing
during the peiiod covered.
N Estimates.
c/ Transfers between Center and States have been netted out.
/ All loans and advances to third parties have been netted out.
v   Credit to Government, as on March 21, 1975.
Credit to Commercial Sector, as on March 21, 1975.



ANNEX I
Page 3
BALANCE OF PANYENTS         1971/72    1972/73   1973/74   i974/75         MECHANDISE EXPORTS (AVErAGE 1971/72-1973/74)
( Million   US  S     )                                        US S !an.
Exports of Goods             2,160      2,558     3,137     3,900          Jute ianufacturers        324         12
Imports of Goods            -2,572    -2,682     -3,952    -5,715          Tea                       195          7
Trade Balance               -  412    -   124    -  765    -1,815          Cotton Textiles           241          9
NFS (net)                   -   48    -   146      n.a.      n.a.          Iron Ore                  151          6
Resource Gap                -  460    -   270      n.a.      n.a.          Engineering Goods         193          7
Others                  1.S21          58
Interest Payments (net)     -  230    -   237      n.a.      n.a.          Total                   2,625        100
Other Factor Payments(net) -     7     -    8      n.a.      n.a.
Net Transfers                  358    -    50      n.a.      n.a.
Balance on Current Accoant    -559       -565      n.a.      n.a.          EXTERNAL DEBT, MARCH 31, 1974
Official Aid                                                                                                  US t MIn.
Disbursements            1,203        955     1,249    1,860 h         Repayable in foreign currency       11,612
Amortization              -385      -408       -692-    -750           Repayable through export of goods      784
Transactions with IMF           -          -         75      515           Total Outstanding and Disbursed     12,396
All Other Items               -254         52       239      150
Increase in Reserves ()       -225       -34       -106       40           DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1974/75      19.0  oercent
Gross Reserves (end year)    1,277      1,311     1,417    1,377   ,
.let Reserves (end year)     10277      1,311     1,342      769           IBRD/IDA LENDING, APRIL 30, 1975    (US   Yfln.)
Fuel and Related Materials                                                                              IBRD      IDA
Imports                        262        265       719    1,375           Outstanding and Disbursed     455    2,102
of which: Petroleum          261        265       719    1,375          Undisbursed                    307    1,291
Outstanding including         762    3,393
Fxports                          11        41        20     n.a.             Undisbursed
of which: Petroleum            9        37         16     n.a.
RATE OF EXCHANGEIV
Prior to mid-December 1971   : US 3 1.00 = Rs 7.5                         After end June 1972   : Floating Rate
Rs   1.00 = US 8 0.133333
Spot Rate March 31, 1975:
Mid-December 1971 to            US S 1.00 = Rs 7.27927                                   approx. USS 1.00 = Rs   7.72
end June 1972                Rs   1.00 = USSO.137376                                  approx. Rs  1.00 = US$ 0.1295
g/ Estimated.
h/ Includes interest and hence is equal to debt service.
i] Net of IEtF drawings outstanding as of end December 1974.
_j/ mortization and interest payments (8 750 million) as a
percentage of merchandise exports.
kv Aid and trade figures converted to US dollars using exchange
rates and IMF trade conversion factors as indicated in inside
front cover of this report or in notes to individual table.



ANNEX II
Page 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of April 30, 1975)
US$ Million
Loan or                                                             (Net of Cancellation)
Credit No.   Year   Borrower         Purpose                     Bank        IDA    Undisbursed
38 Loans/
31 Credits fully disbursed                                    1,032.5    1,683.9
614-IN       1969     India     Tarai Seeds                     13.0           -        7.4
176-IN       1970     India     Kadana Irrigation                  -        35.0        3.
203-IN       1970     India     Panjab Agricultural Credit         -        27.5       25.1
226-IN       1971     India     Andhra Pradesh Agr. Cr.            -        24.4        5.7
241-IN       1971     India     Telecommunications IV              -        78.0        2.6
242-IN       1971     India     Power Transmission II               -       75.0       54.6
249-IN       1971     India     Haryana Agricultural Credit         -       25.0       12.9
250-IN       1971     India     Tamil Nadu Agr. Cr.                -        35.0       10.0
264-IN       1971     India     Cochin II Fertilizer               -        20.0        5.9
267-IN       1971     India     Wheat Storage                       -        5.0        3.9
268-IN       1971     India     Pochampad Irrigation               -        39.0        5.2
789-IN       1971     ICICI     Industry DFC IX .               60.0           -        7.4
278-IN       1972     India     Mysore Agricultural Credit          -       40.0       24.9
279-IN       1972     India     Gorakhpur Fertilizer Expansion     -        10.0        1.9
293-IN       1972     India     Maharashtra Agr. Cr.                -       30.0        9.5
294-IN       1972     India     Bihar Agricultural Markets          -       14.0       14.0
312-IN       1972     India     Population                          -       ?1.2       17.8
342-IN       1972     India     Education Project                   -       12.0       11.9
356-IN       1972     India     IDBI                                -       25.0       23.5
357-IN       1973     India     Nangal Fertilizer Expansion         -       58.0       31.3
377-IN       1973     India     Power Transmission III              -       85.0       85.0
378-IN       1973     India     Mysore Agricultural Markets         -        8.0        8.0
902-IN       1973     ICICI     Industry DFC X                  70.0           -       37.2
390-IN       1973     India     Bombay Water Supply                 -       55.0       51.6
391-IN       1973     India     Madhya Pradesh Agr. Cr.             -       33.0       24.4
392-IN       1973     India     Uttar Pradesh Agr. Cr.              -       38.0       28.1
403-IN       1973     India     Telecommunications V                -       80.0       76.5
427-IN       1973     India     Calcutta Urban Development          -       35.0       30.7
440-IN       1973     India     Bihar Agricultural Credit           -       32.0       26.8
448-IN       1973     India     Railways XII                        -       80.0       18.8
456-IN       1974     India     HP Apple Processing & Marketing     -       13.0       13.0
481-IN       1974     India     Trombay IV                          -       50.0       48.3
1011-IN       1974     India     Cham1bal (R)                    52.0           -       45.7
482-IN       1974     India     Karnataka Dairy                    -        30.0       30.0
502-IN       1974     India     Rajasthan Canal (CAD)               -       83.0       64.3
520-IN       1974     India     Sindri Fertilizer                   -       91.0       88.6
521-IN       1974     India     Rajasthan Dairy                    -        27.7*      27.7
522--tN      1974     India     Madhya Pradesh Dairy                -       16.4*      16.4
526-IN       1975     India     Drought Prone Area                  -       35.0*      35.0
1079-IN       1975     India     IFFCO Fertilizer                109.0          -      109.0
528-IN       1975     India     Industrial Imports X                -      200.0      200.0
1097-IN       1975     India     Industry DFC XI                100.0           -      100.0
532-IN       1975     India     Godavari Barrage Project            -       45.0       45.0
540-IN       1975     India     ARC Credit                         -        75.0       75.0
541-IN       1975     India     West Bengal Agr. Dev. Project      -        34.0*      34.0
Total                                                         1,436.5    3,404.1
of which has been repaid                                   674.1       10.7
Total now outstanding                                           762.4    3,393.4
Amount sold                      111.5
of which has been repaid    111,5 
Total now held by Bank and IDA                                   762.4   3,393.4
Total undisbursed (including*)!/                                306.7    1,291.5    1,598.2
* Not yet effective
1/ Prior to exchange adjustments.



ANNEX II
Page   2
B.  STATEMENT OF INVESTMENTS
(As of April 30, 1975)
Amount (US$ million)
Year                 Company                       Loan       Equity       Total
1959           Republic Forge Company Ltd.          1.5         -           1.5
1959           Kirloskar Oil Engines Ltd.           0.9         -           0.9
1960           Assam Sillimanite Ltd                1.4         -           1.4
1961           K.S.B. Pumps Ltd.                    0.2         -           0.2
1963-66        Precision Bearings India Ltd.        0.7        0.3          1.0
1964           Fort Gloster Industries Ltd.         0.8        0.4          1.2
1964-75       * Mahindra Ugine Steel Co. Ltd.      11.8        1.0         12.8
1964           Lakshmi Machine Works Ltd.           1.0        0.3          1.3
1967           Jayshree Chemicals Ltd.              1.0        0.1          1.1
1967            Indian Explosives Ltd.              8.6        2.9         11.5
1969-70         Zuari Agro-Chemicals Ltd.          15.1        3.8         18.9
TOTAL                         43.0         8.8        51.8
Less:     Sold                      6.0         1.6         7.6
Repaid                    8.I&        -           8.4
Cancelled                 6.2        0.1          6.3
Now held                 22.4         7.1        29.5
Undisbursed                -         0.6          0.6
* 1975 commitment of $9.5 million has been approved by the Board but is
not yet signed.



Page   3
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION-
Generally, the implementation of projects has been proceeding
reasonably well. Details on the execution of individual projects are below.
The level of disbursements was $368 million in FY74 or 83% of Bank Group
commitments to India in that year. The undisbursed pipoline of $1,598 million as of
April 30, 1975, corresponds roughly to commitments over the preceding 24-month
period and reflects the lead time which would be expected given the mix of
fast and slow disbursing projects in the India program.
La. No.  789   Ninth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India
Pro"ect  us.  . million loan of October 21    1971: Cls
Date: Decemrber 31¾ 1976
Ln. No.  902   Tenth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of india
Pro ect  US  0.0 million loan of June 8   12    Closin  Date:
December 31, 1978
Ln. No. 1097   Eleventh Industrial Credit and Investment CorGoration of India
Proecti US$100 million loan of April 2, 1975; Closi.ng Date:
December 31, 12X0
These loans have supported industrialization in India through a well-
established development finance company. Loan 789-IN is fully committed; and
disbursements under Loan 902-IN are ahead of schedule. Conditions of effectiveness
for Loan 1097 will have to be fulfilled by July 2, 1975.
Ln. No.  614   Tarai Seeds; US$13.0 million loan of June 18, 1969; Closing Date:
December 31, 1976
This loan to the Tarai Development Corporation is to asoist in the
development of seeds of high-yielding varieties.   The Corporation is working
efficiently and has developed a reputation for excellent seed quality. Seed
production is meeting targets. Implementation problems over processing plant
construction and land-leveling have been resolved although, as a result of these
delays, an extension of the closing date by two years has been necessary.
Expansion of an existing processing plant has been completed and expansion of
another existing plant is in progress. Orders are about to be placed for con-
struction and equipment of a new plant and for a controlled-environmeit store.
Cr. No. 176     Kadana Irri ation; US$  .0O million credit of February 9  1970;
Closing Date: September 30, 1976
This project will finance in part the construction of Kadana Dam on
the Mahi River and the expansion of the Irrigated area below the dam. The
project also includes field channel construction, land-leveling, drainage works
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any problems
which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy them. They
should be read in this sense and with the understanding that they do not
purport to present a balanced evaluation of 3trengths and weaknesses in project
execution.



ANINEX, II
Page4
and roads, and a program to support agricultural development. The project will
be completed about two years behind schedule because of delays in dam construction.
The agricultural components of the project are also behind schedule. Some of the
delays in implementation have occurred at the start of the project before major
investments have been made. These will not affect the economic justification of
the project. Further delays have occurred as a result of building materials short-
ages. The Government has recently intervened and made adequate quantities of
building materials available. In spite of an additional delay in the procurement
of a large batching plant, the dam is still expected to be completed in July 1977
ihich is in accordance with the revised schedule.
Cr. No. 268    Pochampad Irrigation; US$39.0 million credit of August 23, 1971;
Closing Date: March 31, 1977
The project will assist the comprehensive agricultural development on
the right bank of the Godavari River by providing perennial irrigation to some
100,000 ha. It includes the construction of Pochampad Dam, a concrete-lined main
canal, distributary canals, field channels, drains and roads. Until mid-1973,
overall performance on the project was satisfactory with construction and dis-
bursements from the IDA credit progressing ahead of schedule. Acute shortages of
construction materials, especially explosives for the canal excavation, have
hampered progress. As a result, construction of the main canals has fallen about
one year behind schedule. This is likely to delay the introduction of irrigation
to over 40% of the project area. Land development is presently haphazard and
increasingly lagging behind water availability in the project. Government is
aware of the inadequacy of the credit operation for land development and has
requested IDA financing for a Command Area Development Project, to be implemented
by a Central Authority for all farmers in need of land development. Construction
of the dam, which was also affected by temporary shortages of building materials,
in now progressing satisfactorily.
Cr. No. _32    Godavari Barrage Project; US$45 million credit of March 7, 1975 ;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
This credit has been signed on March 7, 1975, and conditions of
effectiveness will have to be fulfilled by July 7, 1975.
Cr. No. 203    Pun1ab Aricultural Credit Project US 2 . million credit of
Cr. No. 226    Andhra Pradesh Aaricultural Credit Project; US$24.k million
Credit of January 8. 1971; Closing Date: June 30. 1977
Cr. No. 2149   Haryana Agricultural Credit Project; US$25.0 million credit
of June 11, 1971; Closing Date: March 31, 197
Cr. No. 250    Tamil Nadu Agricultural Credit ProJect; US$35.0 million credit
of June 11, 1-971; Closing Date: December 31, 1976



Page 5
Cr. No, 278               cul-,ural Credit ?ro.ect; US$40.0 million credi' of
January '1 912C Closing Date:   October 31 , 1975
Cr. No.  293   Maharashtra A_ricultural Credit Project; US$30.0 million credit
of March 29, 1972; Closing Date: December 31 , 197
Cr. No. ,391 Madhya Pradesh Agrlcultural Credit Pro.ject; US$33.0 million
credit of Junedi. 1973; Closing, Date: December 31 * 1976
Cr. No.  392   Uttar Pr_desh Agricultural Credit Projectl US$38.0 million credit
of June 8,_1973 Coin-g Date:    December 31, 1976
Cr. No.  440   Bihar Agricultural Credit Project; US$32.0 million credit of
November 29, 1273: Closing Date: June 30, 1977
Cr. No.  ShO   Agricultural Refinance CorPOration (ARC) Project; US$75.0 million
credit of April 28, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1977
Apart from the Punjab project, which consists of mechanization
equipment only, all the above agricultural credit projects are similar
in structure, being designed to provide long- and medium-term credit to
farmers through credit institutions for such on-farm investments as imported
tractors, minor irrigation ard land-leveling. Disbursement of these credits
started slowly. So far as the mrinor irrigation components were concerned, the
main difficulties stemmed from the institutional requirements, in particular the
introduction of changes in lending criteria and lending terms and the strengthening
of institutions responsible for assessing groundwater availability. These constraints
have been overcome and disbursements are on schedule. Tractor procurement was delayed
following changes in both the supply and demand situations after the projects were
originally appraised,which prompted GOI to request that indigenous as well as
imported models should be eligible for IDA financing under these credits. The
Executive Directors approved this request in December 1973 and those credits which
have tractor components have been amended accordingly. Tractor procurement is now
in progress. Some funds earmarked for land leveling and tractors have been reallo-
cated to minor irrigation components. Credit 540 is a continuation nationwide of
the previous program of agricultural credit projects, which were confined to
individual States. ARC will continue to act as the financial intermediary for
refinancing agricultural credit. Conditions of effectiveness for this Credit will
have to be fulfilled by July 28, 1975.
Cr. No.  267   Wheat Storage; US$5.0 million credit of August 23, 1971; Closing
Date: September 30, 197
This credit, which provides storage facilities in India's wheat belt,
comprises construction of 10 warehouses (100,000 tons caDacity) and 10 silos
(200,000 tons capacity) and an all-India grain storage study.   Nine of the ten
warehouses have been constructed and disbursements for this project component
have been completed. The Government Food Ministry has selected a local research
institute to conduct the study. Administrative problems, substantial cost increases,
and technical difficulties in the selection of silo sites have hampered the execution
of the silo component.   The last supervision mission has assessed the situation and
has recoinmended a restructuring of the silo component to enable it to be completed
withirn the financing plan.  Tendering for silo foundations has been initiated.



Page 6
Cr. No.  456   Himachal Pradesh A6le Processin   and Marketin   US$13 million
credit of January 22. 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1978
This project was designed to promote the development of apple proc-
essing and marketing in Himachal Pradesh and comprises roads, cold storage,
juice processing, and marketing facilities. The project entity, the H.P.
Horticultural Produce Processing and Marketing Corporation (HPMC) has been
established and key senior staff recruited, including the Managing Director.
Feasibility studies have begun for cold storage and the juice concentrate plant.
Project training is expected to begin soon. A review mission is presently in the field
Cr. No.  241   Telecommunications IV: US$78.0 million credit of Ma       1971;
Closing Date: June 30_   97
Cr. No. 403    Telecommunications V; US$80.0 million credit of Jun;e 2, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1976
Disbursements have been delayed mainly because of delays in material
supply from both local and external sources. Delays in local supply were due to
labor problems affecting one of the principal suppliers and imports were delayed
due to longer than anticipated lead time required. The closing date of Telecomm-
unications IV was therefore postponed by six months. Revised disbursement schedules
for these two credits are now expected to be met.
Cr. No.  242   Power Transmission II: US$75.0 million credit of Maz 3, 1971;
Closing Date: March 31, 1977
Cr. No.  377   Power Transmission II Project; US$85.o million credit of May 9,
1973; Closing Date: September 30, 1977
Power Transmission II, which is a continuation of the project financed
by Loan 416-IN, was designed to assist in financing the purchase of equipment
and materials required to develop a power transmission program in nine states
under the Fourth Five-Year Plan. Initial delays occurred because of problems
associated with preparing bid documents suitable for international bidding and
the analysis of the very large number of bids involved, but all contract awards
have now been made. As a consequence of the delays,however, the closing date of
the credit had to be postponed accordingly. For Power Transmission III, specifi-
cation and tendering procedures are progressing. Tenders received so far indicate
substantial cost overruns.
Cr. No.  264   Cochin !I Fertilizer; US$20.0 million credit of JuLy 30, 171;
ClosigE Date: June 30, 1975
Cr. No. 279 G>oraklpur Fertilizer; US$10.0 million credit of January 7, 1972;
Closing Date:  March 31, 1976
Cr.N           N   al Fertilizer Expansion Project; US$58.0 million credit of
February 9. 1973; Closing Date: March 31, 1977



A;N7.X I;
Page   7
Cr. tNo,  681  Trombay IV FeriT zer Ecpansion; IJS$5O.0 million credit of
June 1,1T1 Closing Date:      December 31, 1977
Cr. No. __20   Sindri Fertilizer Project; US$91 million credit of December 15,
1974; Closing Date: September 30, 1978
Ln. No, 1079   IFFCO Fertilizer Project; US$109 million loan of January 24, 197;
Closing Date: March 31, 1979
The Cochin Fertilizer Project is intended to help finance the expansion
of fertilizer manufacturing facilities at Cochin. The project is now proceeding
about 24 months behind schedule mainly because of procurement delays, slow progress
on civil works, and shortages of steel and cement. Procurement problems have been
largely overcome, and most of the equipment is either at the site or at the Cochin
port. Another factor which has contributed to the delay has been technical problems
in the commissioning of the Cochin I plant, which has required a disproportionate
amount of management attention.   Credit No. 481 contains funds for a Plant Operations
Improvement Program which will be used in part to overcome these problems; the use
of these funds has been identified on a plant-by-plant basis and procurement has
been initiated. The engineering design for the Gorakhpur project is well advanced
and virtually all the equipment has been ordered. Although delivery of some equip-
ment is taking longer than forecast during appraisal, the project is progressing
without serious difficulties. Engineering work, procurement and site construction
for the Nangal Fertilizer Project are proceeding satisfactorily. Progress on the
Trombay IV project has been good although project completion may be delayed by about
four months because of longer than expected delivery times for critical equipment.
The Sindri Credit became effective on February 27, 1975. Engineering design and
procurement preparations are proceeding on schedule. The IFFCO loan was signed on
January 24, 1975 and became effective on April 28, 1975.
Cr. No. _48    RailwaI XII; US$80 million credit of December 21, 197L; Closing
Date: _mSeptember 30, 19
This project consists of new and ongoing works in the Indian Railways
investment program. Disbursements are on schedule.
Cr. No.  294   Bihar Agricultural Markets; US$14.0 million credit of March 29,
1972; Closing Date,: Decemberj3, 1978
Cr. No.  378   Karnataka Wholesale Agricultural Market Pro ect; US$8.0 million
credit of May91 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1979
These projects were designed to help with establishment of wholesale
markets in a number of towns in Bihar and Karnataka. Progress under the projects
has generally been satisfactory. Markets construction in Bihar was delayed due
to legal challenges arising out of the state's acquisition of land for market
sites; however, these difficulties have been satisfactorily resolved. Market
construction in Karnataka is expected to be on schedule.



Cr. No. 312    PoRulation; US$21.2 million credit of June 14, 1972; -l oi.<
Date: June 30, 1978
This credit will help finance an experimental and research or8iented
opuulation project in Karnataka and Uttar Pradesh. Project implementation is
gaining momentum; the construction program is well under way, and all key project
staff have been appointed.
Cr. No. 342    Agricultural Universities; US$12.0 million credit of November 10,
1972; Closing Date. December 31, 1979
Project implementation has improved with satisfactory progress on civil
works, preparation of equipment lists, bid documents, fellowship programs and
university development plans. The rate of disbursement has been slow, partly due
to previous delays in the selection ofs key personnel and in the preparation of
equipment lists, but is expected to improve by Fx1976 in line with progressing
construction and equipment procurement.
Cr. No. 356    Industrial Development Bank of India; US$25.0 million credit of
February 9, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1977
This project had a particularly slow start which was mainly due to
institutional problems in the participating State Financial Corporations. The
last review mission reported in May 1974 that satisfactory progress could be
expected soon. As of May 20, 1975, commitments for sub-projects reached $7.0
million and disbursements have begun. Another review mission is currently in
the field and will try to find ways to improve the rate of credit fund utilization.
Cr. No. 320    Bomba Water SU=1 and Sewerage Project; US$55.0 million credit
of Januar 22, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1978
Project implementation is about 24 months behind schedule because of
delays in appointing consultants and the need to redesign certain project elements.
Disbursements have been delayed for the same reason, but several large contracts
are now being let, and the disbursement rate should then improve.
Cr. No. 528    Tenth Industrial Imports Program; US$200.0 million credit of
February 14, 1975; Closina Dates June 30, 1976
This credit was signed on February 14, 1 975 for the initial tranche
of US$100 million and amended to US$200 million on March 7, 1975. The credit
became effective on March 31 , 1975.
Cr. No. 427 ..iCE.lcutta Urban Development Project; US$35.0 million credit of
September 12, 1973: Closing Date: December 31, 1977
This credit became effective on January 10, 1974, except for a
US$2.6 million portion allocated to a slum redevelopment proposal and a site
and services scheme. This portion became effective on July 15, 1974. As of
April 30, 1975, US$4.3 million had been disbursed under the credit, mainly for
civil works.



Cr. No. 482     Karnataka Dairy Develo-ment; US$30 million credit of' Jne   9,
1974; Closizwg Date: September 30, 1982
Cr. No.  5zl   Rajasthan Dai    Development Project; US$27.7 million credit of
December 18, 1974; Closang Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No.  522    Madhya Pradesh Dairy Development ProJect;   US$16.L million credit
of December 18, 21i97 Closing Date: June 30. 1982
These three credits totalling US$74.1 million support dairy development
projects organized along the lines of the successful AMUL dairy cooperative scheme
in Gujarat State.   The Karnataka Credit became effective on December 23, ,97a.   The
Karnataka Dairy Development Corporation (KDDC) has been established, and senior
management staff appointed.   Some progress has been made in planning and training
of specialized teams and in preparing a banking plan, but the project is about 4
months behind schedule at this early stage largely due to insufficient staffing
of the KDDC, which is responsible for project implementation. Conditions of
effectiveness for the Rajasthan Credit and for the Madhya Pradesh Credit will have
to be fulfilled by July 15, 1975.
Ln. No. 1011   Chambal (Rajasthan) Command Area Development Project; US$52 million
loan of June 19, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1281
Cr. No.  50?    Rajasthan Canal Command Area Development Pro.lect; US$83 million
credit of July 31, 197   -71 Cosing Date: June 30, 1981
This loan and this credit became effective on December 12, 1974. By
April 30, 1975, disbursements reached $6.2 million for the Chambal and $18.7 million
for the Rajasthan Canal project.   In general, both projects are proceeding satis-
factorily. In particular, agricultural extension has made remarkable progress.
A recent supervision mission for both projects reported that land development had
not yet started. Ways to overcome this delay are presently being discussed with
GOI and the project authorities.
Cr. No. 541     West Bengal Agricultural Development Project; US$34 million credit
of April 28. 1975; Closing Date: March 31,2 1980
This credit was signed on April 28, 1975. Conditions of effectiveness
will have to be met by July 31, 1975.
.r. No. 526     Drou%zht Prne AeS Programo        5.0 million credit of Jaa     2L.
1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
This project will help to increase employment and production in order
to i-mprove income distribution for weaker sections of the population in six dis-
trl ts selected for intensive assistance.   The credit for this project was signed
on January 24, 1975. Conditions of effectiveness will have to be fulfilled by
June 30, 1980.



ANNEX IIII
Page 1
INDIA - CHAMBAL COMMAND AREA DEVELOPMENT
PROJECT (MADHYA PRADESH)
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                 India, acting by its President.
Beneficiary:              State of Madhya Pradesh for irrigation and drainage
works and roads; Agricultural Refinance Corpora-
tion for refinancing on-farm development loans of
the Madhya Pradesh State Cooperative Land Develop-
ment Bank (LDB) and commercial banks to farmers.
Amount:                  US$24 million.
Terms:                    Standard.
Relending Terms:          (i)  From India to Madhya Pradesh:  Repayable
according to established GOI policy of lend-
ing to States on terms prevailing at the time.
(ii) From India to the Agricultural Refinance
Corporation: At interest rate of not less
than 6.75% and 7.25% per annum for refinancing
loans, with terms of 9 and 15 years respect-
ively.
(iii) From the Agricultural Refinance Corporation
to the Land Development Bank and to com-
mercial banks: Annual interest of not less
than 7.5% with maturities according to
maturities of loans to be refinanced.
(iv) From the Land Development Bank and commercial
banks to farmers: Repayable over not more
than 12 years, with grace periods of not more
than 1 year, at interest of not less than
10.5% per annum.
Project Description:     The purpose of the project is to provide the first
stage (covering three years) of all necessary
physical works and agricultural supporting ser-
vices to enable full realization of the potential
benefits of the existing Chambal Irrigation System
in Madhya Pradesh. The project will increase
annual production in the project area: of wheat



AQVNNEX III
Page 2
from 155,000 tons to 240,000 tons, of paddy from
25,000 tons to 75,000 tons, of bajra and sorghum
from 30,000 tons to 60,000 tons, of gram and pulses
from 40,000 tons to 70,000 tons, of oilseeds
from 30,000 tons to 60,000 tons, and of sugarcane
from 80,000 tons to 190,000 tons. The project
will alleviate food shortages and improve farmer
income in the project area.
The project consists of:
(4) irrigation improvement comprising lining of
11 km of the main canal, wlhere seepage is
excessive; construction of 77 control
structures; increasing the carrying capacity
of 400 km of canals; implementing a full
package of on-farm development on a 12,000
hectares area; providing drainage networks
and improving 200 km of natural drains in the
chaks;
(ii) construction and improvement of 206 km village
access roads;
(iii) a pilot project for ravine erosion control
covering about 50 km of ravine perimeter
in the project area;
(iv) strengthening agricultural extension and
research services and the cooperative system;
(v) carrying out feasibility studies for further
staged development of the project area,
covering groundwater exploitation, canal
lining to increase delivery efficiency,
reuse of return water flows, reclamation of
saline and alkaline soils, improvement of
district roads and further intensive on-farm
development in the command area;
(vi) technical assistance to GOI for preparing
future command area development projects
throughout India.



ANN EX IN  I
Page 3
Estimated Cost:                                    US$ Million
Local     Foreign      Total
Irrigation and Drainage                  12.40       3.11       15.51
On-Farm Development Full Package          1.80        0.96       2.76
Roads                                     4.45        1.11       5.56
Ravine Erosion Control                    0.27       0.13        0.40
Supplementary Fertilizer                  0.03       0.57        0.60
Project Administration and Operating
Costs during Implementation and
Phase II preparation                     5.69       0.53        6.22
Technical Assistance to GOI and
Land Development Specialist              0.48       0.32        0.80
Physical Contingencies                    1.55       0.51        2.06
Price Increases                          10.24        2.48      12.72
Total Project Cost                       26.91        9.72      46.63
Financing Plan:                                         US$ Million
Local   Foreign    Total
IDA Credit                                      14.28      9.72    24.00
Local Financing:
Governments of India and Madhya Pradesh        21.39       -      21.39
ARC, land development and commercial banks       1.24      -       1.24
36.91     9.72    46.63
Estimated Disbursements                                US$ Million
FY1976   FY1977    FY1978  FY1979
Annual:                                  5.4       7.7      7.5     3.4
Cumulative:                              5.4      13.1     20.6    24.0



AiNIFAX . I
Page 4
Procurement Arrangement:      Out of US$5.2 million worth of equipment and
vehicles, US$3.0 million would be subject to
international competitive bidding and US$0.7
million, not suitable for international
tendering, would be procured through normal
GOMP procurement procedures, which are
satisfactory. GOI has requested that the
balance of US$1.5 million be reserved for
local procurement, and hence it would not be
eligible for reimbursement out of the proceeds
of the credit. Civil Works for irrigation
(US$8.2 million, basic cost net of contingencies
but including building materials), for main
and chak drainage (US$4.4 million), for on-farm
development full package (US$2.1 million) and
village roads (US$4.9 million) would be
contracted locally under procedures satisfactory
to the Association or executed by force account,
as none of the works, mainly because of their
nature and because of the conditions in the
project area, could be grouped into contracts
large enough to be of interest to foreign con-
tractors. Fertilizer (US$0.6 million) would
be procured in bulk by the India Tender
Board through international shopping, which
includes price quotations from at least three
possible suppliers, followed by negotiations
with bidders to obtain the lowest possible
price.
Consultants and Technical
Assistance:              A land development expert would be recruited
for a period of two years to advise on the
planning, design and construction of on-
farm development.
Rate of Return:               22% economic rate of return.
Appraisal Report:             No. 698-IN dated May 27, 1975



S ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 7- -                                  C-, 
-2-Chambol Command Area                        R a 
Development Project
(Madhya Prodesh)
Projectoarea               H  A   R-'  A'N A   D                                          i h
\\\\\XCheerba Comma,d Area Dev Project(Rajastan)  NEW- L 
Other irrigated areas                                                Chandau i 
-Major canals                                                                           Auely 
44t Resernairs and damsu                                            A
5R i,,ers                  u
- Main roads                                                   lqrS
j                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Shahja  n
® National capitolP                                                     RS           H
7.) State  capitalAia
o District headquarters                                                 .
o Towes
District boundaries        R A  J ~A S  T  H A N-           - 
State boandaries            -   A5                                             m
a  ss  so  as~7  190  23  S
ta  C~~~~~r
Da~~~~~~~~~~~~~
-25-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5
L ~~~~~~~~~          hmnatarpu
q ipur*             *            KM                  D H  Y  A                          -
24-                                            sKETAN   ina            I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ iihapenuf- 
2--
gar~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~asrhpr 
isho~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
L ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4' ~~~~~~ ~ ~ ~     ~     Ct,daa89
"IIIA-l', 1. A ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ae  e       e~



