Report No. 698a-IN
India: Appraisal of the
Chambal Command Area Development Project
(Madhya Pradesh)
May 27, 1975                                                       FILE COPY
Irrigation and Area Development Division
South Asia Projects Department
Not for Public Use
Document of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
International Development Association
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not
be published, quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does
not accept responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of the report.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00              -         Rupees (Rs) 8.00"-
Rs 1.00              =         US$0.125
US$1 million         =         Rs 8,000,000
Rs 1 million         =         US$125,000
WEIGHT AND MEASURES (METRIC SYSTEMS)
1 meter (m)                    =          3.28 feet
1 kilometer (km)               -         0.62 miles
1 hectare (ha)                            2.47 acres
1 cubic meter (m3)                        35.3 cubic feet
1 million cubic meters (Mm3)  =          810 acre-feet
1 ton                                     1,000 kilogram (kg)
=         2,205 pounds
1 megawatt (MW)                e          1,340 horsepower (hp)
/1   This has been taken as the short-term average exchange
rate.  The Indian Rupee is linked to the Pound Sterling
and rates with the United States Dollar have varied
between US$1.00 - Rs 7.60 and Rs 8.70 in recent months.



PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
AEO            =    Agricultural Extension Officer
AIC                  Agro Industries Corporation
APC            -    Agricultural Production Commissioner
ARC                  Agricultural Refinance Corporation
CAA                  Command Area Authority
CAD                  Command Area Development
CB                   Commercial Banks
G'NP           -    Gross National Product
GOM                  Government of Madhya Pradesh
HYV            -    High Yielding Varieties
ICAR                 Indian Council for Agricultural Research
LDB            -    Land Development Banks
PWD            -    Public Works Department
RMC                  Right Main Canal
SCD            -    Soil Conservation Division
NSC            -    National Seeds Corporation
VEW                  Village Extension Workers
GLOSSARY
Bajra          =    Millet
Chak           -    Irrigation service unit of about 30 to 40 ha.
Field Channel -    Private ditch within a farm
Irrigation
Associations -    Organization of farmers responsible for
cooperative water management in the chaks
Jowar          =    Sorghum
Kharif         D    Wet season (June to September)
Mandi                Market
Nullahs        =    Gullies
Panchayats           Village councils
Rabi                 Dry season
Warabandi            Cultivators rotational irrigation system
FISCAL YEAR
GOI, GOM and agencies    -    April 1 - March 31
ARC, Cooperatives         -    July 1 - June 30
Commercial Banks          -    January 1 - December 31






INDLA
APPRAISAL OF THE
CHAMBAL COMMAND AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (MADHYA PRADESH)
Table of Contents
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS  ..........*..............           .......
I.    INTRODUCTION ............          .........................
II.    BACKGROUND ....           ...................................
The Economy  .................  ... .....        ..........          1
Agriculture in India ......          .....................           2
Agriculture in Madhya Pradesh .................          .           2
Project Formulation .......          .....................          4
III.  THE PROJECT AREA                .       . ........ ......                4
General  .         .......................................          4
Climate           ........................................          5
Topography, Soils and Drainage .............          ....          5
Geology and Groundwater Resources              6.............        6
Population, Land Tenure and Social Structure   ...                   6
Agricultural Production ..........                                   7
Marketing and Transporation .....             ...............        8
Present Problems         .     ..............................       9
IV.    THE PROJECT  ......          ................................          9
Project Works ....... ................                              9
Other Project Components  ...           .................          12
Water Supply, Demand and Quality  ....... ........                 12
Engineering Design .....          .........................        13
Construction Methods  .............      .. ............           13
Implementation Schedule ........................                   13
Cost Estimates .......          ..........................         14
Financing            ...................................           15
Procurement    .....................................               15
Disbursements  ......................................              17
Accounts and Audits  .............       ..    .............       17
Environmental Effects of the Project  ...........                  17
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission composed of
Messrs. W.G. Rodger, J.K. Lee, K.V.S.K. Nathan, C.J. Perry (IDA) and
Messrs. D. Benor and R.S. Baskett (Consultants).



-2-
Page No.
V.   ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT .....        .................   18
Project Implementationi ............ .............        18
Command Area Authority .....      ....................    18
Implementation Procedures for On-Farm
Development Full Package ....................          19
Financing Procedures Jor On-Farm
Development Full Package Works .............   .       19
Agricultural Supporting Services ...............          20
Operation and Maintenance .......... ............         22
Water Allocation ................              .          22
Cost Recovery      .................. ................    23
Monitoring Project Performance .................          24
VI.   PRODUCTION, MARKETING, PRICES AND FARM INCOMES ...           24
Production .................... .................         24
Market Prospects ............... .. ..............         25
Processing and Storage ............. ............         25
Prices of Agricultural Products ................          26
Farm Incomes and Repaynent Capacity ............          26
VII.   BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION .......................           27
VIII.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AtD RECOMMENDATIONS ......... ..          28
ANNEXES
Annex 1  - Climatic Data
Annex 2  - Project Works
Annex 3  - Water Supply, Demand and Quality
Annex 4  - Cost Estimates
Annex 5  - Equipment Requirements
Annex 6  - Schedule of Expenditures, Allocation of the Proceeds
of the Credit and Disbursements
Annex. 7  - Organization, Management and Project Financing
Annex 8  - Agricultural Supporting Services
Annex 9  - Operation and Maintenance
Annex 10 - Agricultural Production
Annex 11 - Marketing, Pricing, Processing and Storage
Annex 12 - Farm Budgets
Annex 13 - Economic Analysis



-3-
CHARTS
Project Operational Diagram                              WB9695
Implementation Schedule                                  WB9725
Organization Chart - State Level and Command Area
Authority                                              WB9697
Organization Chart - Irrigation and Land Development   WB9696
MAPS
11501 - Location
11507 - Project Area
11524 - On-Farm Development - Typical Chak Layout
REFERENCES
1. Chambal Command Area Development Project (Madhya Pradesh)
Report No. 35/74 IND. 20 FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program,
Rome, October 1, 1974.
2. Appraisal of the Chambal Command Area Development Project
(Rajasthan) in India, IBRD Report No. 430-IN, May 29, 1974.






INDIA
CHAMBAL COMMAND AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (MADHYA PRADESH)
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        Command Area Development (CAD) involves provision of such further
works and services as may be required for full realization of the benefits
of existing irrigation systems. These projects have been given a high
priority in India's development planning, and further CAD projects are
being prepared for Bank Group consideration.
ii.       India's development program for the next five years places a heavy
emphasis on alleviating rural poverty, creating employment and increasing
food production. CAD projects and the general expansion of irrigation
services fulfill all these aims.
iii.      Madhya Pradesh is the largest State in India and economically
dependent on agriculture. The Chambal irrigation system, situated on the
Madhya Pradesh - Rajasthan border, consists of three reservoirs, a common
carrier canal and irrigation networks serving 229,000 ha in Rajasthan and
224,000 ha in Madhya Pradesh.                 I
iv.       About 93,000 families live in the Madhya Pradesh project area.
The average farm size is 2.4 ha, but the median size is only 1.5 ha and about
37% of holdings are less than 1 ha.
v.        The total cropping intensity (including both seasons) in the
project area is about 105%, and the irrigation intensity is 65%. The main
kharif (summer, wet season) crops are millet, sorghum and paddy. In the
rabi (winter, dry season) the most important crops are wheat, pulses and
oilseeds. A limited amount of sugarcane is also grown.
vi.       Agricultural production in the project area has been limited by
deficiencies in water control, on-farm development, drainage, the transport
system and agricultural supporting services.
vii.      The proposed project covering 224,000 ha would be the first stage
of an extended program to alleviate these problems. Project works would
include: lining of 11 km on the main canal where seepage is excessive;
construction of 77 control structures; increasing the carrying capacity of
400 km of canals and improving village access roads. A full package of
on-farm development would be implemented over 12,000 ha, including provision
of 2,000 nutrient tons of fertilizer to restore soil fertility. Waterlogging
problems on 20,000 ha would be relieved by provision of chak drainage net-
works and improvement of 200 km of natural drains; the 220,000 ha area and
an additional 10,000 ha would be protected from further flooding by provision
of 560 km of small seepage interceptor drains. The agricultural extension
and research services and the system of cooperatives would be strengthened



throughout the project area. The extension service would make use of
progressive farmers as part time extension workers. Provision has been made
in the project for technical assistance and in-service training -- including
employment of a land development expert. A special group would be set up
to monitor the progress of the project.
viii.     Project implementation would take three years and would use labor-
intensive methods wherever feasible. The use of heavy equipment, which would
be supplied under the project, would mainly be confined to land shaping and
excavation of large drains.
ix.       To ensure full cooperation and coordination among the institu-
tions concerned, the Government of Madhya Pradesh (GOM) is setting up a
Command Area Authority (CAA), headed by a Commissioner (already appointed)
who would direct the Departments of Revenue and Cooperatives, and have
coordinating authority over all other project activities. To ensure equitable
distribution of the available water, GOM would draw up an allocation program.
Such a program would be introduced by the CAA during project implementation.
x.        Total project costs are estimated at US$46.6 million, with a
foreign exchange component of US$9.7 million (20%). The proposed credit
of US$24.0 million would finance 53% of the total cost of project items
eligible for financing (US$45.1 million). The Government of India (GOI)
would relend the proceeds of the credit, except for disbursements against
supplementary fertilizer and technical assistance for GOI's preparation
of further CAD projects financed by the credit, to GOM and to the Agricul-
tural Refinance Corporation (AAC) in accordance with standard procedures
for such development projects.
xi.       Equipment valued at US$5.2 million would be provided by the project,
and of this, US$3.0 million would be procured through international competi-
tive bidding. Fertilizer would be procured in line with allocations to the
farmers who had carried out leveling work on their farms and disbursements
for this purpose would be made following distribution of the fertilizer to
the farmer. Because most of the project civil works would be individually
small, scattered, labor-intensive and would be carried out only during the
period of canal closures, they would not be suitable for international
competitive bidding. These works would instead be carried out by local con-
tractors @or by force account.
xii.      At full development in Year 11, the average cropping intensity
(irrigation intensity) would rise from the present 105% (65%) to 125% (80%).
In the on-farm development areas, cropping intensities would be 135% (95%).
The production of food grains would increase from 210,000 tons to 375,000
tons.
xiii.     Farm incomes under the project would increase from Rs 1,100 per ha
at present to Rs 2,400 at full development. This would enable farmers to
pay increased irrigation and drainage charges, which would be introduced
to ensure that the full costs of construction as well as those of operation
and maintenance of the system are covered.



- iii -
xiv.      Farmers receiving the On-Farm Development Full Package would re-
ceive a loan to cover its cost from either a Land Development Bank (LDB) or
a Commercial Bank (CB). The banks would receive refinance of at least 75%
of the loan from the Agricultural Refinance Corporation (ARC). The cost of
the loan to the farmer would not exceed 20% of the incremental income at full
development.
xv.       The major crops produced in the project area are paddy, millet and
pulses during the kharif season (wet) and wheat, oil seed and pulses during
the rabi season (dry). Sugarcane is also a relatively significant crop and
it occupies the land during the kharif as well as part of the rabi season.
xvi.      The project would provide about 12,000 man years of additional
employment, and an increase in the gross value (economic) of production of
Rs 242 million (US$30 million) at full development.
xvii.           The economic rate of return is estimated at 22% using shadow
prices for farm labor such that incremental labor requirements are priced
at about 70% of the current wage during the peak labor-season. Analysis
showed that the three project component areas (On-Farm Development Full.
Package, Chak Drainage and Extensive) all have satisfactory rates of return.
xviii.    Provision has been made for technical assistance to GOI to help
prepare further CAD projects throughout India and to employ a land develop-
ment specialist for a period of up to two years.
xix.      The project is suitable for an IDA credit of US$24.0 million.  The
Borrower would be India.






INDIA
APPRAISAL OF THE
CHAMBAL COMMAND AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (MADHYA PRADESH)
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of India (GOI) has requested IDA assistance to
finance the Chambal Command Area Development Project in Madhya Pradesh (MP)
State. The project would be the third Command Area Development (CAD) proj-
ect to be assisted by the Bank Group. The first two CAD projects assisted
were in the neighboring State of Rajasthan (Loan 1101-IN and Credit 502-IN).
The CAD involves the completion of irrigation projects such as canals, drains
and roads together with on-farm development including land leveling, con-
struction of watercourses, and farm drains and including all aspects of
agricultural supporting services. The whole program is coordinated by a
CAD authority for each project. This would be the first IDA-assisted CAD
investment in agriculture in Madhya Pradesh.
1.02.     The Chambal (MP) major canal system was largely completed in 1970.
At present, it provides water to only about 65% of the potential service
area. Moreover, the present operation is so independable that farmers find
it difficult to utilize water effectively. The problems of improving water
utilization on the Chambal Command Area have been studied for the last
several years and in 1973 the Government of Madhya Pradesh (GOM) completed
a feasibility report where it outlined a general plan to improve project
efficiency. Final preparation of the plan was assisted by a team from the
FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program (Report No. 35/74 IND. 20, October 1, 1974).
The present report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission com-
prising Messrs. W.G. Rodger, J.K. Lee, K.V. Nathan, C.J. Perry (IDA) and
Messrs. D. Benor and R.S. Baskett (Consultants), who visited the project
area in November 1974.
II. BACKGROUND
The Economy
2.01      India covers some 3,270 million km  of which 43% is arable.  About
21% of the arable land is under some form of irrigation. It has a popula-
tion of about 600 million (1974). Rapid population growth and a relatively
poor natural resource base have imposed sharp limitations on India's econo-
mic growth. However, since the inception of economic development planning
in 1950, national income has grown at nearly 4% per year, compared with an
average growth rate of less than 1% during the preceding 50 years. In 1972,
per capita GNP was about US$110.
2.02      The Government's agricultural development program for the next five
years (1975-79) has been based on a projection of a 5.5% growth rate for the



-2-
economy. There will be greater emphasis than in previous plans on allevi-
ating poverty. This would be accomplished by promoting labor-intensive
techniques and raising agricultural productivity particularly of subsistence
farmers. Also included are a national program to supply the minimum needs
of the poor and tax measures to curb consumption by the richer classes.
Agriculture in India
2.03      About 70% of India's population is involved in agriculture which
accounts for about 45% of GNP. Agricultural products and agro-based man-
ufacturers also provide the majority of India's exports of which the most
important commodities are jute, tea, leather, cotton goods and cashews.
In recent years, India has emphasized the importance of agriculture and
agricultual processing, and has given priority to accelerating the spread of
modern technology by:  increasing the availability of high-yielding seeds
and fertilizer; expanding irrigation, and developing new agricultural credit
institutions.  Yet despite impressive results in some areas, the overall
growth rate in agricultural output in the 10-year period ending in 1972
was only 3% per annum which was little more than the population growth and
slightly lower than the growth rate in agricultural production in the previous
decade. However, an important structural change has occurred: growth in
production is now primarily coming from yield increases, rather than from
increases in cropped area as was previously the case.
2.04      The "green revolution" has mainly affected wheat, and its effects
have been concentrated in thg northwestern states which are well served with
irrigation facilities. Paddy production has grown slowly due mainly to inade-
quate water control, and, for the last two years, a shortage of fertilizer
and high yielding varieties (HYV) of seeds. Production of other crops has
not increased significantly.
2.05      India's agriculture is still dependent on the weather.  For example
in the drought of 1972/73 and again in 1974, reserve stocks were seriously
reduced and large amounts of graiLn had to be imported. A major factor in
reducing India's dependence on the weather will be the expansion of irrigation
and the more effective use of existing irrigation potential.
Agriculture in Madhya Pradesh
2.06      yadhya Pradesh is the :Largest State in India with an area of
442,840 Km or 13.5% of the totaL size of India. It is predominately
agricultural with a population of 41.6 million in 1971 of which 84% was
classified as rural.
2.07      About 40% of the area in the State is cultivated (18.3 m ha) of
which 8% is irrigated (1.64 m ha), the balance depending upon natural rainfall
which averages about 800 mm per year with 95% occurring from June through
October.  Forests cover about 32Z of the land area of the State.



-3 -
2.08      Agriculture and allied activities in the State account for
Rs 13,307 m annually or 55% of all income. The land use pattern for the
State in 1970 is shown below:
Category                            Ha Million
Forests                                 14.4
Available but
not yet cultivated                     4.4
Uncleared or fallow                      7.1
Net sown annually                       18.3
Gross sown                              20.3
Double cropped                           2.0
Net irrigated                            1.5
2.09      The major crops grown and their approximate acreages are:
Crop                 Ha Million           % Irrigated
Paddy                    4.3                   43
Wheat                    3.3                   29
Other Cereals            6.4
Pulses                   1.8
Gram and Oilseeds        3.3
2.10      As most of the land is unirrigated, average yields for crops grown
in the dry winter season are low. Current average yields in the State in
kg/ha for the main crops are: paddy 820, jowar 630, bajra 630, wheat 800
and gram 600. About 12% of the paddy, wheat and bajra hectarage now utilize
the HYV's which were introduced into the area in the late 1960's. Yields
of gram and oilseed crops, however, have been almost constant.
2.11      The use of fertilizer in Madhya Pradesh has increased rapidly in
recent years. Nitrogen has been the most important, going from 105,000
metric tons in 1968-69 to 650,000 tons in 1973-74. Phosphate fertilizers
increased from 54,000 to 420,000 tons over the same period and potash from
40,000 to 200,000 tons.
2.12      Food grain yields increased by 2.3% per annum during the Second
Plan pbriod (1956-1960) but remained practically constant between 1961-69.
The Fourth Plan (1969-1974) aimed to increase production by 5% per annum.
2.13      Public expenditures in the Fourth Plan placed emphasis on agricul-
tural production, minor irrigation, and soil conservation (including ravine
reclamation). Components of the program included seed improvement (HYV),
fertilizer, agricultural machinery, tractors, tubewells, shallow wells,
landshaping, ravine bunding and provision of regulated markets. Actual
production increases have followed estimates except for the drought year of
1972/73 when grain production fell 650,000 tons below the previous year and
again in 1974 when the kharif crop was limited by weather.



-4-
2.14      Planning for 1975-79 proposes further improvements in agriculture
with emphasis being placed on: the development of both ground and surface
wiater; more efficient use of irrigation water on existing projects through
Command Area Development activities; development programs for backward and
drought-prone areas and soil and water conservation programs.
Project Formulation
2.15      Concern has been growing in India over inadequate utilization of
irrigation systems. Between 1950 and 1972, 10 million ha of new land were
provided with irrigation facilities but only 70% of this potential is being
utilized and much of that in an inefficient manner. The reasons for the
underutilization of existing faciLities, which adversely affects India's
ability to meet its food production needs, are discussed at length in the
1972 report of the Second Irrigation Commission and include deficiencies in:
watercourses; drains and roads; l.nd leveling; agricultural supporting
services and administrative coordination. It has been estimated that recently
completed irrigation projects require additional investments of up to US$600
per ha before they can become fully productive. As a result, a Command Area
Development (CAD) Department has been set up within the GOI Ministry of Food
and Agriculture and it has prepared a list of high priority activities which
includes 46 projects covering over 4 million ha and distributed in nine States.
2.16      At the request of GOI, a Bank Group Irrigation Reconnaissance
Mission visited India in November 1972 to review the need for CAD and its
suitability for Bank Group assistance. The Mission confirmed the urgent
need for CAD and identified several projects as having high priority.
Accordingly, the FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program assisted in the preparation
of the Rajasthan Canal, the Chambal (Rajasthan) and the Chambal (NP) CAD
projects. The first two projects are now being implemented, with Bank
Group assistance.
2.17      IDA has also approved two projects for MP consisting of an agri-
cultural credit and a dairy project credit.
2.18      India's development planning for the next five years emphasizes
Command Area Development. The GOI and the States have discussed the kind
of administrative and financial arrangements needed to carry out such proj-
ects. The approach will be to achieve integrated development of the land,
water and human resources in irrigated areas through a unified project
management (see Chapter V).
III. THE PROJECT AREA
General
3.01      The Chambal Irrigation Project (Maps 11501 and 11507) is one of
the larger irrigation and power projects in India. Prior to irrigation,
the Chambal region in Madhya Pradesh was developed under rainfed agriculture



-5-
with a few small semi-perennial irrigation areas, mainly along the Bhind
Canal. The Chambal River is the major southern tributary of the Jamuna River
which discharges into the Ganga River and forms the boundary between the
States of Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh (MP) over much of its length. The
net irrigable area of the project is 224,000 ha in MP and 229,000 ha in
Rajasthan. Project construction began in 1953 and the canal system in Madhya
Pradesh was completed in 1970 down to the turnout to the irrigation service
unit (chak) level. Water was first released from the canal system in 1963.
The system is supplied from three storage and hydro-electric power dams on
the Chambal River, via the Kota Diversion Barrage in Rajasthan State and the
370 km Chambal Right Main Canal (RMC) which serves 127,000 ha in Rajasthan
and 224,000 ha in Madhya Pradesh. The available water is divided equally
between the two State projects by an Inter-State Agreement (see para 4.20).
3.02      The project area is located in Morena and Bhind districts and
includes all the major towns of both districts. It extends 300 km along
the south bank of the Chambal River. The gross project area in NP is
over 320,000 ha of which 224,000 ha would receive, in varying degrees,
direct benefits from improvements in the water supply, drainage and agri-
cultural supporting services.
3.03      The main and distributary canal system has been completed but
40% of the watercourses remain to be either constructed or extended. A
watercourse serves a service area (chak) of about 40 ha with about 30-40
farmers and is communally owned. A field channel is a private ditch within
a farm. As originally designed, the Chambal project did not include a
drainage network. In response to a growing need to relieve waterlogging
on 70,000 ha, GOM commenced drainage improvement works on 12,000 ha in the
project area in 1972/73. The drainage network is classified as main drains
(natural streams and gullies), collector drains, chak drains and farm drains.
From the farmers' fields, runoff is discharged by privately constructed
farm drains to the chak drains and from these to collector drains each
serving between 10-20 chaks. Collector drains discharge to the main drains.
Climate
3.04      The climate in the project area is sub-tropical with three main
seasons: the kharif or wet season (June to September); the rabi or dry
season (October to March) and the very hot and dry pre-monsoon season
(April to June). The onset of the monsoon is about one month earlier in
the western part of the area (at the canal head) than in the eastern down-
stream part, which affects the cropping seasons. The average rainfall is
about 800 mm with 94% occurring in the wet season (see Annex 1).
Topography, Soils and Drainage
3.05      The project area ranges in elevation from about 150 meters to
245 meters above mean sea level and has a gradual slope from the southwest
to the northeast in the direction of flow of the Chambal River. The soils
range from clays and loams to lighter sandy soils. Areas of silt and kankar
mixed with gravel and pebbles mark the beginning of the Gangetic plains.



-6-
The topography is flat to slightly rolling.  More than 99% of the project
area has slopes of less than 1%. The terrain is deeply eroded along the
Charbal River and its main tributaries form deep channels.  These channels
and the associated network of ravines and gullies (nullahs) form the main
drainage system of the project area.
3.06      A semi-detailed soil survey by the Soil Science and Agricultural
Chemistry Section of the Agricultural Research Institute at Gwalior has
classified 74% of the gross command area as irrigable. Of this area, 45%
has heavy soil and the remainder has light soil.  In 1972, GOM surveys
indicated that 70,000 ha of land within the project area was adversely
affected by a high water table aid poor drainage. These problems are most
serious in areas adjacent to the main canals but also occur at considerable
distances from major canals, indicating that they are not entirely related to
seepage from the canals. Saline and akaline soils occupy about 7% of the
gross command area and are mainly excluded from the project.
3.07      Even though there are some limited deficiencies in the project
soils, on the whole they are good and if provided with an adequate supply
of irrigation water, can be high:Ly productive.
Geology and Groundwater Resources
3.08      The project area has an alluvial soils mantle of sand, silt, clay
and kankar mixed in some areas with gravels, pebbles and boulders. The
alluvium is derived from the underlying Vindhyan series of sandstones,
shales, slates and limestones.  In the central Morena district, the Vindhyan
series rises to the surface, or to a very shallow depth where it is tra-
versed by the main canal. The series is closely jointed near the surface
and is a major source of canal leakage where unlined.
3.09      The principal source of groundwater in the project area is the
alluvium. A program for the construction of tubewells and of dugwells is
in operation and has financial support from the Agricultural Refinance
Corporation (ARC). Since 1970, the GOM Directorate of Tubewells has
constructed 260 shallow tubewells out of a planned 1,350 of which 164 were
in service in January 1974. The wells average 75 meters in depth with a
yield of up to 15 l/s and irrigate about 10 ha each. There are 16,000
dugwells.in the area, irrigating about 1 ha each. With local exceptions,
the groundwater is suitable for irrigation use.
3.10      The location, quantity and quality of the groundwater would be
explored in more detail during the three year project implementation period,
thus paving the way for future groundwater development during subsequent
project stages.
Population, Land Tenure and Social Structure
3.11      The population of the project area is about 700,000 of which
about 70% or 500,000 is classified as rural and the balance as urban.  About
465,000 of the rural population live on the project farms and the balance



of 35,000 are agricultural laborers. About 19% of the rural population is
literate.
3.12      Farm sizes in the project area range from 0.5 ha or less to over
40 ha. The average is 2.4 ha. Some 37% of holdings are 1 ha or less with
18% being under 0.5 ha and 19% between 0.5 and 1 ha (see Annex 12). Prac-
tically all farms are operated by their owners; owners of small farm units
must rely partly on off-farm employment for their livelihood. The operators'
of 55% of the farms (17% of the irrigable area) presently fall below the
poverty level with an annual income of US$50 per person.
3.13      Certain farm jobs, such as the harvesting of paddy and wheat, are
traditionally performed with hired labor -- even though the operator and his
family have adequate time to do such jobs. Small farmers and landless
laborers normally provide the labor to meet these requirements.
Agricultural Production
3.14      Prior to the introduction of irrigation, crops grown in the area
were either rainfed or matured on residual soil moisture followJing the
monsoon. Because of the unreliability of the water supply, the area still
retains some of the characteristics of rainfed agriculture and drought-
resistant crops play a major role in the cropping pattern. Millet, sorghum
and pulses can be grown successfully under rainfed conditions during the
monsoon but irrigation is necessary for crops such as paddy which normally
does not mature until October-November. Drought-resistant crops can also be
grown during the dry season on the residual soil moisture but yields are
normally low. Irrigation is required during this season for the success-
ful production of most crops.
1
3.15      Present cropping patterns for the project net irrigable area are
discussed and the tabulation of yields, production, and value given in
Annex 10. This indicates an overall cropping intensity of 105%; 25% in
the monsoon season, and 80% in the dry season. The irrigated cropping
intensity including both seasons is presently only 65%.
3.16      The low cropping intensity in the monsoon is due to the limited
number of crops which can be grown in the short, intense wet season.
Because there is no tradition of paddy cultivation, apart from the Bhind
Canal area, this valuable crop is only now taking hold despite surplus
water during the monsoon season and suitable soils over much of the project
area. The traditional crops, millet (bajra) and sorghum (jowar), are not
very remunerative and rather than plant them many farmers prefer to let their
land lie fallow during the monsoon to replenish the soil moisture and to pre-
pare the seedbed for the rabi crop. This allows wheat, the staple crop,
to be grown on the residual moisture or as a lightly irrigated crop during
the dry season. This cropping system also allows fallow land for mustard
planting which requires a good seedbed. The canal system is normally closed
for maintenance for a six weeks period some time between April 1 and June 30.
WThen the water supply is turned back into the canal it may not reach the end
of the network for up to two weeks. This precludes pre-irrigation for land
preparation and paddy nurseries and results in a delay in the planting of
crops until the onset of monsoon rains. Water supply (pars 4.20) limits the
area cultivated for HYV wheat. However this crop has made large advances in



-8-
the last ten years causing an important structural change in the originally
conceived cropping and water demand patterns.
3.17      The local population is mostly vegetarian, and relies primarily
upon milk products, wheat and pulses including gram and jowar for food,
using vegetable oils for cooking. They produce a surplus of pulses,
sorghum and oil seeds including oil cake which is exported in significant
quantities to other areas in India. Paddy is grown as a cash crop, almost
the entire production being exported to other States. Sugarcane occupies
a minor area but is an important source of income. Any expansion would
occur on farms in the vicinity of the sugar factory at Kailaris. These farms
are largely provided with reliable year-round irrigation from the combination
of canals, shallow tubewells and dugwells.
3.18      Farmers in the area rely heavily on cattle for draft power,
transportation and milk. The present production of crops and the esti-
mated gross value for the 224,000 ha irrigable area are given below:
Production      Gross Value
CrUop                    ('000 tons)      (Rs Million)
Wheat                        156              156
Paddy                         27               25
Oilseeds and Sesamum          28               55
Bajra and Jowar               31               28
Kharif pulses                  8                10
Rabi pulses                   30               37
Sugarcane                     77                9
Total Gross Value of Production             320
Marketing and Transportation
3.19      There are 15 Government-regulated markets (mandies) administered
by local committees in the Bhind and Morena Districts. Most are within
the project area and generally provide auction space, storage facilities,
water, guest houses and stalls for traders. Farm crops are transported
to the mandies, some of which are being rebuilt and enlarged, by bullock
cart and most farms are within ten miles of a mandie. Warehouses owned
by cooperatives are available in market towns. Processing facilities for
paddy, and oil seeds which are mostly privately owned are spread throughout
the project area. There is only one sugar mill but some farmers have their
own facilities for producing unrefined sugar.
3.20      Although the area is fairly well served by a main road network,
village roads are unpaved, poorly maintained, badly traced and usually
waterlogged and impassable during the wet season. Morena, the main project
town, is connected by road and rail to Gwalior and Bhopal, in the south
and to Agra and Delhi in the north.



-9-
Present Problems
3.21      Due mainly to limited water supply and drainage deficiencies,,
agricultural production has increased only very slowly. The main deficiencies
are: the absence of an agreed and timely water supply plan to allocate
water throughout the command area in accordance with crop requirements; poor
canal management; insufficient regulating structures in the main and dis-
tributary canal network, inadequate carrying capacity in certain reaches of
the network and excessive seepage losses; enforced closures (often during
high water demand periods) to repair breaches and remove aquatic weeds; poor
and inequitable water distribution within individual chaks due to incomplete
watercourses and inadequate land levelling and delays in introducing coopera-
tive water use among the cultivators (warabandi). The absence of an adequate
drainage network, which together with the accumulation of rainwater and return
flows from farmers' fields and seepage from canals have resulted in high water
tables over 70,000 ha. Waterlogging is mostly seasonal, with the worst con-
ditions occuring at the end of the monsoon season when winter planting is
made extremely difficult. There are 20,000 ha where the water table is with-
in 2 meters of the ground level. Some 8,000 ha are permanently waterlogged.
3.22      Other adverse factors affecting agricultural production include
uncoordinated agricultural supporting services (extension and research),
lack of timely credit for farm inputs and poor road communications.
IV. THE PROJECT
4.01      The proposed project represents the first stage of a program to
improve and complete the existing irrigation facilities, construct drainage
works, provide on-farm development, improve the road system and provide
agricultural supporting services (extension and research) throughout the
project area. Works to be included in the present project were selected
on the basis of need, implementation capability and budgetary constraints
of the State Government. Depending upon the level of project works proposed,
the project areas are referred to as the On-Farm Development Full Package
area (some 12,000 ha), the Chak Drainage area (some 20,000 ha) and the
Extensive area - the balance of the commanded area (some 192,000 ha). Most
of the works are directed towards the On-Farm Development Full Package and
the Chak Drainage areas but improvements in canal management and in agricul-
tural supporting services would benefit the Extensive area as well. The
physical works and other inputs to be financed under the project are
described briefly below. (See also Annex 2 and Mtap 11507.)
Project Works
4.02      Right Main Canal (RMC) Bank Strengthening - Main canals are
largely constructed above ground on earth embankments.  Since the RMC was
brought into service in 1963, it has breached on several occasions, necessita-
ting extended closure of the system while repairs were made. The most
vulnerable sections of the canal would be given remedial treatment by strength-
ening the embankments, and the lining of 11 km of canal bed and side slopes to
reduce piping damage.



- 10 -
4.03      Canal CapaciLy Works - The original project was designed to
provide water for lightly irrigated crops. The introduction of high
yielding varieties, mainly wheat, has greatly increased peak water demand
during the dry season. Existing canal capacity in the distribution system
and in the watercourses is insufficient to meet this demand. The project
would enlarge some 300 km of distributary canals and increase the carrying
capacity of some 100 km of watercourses which serve the 12,000 ha On-
Farm Development Full Package area and selected other areas under IHYV wheat.
Their carrying capacity would be increased from the present 0.5 1/s/ha to
0.65 1/s/ha.
4.04      Canal Control Structures - The project was originally designed
as a free flowing system with only a small number of regulators in the main
and branch canals. The present project would provide 44 additional canal
regulators and 11 escape structures, 3,000 gated and enlarged pipe outlets
to chaks, and 100 small tail structures. This would facilitate the supply
of water during periods of reduced canal flow and distribute water efficiently
during peak periods.
4.05      Aquatic Weed Control - To facilitate aquatic weed control, canal
closures are at present requirecd throughout the operating season. To
reduce the time of such closures, modifications are required to enable more
rapid drainage of canals. The project would provide 22 additional draw-
off structures and, to reduce the source of weed infestation, would provide
additional embankments for two tanks in the RMC and Bhind canals.
4.06      Main Drainage - To help alleviate severe drainage problems
(para 3.21), the project would clear and improve 200 km of natural drainage
courses, and construct 560 km of interceptor drains parallel to distribu-
tary canals to reduce seepage contributing to waterlogging along the
canals. These works would be aimed mainly at improving the On-Farm
Development Full Package and Chak Drainage areas and as well as other areas
served by the Bhind Canal; the total area benefited would be about 40,000 ha.
4.07      Operating Facilities - The operation of the extensive canal network
with headworks located in another State poses difficult problems. To im-
prove canal management and distribute water more equitably among users re-
quires an effective communication network, access to both banks of the canal
for continuous maintenance and an adequate staff stationed at strategic
locations along the canal system. The project would install a 300 km
telemeter/telecom system, surface 220 km of canal roads; construct 54
access bridges and provide housing and buildings for the operating staff.
4.08      On-Farm Development - Two categories of land development, depending
on the topography and crop needs of the particular area, would be undertaken
by the project. Category (c) in undulating topography would provide a
"full package" treatment including land leveling, construction of water-
courses, drains and access roads inside the chaks. For these areas, farm
boundary realignment would be required to enable a rational layout of
fields, channels and roads. In v;iew of present organizational constraints,
the area is limited to 12,000 ha comprised of six blocks.



- 11 -
4.09      Implementation of On-Farm Development Full Package in this
category would start with the updating of cadastral records, soil classi-
fication and detailed topographical surveys of the chaks. The Soil Con-
servation Division of the Agricultural Department would prepare plans
and cost estimates for the on-farm works and discuss these with the farmers.
After receiving approval by the farmers, the works would then be carried out
by the Agro Industries Corporation (AIC), a GOM agency, using both exi,ting
equipment and new machinery purchased by the project. Upon completion, the
farmers would be provided completion certificates prepared by the CAA for
signing. If they did not elect to accept the job, procedures for resolution
of differences would be available to them. (Further details of planning and
construction are given in Annex 2.)
4.10      Category (b) land development would be limited to drainage improve-
ment works on some 20,000 ha of flat land (some 8,000 ha is completely water-
logged) in 16 subbasins spread throughout the project area. The works would
be carried out where the water table is within two meters of the ground surface.
Boundary realignment would not be required for these works. The GOM would
obtain easements for the smaller chak drains and acquire land for the
larger collector drains (see Annex 2).
4.11      The GOM has demonstrated the feasibility of both these categories
of works in pilot schemes completed since 1971/72. Two such full package
on-farm developments including about 300 ha have been completed and four
additional ones are now underway.
4.12      Roads - About 206 km of village to-market roads would be constructed.
First priority would be given to the roads serving the Chak Drainage and On-
Farm Development Full Package areas.
4.13      Ravine Erosion Control - A pilot project covering about 50 km of
ravine perimeter would be undertaken to identify the "least cost" techniques
for ravine erosion control. The work would comprise perimeter bunding and
drains with control structures to arrest the erosive floodwater flows.
4.14      Mechanical Equipment - Mechanical equipment would be procured by
the project for the construction of the irrigation and drainage works, for
road construction and ravine erosion control and for the On-Farm Development
Full Package program. After project completion, the remaining equipment
would be used by the CM for maintenance of the completed facilities.
4.15      Fertilizer - The movement of top soil in the On-Farm Development
Full Patkage areas during land leveling would cause a temporary loss of
top soil fertility. Some 2,000 tons of fertilizer would be provided to
restore soil fertility to the original level. It is expected that this
would be accomplished in a two year period.
4.16      Agricultural Extension and Research - The agricultural research
and extension capability of the Department of Agriculture within project area
would be strengthened. Assurances were obtained from GOM that it would
strengthen and make budgetary provision for the agricultural research and
extension program which would be acceptable to the Association as part of the
budget requirements for the project.



- 12 -
4.17      Crop Compensation - As -a result of the On-Farm Development Full
Paclkge program, it is expected that some of the lands would be out of
production for one dry season during which time the actual land shaping
would take place. To preserve the farmer's income during this transition
period, he would be paid Rs 150/ha as partial compensation for the loss of
farm income.
OLher Project Components
4.18      The project would include the expansion of the rotational
Irrigation system (warabandi) now in operation on some chaks. Initially,
eamphasis would be given to expand:ing this in the Chak Drainage and On-
Farm Development Full Package areas. Gradually it would be extended through-
out the project area. Funds are provided in the cost estimates to cover
the cost of project administration, operation and maintenance during the
construction period, technical assistance for on-farm land development and
for the agricultural research and extension program. The project would also
provide funds for studies of further developments in the project area. The
studies would cover groundwater exploitation, increasing delivery efficiency
by canal lining, reuse of return flows, reclamation of saline-alkaline soils,
improvement of district roads and further intensive on-farm development in
the command areas.
4.19      The project would also provide technical assistance to GOI to
help prepare a number of CAD projects throughout the various States of India
in the next three years. Pilot land development projects would be extended
and improved to cover all necessary technical, economic, organizational and
financing features essential for comprehensive appraisal of the on-farm
development element of CAD projects. To assist the land development imple-
mtentation an internationally recruited specialist would be appointed. An
assurance was obtained from GOI that it would recruit or cause to have
recruited a land development specialist.
Water Supply, Demand and Quality
4.20      Water Supply - Water supply in the project area is from rainfall
and the regulated flow of the Chambal River. Present groundwater exploita-
tion is small but would become increasingly important in later stages of
the project. Reservoir operation studies estimate the total annual irriga-
tion water availability in 88% of the years at 3,900 Mm3, of which the
Chambal (MP) project's share is one half (Interstate Agreement). During the
last four years, Chambal (MP) project received supplies in excess of 1,940
Mm3 per year. Because of water releases from the main storage reservoirs
for hydro-power generation, --hout one third of the water supply is available
during the July - October period. Details of the storage and conveyance
systems are given in Annex 2 and water supply in Annex 3.
4.21      Water Demand - The present overall irrigation efficiency is
estimated at 20%, reflecting the physical and operational problems discussed
in paragraph 3.21. Following project implementation, it is expected that
the overall efficiency would increase to about 30%, with the greatest



- 13 -
improvement anticipated in the On-Farm Development Full Package area. At
full development, peak irrigation demand in February would be about 0.65
1/s/ha. This figure will be used to establish canal carrying capacities
in the various segments of the distribution system. The average annual
diversion requirements at full development for the present project would
be some 1,500 Mm3 compared to 1,950 Mm3 available.  The excess of supply
over projected demand mainly reflects the underuse of water during the
monsoon.  The main canal peak operating capacity would limit the area
Which could be planted to HYV wheat.  If the whole commanded area were
z,w;-eloped to the On-Farm Development Full Package area standards, annual
water requirements would increase to 1,860 Mm3.
4.22      Water Quality - The quality of water supplied in the system is
ijood. In the limited groundwater areas, the water quality is acceptable.
There is some question about the quality of the return flows from irri-
gation in the areas having saline and alkaline soils. A monitoring
program would be started by the Director of Tubewells to determine whether
return flows from these areas is reusable.
Fngi_neering Design
4.23      Detailed designs have been prepared,for a number of representative
drainage areas and typical irrigation works. In view of the fairly homo-
geneous nature of the works these are sufficient to establish cost estimates
to feasibility standards. No problems are expected in preparing designs
in accordance with the proposed construction schedule. Design procedures
for On-Farm Development Full Package works are described in Annex 2. Road
designs would be in accordance with Indian Roads Congress standards.
Construction Methods
4.24      Labor intensive methods would be used for construction wherever
possible. Contracts would provide for mobilization advances to enable small
contractors to purchase tools and machines, and to increase the productivity
of labor. Land leveling, the compaction of road beds and canal banks and
the excavation of the larger drains in waterlogged areas, would require
mechanical equipment. Drainage excavation would be by dragline. For land
leveling, which is mostly light, a four-wheeled tractor with a small scraper
wouldl be appropriate. Equipment to be procured under the project is listed
in Annex 5.
Implementation Schedule
4425      Project implementation would take three years and would be
comnplete by 1978 (Chart 9725). As the equipment to be procured under the
project would not be available at the beginning of the first construction
season in October 1975, equipment on hand would be used to achieve the first
year's targets.



- 14 -
Cost Estimates
4.26      Project costs are estimated at US$46.6 million, with a foreign
exchange component of US$9.7 million, or 21% of the total. Costs are
based on price levels prevailing in December 1974, and include the recent
increase in the costs of gasoline and diesel oil. Expected price in-
creases for civil works and fertilizers have been made as follows: 25%
in the first year (including a component for price increases from December
1974 to mid 1975) tapering to 12% in the third year; for administrative
and operating costs, price escalation was taken at 19% in the first year
tapering to 8% in the third year. These rates are considered reasonable
in the Indian context. Estimated price increase equals 27% of the cost of
the project. Physical contingencies were taken at between 10% and 15%
depending on the nature of the work.
4.27      A breakdown of project costs is given in Annex 4 and summarized
below:
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total
(Rs Million)             (US$ Million)
Irrigation and Main Drainage   76.1    19.1    95.2    9.51    2.39   11.90
Chak Drainage Area               23.1     5.7    28.8    2.89    0.72    3.61
On-Farm Development, Full
Package Area                   14.4     7.7    22.1    1.80    0.96    2.76
Roads                            35.6     8.9    44.5    4.45    1.11    5.56
Ravine Erosion Control            2.2     1.0      3.2    0.27    0.13    0.40
Supplementary Fertilizer          0.2     4.6      4.8    0.03    0.57    0.60
Project Administration,
Operating Costs during
Implementation, and Stage 1.
preparation                   45.5      4.2    49.7    5.69    0.53    6.22
Technical Assistance to GOI
for preparing CAD projects
and for a land development
spec'ialist                    3.9      2.6     6.5    0.48    0.32    0.80
Sub-Total                 201.0    53.8   254.8   25.12    6.73   31.85
Physical Contingencies           12.4     4.1    16.5    1.55    0.51    2.06
Estimated Price Increases        81.9    19.9   101.8   10.24    2.48   12.72
TOTAL Project Cost        295.3    77.8   373.1   36.91    9.72   46.63



- 15 -
Financing
4.28      During negotiations, GOI reserved procurement on equipment costing
US$1.5 million. The proposed IDA credit of US$24.0 million would finance
53% of the total cost of the project items eligible for financing i.e.
those not reserved for local procurement (i.e. 53% of US$45.13 million).
The credit would finance 100% of component foreign exchange costs (US$9.72
million) plus 39% of local costs. The credit would be made to GOI for on-
lending to ARC and GOM. On-Farm Development Full Package works would be
financed initially from the GOM budget and, after completion of construction,
would be refinanced by local banks and ARC as described in Annex 7. A con-
dition of effectiveness of the credit would be that a Subsidiary Loan Agree-
ment, satisfactory to the Association, had been executed between GOI and ARC.
Operation and Maintenance would be financed by GOM from its regular budget.
4.29      Assurances were obtained from GOM that it would make budgetary
provision in its annual development plans for the implementation of the
project in accordance with a detailed schedule of expenditures which would
be acceptable to the Association (Annex 6, Table 1) and that GOM would
furnish to IDA, not later than February 1st each year, a detailed plan for
implementation of the project for the following fiscal year.
4.30      Purchases of fertilizer required to restore soil fertility after
leveling would be financed by the credit.
Procurement
4.31      Vehicles and Equipment.  The estimated cost of vehicles and
equipment for project management, force account construction and for hire
to contractors (Annex 5), is US$5.2 million. Out of this total, US$3.0
million would be subject to international competitive bidding in accordance
with Bank Group Guidelines. A preference limited to 15% of the cif price
of imported goods, or the prevailing customs duty if lower, would be
extended to local manufacturers in the evaluation of bids. About US$0.7
million worth of equipment and vehicles, consisting of groups of contracts
costing less than US$100,000 each, which for reasons of efficiency are
not suitable for international tendering, would be purchased through
normal GOM procurement procedures, which are satisfactory. The balance
of US$1,5 million, consisting of vehicles and water tankers, would be
reserved for local procurement and would not be eligible for reimbursement
out of the proceeds of the Credit. (See Table 2, Annex 6).
4.32      Civil Works - A review has been made of the suitabillty of the
project civil works for grouping into large contracts, with the following
conclusions (the amounts shown are the basic costs, net of physical and
price contingencies and administrative and engineering staff costs but they
include the cost of building materials):
(a) Irrigation -- (US$8.2 million), Irrigation works would be
individually small and scattered and would be carried out in
periods of canal closure. Under these conditions, it would
not be feasible to group these works into large contracts.



- 16 -
(b)  Main Drainage -- (US$1.4 million) - The main drainage works
would have to be grouped into one or two large multi-year
contracts in order to 'be of interest to large contractors.
If a large contract were used, the problems, both for the
contractor and the project engineers, on administering a
large work-force scattered throughout the project area and
working intermittently over three years, on a relatively
small contract, would be difficult and likely to result
in higher than necessary costs. For these reasons, the
drainage works are not considered suitable for a large
contract.
(c) On-Farm Development Full Package -- (US$2.1 million) and
Chak Drainage (US$3.0 million) - These works would need
to be planned and executed at short notice to coincide
with the short dry season.  For these reasons, the works
could not be grouped in,to large multi-year contracts.
(d)  Roads - (US$4.9 million) - Because of the need for the
road program to keep pace with the other project elements,
particularly the provision of adequate drainage, the works
must also be spread over three years. The reasons stated
in (b) above, would apply to the road element as well.
Because of these special conditions in the project area, none of the civil
works could be efficiently grouped into contracts large enough to be of
interest to international contractors. It is therefore proposed to carry
these works out by small, local contractors or, where this is not prac-
ticable, by force account. Generally, the small local contractors do
not posses the necessary skills to maintain and operate heavy construction
equipment. Road works, however, would be carried out using simple machinery
procured under the project and hired out to local contractors. Other local
contract works would include those portions of the irrigation, drainage,
ravine erosion control and on-farm development (irrigation channels and
drains) which would not require t'he use of specialized machinery. All
other works under these categories would be constructed by force account
using heavy equipment. The On-Farm Development Full Package works would
be carried out by GOM's Agro-Industries Corporation which is specialized
in construction of these works.
4.33      Fertilizer - Procurement: of the relatively small amount of
fertilizer required would be comb:Lned with the regular bulk procurement
of fertilizer by the India Tender Board. Because of the present extremely
itight world supply situation, the India Tender Board's current procedure
provides for "international shopping," which includes seeking price
quotations from possible suppliers, followed by price negotiations with
the bidders to obtain the lowest price. The above procedure would be
satisfactory to the Bank, providedl at least three quotations are invited.
Fertilizers would be ordered in line with allocations to the farmers who
had carried out leveling work on their land.



- 17 -
DTsbursements
4.34      Disbursements would be made at the rate of 100% against the cif
cost of directly imported equipment and of fertilizer, after it had been
delivered to the farmers or the ex-factory price for equipment manufactured
locally, and at the rate of 707 for imported equipment procured locally.
Disbursements for civil works .ould be on a percentage basis (68% for On-
Farm Development Full Package and 60% for other civil works). Disbursements
for force account work would be made against a certificate of expenditure
from the Command Area Authority. The supporting documentation would not
be submitted for review to IDA but would be retained by the Authority and
would be available for inspection during project progress review. The
estimated schedule of expenditure on the project, the proposed allocation
of the proceeds of the credit and a semi-annual disbursement schedule are in
Annex 6. Any savings in one credit category would be reallocated by increas-
ing the percentage disbursement for other categories. It is expected that
disbursements would be completed by December 31, 1979, about one year after
completion of project construction.
Accounts and Audit
4.35      The Command Area Authority (CAA) would be subject to normal
Government control and auditing procedures. Assurances were obtained
from GOM that the accounts and financial statements of the CAA would be
audited each year and that certified copies of the audit would be sub-
mitted to the Association within six months of the end of each fiscal
year. Agro-Industries Corporation would be required to produce a detailed
yearly report on the use of equipment supplied by the project for On-Farm
Development Full Package and other works including hours worked, breakdown
of costs and charges made for work. The ARC would require participating banks
to maintain separate project accounts (including details of overdues and
bad debts), copies of which audited and certified by ARC, would be submitted
to the Association within four months of the end of each fiscal year along
with the audited accounts of such banks.
Environmental Effects of the Project
4.36      The existing irrigation project which has been constructed without
adequate provision for drainage has created swampy areas resulting in the
contamination of some village wells. As a result, the incidence of some
forms of water-associated diseases has increased, malaria and typhoid being
the most serious. The proposed project would alleviate this problem. The
drainage works would eliminate many of the mosquito breeding grounds and
would lower groundwater tables which would reduce the risk of pollution
of village water supplies. The GOM is well aware of these problems. It is
considering the introduction of a monitoring system for water-associated
diseases and would take control measures. The project extension service
would advise farmers on the judicious selection of pesticides in order to
minimize environmental damage. The project would monitor the quality of
return flows from the project area for possible injurious effects on down-
stream uses, and would also be a step in the struggle to control erosion
in the area (para 4.13).



- 18 -
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
Project Implementation
5.01      This project is one of many Command Area Development Projects to
be undertaken in India in the next few years.  It has been the concern of
both GOI and the State Governments to devise effective organization structures
for the implementation of such projects.
Command Area Authority
5.02      Following the pattern developed by GOI and introduced in the
Rajasthan projects, GOM established a Chambal Command Area Development
Authority (CAA) in September of 1974.  The CAA's responsibility is to manage
and coordinate the activities of the various GOM departments and the credit
institutions operating in the project area. The CAA is placed within the
jurisdiction of the Minister of Food and Agriculture and is headed by a
Commissioner with powers to assure coordination. The Commissioner is assisted
by the Joint Director of Agriculture (Planning Officer), a development
officer with the rank of Collector and appropriate staff. The Commissioner
is assisted in carrying out his coordinating activities in the project area
by a Board composed of the department heads of the Agriculture, Irrigation,
Veterinary Services, Cooperation, Industries, Buildings and Roads, and
Revenue departments, as well as representatives of the two Cooperative Banks,
the Commercial Banks and the project farmers. Other GOM organizations would
participate as appropriate.'
5.03      The Commissioner reports directly to the Agricultural Production
Commissioner (APC) at the State level. The APC is Chairman of a Coordinating
Committee which includes the Secretaries of Finance, Revenue, Agriculture,
Irrigation, Public Works, and the Development Commissioner. In consultation
with this Committee, the APC would approve the annual development plan of the
CAA.
5.04      Funding for the project would be included in the budgets of the
respective departments involved. Except for a small staff to assist in
coordination, the CAA Commissioner would rely upon the staff of the various
Government agencies and departments posted to the CAA. "The Chairman, CAD,
will have complete administrative control and powers over the staff of the
various concerned disciplines pcsted to the area within the jurisdiction
of the Authority", Section 9 of the Order of September 4, 1974 establishing
the CAD. Construction work (irrigation, drainage, land development and roads)
would be carried out by the respective departments operating in the project
area.
5.05      The CAA would supervise and coordinate the planning and implementa-
tion of all services and works required for development of the command area.



- 19 -
5.06      Under the supervision and coordination of the CAA, the individual
Government departments would assume the following responsibilities: the
Irrigation Department would be charged with the improvement and operation of
the irrigation and drainage works down to the outlet from the minor canal
to the chak, and groundwater development; the Agricultural Departmei.t would
be responsible for all agricultural supporting services and all On-Farm
Development Full Package works within the chak, and for ravine erosion
control works, and the introduction of rotational irrigation; the Department
of Public Works would implement project roads and buildings; the Revenue
Department, through the Collectors at Morena and Bhind, would exercise its
powers in respect to land development and registration, and collection of
land revenue arrears and the Department of Cooperation would be responsible
for strengthening credit, marketing and processing societies.
Implementation Procedures for On-Farm Development Full Package
5.07      On-Farm Development Full Package would only be undertaken when
two-thirds of the farmers or holders of two thirds of the land within a
chak agree to the preliminary plan and cost estimates drawn up by the Soil
Conservation Division (SCD) of the Agricultural Department. Chaks not
meeting eligibility requirements would be left for later stages of the
project. These plans would then be submitted to the local Land Improvement
Committee, and, if approved, construction works would begin.
5.08      During the construction period, loan applications would be prepared
for the farmers by the SCD so that loans could be obtained as soon as the
works were completed and completion certificates issued.
5.09      Although farmers would have the option of undertaking the work
themselves, in practice it is expected that the Agro-Industries Corporation,
under the supervision of the Agricultural Department, would normally carry
out the work.
Financing Procedures for On-Farm Development Full Package Works
5.10      The cost of On-Farm Development Full Package will be borne by GOM
during the construction stage.
5.11    , On completion of the project works and when costs become known,
farmers eligible for bank loans would receive loans to cover the cost of the
works carried out, and GOM would be reimbursed. Ineligible farmers would
remain indebted to GOM, and would pay off the loan as arrears of land revenue
(regular land taxation procedures).   A premium interest rate (at least 2%
higher than the rate on bank loans) would be charged to encourage eligible
farmers to take bank loans and in order to encourage others to try to become
eligible.
5.12      The loans to the farmers would come either from Land Development
Banks (LDB) or from Commercial Banks (CB), the project area being divided
between these institutions. Interest would be charged at 10-1/2%, with
a 12-year repayment period, including one year's grace.



- 20 -
5.13      The LDfl or CB would then apply for refinance of loans made from
ARC. The ARC would refinance at least 75% of the loan at 7.5% interest.  The
remaining funds required would come from the sale of special debentures to
the State Government in the case of LDB, and from private investors in the
case of CB.
5.14      The Madhya Pradesh Land Improvement Schemes Act of 1967 has been
amended to permit the participation of Commercial Banks in financing On-Farm
Development Full Package.
Agricultural Supporting Services
5.15      To maximize the benefits of the proposed investments in physical
facilities, complementary and closely coordinated efforts are needed in all
the agricultural supporting services. -The agricultural supporting services
are described in detail in Annex 8.
5.16      Research - The existing program of applied research would be
continued and expanded. More emphasis would be placed on irrigation methods,
fertilization of HYV, monsoon interplanting systems, and effects of irriga-
tion and drainage on soil salinity and weed control methods. Research
staff would work closely with the Irrigation D,partment in cairying out
these studies.
5.17      A limited number of full time research and supporting staff would
be appointed, laboratory equipment and farm machinery purchased, and office
space and housing provided on the enxisting research farms. GOM would pro-
vide liaison with the Indian Counc:U for Agricultural Research (ICAR) to
ensure adoption of the latest national research results, particularly those
reilating to the HYV of wheat, paddy and bajra, in the project area.
5.18      Extension - Starting frota 1974, GOM has introduced a new type of
agricultural extension service in t:he project area, modeled on the systems
currently used in the Bank Group-assisted CAD projects in Rajasthan State.
The system involves the reorganization of existing extension personnel,
new methods of demonstration, strict adherence to a preset extension
program and concentration on a few major crops and practices for a limited
number of "contact" farmers in the villages. Close coordination with applied
research work and regular in-service training for extension staff is
emphasized.
5.19      The organization would be headed by a Project Extension Director
with two Deputy (District) Directors; the area would be divided into six
exitension subdivisions, each hleadecd by a Sub-District Extension Office
and a number of Agricultural Extension Officers (AEO); each AEO would be
responsible for six Village Extension Workers (VEW) and each VEW would
instruct 240 farmers. A subject maLtter specialist would be available for
all major crops. Transport vehicles, training equipment and staff housing
allowances would be provided under the project. (See Annex 8).



21 -
5,20      Fertilizers - The project farmers realize the need for fertilizer
for better yields. particularly on HYV wheat and paddy; they would increase
if supplies were locally available at reasonable cost and the irrigation
water supply fully assured. However, most of the farmers have only been
co-eceiving 50-60% of their fertilizer reqjuirements.  Over the next five-year
.etied, supplies of domesticP?1y-produced fertilizers are expected to
ficvrease and the unit cost of imports is expected to decline. Fertilizers
*w. ,rketed through cooperatives, Government shops and private dealers.
5,21      Seeds - for HYV of wheat and paddy, as well as other important crops
piX roduced on seed farms which are operated in conjunction with the four
>.;search' stations in the project area.  The seed farms in turn get the found-
ation seed from the National Seeds Corporation (NSC) and the Terai Seed
crowers.  At present, the supply is sufficient only for about 10% of the
.t mand; it is GOM's goal to increase the production so farmers could get new
or replacement seed every 4 to 5 years. Additional seed farms are under
preparation. During negotiations, GOM outlined an acceptable program to
p.rovide improved seeds.
5.22      Multi-purpose cooperatives are the major type of farmers' organiza-
tion operating in the project area. They provide a wide variety of services
including: banking; provision of short and medium term credit; hire of
machinery; supply and distribution of fertilizer and insecticides and storage
and marketing facilities. The management capability of the co-ops varies
greatly. Under the project, the co-ops would be strengthened and expanded.
Other farmers' organizations include irrigation associations (responsible for
cooperative water management in the chaks) and village councils (panchayats)
which are the basic elected unit of local government.
5.23      Agricultural Credit - Short-term (production) and intermediate term
credit is provided by cooperatives and Commercial Banks as well as private
money lenders. The cooperatives are the major source of short- and medium-
term institutional credit. These are organized on a three-tier basis: the
village level -- some 400 primary credit societies in the project area; the
District level -- two Central Cooperative Banks and the State Cooperative
Bank. Long-term as well as some medium-term credit is provided by the Land
Development Banks. While these banks are structured as cooperatives they are
entirely separate from the cooperative banks which provide short-and medium
term credits. Commercial Banks have recently entered into agricultural credit
in MP and both the State and Central Banks operate in the State: the Central
Bank, which has been designated as "lead bank" in the project area has
established four branches. Both the State and Central Banks have indicated
that they would establish more branches, once the areas have been divided
between the CB and the LDB. Farmers receiving finance for On-Farm Development
Full Package from the LDB will have automatic access to the primary credit
societies for short and medium term-credit while those receiving financing
from the CB will have similar access to such banks for their operating credit.
5.24      Technical Assistance and Training - While the existing project
staff has adequate experience in most types of work involved in the project,
there are some specialized areas where additional training would be necessary.



- 22 -
Substantial improvement in the operation of the canal system down to the
outlet to the individual water source is proposed and to achieve this, the
capability of the operating staff would have to be improved by in-service
training. The Soil Conservaticn Subdivisions of the Agricultural Department
and Agro-Industries Corporation would train additional staff in planning
on-farm land development and in. operating land leveling equipment.
5.25      To enable efficient irrigation at field level, all aspects of land
leveling, field layout, and channel network design have to be carefully
planned in accordance with the needs of the particular chak. Present GOM
designs are rather rigid. To improve planning, design and construction
procedures, a land development specialist would be recruited (para 4.19).
To the extent such a specialist had extra time, it is anticipated that he
would also assist with the Chambal (Rajasthan) and Rajasthan Canal CAD
projects. The cost associated with the employment and assignment of the
specialist would be charged to the credit for the Chambal (MP) project.
Operation and Maintenance
5.26      Operation and Maintenance (O & M) of the irrigation system is the
responsibility of the Irrigation Department. Because of design and structu-
ral deficiencies, and inadequate operating procedures described in paragraph
3.21 as well as a shortage of funds, the present 0 & M program is insufficient.
The project would provide vehicles and equipment for 0 & M and would finance
recurrent costs during project implementation. The 0 & M of the project works
within the chak would be the responsibility of the farmers concerned, or-
ganized into irrigation asscciations for each chak. Under the "warabandi"
system, a strict rotational irrigation schedule would be enforced to allocate
water according to the type of soil and size of each holding. The 0 & M defi-
ciencies in any chak would be reported to the Irrigation Department Executive
Engineer, who has magisterial powers to fine or even jail offenders if the
deficiencies are not rectified. Roads would continue to be maintained by the
PWD.
Water Allocation
5.27      At present, the project largely operates without a water allocation
plan, with excessive water application in the head reaches of the canals and
only small water quantities reaching the downstream parts of the project.
The projected cropping patterns have been selected to optimize the use of
available supplies and canal conveyance capacities and allow equitable dis-
tribution of water over the whole area.  Initially the water allocations
would be based on the cropping patterns of the "minor" canal commands.  After
gaining some experience, the wal:er allocation plan and the operation pro-
cedures would be refined tc pernit water allocation on a chak by chak basis.
This would ensure that all commanded land would receive an equitable share
of the available water supplies.  Assurances were received from GOM that
it would introduce a suitable water allocation plan before the end of the
project implementation period (t:hree years). Further details are given in
Annex 9.



- 23
Cost Recover
5.28      (O3ion  aL,d Maintenamce (,osL - The present aniual operation and
mainteiuance expenditure for the enLire system averages about 18  sSk-
Presernt water charges, which are varied by kind of crop and numbe- e;
irri.gations provided, average about Rs 30/ha, The excess passes in-0-
UGOI revenute aiid in a sense represents repa3yient on the ..-Onstructio . cost of
existing works.  rhe cost of adequate 0 & M has '2en estimated s. Rs 48/ha
(US$6 ha) for the irrigation and drainage system.  It Ic propn-i to collect
this amount from the entire project area.
5.29      Construction Cost -On-Farm Developmont Full Package Area - The
cost of construction of the On-Farm Developmrnt Full Package works would
be recove-ed as described in paras. 5.10-5.14. On average, this is expected
to amount to Rs 2,250 per ha.  The annual charge required to return this
amount in 12 years including one year^s grace at 10-1/2% interest is about
Rs 355/ha.
5.30      Construction Cost - On-Far   velont  k                        - It is
proposed that the cost of Chak Drainage works be returned directly by the
beneficiaries over a 30-year period without interest.  It is estimated that
this will cost Rs 1,440/ha (Annex 4, Table t), which will require an a nual
payment of Rs 48/ha.
5.31      Construction Cost - Total Proect - All irrigated lands including
those in the On-Farm Development Full Package area, would contribute to the
recovery of the project irrigation and main drainage construction cost of
Rs 95.2 million (Annex 4, Table 1 line 1). This cost amounts to Rs 425/ha.
It is proposed that this be recovered in a 30-year period, which would
require annual payments of Rs 14/ha without interest.
5.32      Summary of Charges Required - On the basis of the presently
estimated costs excluding interest during construction or price escalation,
the following average annual cost recovery would be required:



- 24 -
On-Farm Development
(Rs/ha)
Full Package Area (12,000 ha)
0 & M                             48
Construction - On-Farm*          355
Construction - Other**             14
Total                  417
Chak Drainage Area (20,000 ha)
0 & M                             48
Construction**                    48
Construction - Other**            14
Total                  110
Balance of Project Area
0 & M                             48
Construction                       14
Total                   62
*    Recovered in 12 years including one
year's grace with interest at 10-1/2%
(Banks) or 12-1/2% (MP).
**   Recovered in 30 years.
5.33      Assurances were obtained from GOM during negotiations that it
would establish a system of water charges to recover the full annual cost
of 0 & M and the full construction costs without interest over a 30-year
period.
Monitoring Project Performance
5.34      A small staff would be assigned to the CAA Commissioner's office
which would monitor progress in various project activities. The staff
would record: the amount of water received in the project area and its
distribution in the canal system; canal conveyance efficiencies; cropping
patterns, and yields on both irrigated and non-irrigated land.
VI.  PRODUCTIO,, MAlKETING, PRICES AND FARM INCOMES
Production
6.01      Implementation of the project would lead to a more intensive crop-
ping pattern and higher yields in the On-Farm Development Full Package and
the Chak Drainage areas with more modest increases in the Extensive area.
In the Extensive area, increases in production would result from extension



- 25 -
activities and from improved management of the canal system. Average
cropping intensities over the whole area would increase from the present
105% to 125% at full development and irrigated cropping intensity would
increase from 65% to 85%. For the various parts of the project, cropping
intensities and production at full development would increase as follows
(See Table 1, Annex 10):
Present             Full Development
--Cropping (Irrigation) Intensity--
(%)
On-Farm Development Full
Package area                        120 (80)                135 ( 95)
Chak Drainage area                        75 (50)                130 ( 90)
Extensive area                           105 (65)                125 ( 80)
Total Production
(tons)         (tons)    (% Increase)
Wheat                                     155,000         240,000          55
Paddy                                      25,000          75,000        200
Bajra and Jowar                            30,000          60,000         100
Gram and Pulses                            40,0pO          60,000         50
Oilseeds                                   30,000          60,000         100
Sugarcane                                  80,000         190,000        137
Market Prospects
6.02      Local and national shortages of foodstuffs will ensure a ready
market for agricultural production in the area. The entire increase in
output of wheat would be needed to feed the local population, while paddy,
which is not eaten by the local people, would be exported to deficit areas
elsewhere in India.
6.03      Additional marketing facilities would be required in the project
area. GOM has already begun a program to expand and improve the existing
markets, and this, together with the improvement of service roads, would
ensure both adequate capacity and reductions in the existing inequality of
prices between markets due to excessive transport costs.
Processing and Storage
6.04      Adequate facilities for processing the present production of
sugar, rice, oilseeds and pulses exist in the project area, but in the
future, additional capacity would be required. Except for the sugar factory,
most of the existing processing capacity is privately owned and it is
anticipated that additional facilities would be provided as required. The
storage facilities in and around the project area include 7,500 tons capacity
at Morena and 5,000 tons at Sheopur as well as about fifty small facilities
scattered over the project area. As the production increases, these facilities
would require expansion. Storage would be provided by the co-ops and by the



- 26 -
GOM at the mandies. Since most farmers sell their products almost immediately
after harvesting, there is little on-farm storage. That part of the crop
retained by the cultivators for food and seed is stored in the houses.
Prices of Agricultural Products
6.05      The farm gate price used in the economic analysis, was reduced
substantially below current prices. The prices for paddy, wheat and jowar
were based on the Bank's 1985 projections with appropriate adjustments for
transportation and grade. Since the Bank does not make projections of prices
of other agricultural products included in the analysis, these were based
upon local prices projected to 1985 levels on the basis of the Bank's general
indices. In assessing the ability of project farmers to meet the cost of
On-Farm Development Full Package!, the prices of some crops were reduced
below the current high levels, but not to the extent that prices are expected
to fall by 1985, since the most trying period for the farmers would be the
first few years when the incremental income would be small.
6.06      The price of fertilizer used in the economic analysis was sub-
stantially below current prices and reflects the Bank's 1985 projections.
The prices of all crops as well as farm inputs are in Annex 11.
Farm Incomes and Repayment Capacity
6.07      Since the On-Farm Development Full Package area is the only part
of the project with significant repayment requirements, the farms selected
for analysis were limited to.the sizes and types that might reasonably be
expected to exist in that area. Two sizes were selected: a 1 ha farm re-
presents the income potential on small farms, and a 2.4 ha farm represents
the average size farm for the project area. The budget for the 1 ha farm
was based upon a wheat - oriented cropping pattern. Two budgets were
prepared for the 2.4 ha sized farm. One was based upon a composite cropping
pattern and the other with wheal: as the major crop.
6.08      The analysis is based on the assumption that eight years would be
required to attain full production and that the annual cost of family
subsistence would be Rs 1,600. A substantial part of this would be farm-
produced foods. However, since the method of analysis assumed that all
farm prqduction would be sold, a sufficient family living allowance was
provided to enable the farm operator and his family to purchase grains
and pulses for home consumption. The same applies to grains fed to bullocks
during the working seasons. The detailed results of the farm budget analysis
are in Annex 12. The results are summarized below:



- 27 -
Net Farm
Farm          Income In                   Repayment in
Size           Year 8La                      Year 8
ha               Rs                 Rs         % of Net Inccme
1.0 wheat       2,438                355             15
2.4 composite  6,305                 852             14
2.4 wheat      5,710                 852             15
/a   Return to the operator and his family for their labor
and management after deducting all costs of production
except water charges (0&M, betterment levy, and repayment
of cost of on-farm development.) This is the amount
left over to cover family living, social expenses and
savings.
6.09      The present net farm income amounts to about Rs 1,100/ha.  This
will nearly double in the On-Farm Development Full Package area. Although
an analysis was not made, the increase in net farm income will probably be
larger in the Chak Drainage part of the project area because a substantial
part of the land to be drained is now waterlogged and out of production.
As soon as major drainage outlets are provided, this problem will be
eliminated.
6.10      The farm budget analysis indicates that the average farmer can
repay the costs of On-Farm Development Full Package with interest at 10-1/2%
in a ten-year period, following a one-year grace period. On the 2.4 ha wheat
oriented farm, after paying all costs including those associated with
water, the farmer would have an increase in income of Rs 2,000 per year.
This would repay him and his family for their additional 71 days of labor.
This converts to a return of Rs 28 per day for the additional work, an
attractive incentive when compared to the Rs 10 per day allowed for harvest
labor in the analysis or the Rs 5/day paid to labor during the regular
season.
6.11      The farmer on the 1 ha size farm unit would find it more difficult
to meet the prospective water charges and support his family. However,
he would have sufficient income to pay water charges and to leave Rs 1,600
for fami'ly living without off-farm work by Year Six. Since his farm would
require only about 95 days of labor per year, he would have spare time to
supplement his farm income by off-farm employment.
VII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
7.01      As indicated in Chapter Three, agricultural development in the
Chambal Command Area has fallen short of what was anticipated at the time
the project was planned and constructed. The project outlined here would
be the first step in a continuing program to eliminate constraints in the



- 28 -
operation of the irrigation system and to make more effective use of the
land and water at the farm level. At full development, it would produce
benefits which would have the following impacts on the economy:
(a)  provide the equivalent of 12,000 man years of additional
employment in agriculture;
(b)  nearly double the income of 93,000 farmers including
35,000 disadvantaged farmers who operate farm units
of one ha or less in size;
(c)  increase the production of food grains and
pulses by 184,000 tons, and
(d)  produce an annual incremnental net value of production
(economic) of Rs 145 miLlion.
7.02      The economic rate of return is estimated at 22%.  This is based
on the following: a 25-year period of analysis; full realization of benefits
for any particular block of land eight years after development; an average
increase in crop yields of 45%; price projections for both farm inputs and
outputs as given in Annex 11; shadow pricing of incremental farm labor
requirements at 70% of the curreni: wage rate in peak periods (Annex 13),
and project costs as developed in para 4.26. The rate of return is sensitive
ito the growth rate of benefits. For instance, a one year delay in the
realization of project benefits would reduce the rate to 19%. The rate
:Ls also relatively sensitive to project costs. An increase in these costs
by 25% would decrease the rate of return to 18%.
7.03      Rates of return were calculated separately for each of the three
sub-areas and the Chak Drainage area was was highest with a return of 36%.
The Extensive area has a rate of ^18%, while the On-Farm Development Full
Package area has a rate of 25%.
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
3.01      Assurances have been obtained from GOI that it would recruit or
cause to have recruited a land development specialist (para 4.19).
13.02     Agreement on the follow:Lng major points has been reached with GOM:
(a)  the GOM would strengtheni and make budgetary provision for
the agricultural research and extension program which would
be acceptable to the Association (para 4.16);
(b)  the GOM would make budgetary provision in its annual
development plans for implementation of the project
in accordance with a detailed schedule of expenditures
which would be acceptable to the Association, and that



- 29 -
it would furnish to the Association not later than February
1st each year, a detailed plan for the project implementation
for the next fiscal year (para 4.29);
(c) the accounts and financial statements of the CAM would
be audited each year and that certified copies of such
financial statement and audit would be submitted to
the Association within six months of the end of each
fiscal year (para 4.35);
(d) the GOM would introduce a suitable water allocation plan
before the end of the project implementation period
(three years) (para 5.27); and
(e)  the GOM would establish a system of water charges to cover
the full annual 0 & M costs and to recover the
construction costs over a 30-year period (para 5.33).
8.03      Condition of effectiveness of the credit would be that a Sub-
sidiary Loan Agreement satisfactory to the Association had been executed
between GOI and ARC (para 4.28).
8.04      The proposed project would be suitable for an IDA credit of
US$24 million under the usual IDA terms. The Borrower would be India.
May 27, 1975






ANINEX 1
Page 1
INDIA
CHANBAL COMMAND AREA DEVELOPIEINT PROJECT (MAD1}YA PRADESH)
Climatic Data
1.        The climate varies little throughout the project area, although
there are slight differences in the timing of the seasons from one end of
the area to the other.
2.        The climate is subtropical with three distinct seasons:  the
summer (kharif) or wet season (June to September), when the southwest
monsoon prevails; the cool, dry winter (rabi) season (October to February)
and the very hot, dry pre-monsoon season (March to May).
3.        Temperature, humidity, pan evaporation and rainfall data for the
area are in Table 1.
4.        The area is essentially frost-free, with an average minimum tem-
perature in the coolest month of about 8C.
5.        Humidity is low between March and May and high in the summer.  Pan
evaporation is low during the cool winter season, and relatively high from
March to August.
6.        Unirrigated agriculture depends on the short, unreliable rainy
season. Reliable irrigation would allow full use of the long sunshine
hours in May and June.



INDIA
CHAMBAL COMMAND AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (MADHYA PRADESH)
Climatic Data
1/                      2/       Average                   Rainfall-/
Air Temperature-                    Mean-        Monthly Pan    Mean        Wettest      Driest
Month         Mean                 Extreme          Relative        Evaporation   Monthly   Month on   Month on
Maximum   Minimum   Highest   Lowest         Humidity          Rate          Total      Record      Record
o                       8.30    17.30
----------------- C ----------------   --- hours ---    -------------------- mm -------------------
January        24.5        7.8        33.9      0.6      64       34          90           14          59           0
February       28.5        9.9        38.3      2.3      51       25         129            5          41           0
March          34.2       16.0        42.8      9.9    -34        18         217            6           18          0
April          38.8       21.3        45.6    14.4       24       13         326            1           4           0
May            42.4       26.8        47.8    18.9       28       16         401            5          45           0
June           40.3       28.6        47.8    21.1       47       35         396           53         228           3
July           33.8       25.9        47.2    20.4       74       65         248          243         456          55
August         31.3       24.7        41.1    18.9       81       69         184          305         554         122
September      32.5       23.5        40.6    20.0       73       58         151          150         304         25
October        32.9       18.4        41.1    13.4       53       34         155           27         128           0
November       29.4       11.0        37.2      7.8      51       29         111            3           16          0
December       26.1        8.3        33.9      3.9      61       35          88            6          77           0
Annual Mean                                                               Total
or Extreme    32.9        18.5        47.8      0.6      53       36      2,496           818
1/  From data collected at stations in the Command Area.
2/ At Kota.
3/ At Agra.
H~j
FJ M



ANNEX 2
Page 1
INDIA
CIIAHEAL COMMAND AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (MADRYA PRADESii)
Project Works
A. Past Development
General
1.        The Chambal Command Area located in Bhind and i4orena Districts
in northwest Madhya Pradesh (lIP) State comprises a 320,000 ha tract
(224,000 ha net irrigable) of fertile alluvial clay-loam and sandy-loam
soils. The area is flat with only 1% of land over 1% slope. Under the
favorable subtropical monsoon conditions, a wide range of valuable grain
and cash crops are grown, but irrigation is required for year-round pro-
duction. The area is fully settled with small farmers (average holding
2.4 ha).  Prior to the Chambal Irrigation Projects, the area was princi-
pally pasture and rainfed agriculture with small, supplementary tank-fed
irrigation, principally in The Bhind District. The project is contiguous
with the Chambal Irrigation Project in Rajasthan State and shares the same
water source.
Chambal (MP) System
2.        The Chambal (MP) system down to the 40 ha irrigation service unit
(chak) turnout level was completed in 1970. Irrigation service to parts of
the area commenced in 1963. The Chambal system is supplied from three
storage and hydro-electric dams in cascade on the Chambal River (Ghandisagar,
Rana Pratap Sagar, and Jawahar Sagar dams) via Kota diversion barrage in
Rajasthan State and the 370 km Right Main Canal (RMC). The first 130 km
of the Pb4C is in Rajasthan and 240 km is in Madhya Prades8. The Interstate
Water Agreement provides for sharing equally the 3,900 lMm estimated as
being3available in 88% of She years.  The nominal RUC peak capacities are
190 m /s at Kota and 110 m /s at Parvati where the 1UX crosses into  Iadhya
Pradesh.  The canal system is 3,191 km long, almost entirely unlined.  The
Chief Engineer Chambal (UP) has operational control responsibility for the
main storage dam at Gnandisagar. Details of the reservoir and conveyance
system are given in Table 1. The nomenclature of the canal system in
descending order of size is:  main, branch, distributary and minor.  A
minor delivers water to the watercourse which serves an irrigation service
unit (cnak) area of 30-40 ha.



ANNEX 2
Page 2
3.        Although the entire Chambal (MP) system is operable and has re-
ceived its full annual water a:Llocation between 1970-74, it serves only
about 150,000 ha at present due to the following deficiencies:
(a) Lack-of an agreed water allocation plan aimed at
optimum use of canal supplies.
(b) Inadequate canal management because of:
-    poor canalside road and telephone communica-
tions;
-    lack of simultaneous water recording devices
to provide vital data for control decisions;
-    insufficient head regulating structures and
under-capacity in some of the distributary and
minor canals, restricting timely and equitable
water distribution;
-    insecurity of the RMC; breaches reduce the
reliability of supply;
-    unsuitable operating procedures, insufficient
0 & M staff and staff housing at strategic
control points;
-    losses due to leakage from the attenuated canal
system;
-    enforced canal closures to remove aquatic weeds;
-    supply interruptions due to difficulties on the
Rajasthan reach of KIC (now being overcome).
(c)  Inadequate irrigation distribution below the chak outlet
level due to:
-    poorly construct.ed and badly maintained watercourses;
-    incomplete on-farm land shaping and irregular property
boundaries which. inhibit field channel and drainage
layout, and farm access;
-    the absence of cooperative water use (warabandi)
among the cultivators (only 12,000 ha is currently
operating the rotational system).



ANNEX 2
Page 3
(d) poor land drainage in the low soil permeability areas
because of lack of efficient main and secondary drainage
channels.
Some 70,000 ha of land is adversely affected in varying degrees, mainly during
the July-October monsoon season; of this area, 20,000 ha (including 8,000 ha
of flooded land which is virtually out of production) has water tables within
2 m of the surface at the end of the monsoon season.
(e) limited areas (about 7% of the project area) of saline
and alkali soils requiring reclamation, the acknowledged
first step of which would be improved drainage.
4.        Agricultural production has also been constrained by:
-    lack of coordinated agriculture and irrigation planning
on a crop/season/area basis;
-    poorly trained and badly organized agricultural exten-
sion staff;
-    inadequate credit facilities, and
-    shortage of inputs (fertilizer, improved seeds) at
farm level.
5.        There is also a continuing loss of agricultural land due to
progressive gully erosion.  This is mainly along the periphery of the
project area adjacent to the Chambal River and its main tributaries.
Project Formulation
6.        The Government of Madhya Pradesh (GOM) has prepared a long-term
program to correct the irrigation system and the on-farm land development
deficiencies identified above. The present project, which would constitute
the first three years of this program, would concentrate on: priority in-
frastructural works (irrigation, drainage and roads); coordinated project
services (extension, research, and operation and maintenance), and two
categories of on-farm development. The scope of the possible infrastruc-
tural works program is constrained by GOM State Budget resources, while
on-farm development is restricted by the present small planning and execu-
tion capacity.
7.        Irrigation and Ma_.n Drainage and Road works (described in Parts
B and D below) for which Government works agencies are already partly in
place, would be constructed rapidly from the outset of the project. On-
Farm Development Full Package works (described in part C below) would be
constructed with GOM budget funds. On completion of each chak development,
the cost would be financed by institutional credit (Land Development Banks,



ANNEX 2
Page 4
Commercial Banks, both refinanced by Agricultural Refinance Corporation).
Thus projected on-farm developmnent would not be constrained by State budget
limitations. The necessary organization to plan and execute this work would
have to be built up from the present small size to a level at Year Three which
would permit larger scale implementation in a second stage project. The
project would also provide for feasibility studies for a second stage proj-
ect, assistance in operation and maintenance (Annex 9) and agricultural
supporting services (Annex 8).
B. Irrigation, Main Drainage and Erosion Control
8.        The following system improvement works are included in the proj-
ect: (a) RMC erosion protecticn, including lining; (b) canal capacity
improvement; (c) canal control structures; (d) aquatic weed control; (e)
main drainage; (f) miscellaneous works. These are described below.
RMC Erosion Control and Lining Works
9.        During its early years of operation, the RMC suffered a serifs of
serious breaches culminating in the 1970 Pathak Enquiry Committee recom.menda-
tions for bank strengthening, selective lining and provision of facilities
for improved operational supervision. These remedial works are now par-
tially completed and have significantly reduced the danger of breaching.
They would be completed under the project. For complete assurance, an ex-
tended program is required. ThLs is fully justified because major breaches
have caused total annual production losses on over 20,000 ha. The project
would, therefore, include the following high priority works: gunite cement
mortar lining of 3.62 km of RMC where its bed penetrates the permeable
weathered rock formation; concrete lining of 0.37 km of RMC and Lower Main
Canal (LMC) where they pass through soluble alkaline soils; a total of
3.66 km of masonry lining upstream and downstream of 19 large cross drain-
age structures (aqueducts carryJ:ng RMC across streams and gullies) where
the existing seepage poses a serious danger to canal bank stability and
lengthening of the barrels of two large drainage culverts passing under RMC
to facilitate essential canal bank strengthening.
10.       Canal lining would be mostly 20 cm thick masonry set in cement
mortar. It is locally proven as efficient and is low-cost because large
stockpiles of rock from previous canal excavation are available along the
PIC. It is suitable for speedy construction, a vital factor since the
maximum permissible canal closure in April-May is six weeks. 'Ihere plain
1:3:6 concrete lining is utilized, it would be 15 cm thick. Both types
of lining would be formed on sand filter layers and provided with uplift
relief. Gunite lining on rocky bed reaches would be machine-applied to a
final 2.5 cm thickness. Canal reaches to be lined are listed in Table 2.



ANNEX 2
Page 5
11.       Although these works are primarily intended to prevent canal bank
erosion and breaches they would also reduce loss of valuable canal water.
GOM in their request for IDA assistance had originally envisaged lining up
to 380 km of main and secondary canals, in order to reduce water conveyance
losses - at a cost of over $19 million. There is insufficient evidence to
support such a large investment. The quantity and points of occurrence of
canal losses have not yet been specifically identified and the cost/benefit
of remedial works cannot be established at present. Also implementation of
such a large program would involve lengthy canal closures with unacceptable
losses in crop production. The project would, however, include provision
for systematic technical and cost-benefit studies to determine the extent
of canal lining which could be justified in a second-stage project.
Canal Capacity Works
12.       The main canal system was originally designed for a water duty of
0.4 litres/ha commanded. Subsequently, with the reduction of the planned
irrigation service area from 280,000 ha to 224,000 ha the duty effectively
increased to 0.5 litres/ha. This is adequate to meet the water demand for
the projected, increased cropping intensity in the peak demand month (Feb-
ruary). Fhe main canals have sufficient capacity to meet this demand.
13.       The branch, distributary and minor canals serving the presently
projected on-farm development area would be increased in capacity to 0.65
1/s/ha to meet the planned cropping pattern.  In addition, those canals
serving compact blocks of land already growing HYV wheat would also be
increased in capacity.  In all, 300 km of canals would be widened and
deepened and their existing control structures correspondingly modified.
carthvork would be un-ortaken tnroughout the dry (rabi) season by con-
structing a new bank outside one of the existing banks to avoid supply
interruption.  Structural modifications would be completed during the
annual canal closures.
14.       Ccrtaia e.x.istian  watercourses serving s-mall comimand areas are
fed directly from the main canals. These would be raised to tuie standard
of minor canals by bank strengthening to reduce present water loss throughi
and over the banis.  'Under the present project, the  ;ost urgently required
100 km af these watercourses would be modified duritng a series of acceptable
15-day closures timed to minimize conflict wth crop demands of the particu-
lar se!rvice areas.  Canal capacity improvement works are shown on .ap 11507.
Control Structures
15.       Present inadequate canal water control is due to the lack of:
-    cross regulator structures to maintain head at the
canal offtakes when tne system is operating at less
thani full flow capacity;



X4NEX 2
Pag-e 6
spillway structures to permit the canals to run at
full capacity over extended periods under varying
drawoff conditions without the danger of overloading
parts of the system;
gated pipe outlets and tail control cluster structures
to control flow from minor canals to watercourses.
16.       These inadequacies prevent water delivery to the individual serv-
ice areas on the time-schedule required by the cropping pattern. The in-
tensified cropping pattern now projected would require much closer water
control for effective delivery. The project would construct 44 cross
regulators, 11 overflow escape st:ructures, 3,000 prefabricated pipe out-
lets and 100 tail control structures;
17.       Canal cross regulators and escapes would be of concrete and
masonry with vertical steel gates and would be constructed during the six
weeks annual canal closure. Materials would be stockpiled at site during
the dry season.  Offtakes would be of prefabricated concrete pipe with
wooden gates and would be installed during 15 day closures throughout the
year.
Aquatic Weed Control
18.       In certain sections of the RMC and LMC, the clearance of aquatic
weeds requires canal closures during the operating season. The work in-
volves hand cutting and uprooting of tenacious weeds growing below the
canal water level. The project would provide 22 additional drawoff struc-
tures to facilitate rapid draining of the canal.
19.       The most troublesome canal reaches are downstream of two exist-
ing tanks (small reservoirs originally constructed for irrigation) which
act as breeding grounds for the weeds. To eliminate this source of trouble,
the project would provide banks to separate the canals from the tanks. The
RIMC would be canalized through the Kalarna tank and the Bhind Canal through
one of the Kotwal tanks.
Main Drainage
20.       As described in paragraph 3(d) of this Annex 70,000 ha of land
in the project area suffers from poor drainage. An essential first step
in remedying this situation is the rehabilitation of existing natural
main drainage channels together with the interception and diversion of
canal seepage water into the natural main drainage system. Pilot schemes
carried out by GOM have demonstrated the feasibility of these remedial
works.
21.       Existing main drainage consists of streams and gullies traversing
the project area from the higher ground in the south to the Chambal River



ANNEX 2
Page 7
system in the north; these drainage channels are about 1 to 2 km apart.
Due to lack of maintenance, they are overgrown. In places they follow tor-
tuous courses with adverse flooding and land erosion consequences during
the monsoon flow periods. The project would undertake the first stage of
a longer program to improve the hydraulic efficiency and stability of these
channels by providing sections with sloping banks, masonry check drop struc-
tures to reduce the flow velocity and realignment of tne meandering reaches.
Some 200 km of channels and associated structures would be undertaken in the
16 subbasins listed in Table 3. Design criteria are outlined in paragrapn 43
of this Annex.
22.       The project would also construct 560 km of small interceptor drains
parallel to branch and distributary canals mainly in the Bhind, Ambah and
Jora areas where canal seepage has resulted in waterlogging of adjacent farm
land. These drains would be of 50-70 1/s capacity, about one meter deep with
sloping sides and unlined. Small masonry fall structures would be provided
at points where the drains join deeper, natural main drainage channels.  See-
page drain locations are shown on 'fap 11507.
Liscellaneous Works
23.       Various high priority miscellaneous works aimed at improved canal
management would be constructed under the project. These include: build-
ings for operating staff to be located at strategic control points; improve-
ment of tne telecommunications system and its extension to cover a total of
300 km of the RMC and LMC, including automatic water level recorders con-
nected by wire telemetering to a central control room; all weather surfacing
of 200 km of canalside roads together with 54 additional bridges to provide
rapid access to both banks of the IZIC and LMC.
Ravine Erosion Control
24.       The Chambal area is renowned for its impressive ravines, in many
cases 20-30 meters deep, connected to the Chambal River and its tributaries.
Progressive gully type erosion moves upstream in these ravines annually,
endangering canals and roads and causing loss of valuable farm land. The
GOM has embarked on a pilot program of ravine reclamation. This program
involves heavy earthmoving at high cost and doubtful benefit/cost advantage.
However, some form of economic, protective action is necessary. In order
to develop least cost methods for adoption on a large scale, the project
would include pilot ravine erosion control aimed at interception of upstream
flood waters and stabilization of the gully floor and sides. These would
comprise earth embankments around the perimeter of the ravines with parallel
drains leading to drop structures to pass upstream flood water safely to
the gully floors. The project would also include afforestation and check
drop structures inside the gullies. Some 50 km of works around the peri-
meters would be included, the maximum extent which could be completed in
three years given the present small planning and implementation capacity.



AiNEX 2
Page 8
C. On-Farm Development Works
25.       The Chambal irrigation system has been constructed down to thie
turnout from the distributary canals to the watercourses which serve
individual irrigation service areas (chak), each about 30-40 ha in extent.
Apart from watercourses serving about 130,000 ha, and drainage works for
6,000 ha, both constructed by GOM, the on-farm works necessary for full
irrigation development withini the chaks have been left to the farmers.
These works include both communally owned facilities and private land
improvement. They comprise watercourses, drainage ditches, farm access
roads, and, on uneven topography, field leveling to enable water distribu-
tion. In many cases adjustment of property boundaries is necessary to
facilitate a rational channel layout. Generally these works have proved
to be beyond the capacity of the farmers to plan, finance and carry out.
Consequently, increases in agricultural production both from improved yields
and from higher cropping intensity, which would have resulted from better
water use, have not been achieved.
26.       Two main categories of Dn-farm development have been identified
for inclusion in the project on tnie basis of priority needs of the respeztive
areas selected.  These categories are:  (a) chaks in which land leveling
requirements exceed 300 cubic meters per ha, (b) flat but badly drained
chaks with relatively impermeable underlying soils.  Category (a) improve-
ments include the full package of works necessary to utilize available water
for optimal agricultural prodcuction increases on 12,000 ha of land; category
(b) includes only the drainage improvement works which are a prerequisite
for furtiher development of 20,000 ha. Tne blend of the two categories in
the project was selected after co:asideration of the following objectives:
-    to improve areas where land levelling and watercourse
construction is beyond the capacity of the farmers
and the scale of works is sufficiently large to warrant
project involvement;
-    to demonstrate the beneEits of comprehensive on-farm
development throughout -he project area;
-    to develop additional planning criteria for a second
stage project,
-    given GO'f's present s;-iaLl capacity for planning and
executin g the full package type of on-farr, development,
to limit project involver-.ent to those chaks which csuld
be fully completed in three years;
-    to build up the organization necessary for completing
on-farm land developmen: at the annual rate of 5 ,000-
6,000 ha in succeeding project stages;



ANNEX 2
Page 9
-    to provide urgently needed drainage facilities to the
worst waterlogged land as quickly as possible, utilizing
the comparatively large existing works organization, and
to introduce more complete and uniform drainage planning
criteria from the outset.
27.       The GOM has demonstrated the feasibility of both categories of land
development on pilot schemes constructed between 1972-74. Full package on-
farm development has been completed on 300 ha. Drainage treatment totalling
6,000 ha has been carried out within four blocks of land at Baroda, Mangrol,
Sabalgarh and Premsar.
Full Package (Category (a))
28.       Development would be planned on a chak by chak basis.  For this
to be effective, all farmers within the chak would have to participate.
Prior to detailed planning, a careful selection of particular chaks would
be made on the basis of a participant census. The areas in which chaks
would be selected for inclusion in the project are listed in Table 3. The
GOM has already selected sufficient chaks for the first year of the project.
29.       The planning of each chak would be based on existing Land Revenue
maps suitably updated by the Revenue Department of the Command Area Author-
ity (CAA). Present experience is that the Revenue maps are in fairly good
order. Topographic detail would be superimposed from existing 1:15,840
scale Survey of India maps with 30 cm contour intervals. Plane table surveys
would establish 10 cm contour intervals. Detailed soils survey data would
be collected and incorporated.
30.       Based on these maps, the Soils Conservation subdivisions of the
CAA Agricultural Department (Annex 7), strengthened by experienced engineers
seconded from the Irrigation Department would draw up a comprehensive chak
development plan. This plan would cover all necessary watercourses, drains,
farm roads, land shaping and property boundary realignment required. The
Revenue Department of the CAA would be closely involved.
31.    * In particular, boundary realignment proposals would be carefully
prepared to ensure an optimal solution embodying rational channel layout,
minimum earthmoving and farmer acceptance. Present GOM experience is that
boundary realignments including land consolidation have been acceptable to
the farmers. This acceptance has probably been the result of judicious
choice of chak and automatic compensation of land lost to channel and road
easements by inclusion of wualienated State land (commonly about 5% - 8%
of the area) in the chak development. As successive chaks have been
completed, the benefits of on-farm development have become visible to a
growing number of farmers.



ANNEX 2
Page 10
_2.       The detailed engineering design would include irrigation water-
courses located on the micro-ridges and drains on the intervening lower
land, together with the necessary small brick-built water control structures.
W-atercourses would have a capacity of 0.7 litres/ha and drainage channels
1.1 litres/ha. All channels except the first 50 meters at the watercourse
he-ad would be unlined.  Land leveling would be in conformity with the gen-
cral topography. Fields would be rectangular, maximum 100 m length, with
access to both watercourse and drain. They would be leveled to 0.2% slope
and cross leveled to form 15 m strips. In predominantly heavy soil paddy
cultivation areas, small level basins would be formed. Farmers would have
to construct any additional ditches and drains inside their own fields them-
,-elves under technical guidance of the project.
33.       Existing GOM layout designs-are rather rigid.  They involve con-
siderable earthmoving. Equivalent or better results could be obtained at
lesser cost. Earthmoving equipment (bulldozers) available to the Agricul-
tural Department are unsuitable for farm land leveling. GOM has agreed to
suitably modify their designs. A typical example of chak development com-
pleted by GOM is shown on Map 11524.
34.       After completion of detailed planning, an estimate would be pre-
pared, broken down to show the costs of development to each individual
farmer. The costs of channels and roads would be proportionately shared
according to the size of each farmers' land holding. The cost of land
levelling to be borne by a farmer would be the cost of levelling his
original holding.
35.       Detailed plans and estimates for each chak would be submitted to
the District Land Improvement Committee and then to the cultivators for
approval. If two thirds of the latter (by number or area held) approve
the plans, the works would proceed after allowing 2-3 months for settlement
of objections. Although powers of compulsion are vested in the CAA, it is
not anticipated that it would be necessary to invoke this authority fre-
quently. If the majority of cultivators of any chak refused development,
the chak would be postponed until later in the project. Present GOM ex-
perience is that the contrary is t'he case and that cultivators, now able
to view the results so far obtained on completed chaks, are pressing for
early action. A recent census of 41 villages showed an 85% acceptance
of the On-Farm Development Full Package concept.
36.       Once agreed, the works would be constructed by the Agro-Industries
Corporation (AIC), a GOM agency, under the technical supervision of the CAA
Agricultural Department Soil Conservation subdivisions. The project would
procure land levelling equipment suitable for the project. Title to the
equipment would remain with GOM.  On-Farm Development Full Package work
would be undertaken with existing GOM equipment during the first year of
the project. Work would be carried out during the October through May
dcry period.



ANNEX 2
Page 11
37.       On completion of the works on the chak to the satisfaction of the
CAA, a completion certificate would be prepared for each farmer who would
be requested to countersign it. It would then form part of the farm devel-
opment loan application document file. In due course, the farmer would
receive an amended land title from the Land Revenue Department of the CAA
who would also be responsible for revising the Land Revenue map showing all
property boundaries.
Chak Drainage (Category (b))
38.       The Chambal project area is relatively flat, generally sloping at
about 0.5% from south to north. Some chaks are underlain with relatively
impermeable clay soils at about 2 m depth, which restrict downward percola-
tion of water.  Disposal of surplus surface water accumulated from monsoon
rainfall, irrigation return flows and canal seepage poses a problem. Apart
from the topographic and soil factors, contributory causes of waterlogging
are an insufficient network of drainage channels and inadequate drainage
culverts and bridge openings under roads, railways and canals. Natural
drainage channels such as small streamcourses and gullies are overgrown with
typha grass. Perennial rivers are in fairly clear condition but are often
several kilometers remote from the farmland. ,Smaller gullies have been
cultivated over by farmers and are no longer operative as main drains.
39.       In 1971/72, GOM began a pilot drainage improvement project in four
areas. This has benefitted about 6,000 ha of land and has been well received
by the farmers. The project would continue this process to a further 20,000
ha. In addition, the works would be planned to penetrate to farm level. The
Chak Drainage works would be preceded by the main drainage works (para-
graphs 20-22 of this Annex) which form part of the infrastructural improve-
ment under the project. The Chak Drainage works would be undertaken in the
worst affected areas within the sixteen subbasins listed in Table 3.
40.       Chaks selected for the drainage development typically would be
flat areas, requiring very little land levelling. Many of these areas are
suitable primarily for paddy cultivation due to their soils and topography.
Their further development must be preceded by drainage improvement as a
first step. Farmers are only too aware of this and are anxious for drainage
improvement. After completion of chak drainage works, the areas would be
monitored for 2 to 3 years to ascertain whether an additional package of
on-farm development similar to that proposed in category (a) would yield
benefits consistent with further investment--to be undertaken in a later
stage project.
41.       The drainage layout would comprise chak drains to convey water
from the farm boundaries (small farms under 1 ha would he grouped together)
to a collector drain which would, in turn, discharge at the nearest conven-
ient point, to a natural drainage course already improved under the project.
Collector drains would be spaced at 0.5 km maximum intervals and would be
located in the lowest land between chaks. A typical collector drain would



ANNEX 2
Page 12
serve up 12 chaks, i.e., about '500 ha, which would be formed into a drainage
block by low embankments. The particular layout to be adopted would be
planned according to the topography, soils and location of outfall into the
natural drainage courses. Farm drains from the fields to the chak drains
would be constructed by the farmers themselves on their own fields under the
technical guidance of the project. In order to maintain water table during
the paddy planting seasons, small check structures equipped with wooden
sluices would be located, as determined by topography in the chak drains.
42.       At this stage of chak development, no boundary realignment would
have been completed. The GOM would therefore obtain the necessary channel
easements by compulsory acquisition. It would exercise its prerogative to
grant unalienated State land in lieu of monetary compensation to affected
farmers. Because the work would be commenced in the worst affected chaks,
GOM believes, based on its previous experience, that farmers would be agree-
able to any necessary boundary adjustments.
43.       Drainage design standards have been derived from run-off studies
and are as follows: channel capacity in the first instance would be suf-
ficient for a run-off of 1.1 1/s/ha resulting from a one-day, 130 mm storm
with an acceptable maximum crop submergence of 72 hours; drainage structures
such as bridge openings, culverts and falls would be constructed to a capa-
city of 2.2 1/s/ha to allow for future increase in crop drainage require-
ments; large structures such as major spillways would be designed, on their
individual merits, for acceptable risk. Channel dimensions would be: 1 m
minimum depth (2 m for collector drains), 1:1 side slopes, 0.05% to 0.10%
bed gradients.
44.       Construction of collector and chak drains deeper than 1 m would
be by force account using small dragline excavators procured under the
project. Smaller drains and all structural work would be undertaken by
labor-intensive, small contracts. Machine excavation would continue through-
out the year whereas hand excavation would be restricted to the October-May
dry period. The Irrigation Department would be responsible for surveys,
engineering design and construction supervision. The Land Revenue Depart-
ment would be responsible for the land acquisition/boundary adjustments.
These Departments' work would be closely coordinated by the CAA and the
District-Land Improvement Committee would approve all plans (Annex 7).
.45.      Chak drainage would be financed in the first instance from GOM
State Budget. Because a chak dra:in would normally serve two chaks, this
mini-block would have to be planned as a whole.



ANNEX 2
Page 13
D. Roads
Background
46.       The command area is fairly well served by a main road network
comprising part of the Agra-Bombay national highway and state highways
linking most of the important towns and all the nine new markets under
construction. The principal deficiency in the road system is the absence
of access roads to villages. The villages have populations ranging from
500 to nearly 10,000 inhabitants with no links to the main roads except
for cart tracks which are regularly obliterated by monsoon rains.
47.       The proposed road component is aimed at reducing the isolation
suffered by the villagers and contributing to the expansion of the village
economy mainly by enabling the villagers to obtain higher profits from the
sale of their surplus by reducing transportation costs to the markets situ-
ated in the towns. Easy access to the main roads and towns would also at-
tract better education and health facilities.
48.       The village roads proposed under this project total 206 km (Table
4). Roads in waterlogged areas, have been given priority followed by those
in other irrigated areas. Most of the roads are around the towns of Sheopur
and Gohad. Roads in the sugarcane areas near the Kailaras sugar factory
have also been included.      a
Preparation of the Road Program
49.       The road surveys, including soils and materials surveys, final
engineering and documentation would be undertaken by the Public Works De-
partment (PWD). The PWD is organized regionally and has responsibility
for both roads and buildings. However, in order to ensure better coordina-
tion with the Command Area Authority and improve the planning and execution
of the roads program, the PWD has agreed to establish a separate Circle to
undertake this work.
50.       The PWD also agreed that the new Circle would have a Planning
Division'to determine individual road priorities to enable construction to
be scheduled in that order. The Division would also be responsible for the
preparation of roads for possible inclusion in a future project and, for this
purpose, would undertake identification work and conduct necessary economic
and technical feasibility studies.
51.       The roads would have a single lane 3.5 m wide on a formation width
of 6.0 m and would not be bicuminized. They would generally have a graded
crushed stone aggregate surface with murrum shoulders (murrum is a sandy
clay soil with a fair amount of gravel). There are no major bridges on the
roads. The geometric standards are generally those adopted for the village
roads by the Indian Roads Congress (Table 5) and they are satisfactory.



A'NEX 2
Page 14
Execution of the Road Program
512.      Construction.  Contractors would be employed to construct all
roads with supervision carried out by the new PWD Circle. The work consists
cf the construction of low cost roads for which labor intensive methods
would be more suitable and is scheduled for implementation over a period
of three years.
53.       The general conditions of contract currently used in road con-
struction contracts, however, are not satisfactory and require certain
amendments to place the contractor in an equitable position in his contrac-
tual relationship with the State Government. For example, there are no
provisions in the conditions of contract for third party arbitration and
escalation of prices and the PWD has powers unilaterally to terminate a
ciDntract without compensation if flnds become scarce. The PWD has agreed
to amend the general conditions in consultation with the Association.
54.       Purchase of Equipment.  lhe works would be carried out in small
contracts worth about Rs 2.0 million each. The local contractors usually
hire equipment from the PWD.  The project would procure some essential
iltems of equipment to meet construction and supervision requirements and
subsequent road maintenance. The equipment consists mostly of locally
rntanufactured like trucks and road rollers.
E. Assistance to the GOI in Project Preparation for Command
Area Development Projects in Other Parts of India
5'.       The project includes funds (for the Command Area Development (CAD)
Department of the Ministry of Agriculture and Irrigation of GOI) to assist
in project preparation of a number of CAD projects in other States of India.
Over the next Five Year Period, a large number of irrigation projects, each
with a CAD element, would be prepared for Bank Group financing under the
current operational program. This provision would help extend the necessary
pilot land development projects to all the States participating in the CAD
program during the next three years.
56.       Pilot land development projects would help identify the key eco-
nomic and water use parameters governing the implementation of optimum on-
farm development. Various levels of land development would be investigated
ta, determine their respective costs and benefits and to check out organiza-
tional, management and financing arrangements prior to the project's ap-
praisal. The total cost of the CAD project preparation to be financed under
this tredit, including expected price increases, over the next three years,
would be US$900,000.



ANNEX 2
Page 15
57.       Project provision is also made for technical assistance to 0O0
(Ministry of Agriculture, CAD Department) for employment of an internationally-
recruited land development specialist for a period up to two years.



ANNEX 2
Table 1
Page 1
INDIA
CHAMBAL COMMAND AREA DEVELOFKENT PROJECT (MADHYA FRADESH)
Project Works
Main Features of the Cham'Dal Irrigation Project
1.        Reservoirs (Map  11501   )
(a) Ghandisagar Dam:  64 m high masonry structure; reservoir
storage 7,750 Vn3; reservoir water area at full operating
level 630 km2; power station capacity 119 14W.
(b) Rana Pratap Sagar Dani: 5b m high masonry structure;
reservoir storage 2,900 Mm3; installed power capacity 172 MW.
(c) JawaharSagar Dam: lt5 m high concrete gravity structure,
small storage in heacl pond of the 100 MW power installation.
(d) Kota diversion barrage: 20 m high concrete gravity structure
with steel gates.
2.        Canal System (Map   11507  )
From Kota diversion barrage the Right Main Canal (RMC) passes
through Rajasthan State for 130 km.  It then crosses over theParbati
River into Madhya Pradesh and continues for 179 km to a point near
Sabalgarh where it divides into the Lower Main Canal and the Ambah Branch
Canal. -The Lower Main Canal in turn serves the Morena Branch Canal and,
by way of the Asan drop and the Kotwal tank system, theBhind Main Canal.
The Bhind Canal also serves the Mau Branch Canal. The canal lengths and
irrigable areas served are as follows:



ANNEX 2
Table 1
Page 2
Net
Reach                                         Length of Canal   Irrigable Area
(km)              (ha)
Right Main Canal (RMC) (Upper Main Canal)           179             62,400
Ambah Branch Canal (ABC)                            171             43,980
Lower Main Canal (LMC)                               53             21,560
Morena Branch Canal (MBC)                            38             21,400
Subtotal                                       441            149,340
Bhind Main Canal                                     82             51,800
Mau Branch Canal                                     X              22,860
Subtotal                                       130             74,660
Total:  Main and Branch Canals                 7L             224.000
The total legth of' the Chambal Canal system is (km):
Main and Branch Canals        571
Major distributary canals     538
Lesser distributary canals
and minors                  2,082
3>191



ANNEX 2
Table 2
INDIA
CHAMBAL COMMAND AREA EEVELOPMENT PROJECT (MADHYA PRADESH)
Pro.ject Works
Canal Lining
1. Canal Lining of Rocky bed reaches and soluble salt soil reaches
Location
Canal                 Chainage of Reach  length of Lining  Type of Lining
A. Right Main Canal (RMC)
(rocky bed reaches)                1,874                790       Gunite-Cement
2,286               490        Gunite-Cement
2,315             1,130        Gunite-Cement
4,895             1,210        Gunite-Cement
Subtotal                                       3,620
B. Lower Main Canal (LMC)
(soluble salt soil reaches,          461                370       Concrete
Total Lining of rocky bed reaches and
soluble salt reaches                            3.99 km
2. Lining upstream and downstream of Cross Drainage (CD) Structures
Name of Structure              Location        Length of Lining
(Chainage)            (m)
A. RMC
1.         Parbati.                             39                  300
2.         Aheli                               306                  180
3.         Ratdi                               366                 190
4.         Syphon                              576                   30
5.         Syphon                              586                   30
6.         Syphon                              820                   50
7.         Seep Aqueduct                    1,977                  210
8.         Amral                            2,200                  120
9.         Sarari Syphon                    2,607                  170
10.         Dhatoni Aqueduct                  2,799                  300
11.         Dohi Aqueduct                     3,392                  160
12.         Papra Aqueduct                   4,462                    60
13.         Birfin Aqueduct                   4,486                   70
14.         Kemara Aqueduct                  4,790                1,520
15.         Jawahagarh Aquediuct             5,053                    30
Subtotal                                         3,420
B. _IC
1.         Kunwari Aqueduc1;                   567                 150
2.         Suean Aqueduct                      802                   30
3.         Kotsirthra Aquecduct             1,OL1                   30
4.         Sukhdeni                         1,244                    30
Subtotal                                           240
Total lining upstream and downstream of CD Structures                  3.66 km



ANNEX 2
Table 3
INDIA
CHAMBAL COMMAND AREA DEVELOPMENT FROJECT (MADHYA PRADESH)
Project Works
On-Farm Development and Chak Drainage
Categoxy (a): Full Package Intensive Development Areas
Name                                          Irrigable Area (ha)
1.  Sheopur-Premsar                                  3,000
2.  Sabalgarh-Kailaras                               1,875
3.  Jora                                               750
4.  Bhind-Morena                                     4,875
5.  Ambah                                            1,500
12 * 00
Category (b): Drainage Areas
Drainage Subbasin                             Area to be Drained (ha)
1.   Rajpurna                                        1,800
2.   Baroda                                          1,620
3.  Hirnikhira                                         800
4.   Premsar                                         1,800
5.  Gohera                                             630
6.  Mangrol                                            960
7.   Sabalgarh                                         900
8.   Semai                                           1,000
9.  Jora I                                           1,260
10.   Jora II                                           580
11.   Rethora I                                         540
12.   Rethora II                                      1,540
13.   Anchaya                                           500
14.   Kharwa                                          2,500
15.   Chitora                                           500
16.   Chirol                                          3,070
Total area to be drained:                 20,000



AiNNEX 2
Table 4
INDIA
CHAMBAL COMMAND AREA DEVELOPMEIWT PROJECT (MADHYA PRADESH)
List of Village Roads
Morena District                                     Length (km)
A. Waterlogged Areas
1. Sheopur - Baroda Road to Makravad                     9.0
2. Sheopur - Baroda Road to Indarpura                    9.0
3. Sheopur - Baroda Road to Barodiyabindi                6.0
4. Sheopur - Baroda Road to Ba,iarlee                   11.0
5. Sheopur - Baroda Road to Raclhapura                   3.5
6. Sheopur - Baroda Road to Jublad                       5.5
7. Sheopur - Khatoli Road to Gtiheda                     7.0
8. Sheopur - Khatoli Road to Kilo                        6.0
9. Sheopur - Khatoli Road to Nimoda                      2.0
10. Road 4 above to Hirnikheda                            7.0
11. Morena - Sabalgarh Road to Farsota                    7.0
12. Kailaras - Pahargarh Road to Damajar                 11.0
Subtotal                                           84.0
B. Other Irrigated Areas
1. Morena - Sabalgarh Road to C;hachiha                  4.5
2. Morena - Sabalgarh Road to J-mdpura                   7.0
3. Sheopur - Khatoli Road to Kishorpura                  3.0
4. Sabalgarh - Atar Road to Raghukagaon                  8f5
Subtotal                                           23.0
Total for Morena Distriact                        107.0
Bhind District
A. Waterlogged Areas
1. Gohad - Mau Road to Itayanda                         10.5
2. Gohad - Mau Road to Madroli                           7.5
3. Gohad - Mau Road to Baghora                           3.0
4. Gohad - Mau Road to Banipura                          2.0
5. Gohad - Mau Road to Enchaya                           8.0
6. Jahawal pura to Kathwa Hazi Road                      3.0
7. Gohad - Mau Road to Dhamsa                           12.5
8. Kharauwa to Khitoli                                  12.5
9. Gwalior - Biind Road to Gurikha                       2.0
10. Road 1 above to Girgaon                               5.0
Subtotal                                           66.0
B. Other Irrigated Areas
1. Ambah - Mehgaon Road to iKripexcapura                 8.0
2. Barahead to Barona                                    7.0
3. Gwalior - Bhind Road to Endori                        8.0
4. Gwalior - Bhind Road to Raikipali                    10.0
Subtotal                                           33.0
Total for Bhind District                           99.0
Total Village Roads                               206.0



ANNEX 2
Table 5
INDIA
CHAMBAL COMMAND AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (MADHYA PRADESH)
Design Standards for Village Roads
Design speed                        40 km/h
Pavement width                      3.5 m
Shoulder width                      1.25 m
Formation width                     6.00 m
Right of Way                       12.00 m
Stopping sight distance             50 m
Passing sight distance             130 m
Maximum super elevation              6.7%
Minimum horizontal radius          70 m
Source: Indian Roads Congress/State PWD/Mission



ANNEX 3
Page 1
INDIA
CHAMBAL COThIAND AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (MADIIYA PRADESH)
Water Supply, Demand and Quality
Water Supply
1.        The main sources of water for crop production in the project area
are rainfall and the regulated flow of the Chambal River, delivered through
the Right Main Canal (RMC) and lower Main Canal (ULC). Groundwater from
shallow wells is largely used for domestic purposes. Electric-powered
shallow tubewells have been developed only since 1970; their contribution
to the water supply is, as yet, small. There are, however, prospects for
deep groundwater development in the area.
2.        The Chambal project in Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh (MP) States is
the only major withdrawal use from the Chambal river. Two storage dams
(Ghandisagar and Rana Pratap Sagar), a power pondage (Jawahar Sagar) and a
diversion barrage (Kota) provide a high degree of flow regulation. Details
of the storage and conveyance systems are included in Annex 2. Operational
studies of the Chambal system est:imate the tstal annual surface water supply
available in 88% of the years to be 3,900 Mm ; Chambal (MP) share is one
half. The GOI Central Water Comm'ssion (CWC) is continuously updating and
refining its hydrological knowledge of the Chambal basin and plans to conduct
additional water supply optimisation studies. Existing knowledge is
adequate to establish the feasibility of the project.
3.        From 1969 to 1974, the t:op operating level of the major storage
dlam at Ghandisagar was restricted to 425.8m (5m below design level) to
provide a flood cushion against overloading of the spillway. This reduced
t:he utilisable storage available but water supplies to the Chambal Madhya
Pradesh Project, were not seriously affected. During 1970-73 the annual
water quantities delivered to the RMC head were 1,800Mm3, 2,070Mm3 and
1,940Mm3, respectively. An improved flood prediction system is now being
installed in the Chambal River catchment area which will allow precautionary
drawdown of the reservoir level ahead of advancing flood arrival. This will
gradually permit restoration of the design operating level.
4.        In the absence of definite plans to augment the supply of water to
the system, the project cropping pattern (Annex 10) is designed to utilize
the available supply with regard to constraints on delivery rates, timing
and to farm-related factors.
5.        There are four constraints on the water supply which affect the
choice of cropping pattern:



ANNEX 3
Page 2
(a) the total annual supply will normally be 1,950Mm3;
(b) the miximum delivery in any month should not exceed
310Mm , which allows for 10% surcharge of the main
canal design capacity and is the current operational
maximum;
(c) at present, until alternative energy sources are
developed, about 33% of the annual supply must be
taken between July-October due to hydroelectric power
generation requirements, and
(d) the canal system is closed for annual maintenance (and
for capital improvement works envisaged under the
project) during a 6-weeks period in April-May.
6.        Beginning in 1970, GOM planned construction of 1,350 shallow tube-
wells in Morena and Bhind Districts. Some 260 wells were constructed by
1974 of which 164 were in service. Because the average area irrigated by a
well is only about 10 ha, the present groundwater contribution to the project
water supply is insignificant. GOM, on broad-based 3recharge assumptions, has
currently defined the aquifer's safe yield as.120Mm . This is probably a very
large underestimate of the groundwater potential since the aquifer is re-
charged by both rainfall and deep percolation from irrigation. The project
would include assistance in deep groundwater investigation. This would help
plan groundwater development with the twin objectives of increasing irrigation
intensity in the project areas and extending service beyond the boundaries
of the present 224,000 ha area.
Water Demand
7.        Table 1 shows estimated present and future system efficiencies.
The projected efficiencies are conservative estimates, sufficient to support
the estimates of water-balance made for the project. They would be refined
by additional systematic measurements throughout the system as part of the
feasibility studies, which would be undertaken by the project. The present
low efficiency (21%) results partly from seepage losses along the canals
and watercourses, the lack of adequate control structures in the canal
system and the lack of rotational irrigation and inadequate operating
procedures. In the future, higher efficiencies are expected in the On-Farm
Development Full Package area die to better control of water application,
higher field efficiencies after land shaping, and the enforcement ot
rotational irrigation through cooperative water use (warabandi). The
whole project area would benefit from some lining, and better management of
the main canal system and the introduction of rotational irrigation. An
overall efficiency of 31% is foreseen as a result of the project, assuming
watercourses are unlined but well maintained.



ANNEX 3
Page 3
8.        Table 2 shows the detailed monthly water requirements in the
on-farm development area, assuming 80% field efficiency, and Table 3 shows
the monthly irrigation and diversion requirements of the whole project area.
Average rainfall is taken from Annex 1, Table 1, and a factor varying
between 60% and 75% has been used to estimate the effective rainfall (i.e.,
the moisture retained in the soil). Crop consunptive use has been
estimated from the Blaney-Criddle formula with appropriate crop coeffi-
cients, and is comparable with regional parameters.
9.        The effects of residual moisture are difficult to quantify.
Clearly since some crops can be grown in the winter season without irriga-
tion, residual moisture is important. The estimates of its magnitude
are based on the known soils properties in the area and on judgment in
consultation with local agronomists. For most crops, a pre-sowing irriga-
tion has been assumed, and application of 300 mm of water has been allowed
for paddy to account for the needs of land preparation and the nursery
stage.
10.       Table 3 shows the total diversion requirements, by month, for
the whole project area. Projected full development demand would be
1,500Mm3. The total annual demand is 23% below the available supply, but
the demand in February is above the design maximum delivery rate for the
canal, though within the operational maximum. This therefore limits the
potential for more intensive irrigation in the winter. Most of the excess
water is available in the summer, and future increases in the irrigation
intensity (until such time as irrigation efficiency is increased due to
better conveyance and the spread of on-farm development throughout the
project area) must be in this season, mainly by increased cultivation of
paddy.  If the whole area were developed to the level of the On-Fa
Development Full Package area, the annual demand would be 1,860 Mm .
Water Quality
11.       Studies on water quality are being undertaken under the Indian
Council for Agricultural Research (ICAR) program. Although only a few
samples have been taken, the quality of the water seems high, with total
dissolved solids less than 250mg/l, and a sodium-absorption ratio of less
than 3. Salinity problems in the area have been caused by the upward
leaching of salts from the soil profile but less than 7% of the project
area is estimated to be adversely affected. Improvements in the drainage
system and standards of water application would gradually solve these
problems. Only preliminary measurements have been made of the quality of
return flows to the Chambal River, but no problems with downstream users
have been identified. Under the project, continuing studies would be made
in the chemical composition of the applied irrigation water, return Slows
and soil profile.



ANNEX 3
Table 1
INDIA
C?R,WBAL C01IMIAND AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(MADHYA PRADESH)
Water Supply Demand and Quality
Efficiencies
Future
Present  On-Farm       Chak
Overall  Develop.  Drainage  Extensive   Overall
Area       Area      Area
Field Efficiency           65          80         65        65
Conveyance Efficiency
-water courses          65         80          70        70
- canal /               $0         75          75        65
Total (rounded)      21         48          34        30         31
1/ Canal efficiency from Kota diversion to the outlet to the
watercourse
Note: On-Farn Develonment (Full Package) Area is         12,000 ha
(Chak) Drainage Area      it         tl  it       20,000 ha
Extensive Area            "           "   "      192,000 ha
Total Project Area       224,000 ha



ANNEX 3
INDIA                                                                                                                                      Table 2
21060141. 2101021720 AREA4 XEV4IOD7FHET PROJECT (WIRIEaA PRtDESO)
water DemandO-a'   cuiW
(Avera ge Yea)
lint  Jevuory    February  Apr10        lure          July                                                                                       No.    Tot.,) or~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N.  .,
Crop                  it              e       m                                        ,--y Pbuq _H              Ap r c hI _-l                                          August       Irere ber         October        November       December         irr.      'i..oraa
A verAge ra-ifall                                         14               5            6            11            5            53            243          305             150              27              3               6                        828
Affective r_mfoll              -.                                  -                    -             -            -            70             70           60              7D                                                                        63
(--lmdW d)- =.                                                                                                                 37            170          183             105              27                             _                         522
__----------------------------------------              _ --_--__--------_-----     ---------   K H A R I F  S E A S O N ---------------------------------------------_----------_-_              ----------------  -------- ___-__-_______--____-_______ -___ -
Psddy           Aro                             '000 hb                                                                                           1.5            2.9          2.9              2.9            2.9
Cnvsuepttte Ass                =                                                                                                              175(3/4)     180             173             150                                                         630
Eff  Rate                                                                                                                       45            170          183             105              25
Relcoicoti                                                                           ~~~~~~~        ~~~~~~~        ~~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~250 1/  150 .2/  75 2/  200 gi  125
irratgiton Reqttrement         Hm3                                                                                               3.8        4I               2.2             5.8             3.6                                                     19.8
Aai-  (IIYY)    Area                            '000 hA                                                                                           0.2            1.1          1.1             1.1             1.1
Eooumpci- Use                                                                                                                                  85          10143                                                                     8                  45
Off. Oslo                                                                                                                       37            170           I03            140 ^5 19
Irrlgellon Nequitoe=ee         Rmt3                                                                                            125                                         125                                                           2
bmI                                                                                               0.25                                        1.4                                                                      1.6
Sno--t          Ar.e                            '000 he                     0. 04           0.06         0.09          8.11        0.11           0.11           0.11         O0.11           0.11            0.11           0.11            0.06
Cnrautvptive lint  mm                      ~~~             ~~~          ~~~         ~~~~ ~~50  50  SE  120  20   35            10            140             1 55           160            110               800
Eff. Raio                      em                                                                                               37            170          183             105              19
ItrrgAfluc Oequiroemet         Rmei                       50              75           75           150         275            050             7S                           72 125                        it5             150           11
im?                          .Un            0.04         0.07          0.16        0.3            0,27          0.08                          0.8             0.16           0.16            0.1                       2.2
Sub-Tntol       urea                            '    h.O be                 1.04            0.06         3.09          0.11        0.11           1.8           4.1           4.1             4.1             4.1            0.1              .06
o Ta rtrlgotmnn Oequiceneut    bSnl                        0.02            0.04         0.07          0.16        0.3            4.32           4.48         2.2              7.28           3.76           0.16            0.1
-----------            --------------_    ---- ----------  --------------------        ----------R-A---I-----A---0RNA-B----------------------------            ------------------------------     ------    -----------------------   ------------------------------
Alicat (tYY)     urea.                          '000 ho                     4.9             4.9          4.9          08.i5                                                                                   2.5            4.9             4.9
Annso'iiptave Toe  mm                   05             ~~~         ~~~~          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~95  180  100(I12)                                                                         28              40                          iS
Ecaldual Neistuto              =ou                        50,            100           70
TnvAgatiea Oequineoeav         Ret                       400            100           100            75                                                                                     SO1            50s            100           6             575
hm3                         4.9            4.9           4.9           I.9                                                                                    1.25           2.5             4.9                      25.25
lmeai (I.-v)  uAee                               00 .b                      0. 7            0.7          0.7j          0.4                                                                                    0.4            0.7             0. 7
- ) nsuptine Ure               Lm                         70              90           05(/                                                                                                 20(1/2)        SO              h0                           10
Residual Mnolature             mm                         70             100                                                                                                                                 1s
trlg- tli- REequircl-eu-        e3                       100            125                                                                                                                 501            50              50           4
Mmv                         0.7             0.8                                                                                                               0.2            0.35            0.35                      2.4
hatard          Aea.                            '000 ha                     1.1             1.1            6                                                                                                   .7            1.1             1.1
Cn--umptive UOa                Rm                         65              75           50(3/4)                                                                                              44             52              55                           30
Residual Witture               t                          50              50                                                                                                                               50              50
Irrigation RequirR ent         mm                         75              75                                                                                                                              100              71           4
lU3                         0.82            0.82                                                                                                                             1.1             0.82                      3.56
i Amt            Area                           '000 h                      1.7             1.7          1.7                                                                                                                 1.7             1.1
.rEonauuuptive Ose             rm                         45              70           85                                                                                                                  30              30                         260
Reelduol Moitscure            imm                                                                                                                                                           017
Irrlgatio   R equlreaent       =                                        100                                                                                                                10D.                            75           3
iNi3                                        1.7                                                                                                               1.7                            1.3                       4 7
Sub-T-l         Aurea                            000 hb                     8.4            8.4           7.9          2.9                                                                                    3.6            8.4             8.4
T-rrigulon  Requiremenit       M3                          6.42            8.22         4.9           1.9                                                                                    3.15           3.95            7.37
Total           Area                             00 ha                      8.44            8,46         7. 99          .01         .11           1.8           4.1           4.1            4 .1             .7             8.5             8.16
rlgAtioun Requiremee.          We                          6.44           8.16          4.97          2.06         .3           4.32           4.48          2.2            7.28            6.9i           4.21            7.47                       58.0
orveratu>n Eequineoeut         ML?37onvth                 10.0           13.8           B.3           3.4          .5            7.2            7.5          3.7           12.1             11.5           6.8            12.4                        97.9
am /a                       4.2            5.5           3.3           1.3          .2           2.9            2.9            .5            4.7             4.6            2.7             4.9                         3.2
l(tS/ctnppad he             0.5            0.45          0.41         0.43         1.82          1.6            0.71           . 37          1.15            0.6            4.32            0.58                        0.17
1/e/-neeavded hi            0.38           0.46          0.28         0.11          .02          0.24           0.24          0.12           0.4             0.38           0.23            0.41                        0.27
1/  Pre-Ir-igacuor.       2/  N_isal a-voonto Eo. count fur prolonged dry p-riods.
(a) Icrigation  -cq.irnncut.   Inc-lAdn allua..e fur 807 fltld efficlency mod utilize   soils field cepacitY to pronide  -rviduo1 aoiature vs lanyc.
(b) Djucat o  requlreeet=icnfgarioo  ecuireoerruxncrhined ef   irucy oa terroiree and cot -1 sysCem.
7c) rlguree shotr are cepeoenra-1ive cur ohs aevera 1 lil typEe   a-d  -nditlo-  fonnd. io thc  ieu blocks uf lend olecatd fur On-F57m D-ttlepront Full P.cbOCg   -reot-cot in the praje-t.



INDIA
CHAMBAL COMMAND AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (MADHYA PRADESH)
Water Supply Demand and Quality
Summary of Water Requirements
January  February  March  April  May  June  July August September October November December                  Total.
-------------------------------------------------Mm3---------------------------------------------------m3/ha command.per yr
1.  Water Requirements
at outlet to the field
Extensive Area                  14.0      120.1      90.0   33.9  9.0  36.8  25.2  11.4   35.7            46.7    27.0    114             564       2,940
Chak Drainage Area               0.9       11.9       8.5    4.0  0.8  11.3   8.7   4.3   12.4             7.7      5.8       8.6          85       4,240
On-Farm Development Full         6.4        8.3       5.0    2.1  0.3   4.3   4.5   2.2    7.3             6.9      4.1       7.5          59       4,900
Package Area
1/
2. Diversion Requirements
Extensive Area                  30.8      264       197.8   75.5 19.8  80.9  55.4  25.1   78.5           102.6    *59.3    250.5       1,240        6,450
Chak Drainage Area               1.7       22.7      16.2    7.6  1.5  21.5  16.6   8.2   23.6            14.7    11.0       16.4         160       8,200
On-Farm Development Full        10.7       13.8       8.3    3.4  0.5   7.2   7.5   3.7   12.2            11.5      6.8      12.4         100       8,300
Package Area
Total                   43.2      300.5    222.3   86.5 21.8 109.6  79.5  37.0  114.3            128.8    77.1    279.3         1,500  2/  6,700
I/ 3
Equivalent flow rate  (m' /sec)   16.7        116.0      85.7   33.4  8.4  42.3  31.1  14.3   44.4            49.7    29.7    107.7
Fs >
1/ At Kota diversion:  See Table 1 for efficiencies
2/ Rounded



ANNEX 4
Table 1
INDIA
CHAMBAL COMMAND AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (MADHYA PRADESH)
Ccst Estimates
Foreign
Exchange
Item No.            Item                   Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total        %
Rs Million------   ------US Million ---
1       Irrigation and Main
Drainage (Table 2)          76.1      19.1   95.2     9.51   2.39    11.90       20
Chak Drainage Area            23.1       5.7   28.8      2.89   0.72      3.61     20
2       On-Farm Development
Full Package Area (Table 3)  14.4        7.7   22.1      1.80   0.96      2.76     35
3       Roads (Table 4)                35.6      8.9   44.5      4.45   1.11      5.56     20
4       Ravine Erosion Control          2.2      1.0    3.2      0.27   0.13      o.40     32
5       Supplementary Fertilizer        0.2      4.6    4.8      0.03   0.57      0.60     95
Subtotal                 151.6     47.0  198.6    18.95   5.88    24.83        24
Physical Contingencies  *   12.4         4.1   16.5      1.55   0.51      2.06     25
Subtotal                 164.0     51.1  215.1    20.50   6.39    26.89        24
Estimated Price Increases    68.0       17.0   85.0      8.50   2.12    10.62      20
Subtotal                 232.0     68.1  300.1    29.00   8.51    37.51
6       Project Administration and
operating costs during
3 years Implementation
and Stage II project pre-  15.5       4.2   49.7      5.69   0.53      6,22       9
paration (Table 5)
7       Technical Assistance to GOI
for CAD Project Preparation 3.9        2.6    6.5      0.48   0.32      0.80     40
Estimated Price Increases    13.9        2.9   16.8     1.74   0.36      2.10      17
Subtotal                  63.3      9.7   73.0      7.91   1.21      9.12
Total Project Cost           295.3      77.8  373.1    36.91   9.72    46.63       21
1/ Engineering, administration and equipment costs are included in Items 1, 2, 3,
and 4.
2/ Indian Rupeea 8.00 = US$1.00.



AI:LNEX 4
Table 2
Page 1
I'DIA
CIT~~__
CUANBA.7 C( I A- i`TA) FAREE0A    \ FT PROJECT (IIDHYA IPADE:SE
Cost Estimates
Irrigation and Main Drainage
I-e..                                      Qua 1 tzt   Unit    Rate    Total Cost
(Rs)   (Rs rillion)
Coi-irxletion of rEc Erosion Protection
Work 7
Earth .cork                                 300,000     m3         4          1.i
Roa.d surfacing                                  20     km   10,000           0
I'asonary 1ilning                           120,000     m2        32          3.8
Strengthening cross drainage(CD)
structu,res                                           Lo                    2.0
Sub tctal                                                          7.
Additional Z1IC Protection Works
Gumite Lininig rocky reaches                130,000     m'
Concrete lining, earthl reaches             1-3,000                           0.7
M4asonry  lining at CD struPtiires         176,000      m2        32          5.7
Lengthening CD structures                         2     LS                    4.7
Subtotal
Tonal Capacitv Works
Ninors and distributaries(4(00 km)        3,650,000     a3         h         T3.6
'anal Control Wor,k.s
:,ross regulators                                44     LS
Escapes                                          ll     LS                    3.4
Pipe outlets                                  3,000     LS 
Tail control structures                         100     LS                    0. 2
Subtota?
Quatic WIeed Control
T C Canalization at Kalarna tank             40,000     a3        10          0.4
.EEC and ELC draw-off outlets                    22     AS                    0.9
3hind canalization of K,otwal tank         160,000      m3        10          1.6
Subtota7                                                           2.9
1/  Completion of the ongoing progran instituted following findings of Pathak Comnitte



Page 2
IPIDIA
CIHAMABL COPIMAND AREA DEVELOPENT PROJECT (MAD1.YA PRADESH)
It;em                                     Quantity    Unit    Rate    Total Cost
(Rs)   (Ts million)
,-,ain Drainage Works
ITmprovement of natural gullies              200        km    24I,000       4.8
Seepage interceptor drains                   560        km    11,000        6.2
Subtotal                                                              11.0
liiscellaneous 'Works
Buildings for 0 and M staff                             LS                  2.'
Telecommunications system                               LS                  2.3
Service roads                                200       EMm                  4.9
Access bridges                                5,        LS                  1.6
Subtotal                                                              11.6
Total                                                            75. 7
Contingencies 10                                                           7.7
EJngineering and Administration )                                              15.3
Special groundwater studies    ) -                      LS                  3.2
Subtotal                                                              772
Total Cost of Irrigation and Main
Irap.iage                                                                 102.9
7/    Includes engineering studies estimated to cost anoroximately Rs 3 million and
soecial groundwater studies; both these studies are required for the prepara-
tion of second stage CAD project in the Chambal (MP) Command. All other
preparation work would not require budgetary allocations financed under this
project.



;'64-lF,X 4
Tab' e 
IlIDIA
CHA1r3AL CO612ANID AREA DEVELCJP1-IZ TROJEC_ (MAADHIA FMDESL)
Cost Estimates
On-Farm Development           Cost                  Total Cost
Item-                                                   ----   ----(Rs million)---
(a) Full Package Area   (12,000 ha)
Irrigation system                                          230
Drainage systerm                                           200
Land' shaping                                              975
Subtotal                                          1,405
Physical Contingencies - 15',                              211
Engineering and Administration - 20J                      281
Crop Compensation                                          150
Total                                             2,0h7
Total Rounded                                           2,050              2
(b) Chak Drainage Area   (20,000 ha)
Secondary and Tertiary  Drainage                        1,200
Physical Contingencies - 10%                               120
Engineering and Administration - 201"v                     21X0
Total                                             L,6                31.2
(c) Supplementary Fertilizer (for 6,000 ha for
2 years)                                                   300                 _



AENEX 4
Table 4
INDIA
CIAIIBAL COEIAMID AREA DEUELOPMENT PIOJECT (MADETYA PRADESH)
COst Estimates
Roads
Item                                Quantity       Unit       Rate      Total Cost  /
(i7)     (Rs million)
1. Construction of Village Roads
i) Iorena District
(a) Waterlogged areas           84.0                 164,000         13.8
(b) Other Irrigated areas       23.0         czi     158,000          3.7
ii) Bhind District
(a) Waterlogged areas           66.0         km      167,000         11.1
(b) Other Irrigated areas       ,33.0        km      162,000          5.4
Subtotal                    206.0         km                      34.0
2.  Procurenent of Equipment 2/5.7
3.  Engineering and Administration (4W)                                      1.8
4.  Land Acquisition                                LS                       3.0
5.  Physical Contingencies (10% of 1)
Total Cost: Roads                                                 47*S
1/ Rounded
2/ Eor project supervision and hire to contractors.



Tiable 5
il:2DrA
NIA>iLCO2DAR~L!~DETEOITITh2_ROjECT (KADJI -A PIEL p-)
Goat Estimates
Project Administration and Operating Costs
Total Cost
Ann;Y.a-  ost at        Ihirinr iYroAe1;
I+er                                 dIf  Develor.:-ert      In emertatio- Period 3  yrs)
-- '.s  illicr ---------
Conlnapd Area A~thorit r                 0.2
2. Tech-nical Assistance andl
Training                                  _                     1.31/2/
3. Operation an. lainte-i-ance
Irrication and Drainage                10.c                    26.5
Road,s                                   0.7                    O. 3
L  Extension and lesearch                                              l/
Re search                             0.6                     3.1
Extersion                              j.r                   17.7
Total:  Annual Cost at
Ful1 Development       17.8.
Total:  Project Administration and Operating Costs             51.0
(1975-77)
1/  Includes all buildings, equipment, operating costs, staff salaries and
labor wages.
2/  Includes provision to GOI of a land development specialist for a period
of un to two years.
3/ Iaintenance of roads constructed under the project commences only in
Year Two, and reaches its full annual cost in Year Four, of the project.
Does not include equipment which is included in capital cost estimates (Annex h,
Table 4).



ANNEX 5
INDIA
CHAMBAL COMMAND AREA D)EVELOPMENT (MADHYA PRADESH)
Equipment Requirements
Project Year
Items
ItemS  1  2          3          Total 1!
------   US$ million------------------
Irrigation and Drainage              1.5       0.5         -            2.0
Equipment (Table 1)
On Farm Development                  0.4       0.4         -            0.8
Equipment (Table 2)
Road Equipment (Table 3)             0.5       0.2         -            0.7
Ravine Erosion                       0.1        -          -            0.1
Control Equipment (Table 4)
Project Administration               0.2        -          -            0.2
Equipment (Table 4)
2.7       I.1                      3.8
Expected Price                       (33)      (45)
Increases (%)
.9        .5                      1.4
Total                                3.6       1.6         =  US$       5.2 million
of which, foreign exchange (57%)
=  US$      3.0 million
1/  Indian Rupees 8.00 = US$1.00.  Due to rounding off figures may not exactly
tally with conversions    from Rupee costs shown in Tables 1-4.



ANi.EX <
Table 1
TITLIA
2HANBAL COMMAN;D AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (ADIIHYA PRADESH)
Equipment, List:  Irrigation anrd Drainage
i/
Item                                     Quantity      Unit Price    >otal  Method of
-    Rs '000 - ----  Procurement
1. Project Management 2/
Car                                       1              35          3      RP
Station Wagon                              2             50         100     RP
Field vehicle                             30             35       1,050     RP
Motor cycles                              60              6         360    LCB
Subtotal
2. Construction:
(a) Irrigation
Concrete mixer                       12              14        168    LCB
Vibrator                             20               3          60    LCB
Gunite equipment                      3              60         180    LOB
Winch - 5 ton                          3              5          15    LCB
Pump -10 hp                          10               9          90    LCB
Pump- 5 hp                           16               5          80    LCB
Rollers/compactors                   16              20         320    LCB
Survey equipment                                     LS         200    LOB
Office equipment                                     LS         100    LCB
Tow boy transporter                   1             44        4Lo    ICB
Mobile crane                          1             220         220    IOB
Compressor - 100 1/s                 10              55         550    LUB
Portable generator - 15 kw           10              22        220    LCB
Trucks - 10 ton                      20             100      2,000      RP
Tractor with trailer                 20              70      1,400    LCB
Bulldozer - 90 hp                     3             300        900    ICB
Diesel tanker trucks                  2             100         200     RP
Water tanker trucks                   2             120         360     RP
Workshop equipment                                   LS         300    LCB
Subtotal                                                  7,803
(b) Drainage 3/
Dragline excavator 3/h m3             5            520       2,600   ICB
Dragline excavator 3/8 m3             5            320       1,600    ICB
Pump - 10 hp                         16              9         144   LCB
Pump - 5 hp                          16              5           80   LCB
Subtotal                                                  h,h2h
Spare parts 15%                                              2,066
Total Cost Irrigation and Drainage Equipment                15,838
1/ ICB - International Competitive Bidding
LCB - Local Competitive Bidding
- RP. - Reserved Procurement
2/ Includes Irrigation and Drainage 0 and M vehicles.
3/ Includes Chak Drainage Area equipment.



A I T9,EX 5
Table 2
I.TDIA
CHAEMAL COI4MAIND AREA DEVELOPMSENT PROJECT (MADHYA PRADESH)
Equipment List:  On-Farm Development   Full Package
Item                                      Quantity      Unit Price      Total  Method of
------------- Rs '000 -----------  Procurement
(a) Project I'anagement
Field vehicle                             20            35            700     RP
Pickup truck                               5            35            17      RP
Subtotal                                                             875
(b) Construction
Drag scraper 4 m3 with 70 hp wheel
tractor                                  30            80         2,400    ICB
Bulldozers - 50 hp                         3           300           900    ICB
Iotor grader                               1           320            320    ICB
Shieepsfoot roller-vibrating               2           120            240    ICB
Water tanker/lubricator truck              2           120            240     AP
Tractor trailer - 20 ton                   1           160           160    lCB
Land plane                                 4            12            48    ICB
Trucks - 10 ton                            5'          100           500      RP
Iiiscellaneous equipment                               LS            100    LCB
Workshop equipment        *                             LS           120    LCB
Survey equipment                                        LS           200    LCB
Office equipment                                        LS            100    LOB
Subtotal                                                          5,328
Spare parts 15%                                                      799
Total Cost On-Farm Development  Full Package  - Equipment          6,127
1/ ICB - International Competitive Bidding
LCB --Local Competitive Bidding
RP - Reserved Procurement



ANiEX 5
Table 3
INDIA
CHAMBAL COMMAND AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (MADHYA PRADESH)
Eqipment List: Roads
1/
Unit Price            Rs.        Method of
Item                         Quant.            Rs.             (thousand)    Procurement
Road Roller 8-10 T                 10            140,000             1,400            ICB
Tipper Trucks 5-7 T                10            110,000             1,100            RP
Front End Loaders lcuyd.           2            200,000               400            ICB
Tractors                            5             55,000               275            LCB
Tanker Trailers with Spray Bar      5             15,000                75            LCB
Concrete Mixers                     2             25,000                50            LCB
Concrete Vibrator                   2             10,000                20           LB
Jeeps                               5             3.5,000              175            RP
Station Wagons                      2             50,000               100            RP
Crane 5 Tons                        1            350,000               350           ICB
Graders                              2           350,000               700            ICB
&ieep Foot Rollers                  5             10,000                50           LCB
Service Trailers                    2             50,000               100           ICB
Survey Equipment/Lab Equipment    L.S.                                 125            LCB
Sub Total                                        41,920
Spares (15%)                                        738
Total Cost of Road Equipment                                         5,658
l/ ICB - International Competitive Bidding
LCB - Local Competitive Bidding
RP - Reserved Procurement



ANINEX
Table
INDIA
CHAMBAL COTTIAND AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (HADHYA PRADESII)
Equipment List: (a) Project Administration, Extension and Research
(b) Ravine Erosion Control
1/
Item                                 Quantity     Unit  Price      Total   Method of
----- Rs p000 -------   Procurement
(a) Project Administration,
Extension and Research
Field Vehicles                       20             35           700        RP
Motor Cycles                         38              6           228        LCB
Tractors                              4            55            220       LCB
Ploughs                               8              6     -      48       LCB
Disc Harrow                           4             5             20       LOB
Paddy Disc Harrow                     2             h              8       LCB
Tillers                              4              4             16       LCB
Seeding Attachment                    4              2              8      LCB
Transporter                           4              2             8       LCB
Threshers                             4            10             40       LCB
Miscellaneous Equipment                             LS             30      LCB
Laboratory Equipment                                LS           140       LCB
Office Equipment                                    LS            80       LOB
Subtotal                                                 1,546
Spare Parts 15%                                                  232
Total Cost: Project Administration. Research and Extension
Equipment                                         1,778
(b) Ravine Erosion Control 2/
Field Vehicles                        6             35           210        RP
Trucks - 10  ton                      4           100            400        RP
610
Spare Parts 15%                                                    90
Total Cost Ravine Erosion Control Equipment                      700
1/ LCB - Local Competitive Bidding
RP - Reserved Procurement
2/ Ravine control works would be carried with existing machinery.



ANiNEX 6
INDIA
CHAMBAL CC4MAN) AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (MADHYA PRADESH)
Schedule of Expenditures
------IDA Fiscal Year--
Total Cost   1975/76   1976/77   1977/78
---------------Rs million--------------
1.  Irrigation and Main Drainage          95.2       21.9        43.8      29.5
Chak Drainage Area                    28.8        6.7        13.2       8.9
2.  On-Farm Development Full Package      22.1        5.5         9.3       7.3
3.  Roads                                 44.5       11.4        19.3      13.8
4. Ravine Erosion Control                  3.2        o.6         1.3       1.3
5. Supplementary Fertilizer                4.8        0.5         1.9       2.4
Subtotal                         198.6       46.6       88.8       63.2
Physical Contingencies                16.5        4.1         7.5       4.9
Subtotal                         215.1       50.7       96.3       68.1
Expected Price Increases:
(%)                          (40)        (25)1/     (39)       (51)
Rs million                    85.0        12.7       37.6       34.7
Subtotal                        300.1        63.4      133.9      102.8
6. Project Administration and Operating
Coste and Preparation of a Stage
II Project                         49.7        15.0        16.7      18.0
7. Technical Assistance to GOI for
CAD Project Preparation and for
a land development specialist         6.5         2.1         2.2       2.2
Expected Price Increases:
(%)                        (29)         (19)       (29)      (37)
Rs million                  16.8          3.         5.7        7.8
Subtotal                         73.0        20.4       24.6       28.0
Total Project Cost                  373.1        83.8       158.5     130.8
1/ Includes expected price increases from November 1974 until July 1975.



ANNEX 6
Table 2
Page 1 of 2 pages
;INDIA
CHAMBAL CCMMAND AREA DEVEL)PMENT PROJECT (MADHYA PRADESH)
Allocation of the Proceeds of the Credit
Proposed Alloca-
Estimated Cost          tion of Credit
Total   Foreign       Amount   % of Expend-
---------US$ Million--------       iture
I. Civil Works
Irrigation and Main Drainage       11.10        2.23
Chak Drainage                       3.61        0.72
Roads                               5.56        1.11
Ravine Erosion Control              0.40        0.13
Price Contingency                    7.93       1.58
Less:
-  uipment with Price Contingency   (3.90)       (3.33
Sub-Total                           24.70       2.44       14.4        60
I.  On-Farm Development
Full Package                         2.76       0.96
Price Contingency                    1.11       0.26
Less:
Equipment with Price Contingency   (1.05)      (0.93)
Sub-Total                            2.82       0.29        1.9        68
III.  Equip t
Civil Works                          2.00       1.80
On-Farm Development                 0.80        0.70
Roads                              -0.70        0.60
Ravine Erosion Control              0.10        0.10
Project Administration              0.20        0.20
Price Contingency                    1.42       1.12
Sub-Total                           5.22        4.52        3.5        67
IV. Fertilizer                             o.60        0.57
Price Contingency                    0.23       0.19
Sub-Total                           0.83        o.76        0.5        60
V. Unallocated
Physical Contingencies               2.83       o.68
Sub-Total                           2.83        o.68        2.5        88



ANNEX 6
Table 2
Page 2 of 2 pages
Proposed Allocation
Estimated Cost                    of Credit
Total     Foreip            Amount       % of Expend-
-----   UEIillion -            ------      iture
VI. Project Administration and
_tage II Xr2iect  reparation         7.00       0.70
Price Contingency                    2.40       0.24
Less:
Equipment with Price Contingency  (0.27)    (0.26)
Sub-Total                            9-13       o.68             0.4              4
VII   Technical Assistance to GOI for
CAD project preparation and for
a land development specialist.       0.80       0.24
Price Contingency                   0.30       0.11                             73
Sub-Total                           1.10       0.35             0.8
Total                      '    46.63       9.72
Less:
Reserved procurement items          __1.5
Grand Total                     45.13                      224.0             53%



-ANNEX 6
Table 3
INDIA
CHAMBAL COMMAND AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (MADHYA PRADESH)
Estimated Scheoule of Disbursements
IDA Fiscal                                Disbursements
Year & Semester                      US$ million Equivalent
Actual      Cumulative
1976
1st
2nd
1977
lt                                  2.2           7.6
2nd                                 5.5           13.1
1978
1st                                 4.1           17.2
2nd                                 3.4           20.6
1979
1st                                 3.4           24.o
2rZi



ANNEX 7
Page 1
INDIA
CHAMBAL COMMAND AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (MADHYA PRADESH)
Organization, Management and Project Financin
Background
1.        Command Area Development (CAD), the modernization of irrigation
project infrastructure in phase with On-Farm Development Full Package has
been accorded high priority by the Government of India (Got). The GOI has,
therefore, been anxious to devise various organizational arrangements
suitable for duplication in various parts of India. State governments are
directly concerned with establishing an organization capable of rapid and
uniform extension throughout their State. The GOM has decided that CAD
could best be implemented in their State by existing agencies, supervised
and co-ordinated at project level by the Commissioner of the CAA.
Project Coordination and Management
2.        In September 1974, GOM officially constituted the Chambal CAM
which is headed by a Commissioner. The CAA is placed umder the jurisdic-
tion of the Minister of Agriculture and Food. The Commissioner reports
directly to the Agricultural Production Commissioner (APC). The APC is
also an additional Chief Secretary with direct access to the Chief Minister.
CAD activities at State level are coordinated by a Committee with the Agri-
cultural Production Commissioner as Chairman and include the Secretaries
of Finance, Agriculture, Irrigation, Public Works and Revenue. The CAA
Commissioner has chief executive authority for all activities within the
Command Area related to the development. Coordination at project level is
ensured by a CAA Board of Directors comprising the State Heads of the concerned
departments or their representatives with the CAA Commissioner as Chairman.
The CAD organization structure is depicted in Chart WB9697.
Functions and Responsibilities of CAA
3.        A GOM resolution setting up the Authority on September 4, 1974
defined CAM responsibilities as:
(a) "Modernization, maintenance and efficient operation
of the irrigation system up to the outlet of 28 1/s
capacity;
(b) Development and maintenance of the main and intermediate
drainage system;



ANNEX 7
Page 2
(c)  Development of field channels and field drains within
the command of each outlet;
(d)  Land-levelling on an outlet command basis for the type
of irrigated crop that is to be grown;
(e)  Consolidation of holdings and redrawing of field
boundaries wherever necessary for efficient soil and
water management on an outlet command basis;
(f)  Enforcement of a proper system of 'warabandi' and fair
distribution of water to indivldual fields;
(g)  Selection and introduction of suitable cropping patterns;
(h)  Development of groundwrater to supplement surface
irrigation;
(i)  Supply of all inputs zmd services including credit;
(j)  Preparing individual programs of action for small
farmers, marginal farmters and agricultural laborers
as part of the Master Plan;
(k)  Diversification of agriculture and development of
activities like animal husbandry, farm forestry,
poultry, etc.
(1)  Development of marketing and processing facilities;
(m)  Soil conservation and afforestation, where necessary;
(n)  Town and Country Planning;
(o)  Construction of new roads within its jurisdiction for
opening up areas;
(p). Proper development of transport and communications
including post-offices, telephone and telegraph offices,
etc., in consultation with the appropriate authorities;
(q)  Development of cottage and small scale industries in the
command areas; and
(r)  Promotion and development of cooperative movement in the
command area for providing inputs and services; setting up
of processing industries besides arranging all short, long
and medium term credit requirements of the area."



ANNEX 7
Page 3
4.        The CAA prepares annual development plans and cost estimates for
the approval of the Agricultural Production Commissioner who is assisted by
the State level CAD Coordinating Committee. The CAA does not have a separate
budget for the development program, which would be financed through the
budgets of participating Departments. The CAA Commissioner has complete
administrative control and power over the staff involved in project imple-
mentation. The CAM appoints its own staff subject to Government approval
of the number of posts to be created. Thereafter, such staff cannot be
transferred without the agreement of the CAA.
Role of Government Departments
5.        Under the overall supervision and coordination of the CAA, the
individual Government Departments would assume the following responsibilities:
The Irrigation Department would be charged with the improvement and operation
of project irrigation and drainage works including lining and repairs of
sections of main and branch canals, distributaries and minor canals, and
drainage works, down to the outlet from the minor to the chak. It would also
have responsibility for the chak drainage works in collaboration with the
Soil Conservation Service and the Revenue Department; The Agriculture
Department would be responsible for all on-farm works including boundary
realignment, land shaping, construction and improvement of watercourses,
drains, etc., and would have responsibility for the ravine erosion control
works.  It would utilize the Agro-Industries Corporation to implement
that part of the On-Farm Development Full Package works requiring mechaniza-
tion; Machinery and workshop' facilities of the Agro-Industries Corporation
would be suitably strengthened; The Department of Public Works (Buildings
and Roads) would implement the project road development and improvement, and
the construction of project buildings; The Revenue Department through the
Collectors at Morena and Bhind, would, as necessary, exercise its powers
in respect of land development and registration, and collection of revenue
arrears; The Madhya Pradesh Electricity Board, a statutory authority, would
provide power as required for project works; The Department of Cooperation
would be responsible for strengthening credit, marketing and processing
societies.
Financing of Project Works
6.        All project works comprising irrigation, main drainage, roads,
ravine erosion control and, in the first instance, On-Farm Development Full
Package and Cnak Drainage works would be financed by annual allocations from
the GONt development budget. All project administrative and operating costs
would be met annually from the GOM budget which would also include funds
to cover the costs of agric;oltural research and extension. Funds for the
project would be made available in the annual budgets of the GOM departments
of Revenue, Agriculture, Irrigation, Public Works, Cooperation and Forestry.
On-farm development costs would be financed by means of a GOM budget advance
which would be reimbursed in large part by assumption of farmers loans by
the Land Development Bank (LDB) and the Commercial Bank (CB) and refinanced



ANNEX 7
Page 4
by Agricultural Refinance Corporation immediately following completion of
each chak as described below.
7.        Because the on-farm development must be carried out systematically
over whole chaks (Annex 2), the program would be compulsory. Legal powers
to carry out such On-Farm Development Full Package and to recover costs are
available in the following legislation:
(a)  Land Improvement Loans Act of 1883;
(b)  Madhya Pradesh Irrigation (Second Admendment) Act 1960;
(c)  Madhya Pradesh (MP) Land Improvement Schemes Act of 1966;
(d)  Resolution setting up Chambal CAA:  GOM Order published
September 9, 1974.
The NP Land Improvement Schemes Act has been amended to permit Commercial
Banks to participate in financing On-Farm Development Full Package would
bieequired.
8.        To carry out effectively a full package of on-farm development
over 12,000 ha and chak drainage over 20,000 ha would require not only the
necessary legal instruments and skillful planning but also the whole-
hearted cooperation of the cultivators. In order to select, judiciously,
the chaks for On-Farm Development 'Full Package, the approval of the culti-
vators would be sought. GOM would continue their present, considerable
p re-extension program aimed at exp:laining the benefits of On-Farm Develop-
ment Full Package.
9.        The cost of category (a) On-Farm Development Full Package would
be largely financed by the LDB and CB; they would in turn be refinanced
75% or more by the Agricultural Refinance Corporation (ARC). The On-Farm
Development Full Package areas would be divided, for the purposes of banks'
operations, between the LDB and CB.
1t.       The GOM would finance farmers not eligible to receive bank loans
and would recover these loans by collections as arrears of Land Revenue. It
is presently estimated that up to 10% of the farmers (representing less
than 10% of the land area) would be ineligible for a bank loan because of
indebtedness, or lack of clear land[ title. GOM and LDB are currently under-
taking an intensive program to collect overdues and reduce indebtedness.
ill.      The ARC has indicated its willingness to refinance eligible loans
at: 75% or more. Participation of IRC would be essential for refinancing
loans made by LDB and CB. The ARC would raise funds by borrowing from GOI
arLd from any entity approved by the GOI; from issue and sale of debentures



ANNEX 7
Page 5
and bonds guaranteed by the GOI, borrowing from the Reserve Bank of India,
and deposits from the GOI, State governments and local authorities.
12.       The LDBs are organized on a two-tier basis with the-State Land
Development Banks (SLDBs) operating in the various districts of the State.
The State LDBs receive their funds from share capital and deposits of
members, loans and grants from state governments and sale of debentures.
The debentures are purchased primarily by the Reserve Bank of India and
ARC. There are two Primary Land Development Banks located at Bhind and
Morena. The Bhind LDB has four branches: Mehgaon, Gohad, Lahar and Bhind.
The Morena Bank has seven branches: Ambah, Jora, Sabalgarh, Kaliras, Sheopur,
Vijaypur and Morena. The branches are widely distributed over the project
area and should be able to service the areas selected for On-Farm Development
Full Package. The LDB raises funds from share capital provided by members,
from the sale of debentures, and from borrowings from the SLDBs.
13.       The Commercial Banks are relatively new in the field of long-term
agricultural credit, but they ascribe high priority to on farm development
and have indicated an intent to take necessary steps to organize in order
to carry out their assigned responsibility. The Central and State Commer-
cial Banks of India both operate in the project area. The Central Bank of
India has been designated the "lead bank" in the Morena District. It has
already established four branches in order that it may improve its services
to agriculture. Both Commercial Banks would establish additional branches
as necessary to service the On-Farm Development Full Package areas assigned
to them. The CB obtains funds from depositors or from refinancing through
the Reserve Bank of India. The participation of the CB, in the overall
proposal, provides a means of mobilizing capital from the private sector
for agricultural development.
14.       Loans for On-Farm Development Full Package would be for a 12-year
period including 1 year's grace at an interest rate of 10-1/2%. It is also
expected that farmers who are ineligible for loans from the banks would be
financed by MP under the same terms. However, if farmers are eligible for
such loans but decline to sign application for them, then it is proposed
that IP charge a premium rate--at least 12-1/2% in order to encourage all
eligible farmers to take bank loans.



ANNEX 8
Page 1
INDIA
CHAMBAL COMMAND AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (MADHYA PRADESH)
Agricultural Supporting Services
1.        In the past, deficiencies in the level and quantity of the support-
ing services have seriously constrained development of the full agricultural
potential of the project area. The services were not fully coordinated nor
did they have an impact on many of the individual farms except when leading
progressive farmers took the initiative themselves. Efforts such as exten-
sion proved difficult to sustain. In order to maximize the benefits of the
physical facilities proposed undler the project, considerable improvement
in the supporting services, particularly in agricultural extension and
research, would be required. With this in mind, GOM, following a visit by
a Bank Group consultant in early 1974, introduced an improved extension
service patterned on the model developed for Rajastjan State. The more
important agricultural supporting services and inputs are described below.
Agricultural Research
2.        There are four agricultural stations of Baroda, Jora, Morena and
Bhind involved in applied research in the project area. The programs which
are carried out by the Depat'tmert of Agriculture, with the assistance of
the State Agricultural University, cover all the main crops of the area,
wheat, millet, sorghum, paddy and oilseeds. The research includes variety,
fertilizer, plant protection and irrigation trials. The four stations also
grow certified seed to be released to progressive growers for multiplication.
3.        The research program would be continued and expanded under the
project with emphasis on the following:
(a) varietal trials, time of planting, spacing for yield and
disease resistance;
(b) response of crops to various fertilizer levels up to
optimum level and the interaction of timing of irrigation;
(c) irrigation methods, requirements, and consumptive use
of various crops;
(d) study of the kharif interplanting system with bajra
and/or jowar and the pulses;
(e) monitoring of soil salinity and akalinity in the project
area and pilot reclamation trials, and
(f) weed control.



ANNEX 8
Page 2
4.        The research program would work in close support of the project
objectives. Annual costs for research would continue to be financed from
GOI and GOM budget, under the auspices of the Indian Council for Agricultu-
ral Research (ICAR). Laboratory equipment, field vehicles and farm
machinery would be provided together with laboratory and office buildings
and a limited amount of housing. Existing research farms would be provided
with improved irrigation, drainage, land leveling and additional storage
facilities.
5.        Full-time research staff would be appointed, but would be limited
initially to an agronomist, soil chemist, soil physicist, a plant physio-
logist and a statistician. Additional assistant agronomists would be
posted to each sub-station. One specialized agriculturist would be
appointed to head each of the wheat and paddy programs. Subject matter
specialists (SMS) would conduct simple demonstration, to assist extension
workers' training. Considerable research is undertaken at university stations
of Indore, Sehore, Jabalpur, Rewa and Raipur. Visits would continue to
these important research centers. Project research personnel and SMS would
be sent for refresher training to the all-India Rice Improvement program at
Hyberabad, Andhra Pradesh, and to the national centers for wheat research
in northern India.
Agricultural Extension
6.        The effectiveness of extension has recently been improved in
Rajasthan. The new system cdncentrates on achieving yield improvements in
one or two crops by improving farm management (timeliness of operations,
irrigation practices, pest control, etc.) without increasing inputs.
This system is being introduced to Mahdya Pradesh. The system involves strict
adherence to schedules, and concentration on a few crops and practices for
a limited number of "contact" farmers in each chak. Each contact farmer
receives a regular two-weekly visit from the Village Extension Worker (VEW).
Experience in Rajastjan, so far, is that a large number of additional
farmers quickly follow the example set by the contact farmer.
7.        Because a massive extension effort would be required to achieve
the production targets GOM has agreed to reorganize its Chambal extension
service on the principles outlined above. The new organization would be
headed by the Project Extension Director who would be responsible for all
agricultural activities in the project area. He would be assisted by seven
subject matter specialists and two Deputy Directors, one each for the Morena
and Bhind District. A unit based on a training center at Morena would be
responsible for all in-service training. The project area would be divided
into six extension sub-div-sions; two in Bhind District and four in Morena.
A Sub-District Extension Office, headed by a Sub-District Extension Officer
(SDEO) would be established in each of the six sub-districts. Each SDEO
would be assisted by Agricultural Extension Officers (AEOs), the numbers of
these would be determined by the number of farmers in a sub-division, and
the number of subject matter specialists.



ANNEX 8
Page 3
8.        Every AEO would be responsible for the work of the six Village
Extension Workers (VEWs) maintaining weekly contact with each VEW. Each
VEW would be responsible for provision of extension services to about 240
farmers.  The VEW would visit each chak once a week on a fixed day.  A
progressive farmer would be selected in each chak to act as a liaison with
the farmers.
9.        To coordinate the project extension activities with the overall
development efforts in the project area, and to obtain assistance from
research and other technical personnel, a Project Extension Council would
be set up under the chairmanship of the CAA Commissioner. The Council
membership would include personneL from all relevant organizations.
10.       A number of different crops are grown in the project area, and each
has its technical problems. Init:ially, the efforts of the technical person-
nel would be focused on a limited area and confined to the main crops in
their area, with a view to significantly increasing yields in the shortest
1possible time.
11.       Vehicles would be allocated to the Director of the Extension
P?roject, his two deputies, his SMSs, the Director of the Training Unit and
ithe SDEOs. AEOs and the SMSs in the Sub-District would receive loans to
buy motorcycles and receive mileage allowances. Office space would be
provided by the headquarters of each of the two Districts, and in each of
tWhe six Sub-Districts. Adequate space for the training center would also
be provided. Each member of the extension organization would receive proper
h-ousing in the vicinity of his work.
12.       Successful extension act:ivities depend on the training of the
wiorkers. A program will be introcluced to cover both the practical aspects
of farming, and efficient methods of passing this information on to the
farms. All extension personnel would have regular courses. They would also
visit good representative fields cnd research stations. The direction of the
main efforts and activities would be decided on a weekly basis. Short
courses would also be provided for progressive farmers in the area.
Training of Agricultural Department Soil Conservation Officers
13.       The limited experience of soil conservation officers in Xna-F arm
Development Full Package survey and design has been noted in the report
(Annex 2).  A training program would therefore be initiated for those of-
f-icers responsible for that aspect: of project implementation. The course
would cover topographical surveying and plotting, design of farm irrigation
and drainage works, soil survey and studies of soil characteristics influ-
encing design. An internationally recruited On-Farm Development adviser
would be assigned to the project. It would be feasible for a single adviser
to be shared between Chambal MP and Chambal Rajasthan (CAD) Projects.



ANNEX 8
Page 4
Soil Survey
14.       A semi-detailed soil survey has been completed for the whole of
the command area by the Soil Science and Agricultural Chemistry Section of
the Agricultural Research Institute at Gwalior. Additional soils informa-
tion required for designing on-farm development works would be collected
by Soil Conservation personnel during the course of the topographical survey.
Assistant Soil Conservation Engineers would receive training in recognition
and description of soil types and special features influencing design, during
their initial training.
Seed
15.       To maintain a continuous supply of high quality seed, the Madhya
Pradesh Government makes avialable each year 10% of the requirements of
improved seeds of high yielding grain varieties and other important crops.
The supply comes mainly from Government seeds farmers for multiplication.
The rapidly increasing demand for Mexican wheat has been met in this way.
There is, however, an evident need for a better organized system of seed
production and distribution, with particular emphasis on quality control,
seed cleaning facilities and adequate storage,-if the requirements of the
project at full development are to be satisfactorily met.
16.       The Seeds Act has been enforced in the State and an independent
organization for seed certification is envisaged. Additional seed farms
are being established in the Command Area and steps are being taken to bring
progressive farmers together into seed growing cooperatives. A full-scale
seed multiplication project, although desirable, would need to be organized
on a State-wide basis, and is not, therefore, proposed as a component of the
project. The GOM would, however, give consideration to the overall needs of
the State with a view to preparing a future seeds project.
Fertilizers
17.       Farmers in the project area are aware of the benefits of using
fertilizers particularly for HYV wheat and paddy. However, they have
been using only 50%-60% of the amounts recommended for maximum yield, due
to poor distribution and high prices. Over the five year (1975-79) period,
both domestically produced and international fertilizer supplies should
increase and unit costs decline. Fertilizer is to be procured internationally
under the annual All-India tender procedure acceptable to the Association.
GOI is expected to make sufficient fertilizer available to the State, and
the State, in turn, to the p-oject.
18.       Because of the land shaping operation on the 12,000 ha On-Farm
Development Full Package area, the soil fertility on approximately half of
the area (6,000 ha) would be reduced as a result of the removal of the top
soil. It is estimated that 50 kg of N and 30 kg of P would be required for



ANNEX 8
Page 5
each of two years to restore the fertility.  This would require about 2,000
tons and it is estimated that it would cost Rs 4.8 million.
Farmers Organizations
19.       The major farmers organizations in the project area are the
cooperatives, the irrigation associations and the village councils
(Panchayats). These are discussed below.
20.       Cooperatives:  In Madhya Pradesh State as a whole 40% of the farmers
are members of cooperative societies. There are 199 Primary Credit Societies
(PCS) in Bhind District and 238 in Morena District. Their main functions are
the receipt of the deposits and provision of short- and medium-term credit,
supply of agricultural production inputs and marketing of produce to their
members. Medium-term loans were mainly given for well construction, instal-
lation of pump sets and purchase of bullocks. The PCS vary widely in the
strength of their management and the services they provide.
21.       At State level there is a State Cooperative Bank.  In each of
the two districts there is a Central Cooperative Bank (CCB). Overdues are
high both at the CCB and PCS levels.
22.       Irrigation association;s are relatively new in the project area.
There is no detailed evidence of their individual performance. However, as
the area irrigated under the project has steadily increased in the last
seven years to a total of 15b,000 ha, it must be assumed that these, largely
informal water users groups have had some success. Further improvement
would be a major goal of the project (Annex 9).
23.       Panchayats (village councils) are the basic units of elective
local government. They cover one or more villages with a total population
of 1,500. Previously, the village agricultural extension workers were
responsible to the panchayats wii:h mixed results. This is now being changed
under the transformed extension service (para. 7). The close cooperation
of the panchayat leaders would be sought, however, to assist project develop-
ment.
Agricultural Credit
24.       The agricultural credit: aspects of the project are described in
detail in Reference 1 (See Table of Contents), which also contains financial
statements for the various institutions. A substantial share of farmers
credit requirements in India is provided by private money lende-cs. Ins-
titutional agricultural credit is provided by the cooperative movement, the
Land Development Bank, and, increasingly, the major Commercial Banks.
25.       Cooperative credit institutions and Commercial Banks would be
involved in the financing of the On-Farm Development Full Package works.
About two thirds of the project area would be served by the Cooperatives,



ANNEX 8
Page 6
and the remainder by the Commercial Banks. Farmers involved in On-Farm
Development Full Package would get seasonal credit from the same source as
their development loan, but the much more intensive coverage of the area by
the Cooperative Banks will probably mean that other farmers will use this
source of credit. The terms and interest rates are shown in Table 1.
26.       There are two types of cooperative credit institutions in the
project area: (a) Cooperative Banks, which extend short- and medium-term
loans (up to 5 years), and (b) Land Development Banks which extend long-term
loans (up to 15 years).
27.       The Cooperative Banks have a three tier structure:  at the State
level there is the State Cooperative Bank (SCB), at the district level the
Central Cooperative Banks (CCB) Bhind and Morena, and at the village level
there are Primary Credit Societies (PCS).
28.       The Cooperative movement is very widespread - there are nearly
10,000 PCS in Madhya Pradesh, and 437 in the project area. About 40% of
the State's farmers are members. Although a considerable volume of deposits
from members has been generated by the PCS, the major source of funds is
refinancing from the Reserve Bank of India, at 2% below bank rate, via the
State Cooperative Bank. In mid-1973, total outstanding short-term advances
to farmers in the project area were Rs 50 million, largely for crop inputs,
while medium-term loans (largely for well construction and installation of
pump sets) were Rs 9.5 million. Overdues are high in the project area. A
campaign is underway to improve the situation, utilizing for the first
time, the statutory powers of the State Collectors.
29.       The Land Development Banks (LDB) have a two tier structure.  The
State LDB is located at Bhopal, and has eight branches, one of which is at
Gwalior.  The LDB provides finance and supervision for the activities of
the 43 Primary Land Development Banks (PLDB) and their 181 branches at
district level, including eight branches in the project area. At the close
of 1972-73, the SLDB had loans of almost Rs 350 million outstanding to
Primary LDBs. This was financed by sales of debentures to the Reserve Bank
of India, State Government, commercial banks, etc. (about 70%), and sales of
debentures to the Agricultural Refinance Corporation (ARC, 20%), the
remainder coming from reserves, deposits, share capital and profits.
Advances for FY 1973 totaled Rs 119.6 million, of which 32% was for ARC
scheme loans. Overdues made a technical recovery as a result of a special
share capital investment by the State Government at the PLDB level, enabling
them to increase their repayments to the SLDB. The extent to which this may
be done to meet ARC recovery requirements is now limited by ARC refinancing
rules, and thus the overdues situation must be carefully watched. The per-
centage of overdues to demand for the project area LDB in 1972/73 was just
under 20%. Most of the credit extended by the PLDB's in the project area
has been for minor irrigation works, tubewells, tractors and other farm
equipment. The sanctioning authority of the PLDB is Rs 10,000, which is
more than the expected average loan requirement for the project.



ANNEX 8
Page 7
30.       Commercial Banks - Since nationalization, the Commercial Banks (CB)
have been encouraged to expand their agricultural lending. An expansion has
taken place, but this has generally been confined to loans to the bigger
farmers. The relatively high risk (although the Credit Guarantee Corporation
guarantees most categories of loans), low rate of return and larger ad-
ministrative cost per loan to small farmers undoubtedly is a disincentive
to CB involvement. CB would, however, participate in financing of project
On-Farm Development Full Package works; they agreed to modify their loan
requirements for On-Farm Development Full Package works so as to make con-
ditions uniform throughout the project area.
31.       The Central Bank of India is the designated "lead" bank for the
project area. The lead bank in any area is responsible for surveying the
agricultural need for credit in the area and ensuring provision of adequate
facilities to meet this need. Branch expansion has been one of the most
significant achievements since nationalization.
32.       There are five CB in total in the project area.  When the
geographical division of areas between CB and LDB has been agreed, more
branches will be opened.
33.       Agricultural Refinance Corporation (ARC) - ARC has been described
in previous Credit agreements. Its main function in the project would be
the refinancing of -at least 75% of the amounts of loans made by CB and LDB
to eligible farmers. Funds for this would be provided by GOI.



INDIA
C{AXBAL C0IATSND AREA DEVELOPMENT (MADHYA PRADESH)
Agricultural Credit-Terms of Lending
Loan Type                Lender               Deposit or              Interest               Term
Security                 Rate
Seasonal           Primary Cooperative          10/o/                   110/0               Season
crop lien
Conmercial Bank           Two Guarantors
crop lien                10.50/               Season
Medium Tern        Primary Cooperative          10/o.-/               11-1/2O/o            3 - 5 yrs.
Land or Asset
Purchased
Land Development Bank      5-7  /o 2                9-1/2/o            3 - 5 yrs.
Land and Assets
Commercial Bank           10-25o/l                10-1/20/o            3 - 5 yrs.
Two Guarantors
Crop and Assets
Long Term"-/        Land Development Bank         5/o                 10-1/20/o           10 - 15 yrs.
Commercial Bank              Land                                         One year 8race
1/ In the form of shares in the society.
j Also ensures access to production credits.
3/ Proposed unified terms for On Farm Development Loans.
CT3
HCn



ANNEX 9
Page 1
INDIA
CHAMBAL COMMAND AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (MADHYA PRADESH)
Operation and Maintenance
Existing Situation
1.        The Operation and Maintenance (O & M) of the irrigation system
is the responsibility of the Irrigation Department. The present level of
0 & M is unsatisfactory because of the deficiencies listed in Annex 2
paragraph 3. The major management difficulties are the lack of a water
allocation plan (para. 5) and a shortage of staff. Also, maintenance of
the drainage system has been limited. These problems are aggravated by
financial constraints. Whereas the current irrigation assessements
average Rs 30 per irrigated ha only Rs 18/per ha are allocated for 0 & M.
Madhya Pradesh also contributes 50% of the cost of 0 & M of the Kota
Barrage and 75% of that for the common carrier (RMC) in Rajasthan.
2.        The maintenance of national and State highways, major and other
district public works is the responsibility of the Madhya Pradesh Public
Works Department. Standards of road maintenance are discussed in
paragraph 10.                0
Irrigation and Drainage System
3.        The 0 & M of the irrigation system down to the chak outlet and
the main drainage systems would continue to be the responsibility of the
Irrigation Department staff within the framework of the CAA. The staff
would be increased in number and provided with housing located at strategic
control points throughout the canal system. The proposed organizational
arrangements are discussed in Annex 7. Vehicles and equipment to be pro-
cured under the project (Annex 51 would be adequate to meet the needs of
both construction and 0 & M. Construction equipment would be used for
0 & M after project completion.
4.        The costs of 0 & M of t:he irrigation and drainage system have been
estimated at Rs 48 (US$6) per ha per annum.
Water Allocation
5.        The projected cropping patterns have been selected to make optimum
use of the water supply. The canal system was completed between 1960-70
from the head of the RMC downstream, except for the existing Bhind canal.
As each successive minor canal was completed, its commanded area was
provided with irrigation service. Until the whole canal system was



ANNEX 9
Page 2
completed in 1970 (largely completed in 1967/68), there was a water supply
surplus. Upstream areas were supplied with excessive amounts of water, and
this contributed to the waterlogging of the area.
6.       IWith the completion of the system, the downstream areas received
too little water at peak periods, although supplies in the upstream areas
were still excessive. This situation could be remedied by a combination of
physical and canal management improvements. The GOM has agreed to introduce
an equitable water allocation plan during the project.
7.        The disposition of soils and the topography generally determines
the particular cropping pattern selected. On the flat, heavy soil areas
the predominant pattern would be monsoon HYV paddy followed by dry season
pulses. On the gently undulating, light soil areas monsoon pulses would
be followed by dry season HYV wheat.
8.        For canal operation purposes, the project area would be divided into
400-800 ha irrigation blocks, each served by a minor canal, according to
topography and soils. At the beginning of each water year in June, the
Irrigation and Agricultural Departments would, in close consultation with
the irrigation associations of the chaks (Annex 8), prepare water delivery
scheules. All chaks in the command of a particular minor canal would
receive water according to either of the two cropping patterns. During
the project, refinements of this water allocation plan would be made as
soon as better canal management was achieved. Within five years it should
be possible to provide irrigation service on a chak by chak basis.
On-Farm Works
9.        The communally owned watercourses, drains and roads within the
typical 30-40 ha chak would be operated and maintained by associations of
farmers. The main function of these associations would be to plan and
carry out rotational irrigation (warabandi) to ensure an equitable share
of water for each farmer. They would be assisted by the Irrigation Depart-
ment. Present practice is to subdivide the chak, which generally has 30-40
farmers into about 5-6 units (Thoks) each headed by an elected watermaster
(Thokdar) responsible for supervising the irrigation of the unit. This
has provedl successful on the present limited scale (only about 5% of the
project area has rotational irrigation). A group of chaks forming the
minor canal command area are supervised by the irrigation patwari (village-
level irrigation official). The Irrigation Department engineers have
regulating powers to ensure compliance with the approved water delivery
schedule. Rotational irrigation would be implemented throughout the project
area within five years of project commencement.
Roads
10.       Road maintenance would continue to be the responsibility of the
PUD.  Maintenance would be ensured for those roads constructed under the



ANNEX 9
Page 3
project. Also, equipment procuredl under the project would facilitate more
regular maintenance of all roads Ln the project area. The cost of maintenance
of roads constructed under the project would be about Rs 3,500 per km.



ANNEX 10
Page 1
INDIA
CHAMBAL COMMAND AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (MADHYA PRADESH)
Agricultural Production
1.        This Annex outlines the more important factors which affect higher
agricultural production anticipated under the project. Cropping patterns,
yields and production for the present, future-with, and future-without
project conditions are presented in Tables 1-4. The cropping calendar for
the project area is shown on Figure 1..
2.        Prior to the Chambal Irrigation Project, the crops were mainly
rainfed and brought to maturity on residual moisture. The subsistence
type agriculture was reflected in various systems of interplanting crops
and in the drought resistant, low yielding nature of the crops grown.
The major summer monsoon (kharif) crops included jowar (sorghum), bajra
(pennisetum millet), and pulses (mainly pigeon pea and green and black
gram) followed in winter (rabi) by duram wheaes, gram, oilseeds (mustard
and linseed), lentils and sesamum.
Present Cropping Patterns
3.        These crops continued even after the introduction of irrigation.
There was a significant change from rainfed to irrigated agriculture only
in those upstream parts of the project area which had a dependable water
supply. Paddy, which was previously grown only in the old Bhind Canal area,
has spread to Sheopur, Pramsar, Baroda and Jora areas while HYV wheat has
largely replaced the local duram varieties. Sugarcane is grown on a small
scale, largely around the Kailaras sugar factory. Both the light and
heavy soils in the project area support the same range of crops with a
few exceptions. Paddy is grown only on the heavy soils, jowar is largely
grown on the heavy and medium textured soils, and bajra on the lighter
soils.
4.        The various cropping patterns are illustrated on the cropping
calendar in Figure 1. Paddy generally cannot be followed by HYV wheat,
except on the few mechanized farms, due to the field preparation time
required between these crops. Jowar and bajra must be harvested early
in October to permit the full range of winter crops to follow. Mustard,
an important winter oil crop must usually be planted on land left fallow
during the preceding monsoon period.
5.        The present land use and irrigation intensity remain low, due
to inadequate water supply, and lack of on-farm development. The present
overall cropping intensity is 105% and only about 65% of the land is
cropped under irrigation most years. Most crops are grown during the



ANNEX 10
Page 2
winter season when the overall and irrigated cropping intensities reach 80%
and 60% respectively. Low irrigated cropping during the monsoon reflects
the traditional dearth of paddy despite abundant kharif season water and
suitable soils. Farmers in the project area have preferred to leave their
lands fallow during the monsoon and plant winter wheat and oilseeds. The
reasons for this choice are not entirely clear but probably indicate the
dietary preference for wheat as a staple. However, paddy is now of growing
importance as a valuable cash cro01.
6.        Present conditions are also demonstrated by the low crop yields
obtained which are as follows (in tons/ha): HYV wheat, 1.9; bajra, 0.8;
jowar, 0.9; oilseeds, 0.5; pulses, 0.7; paddy, 2.2; sugarcane 35. These
low yields are also a result of limited fertilizer use. Farmers presently
use only about one half of recomnended dosage.
7.        Farm equipment now available includes the traditional oxen drawn
plows, smoothing boards, etc. Nearly all present farm operations are car-
ried out by draft animals. A pair of oxen for plowing and transport, and
milk buffalos form the typical stock holding. This, therefore, requires
substantial home-grown fodder whichi in turn influences the farmers' choice
of crops. Less than 400 farm tractors are reported in the project area
but mechanization, including custom hire of tractors, is slowly spreading
and would be stimulated by the project.
Projected Cropping Patterns
8.        In the absence of project development or other special programs
aimed at making better use of existing land and water resources a slow
improvement in cropping intensity and crop yields can be anticipated over
the next decade. The irrigated cropping intensity is expected to increase
by about 10% and yields of paddy and wheat would rise by about 12%.
9.        Under the project, both cropping intensities and crop yields
would be anticipated to rise steadily as a result of better water supply,
improved cultivation practices and additional inputs (fertilizer, improved
seed and pesticides). For the purpose of project analysis, an 11-year
period from commencement of project implementation to full development
has been assumed. No new crops are proposed under the project.
10.       The overall cropping intensity would increase to about 125%
and irrigation intensity would rise to nearly 85%, including 72% during
the rabi season. The irrigated cropping pattern during the kharif period
would remain relatively low but strenuous efforts would be made by the
Extension service to increase the area planted to paddy. This would also
be stimulated by a water allocation schedule aimed at timely supplies to
ensure early season field preparati3n and paddy nurseries.



ANNEX 10
Page 3
11.       Crop production increase would be most rapid in the 20,000 ha
Chak Drainage area which would respond immediately to surface water removal.
Rapid increases would also be anticipated on the 12,000 ha On-Farm Develop-
ment Full Package area as a result of the complete package of land develop-
ment; improved field water supply and drainage, and the emphasis on better
cultivation practices and farm inputs. The 192,000 ha Extensive area pro-
duction would grow slowly compared to the other two areas. Crop production
is projected to increase as follows:
ggp q _rPresent                  Year 11
--'000 tons 
wheat                155             240
Paddy                 26              75
Bajra                 22              43
Jowar                  9              15
Pulses                38              62
Oilseeds              28              59
Sugarcane             77             187



ANNEX 10
Table I
INDIA
CRABAML COMMAND AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (MADHYA PRADESII)
Agricultural Production - Total Area (224,000 ha)
Present                                    Future - Without Project                                Future - With Proiect
Value of                                             Value of                                              Value of
Area         Production      Production              Area          Production      Production             Area          Production      Production
CROP                                 '000 ha         '000 Ton       Rs '000               '000 ha         '000 Ton        Rs '000              '000 ha         '000 Ton        Rs '000
KqIIRIF - Irrigated
Paddy                                   12.0             26.5            24,380              16.4             40.6            37,360              24.0             74.3             68',350
Hybrid Bajra,/                           -                -               -                   -                -               -                   3.1               6.3             5,800
Sugarcane   -                            2.2             76.6             9,190               3.2            127.0            15,240               3.7            186.6             22,390
KHARIF - Non-Irrigated
Bajra                                   27.7             22.0            20,240              29.9             29.8            27,410              32.6             37.2             34,220
Jowar 2/                                 9.8              8.5             7,820              10.2             10.1             9,290              12.5             15.0             13,790
Pulsesa                                (16.0)             8.0             9,990             (18.6)            11.4            14,240             (23.7)            17.5             21,870
Sesamum                                  1.2              0.4             1,210               1.2              0.5             1,520               2.4               1.4             4,240
Sub-Total                            52.9                                                 60.9                                                 7.,,
Wharif uropping Intensity %             24                                                   27                                                   35
BI - Irrigated
Wheat (HYV)                             75.6            142.8           142,800              81.7            171.1           171,100              88.7            222.9            222,900
Wheat (Local)                           13.9             12.5            12,500              15.9             17.2            17,200              13.4             16.0             16,000
Pulses                                  17.9             13.1            16,370              19.9             18.4            23,000              20.6             27.3            29,750
oilseeds                                21.1             17.1            32,840              23.1             23.2            44,540              29.8             39.2            64,890
Sugarcane 1'                             2.2                                                  3.2                                                  3.7
RABI - Non-Irrigated
Pulses                                  32.9             16.4            20,490              31.4             18.9            23,620              24.1             17.0            21,250
Oilseeds                                21.2             10.7            20,550              27.1             16.3            31,300              26.1             18.5            35,520
Sub-Total                           184.8                                                202.3                                                206.4
Rabi Cropping Intensity h               82                                                   90                                                   92
TOTAL.S                             237.7                           318,380              263.2                            415.820             284.7                            560.970
Cropping Intensity %                   106                                                  117                                                  127
Irrigated Cropping Intensity %          65                                                   73                                                   83
cr x
1/  Sugarcane occupies land for 9-10 months and is included as irrigated in both Rharif and Rabi.                                                                                                         - x
2/  Interplanted with Bajra or Jowar.



ANNEX 10
Table 2
INDIA
CHAIABAL COMKAND AREA  JEVNLOPE8T PROJECT (MADHYA PRADESH)
Agricultural Production - On-Farm De_upaent FulL Package   Area (12,000 ha)
Present                                    Future - Without Prolect                                 Future - With Project
Value of                                              Value of                                                Value of
Area      Yield    Production  Production             Area      Yield    Production   Production             Area      Yield      Production   Production
CROP                                 '000 ha   Ton/ha       '000 Ton    Rs '000            '000 ha  Ton/ha       '000 Ton      Rs '000            '000 ha  Ton/ha        '000 Ton      Rs '000
EHARIF - Irrigated
Paddy                                    1.7         2.4         4.1          3,770             1.9        2.6         4.9           4,510            2.9         3.6         10.4           9,570
Hybrid BaJra  1/                         -           -           -            -                 -          -           -             -                0.6        2.2           1.3           1,200
Sugarcane     -                          0.1        34.7         3.5            420            0.1       39.8          4.0             480            0.1       57.1           5.7             680
KHARIF - Non-Irrigated
Bajra                                    1.1         0.8      * 0.9             830             1.3        0.9         1.2           1,100            1.2        1.6           1.9           1,750
Jowar 2                                  1.8         0.8         1.4          1,290             1.9        1.0         1.9           1,750            2.0        1.6           3.2           2,940
Pulses-                                 (1.8)        0.5         0.9          1,120            (2.2)       0.7         1.5           1,870            (2.4)      0.9           2.2           2,750
Sesamum                                  0.2         0.3         0.1            300            0.2        0.4          0.1             300            0.3        0.7           0.2             600
Sub-Total                             4.9                                                   5.4                                                    7.1
Kharif Cropping Intensity %             41                                                    45                                                     59
RABI - Irrigated
Wheat (HYV)                              4.2         1.8         7.6          7,600             4.5        2.1         9.4           9,400            4.9        3.6          17.6          17,600
Wheat (Local)                            1.2         0.9         1.1          1,100             1.2        1.1         1.3           1,300            0.7        1.8           1.3           1,300
Pulses                                   1.5         1.0         1.5          1,870             1.6        1.1         1.8           2,250            1.7        1.5           2.6           3,250
O0lseeds                                 0.8         1.0         0.8          1,540             1.0       1.L          1.1           2,110            1.1        1.5           1.7           3,260
Sugarcane if                             0.1                                                   0.1                                                    0.1
RABI - Non-lrrigated
Pulses                                   1.0         0.5         0.5            620             0.9        0.7         0.6             750            0.8        0.9           0.7             870
Oilseeds                                 0.5         0.6         0.3            580            0.6         0.7        0.4              770            0.5        0.9          0.5              960
Sub-Total                             9.3                                                   9.9                     ..8
Rabi Cropping Intensity /.              77                                                     82                                                    82
TOTALS                               14.5                                 21.040           15.3                                  268590           16.9                                   46,730            g|
Cropping Intensity %                   118                                                   127                                                    141                                                         lo
Irrigated Cropping Intensity %          80                                                    87                                                    101
I/ Sugarcane occupies land for 9-10 months and is included as irrigated in both Kharif and Rabi.
2/ Interplanted with Bajra or Jowar.



ANNEX 10
Table 3
INDIA
CRAMBAL CO%NAND AREA !)EVELOPM.ENT PROJECT (JAONYA PRADO.11)
Agricultural ProducLion - Chak   Drainage Area (20,000 ha)
Present                                   Future - Without Prolect                              Future - With Project
Value of                                             Value of                                               Value of
Area       Yield    Production  Production            Area     Y'eld    Production   Production             Area      Yield      Production   Production
CROP                                '000 ha   Ton/ha       '000 Ton    Rs '000             '000 ha  To./ha      '000 Ton      Rs '000            '000 ha  Ton/ha        '000 Ton      Rs '000
KnALIF - irrigated
Paddy                                    2.6         2.1        5.5           5,060            3.0        2.3         6.9           6,350            5.7        3.1         17.7          16,280
Hybrid BajraI                            -                       -              -                   -                 -             -                0.6        2.0          1.2            1,100
Sugarcane    Al                          0.2        33.0        6.6             790            0.2      35.0          7.0             840            0.3       53.0         15.9           1,910
KhARIF - Non-Irrigated
Bajra                                    1.6        .0.7        1.1           1,010            1.7        1.0         1.7           1,560            2.6        1.4          3.6           3,310
Jowar 2/                                 0.3         0.7        0.2             180            0.6        0.9         0.5             460            0.9        1.3          1.2           1,100
Pulses-                                 (0.8)        0.5        0.4             500           (1.0)       0.7         0.7             870           (2.1)       0.9          1.9            2,370
Sesamuma                                             -          -            -                            -           -             -                0.2        0.6          0.1             OuG
Sub-Total                            4.7                                                   5.                                                    10.3
Ktlarif Cropping Intensity %            24                                                    27                                                    52
REAI - Irrigated
Wheat (hYV)                              4.2         1.8         7.6          7,600            4.3        2.0         8.6           8,b00            7.0        3.0         21.0          21,000
Wlheat (Local)                           1.2         0.8         1.0          1,000            1.3        0.9         1.2           1,200            1.2        1.5          1.8           1,800
Pulses                                   1.0         0.8        0.8          1,000             1.0        1.0         1.0           1,250            1.6        1.4          2.2           2,750
Oilseeds                                 1.1         0.8        0.9          1,730             1.0        1.0         1.0           1,920            1.8        1.4          2.5           4,800
Sugarcane-'                              0.2                                                  0.2                                                    0.3
RABI - Non-Irrigated
Pulses                                   1.2        0.5         0.6            750             1.7       0.6         1.0            1,250            2.2        0.7          1.5           1,880
Oilseeds                                 1.5         0.5        0.8          1,540             1.5       0.6         0.9            1,730            1.8        0.7          1,3           2,500
Sub-Total                           10.4                                                  11.0                                                   15.9
Rabi Cropping Intensity %               52                                  21,160            55                                  26,030            80                                    61,100
TOTALS                              15.1                                                  16.5                                                   26 .2
Cropping Intensity %                   76                                                     82                                                  131
Irrigated Cropping Intensity %         52                                                    55                                                     93
1/  Sugarcane occupies land fo, 9-10 msonths and is included as irrigated in both Kharif and Rabi.
2/  Interplanted with Bajra or Jowar.



ANNEX 10
Table 4
CHAMBAL COMMND ARFIA DEVELCPMNTC PROJECT (MAOWYA PRADDSH)
Agricultural Production - ExtensiveArea (192.000 ha)
Present                                    Foture - Without Project                               Future - With Project
Value of                                            Value of                                               Value of
Area      Yield    Production   Production           Area      Yield    Production   Production            Area     Yield       Production   Production
CROP                                '000 ha   Ton/ha       '000 Ton     Rs '000          '000 ha   Ton/ha    '000 Ton         Rs '000          '000 ha   Ton/ha       '000 Ton      Rs '000
KHARIF - Irrigated
Paddy                                   7.7         2.2        16.9         15,550           11.5       2.5        28.8          26,500           15.4        3.0         46.2           42,500
Hybrid Bajra 1/                         -           -           -            -                -                     -             -                1.9         2.0          3.8           3,500
Sugarcane    -                          1.9        35.0        66.5          7,980            2.9      40.0-      116.0          13,920            3.3       50.0        165.0          19,800
KILARIF - Non-Irrigated
Baj.a                                  25.0         0.8        20.0         18,400           26.9       1.0        26.9          24,750           26.8        1.1         31,7           29,160
Jowar 2/                                7.7         0.9         6.9         6,350             7.7       1.0         7.7           7,080            9.6         1.1        10.6           9,750
Pulses-                               (13.4)        0.5         6.7          8,370          (15.4)      0.6         9.2          11,500          (19.2)       0.7         13.4           16,750
Sesamumo                                1.0         0.3         0.3            910            1.0       0.4         0.4           1,220            1.9        0.6          1.1           3,340
Sub-Total                           43.3                                                 50.0                                                  60.9
Kharif Cropping Intcusity %            23                                                    26                                      '            32
RABT - Irrigated
Wheat (HYV)                            67.2         1.9       127.6        127,600           72.9        2.1      153.1         153,100            76.8        2.4       184.3          184,300
Wheat (Local)                          11.5         0.9        10.4         10,400           13.4        1.1       14.7          14,700           11.5         1.4         12.9          12,900
Pulses                                 15.4         0.7        10.8         13,500           17.3       0.9        15.6          19,500           17.3         1.1         19.0         23,750
Oilseeds                               19.2         0.8        15.4         29,570           21.1       1.0        21.1          40,510           26,9        1.1          29.6          56,830
Sugarcane i /                           1.9                                                   2.9                                                  3.3
RABI - Non-Irrigated
Pulses                                 30.7         0.5        15.3         19,120           28.8       0.6        17.3          21,620           21.1        0.7          14.8          18,500
Oilseeds                               19.2         0.5         9.6         18,430           25.0       0.6        15.0          28,800           23.8        0.7         16.7           32,060
Sob-Total                          165.1                                                181.4                                                 180.7
Rabi Cropping Intensity %              86                                                    94                                                   94
TOTALS                             208.4                               276.180          231.4                                363.200          241.6                                 453.140             1: 
Cropping Intensity 7.                 109                                                   120                                                  126
Irrigated Cropping Intensity %         65                                                    74                                                   81
1l  Sugarcane occupies land for 9-10 months and is included as irrigated in both Rharif and Rabi.
2/ Interplanted with Baira or Jowar.



INDIA
CHAMBAL CONMAND AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT  (MADHYA PRADESH)
Cropping Calendar
Crop and Season                May       June      July       Aug.      Sept.    Oct.        Nov.      Dec.       Jan.      Feb.       March    April
KHARIF
Paddy
Hybrid Bajra                                  xxx  xxxx ....... .... .......
Bajra, local                                 xxxx- xxxx ........... ............
Jowar                                     xxxxxxx)  ............................
Pulses                                                 x           ... .......          ---
Sesamum                                                            ... ....... ......
RABI                                                                                    I
Wheat  (HYV)                                                                                 xxxxxxx ...............................
Wheat  (Local)                                                                      xxxx          ... ............................
Gram                                       _                                      xxx        ....... ........................
Mustard                                                                     xxXXXXXmc ....... ....................
Lentil                                                                       30    0 xxxx... . ...... ........................
Linseed                                                                  XXxxxxv  =)xxx: ... ... ....................... =
BOTH SEASONS                                                                                                                                       ............
Sugarcane                      ...........................                                                                   =====xy
Legend:                Land Preparation
1H1H+-H- Nursery
xxxxxxxx Sowing
........ Vegetative Stage
Harvest                                                                                                                                   - n
c1W
q 



ANNEX 11
Page 1
INDIA
CHAMBAL COMMAND AREA DEVELOP1MENT PROJECT (MADHYA PRADESH)
Marketing, Pricing, Processing and Storage
Marketing
1.        Farmers sell their produce either at local markets on directly
to processors. Deliveries to markets on collection points are usually
made by bullock cart. Trucks are used for transporting goods from the
markets, and from collection points to processing facilities.
2.        Fifteen local markets (Mandies) established under the Agriculture
Product Act of 1973 provide offices, banking facilities, godowns, shops,
auction space, traders' stalls, water supplies and sanitation facilities.
They are operated by a local marketing committee of 8 to 20 members of which
at least two thirds are agriculturalists. Eaah market has an approved staff
financed by a levy upon the trader (buyer) of not more than 0.5% of the
value of the purchases. GOM has a program underway to enlarge and relocate
several of the existing markets, and to construct new markets. The markets
are highly successful and assure the grower of a fair price for his pro-
duce. The market provides storage for three days without cost. Longer
term storage is provided for a fee. The markets are situated over the
project area so that farmers can make the round trip to and from the market
within a day.
3.        Throughout the year there is considerable price variation between
markets, due to the cost of transport, lack of market price information and
local shortages. The road improvement program planned under the project
would assist in equalizing the prices among markets. The existing radio
market-news program would be improved.
Prices
4.        Current and prospective food shortages indicate that there will
be a demand within India for the entire increase in production from the
project. The largest increases in production are expected in wheat and
this can be entirely absorbed within Madhya Pradesh. Other food grains,
particularly paddy, will exceed the needs of the state and the surplus
will be available for shipment to other parts of India. The general food
situation in India and Madhya Pradesh is summarized in Tables 1 and 2.



ANNEX 11
Page 2
5.        In the present serious inflationary situation in India food prices,
particularly cereals, pulses and sugar have outpaced all other commodity
groups. In October 1974, the overall wholesale price index for food
articles reached 375.7 (1961/62=100) compared to food grains at 426.2.
These indices were higher than for any other commodity group. 1/ (Table 3)
6.        The prices used in the economic analysis for wheat, rice, and
sorghum were based upon the Bank's projections for 1985 (constant values)
with adjustments for transportation and grade. Those for other commodities
were based upon local prices projected to 1985 conditions on the basis of
the Bank's general indices. The primary purposes of the financial analysis
is to determine the ability of the beneficiaries to repay the project costs
within reasonable periods of time and at appropriate interest rates. Since
the critical time in the repayment period is normally the first few years
of development, the prices used in the financial analysis for wheat, paddy,
bajra and jowar were not discounted as much from current levels as those
used in the economic analysis.
7.        The prices of fertilizer used in the economic analysis were based
upon suggestions made by the Banak's Fertilizer Unit, while current prices
were used in the financial analysis and in the determination of the cost
of fertilizer required to restore fertility to those areas that would bs
involved in the On-Farm Development Full Package program. The prices
used in both the economic and financial analyses are in Table 4.
Processing
8.        There are presently 17 lentil mills, two oil mills and one sugar
mill of significant size in the project area. In addition, there are
many small oil, flour and unrefined sugar mills. The present capacity is
adequate to process the current production but as the project develops it
is anticipated that additional capacity would be required for lentils, oil,
flour and possibly paddy. The existing sugar factory has sufficient capa-
city (1,250 tons of sugarcane per day) to process the anticipated cane
output of the project. Because of transportation cost and convenience,
however, it is anticipated that the small privately owned sugar plants will
continue to operate. The private sector has demonstrated a willingness
to invest in processing facilit.ies and, as the project develops, no
problem is anticipated in the arailability of processing facilities. One
rice mifl operator visited during the appraisal was in process of enlarging
his mill in anticipation of an increase in paddy production.
Storage
9.        The farmers normally market their produce immediately after
harvest and therefore, except for seed and home consumption the need for
1/   Reserve Bank of India Bulletin, October 1974, page 1905.



ANNEX 11
Page 3
on-farm storage is minimal. Food grains and seeds are normally stored in
the farmer's house. Limited storage capacity is provided in the traders'
stalls at the markets and special storage facilities are being constructed
at such places. In addition many of the multi-purpose cooperatives provide
some storage for members, but this is generally utilized for the storage of
fertilizers in anticipation of needs by the farmer. The Food Corporation
of India and the Central Warehousing Corporation which stores food collected
under the levy program has storage of 7,500 ton capacity and 5,000 ton
capacity, respectively, at Morena and Sheopur.



ANNEX 1 1
Table 1
INDIA
CHAMBAL COMMAND AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (Madhya Pradesh)
Estimated Food Requirements, Production and Supply in India
Per Capita                            P
Cons4mtion          Lemand_y Production                 Suppl,y Gap
Crp             1975_197619 975 76   1980-1981   1975-1976   1975-1976   1980-1981
kg/yr     ----------Million tons-------------------------
Rice                75.h7        51.2         56.4        41.9          9.3        14.5
Wheat,               37.h6       26.5         30.7        20.8          5.7         9.9
All Cereals         15i.62      108.5        120.1        95.6         12.9         2h.5
Pulses              30.66        17.7         20.8        10.8          6.9        10.0
All Food Grains    17h.88       126.2        140.9       106.4         19.8         34.5
Edible oils           5.97        6.0          6.6         5.0 .6                    1.2
/ Includes provision for livestock feed and seed.
Source:  National Council of Applied Economic Research.



ANNEX 11
Table 2
INDIA
CHAMBAL COMMAND AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (Madhya Pradesh)
Export and ImPort of Major Agricultural Commodities from and to Madhya Pradesh
Exports                                    Imports
ComEodities   1960-61  1965-66   1969-70   1970-71    1960-61   1965-66  1962-70    1270-71
---thousand tons-----------------------------------
Rice     . 455.1   101.4          353.3     282.3        26.6       9.8      2.6         2.6
Paddy       29.5      0.1        2.4       1.7         -         -        -          _
Wheat         121.9      2.5       45.8      25.6       114.0     183.8     90.7       184.2
Pulses (other
than Gram) 168.6    225.5      263.2     297.6       15.1       16.1     15.2        20.7
Gram and its
products   157.7     58.2      116.7     113.2        13.1       4.2      3.4         6.9
Bajra          13.4       0.4       7.3       1.8         -         -        -
Jowar         114.7     17.9      110.1      82.4         -         -        -
Oil Seeds     105.2     78.5       76.8      70.9         -         -        -           -
Vegetable
Oils      17.2     19.7       20.2      15.8        20.5      20.4     19.6        19.2
Source: 1973 Agricultural Statistics, Madhya Pradesh.



ANNEX 11
Table 3
INDIA
CHAMBAL COMMAND AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (Madbya Pradesh)
Index Numbers of Whclesale Prices for India!"
(1961 - 1962 = 100)
Sept.      Sept.     Sept.      Sept.    Sept.       Sept.
1969       1         1971       1972     19974
All Commodities     175         185       190        210      250        300
Food Articles       205         210       215        245      300        385
Manufacturers       145         15O       165        175      190        250
Industrial raw
materials        185         195       205        190      305        3h5
Machinery and trans-
port equipment   135         145       155        170      180        260
i/ Numbers taken from graph, Page 1956,  Reserve Bank of India Bulletin,
October, 1974.



ANNEX 1 1
Table 4
INDIA
CHAMBAL COMMAND AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (Madhya Pradesh)
Prices of Agricultural Productsi/
Economic Analysis              Financial Analysis                Seed
Rs/Ton           $/ton          Rs/ton          $/ton              Rs/ton
Wheat         1000              125           1320             165               1350
Paddy          920             115            1000             125               1200
Bajra          920              115           1000             125               1150
Jowar          920              115           1000             125               1150
Gram          1250              155           1250             155               1400
Mustard       1920              240           1920             240               2000
Sesame        304C              380           3o40             380               3200
Sugarcane      120               15            120              15               1500
Fertilizer Z         Rs/kg
N                      2                              5
P                      2                              6
K                      1                              2
2/ Measured at farm gate.
/  Plant Autrient basis.



ANNEX 12
Page 1
INDIA
CHAMBAL COMMAND AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (MADHYA PRADESH)
Farm Budgets
Obiectives
1.        Farm budgets were prepared for two reasons:
(a)  to determine the ability of the water users to repay
the cost of On-Farm Development Full Package; and
(b) to determine whether the prospective increases in farm
income would be sufficient to compensate the farmer and
his family for the additional labor they would have to
perform and for other farm production costs they would
have to incur.
Procedure
2.        Farm budgets were prepared for the On-Farm Development Full Package
area. To provide a basis for the preparation of the complete farm budgets,
crop enterprises budgets were prepared for each of the major crops produced
in the On-Farm Development Full Package area. These budgets which include
physical inputs, costs and both gross and net income were prepared for
the present and future - with-project situations. The crop budgets are
presented in Tables 1 and 2. The cropping patterns used in the budgets
are presented in Table 6.
3.        The largest farms in the project area are over 30 ha, but the
distribution of sizes is very skewed, 37% of holdings being 1 ha or less.
Complete farm budgets were prepared for two farm sizes, one of 2.4 ha
(the average size) and the other of 1 ha. Budgets for larger farms were
not prepared, since their repayment capacity is greater than that of a
2.4 ha farm. Distribution of farm sizes is as follows:



A.ZNEX 12
Page 2
per,c<ntage cf ?enrae
Far1m Size       Farms              hiectare8     In S7ze
Interval   (no)   (Cwzu?.atlve)    (to,   L)0Aj    Interval    Ct
Under -  0.5  16,461  16,161    4,090    i ,09      17.7      17.7
0.5 -  1.0  17,$77  34w,Q038  13,100   17, 19:o)   18.9      36.6
1.1 -  2.0  20,646  54,68     30Q780   D7,970      2/?.$58.8
2.1 -  3.0  12,927  67,611    3? 130   80,l l                72.-
3.1 -  4.0  8,277  71,.68        , E!rn  loi       8.9       81.6
4.1 -  5.o  5,301   81,159    23,710   132,610      5.7      87.3
5.1 - 10.0  9,300   90,489    69,330   201,90 110            97.3
10.1 - 20.0  2,139  92,625     31,790  233,830      2 .3      59.6
20.1 - 30.0  279    92,907      t,930  240,75A      0.3       p99
30.1 - plus  93     93,000      .200   244,0ow      0.1      100.0
Total    93.000              2Utm                LO0.0
4.        A wheat farm was analyzed for both the 1 and 2.4 ha size units.
In addition, a second analysis was prepared for the 2.4 ha farm with a
composite cropping pattern representative of' the On-Farm Development Full
Package Area.
5.       It was assumed in the farm budget analysis that all crops would
be sold. Therefore provision was made in the farm cost for the purchase
of seed and of grain to feed the bullock team during the heavy working
season. It was also assumed that the grain and lentils used for family
consumption would be purchased with funds from the family living allowance.
6.       Most farms - particularly those over about 1 ha in size-- have
a bullock team for draft purposes as well as 1 or 2 water buffalo for milking.
Provision was made in the farm costs to replace the bullock team every eight
years. The buffalo were considered as a household item and replacements
would be purchased from the family living allowance.
7.       On most farms, the farm-produced fodder and straw would be
sufficient to feed the livestock at the rate of three tons per year per mature
animal. The average weight ratios of grain to fodder for the various
crops are: local, wheat 1:2; HYV, wheat 1:1, HYV, paddy 1:1; bajra 1:3;
jowar 1:4; gram 1:1 and mDst of the pulses about 1:1.
8.       Two farm budgets were prepared for each of the three situations
analyzed. The first represented the present condition and the second the
condition after full develc?ment is achieved (Year Eight for the individual
block). In the first year or so after development, it is anticipated
that the increase in production would be relatively small, but it would
increase rapidly thereafter.



ANNEX 12
Page 3
9.        The detailed results of the farm budgets as well as the cash flow
analyses are presented in Tables 3, 4, and 5. These indicate a present
net farm income of about 1,100 Rs/ha. With full development this will
nearly double in the On-Farm Development Full Package area. Although an
analysis was not made, the increase in net farm income would probably be
largest on the Chak Drainage Area. This is because a substantial part
of this area is now out of production because of perennial waterlogging.
As soon as major drainage outlets are provided, this problem would be
eliminated and there would be an immediate response in production.
10.       The farm budget analysis indicates that the average size farms
can return the costs of On-Farm Development Full Package with interest
art 10-1/2% in a 12-year period, including a one year's grace. Also,
at the same time, a sufficient surplus would be left to the farmers to
provide an inducement to them to undertake the development program. For
ecample, on the 2.4 ha wheat oriented farm (in Year eight), after paying all
costs the farmer would have an increase in income of 2,000 Rs per year to
repay him and his family for the additional 71 days of labor they would
perform. This is a return of 28 Rs per day for the additional work which is
very attractive when compared to the 10 Rs per day allowed for harvest labor
in the analysis or the 5 Rs/day paid to labor during the regular season.
11.       The farmer on the 1 ha size farm unit would find it more difficult
tco meet the prospective water charges and support his family. However,
starting in the sixth year, he would have sufficient income to pay water
charges and to leave 1,600 Rs for family living. However, since his farm
would only require about 95 days of labor per year, he would have ample time
to supplement his farm income by off-farm employment. In Year Two, the first
year he would be required to pay water charges, if he were to work off the
farm for 68 days during the harvest season at 10 Rs per day. his income would
be increased sufficiently to cover the minimum cost of living. The develop-
ment of the project would substantially increase the opportunities for such
non-farm employment. After paying all water charges starting in Year Three
his residual farm income available for family living would be higher than
it is under present conditions.



INDIA                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AN1MEX 12
INDIA                                                                Tabole 1
CHAMBAL COMMAND AREA DEVELOPMENT (MADEYA PRADESH)
Crop Enterprise Budgets (Present)         On-Farm Dayelopment rull Package Area
(Per Hectare)
I N P U T S                                                C O S T S                                     O U T P U T
Fertilizer                                 Plant                                                           Cross         Net
Labor          N            P             K         Seed    Protection       Labor    Fertilizer        Seed         Yield      Value         Value
Mn _Days       ha                  kg                 kg           Rs           Rs            Rs           Rs          Ton          Rs           Rs
IKHARIF  -  Irrigated
Paddy                              1.10         50           30            -           35           35          360          330            42           2.4      2,400         1,635
KHARIF  -  Non-Irrigated
Bajra                                39         15            8            -           12            2           -            123           14           0.8        800           660
Jowar                                39          5            3            -           15            6           -            43            17           0.8        800           735
Pulses (Interplanted)                12         -            -             _           15            9           -             -            22           0.5         660          630
Sesamum                              42         -            -             _           10            3           -             -            38           0.3        912           870
RABI - Irrigated
Wheat  (HYV)                         62         40           20            -          120           25          280           320          162           1.8      2,400         1,615
Wheat  (Local)                       50         24           12            -          100           17          220           192          120           1.0       1,300          750
Gram                                 43         10           25      .     -           75           23           -           200           105           0.7        950           620
Mustard                              40         25           13            -            7           54            -           205           14           1.0      1,900         1,625
Sugarcane                            77         60           30            20       8,000           86          320          520        1,200           35.0      5,250        3,125
RABI - Non-Irrigated
Gram                                 41         -            -             -           75           10           -             -           105           0.4        544           430
Mustard                              37         12            6            -            7           21           -             96           14           0.6        790           660
ax



ANNEX 12
Table 2
INDIA
CHAMBAL COMMAN) AREA DEVELOPMENT (MADHYA PRADESI)
Croi Enterprise Budgets (Future - With Project)          On-Farm Development Full Package Area
(Per Hectare)
I N P U T S                                                C OS T S                                        O U T P1U T
Fertiliser                                  Plant        Hired                                                Gross         Net
Labor          N            P            K          Seed      Protection      Labor    Fertilizer        Seed         Yield         Value        Value
Man Deys             kg                   kg           kg          Rs            Rs           Rs           Rs           Tmn          1.o
KHARIF  -  Irrigated
Paddy                               130         100           60           -            35           76          550           860           42          3.6        3,600         2,070
Hybrid Bajra                         63          75           40           -              5           25           -           620           18           2.2        2,200        1,540
KIIARIF - Non-Irrigated
Bajra                                56          30           20           -            12            11           -           270           14          1.4         1,400        1,105
Jowar                                50          30           18           -            15            25           -           260           17           1.6        1,600        1,300
Pulses  (Interplanted)               15          10           30           -            15           14            -           230           22          0.8        1,100           835
Sesamum                              50          20           20           -            10    ,      14            -           220           38          0.6        1,820         1,550
RABI - Irrigated
Wheat (HYV)                          87         100           60           -           120            73          550          860          162          3.4         4,480        2,835
Wheat (Local)                         62         55           30           -           100            41          400          455          120          1.8         2,380        1,365
Gram                                 63          25           50           -            75           52            -           425          105          1.4        1,900         1,320
Mustard                              55          45           30           -             7           85            -           405           14          1.8        3,460         2,955
Sugarcane                           123         100           45           30        8,000          148          450           830        1,200         57.1        8,570        5,940
RABI - Non-Irrigated
Gram                                 47          10           30           -            75           29            -           230          105          0.7           920          555
Mustard                              45          25           12           -             7           38            -           200           14          1.1        2,110         1,860
February 10, 1975                                                                                                                                                                           r



ANNEX 12
Table 3
INDIA
CHAM4BAL CCMMAND AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (MADHrA PRADESH)
Farm Budget for Average Size Farm
(2.h ha  Wheat Farm, On-Farm Development Full Package  Area)
(in Rs)
Y E A R S
Items                                          0        T         2         3        4         5         6        7       8-12
Gross Value Production                            4,240    4,845    5,450    6,055    6,660    7,265    7,870    8,475   9,090
I/
Cost bf Inputs                2/                1,050    1,250    1,450    1,650    1,850    2,050    2,250    2,450   2,650
Interest on Production Credit               3/     50        60       70        80        90      100       110      120      130
Maintenance of Farm Eouipment and Bullocks        500       515      530       545       560      575       590       595     600
Ne1t Farm Income                             2,640    3,020    3,400    3,780    4,160    4,540    4,920    5,310   5,710
Water Charges
0 & M          4/                                  72        72      116       116      116      '116       116      116      116
Betterment Levy               5/                    -        -        34        34        34       34        34        34      34
Repayment of Development Loan                      -         -       852       852      852       852       852      852      852
Total Water Charges                             72        72    1,002    1,002    1,002    1,002    1,002    1,002   1,002
6/                                    7/
Residual for Fwdly Living  and Savings            2,568    2,948    2,398    2,778    3,158    3,538    3,918    4,308   4,708
1/ Fertilizer, hired labor, plant protection and seeds.
(Required 128 man-days labor in Year Zero and hired 28.  Needed 226 with full development and hirdd 55.)
2/  Assumesfarmer borrows money to finance all inputs and pays 10% for i year.
3/  Depreciation of Bullock Team 400 Rs/year.  Team cost 3,200 Rs and works about 8 years.
Ii/  Assumed 14 Rs/ha/yr. to recover construction costs over a 30-year period.                                                   (bi
3/  Assumed loan of 2,250/ha repaid in 12 years including one year's grace at 104 interest.                                      ,  .
'/  Family living estimated at 1,600 Rs/yr.
t/ Income will probably be substantially less than this in Year One when on-farm development occurs.



ANNEX 12
INDIA
CHAMBAL CCMMAND AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (MADHYA PRADESH)
Farm Budget for amall Farm
(1 ha Wheat Farm, On-Farm Development Full Package Area)
(in Rs)
Y EA R S
Items                                        0       1        2         3        4       5        6       7          8-12
Gross Value Production                       1,765    2,020   2,270      2,525   2,775   3,025   3,280   3,530         3,790
1/
Cost of Inputs                  /             315      380      445       510      575     640      705     770         830
Interest on Production Credit           3/    15        19       22        25       29      32       35      38          42
Maintenance of Farm Equip. and Bullocks       1 440     445     450       455      460     465      470      475        480
Not 'Farm Income                           995    1,176   1,353      1,535   1,711   1,888   2,070   2,247         2,438
Water Charges
0 & M          4/                              30       30       48        48       48      48       48      48          48
Betterment Levy               5/               -        -        14        14      114      14       14      14          14
Repayment of Development Loan                  -        -       355       355      355     355      355     355         355
Total Water Charges                         30       30     417        417     417      417     417      417         417
_________ --   6/                           7/
Residual for Family Living  and Savings        965    L,1146     936     1,118   1,294   1,471   1,653    ,830         2,021
1/ Fertilizer, hired labor, plant protection and seeds.
(Required 54 msn-days labor in year Zero and 95 when fully developed.  Did not hire any.)
2/  Assumes farmer borrows money to pay for all inputs and pays 10% interest for i year.
3/  Depreciation of bullock team estimated at 400 Rs/yr.  Teams cost 3,200 Rs and work  about 8 years.
IV  Assumed 14 RsAWa/yr.to recover construction costs over a 30-year period.                                                      x
/  Assumed cost of 2,250 Rs/ha. and repayment in 12 years including one year's grace with interest at 10C.
3/ Family living cost estimated at 1,600 Rs/yr.
7/ Income will probably be substantially less than this in Year One when on-farm development occurs.



ANNEX 12
Table 5-
INDIA
CHAMBAL CCMMAND AREA DEVI_UFENT PROJECT (MADHYA PRADESH)
Farm Budget for Average Size Farm
(2.4 ha Composite  ropping Pattern, On- arm Development Full Package Area)
kin RS)
Y E AR S
It ms                                            0       1        2        3       _        _7 
Gross Value Production                            4,865   5,580   6,295   7,010   7,725   8,440   9,155   9,870          10,570
1/
Cost of Inputs                2/                1,355   1,622   1,889   2,156   2,423   2,690   2,957   3,224           3,490
Interest on Production Credit               3/     68       81       94     107      120     133      146     159         175
Maintenance of Farm Equipment and Bullocks         500     513      526     539      552     565      578      591         600
Net Farm Income                              2,942   3,364   3,786   4,208   4,630   5,o52   5,474   5,896           6,305
Water Charges
0 & M          4/                                  72       72     116      116      116     116      116     116         116
Betterment Levy               5/-                           -        34      34       34      34       34       34          34
Repayment of Development Loan                       -       -       852     852      852     852      852      852        852
Total Water Charges                             72       72   1,002   1,002   1,002   1,002   1,002   1,002          1,002
Residual for Family Living  and Savings           2,870   3,292   2,784   3,206   3,628   4,050   4,472   4,894           5,303
1/  Fertilizer, hired labor, plant protection and seeds.
(Required 180 man-days labor in Year Zero and hired 46.  Needed 287 with full development and hired 94.)
2/  Assumes farmer borrowed money to finance all inputs and pays 10% interest for 6 months.
3/ Depreciation of bullock team 400 Rs/yr, Team costs 3,200 Rs and works about 8 years.                                         m X
17/  Assumed 14 Rs/ha/yr. to recover construction costs over a 30-year period.
3/  Assumed loan of 2,250 Rs/ha will be repaid in 12 years including one year's grace at 1014 interest.
6/  Cost of family living estimated at 1,600 Rs per year.
7/  Income will probably be substantially less than this in Year One when on-farm development occurs.



ANNEX 12
Table 6
INDIA
CHAMBAL COzL44AD AREA DMVELOPMENT PROJECT (MtADIHYA PRADESH)
Cropping Patterns for Farm Budgets -
On-Farm Development Full Package Area
2.4 ha Farm                      1 ha Farm
_Composite              Wheat                'Wheat
Present   Year 81-   Present   Yearl       Present   Year 8
--------------------------- ha -----------------------------
Kharif - Irrigated
Paddy                  0.35      o.58          _         _           _        _
Bajra (HYV)              -       (.11          -         -           -         -
Sugarcane              0.02      0.01          -         -           _         -
- Nonirrigated
Bajra                  0.22      C.24        0.20     o.4o         0.08     0.16
Jowar                  0.37      0.39          - -                   -         -
Pulses                (0.37)   (O.48)        o.4o     0.50         0.16     0.21
Sesamum                0.o4      o.o6                    -           -         -
Sub-Total
Hectares      1.00     1.39         o.60     0.90         0.24     0.37
Intensity       42       58           25       38           24       37
Rabi   - Irrigated
Wheat (HYV)            0.83      1.00        1.00      1.20        o.41      0.5o
Wheat (local)          0.24      0.14           -        -           _         _
Pulses                 0.30      0.33           --                   -         -
Oilseed                0.17      0.22        o.60      0.70        0.25      0.29
- Nonirrigated
Pulses                 0.20      0.:16       o.4o      0.20        o.16      0.08
Oilseeds               0.19      0..0           -        -           -         -
Sub-Total
Hectares      1.93     1.55         2.00     2.10         0.81     0.87
Intensity       80        81          83        88          82       87
TOTAL
Hectares                2.93     3.3,4       2.60      3.00        l.05      1.24
Intensity                122      139         108       125         105      124
/  Year of full de-velopment.



ANNEX 13
Page 1
INDIA
CHAMBAL COMMAND AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (MADHYA PRADESH)
Economic Anlsis
Prices
1.        Prices for internationally traded farm production inputs and
crops grown on the project are based on Bank projections for 1985, with
adjustments for transport costs ad variations in quality. Prices of
locally traded inputs and crops for 1985 have been estimated from local
market prices, projected to 1985 assuming constant price levels. The
prices used are in Annex 11.
Farm Labor
2.        The population of the project area is presently about 700,000 of
which about 70% is classified as rural (500,000) and the balance as urban.
There are also about 93,000 farms in the project area and the average size
farm family is about 5 persons thus indicating a farm population of 465,000
people. The balance of the rural population (35,000) is composed of the
families of landless laborers. In all, there are at least 100,000 rural
families. Assuming that the rural people work five days per week for 52
weeks in the year, an individual would work 260 days per year. Further
assuming only one worker per family, the rural population could perform
26 million man days of labor per year. With the project, under conditions
Of On-Farm Development Full Package, it is anticipated that the labor
requirement would amount to only 17.4 million man days per year. Thus
within the project area there is adequate labor to perform all of the farm
operations at full development. Although there is ample labor on most
farms to meet all needs, most farm operators traditionally hire labor
for the harvesting and threshing of paddy and wheat and for the harvesting
of sugarcane. Such hired labor is available from the families of landless
laborers or from the families and operators of small farm units.
3.        Estimates of the per hectare labor requirements for the various
crops grown in the three development areas of the project are presented
in Table 1. Total labor requirements by month are shown in Table 2.
There is considerable flucturtion in labor demand throughout the year. Two
peak seasons occur each year during the respective times of harvest for
the karif and the rabi crops. The opportunity cost for labor was esti-
mated on a monthly basis using available information on labor supply and
demand.



ANNEX 13
Page 2
4.        Labor has been shadow priced at marginal rates of between 2 and
10 rupees per day. The shadow pricing is based on the following assumptions
and observations:
(a) at very low levels of employment, it is doubtful whether
the opportunity cost of labor in terms of foregone product
is much above zero: however, there seems to be an effective
minimum wage of Rs 3-4/day, and the payment of this wage
is an economic cost in terms of foregone investment. Much
of the labor utilized at the lowest levels of employment
may in fact be family labor, where the payment is only
the extra food necessary for work rather than leisure. As
a compromise, the minimum wage assumed is Rs 2/day;
(b) at the present peak level of employment, the marginal cost
of labor is assumed tc, be Rs 8/day, which is the market
wage rate, and is assumed to reflect the opportunity cost
of labor;
(c) at the future maximum levels of labor requirements, the
wage rate is assumed to be Rs 10/day which should be
adequate to attract labor from surrounding surplus areas.
An instance was observed of a large farmer employing a
migrant gang of workers, and the total pay they received
was Rs 10/day.    &
5.        Theoretically, it is assumed that the relationship between the
quantity and opportunity cost of labor employed can be approximated by an
S-shaped curve (Figure 1), joining the points listed above. The initial
increase in slope is slow, reflecting the lack of alternative employment,
with the rate of increase growing as labor becomes more fully utilized,
and finally leveling off when migrant labor would be attracted from a
wide area by the wage rate.
6.        While the shape of the curve can be viewed with some confidence
at the upper levels on the basis of observation, the intercept at the
minimum employment level is open to debate. Fortunately, since the lowest
levels df employment occur in both with and without project situations,
the incremental cost of labor is not sensitive to the assumption made
about the minimum economic wage.
7.        For the purposes of anaLysis, the S-curve is formed by three
straight-line segments.  The economic cost of labor is found by calculating
the area beneath the curve up. to the employment rate.
8.        Computed in this way, the average incremental cost of labor is
Rs 5.6/day - 70% of the current maximum.



ANNEX 13
Page 3
Project Costs
9.        The Capital costs as developed in Annex 4 and amounting to Rs 215
million were used in the economic analysis. The cost used includes physi-
cal but not price contingencies. The sunk costs in existing facilities were
not included. It was assumed that after the three-year implementation
period, the construction equipment On-Farm Development Full Package would
have a salvage value of Rs 4.2 million and this was reflected in the analysis
in Year Four. Total 0 & M costs were included for the three-year construction
period after which only the incremental 0 & M costs (costs in excess of those
which would occur in the absence of the project) were included for the balance
of the 25-year period analysis.
Project Benefits
10.       The project benefits are based upon the incremental net value of
farm production after subtracting the incremental costs including farm
labor, fertilizer, pesticides and seeds. It was assumed in the analysis
that the benefits would reach the full level of development in Year 11 of
the project. The build-up to that level reflects both (1) the rate of
construction and (2) the rate at which the physical productivity of the
project lands increase. The anticipated build-up is graphically illustrated
in Figure 2. It is anticipated that the most rapid increase in farm income
will occur in the Chak Drainage area where a large response will occur
immediately after the surfacp waters are removed and protection from future
flooding is provided.
Economic Rate of Return
11.       The economic rate of return for the project is 22%.  Separate
rates of return for each of the three sub-areas are to be 25% for the
On-Farm Development Full Package area, 36% for the Chak Drainage area
and 18% for the Extensive Area. These results show that the investments
for each sub-area are justified, and also that investment in Chak
Drainage gives a higher return than complete On-Farm Development Full
Package (Table 3).
Sensiti,lity Analysis
12.       Several of the basic inputs into the economic analysis have been
varied to determine their impact on the project economics:



ANNEX 13
Page 4
Variations                           Rate of Return
(a) rate of project development delayed
by-one year                                   19
(b)  project costs increased by 25%                  18
(c) fertilizer priced at present (financial)
prices rather than the Banks projected
1985 prices                                   18
13.       The above analysis indicates that there is moderate sensitivity
to all changes. However, it is highly unlikely that any changes would
occur which would render the project unacceptable.



INDIA
CHAIBAL COMMAND AREA DEVETDPMENT PROJECT (MADHYA PRADESH)
Iabor Requirements
(man-days/ha)
On-Farm Development Area           Chak-Drainage Area              Extensive Area
Crops and Season                       Present      Future             Present       Future          Present       Future
With-  With                     With-  With                   With-  With
out                             out                           out
Kharif Irrigation                                                                                                  A
Paddy                                   110    114    130              105      111    122           108      111    124
Bajra (Hybrid) Sugarcane                77      80    123               75       77     89            77       80     86
Kharif Non-Irrigation
Bajra                                    39     41     56               37       43     51            39       43     45
Jowar                                    39     41     50               31       39     45            40       41     43
Pulses (Interplanted)                   12      13     15               12       13     15            12       13     15
Gram                                     35     36      38              35       36     38            35       36     38
Rabi Irrigation
Wheat (HYV)                              62     70      87              62       65      87           64       67     72
Wheat (Local)                            50     52     62               47       49     57            49       52     56
Pulses                                   35     36      38              35       36     38            35       36     38
Oilseeds                                 42     43     50               39       42     48            38       42     43
Rabi Non-Irrigation
Pulses                                   35     36      38              35       36     38            35       36     38
Oilseeds                                 37     38     45               34       37     43            33       37     38



ANNEX iS
Table 2
INDTA
CUAMBAL COMMAID AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (MADNYA PRADESH)
Economic Cost of Farm Labor (Year 8)
Jan.        Feb.         Mar.         Apr          M            June         July         Aug.         Sept.        Oct.         Nov.         Dec.        Total
Labor Requirement
(Million man-days)
Fulture With Project               0.4          1.1          1.0         3.2          1.8          0.9          0.9          1.5          0.8          1.1          2.6           2.1        17,4
Future Without Project             0.3          0.8          1.0         2.3           1.3         0.8          0.9          1.2          0.7          1.1          2.3           1.6        14.3
Margioal Opportunity Cost
(Rs/man-day)
Future With Project                2.3          3.2          2.5         9.5          7.3          2.4          2.4          5.4          2.4          3.2          5.8           8.1
Future Without Project             2.2          2.5          2.5          8.4         4.6          2.4          2.4          3.R          2.           3.2          0.4           6.0
Fcor.r...i C_at - Labor
(Rl Million)
Future With Project                0.8          2.5          2.3        15.8          6.2          1.9          2.0          4.6          1.7          2.6         12.7           8.4        61.5
Future Without Project             0.7          1.9          2.3        10.0          3.3           1.7         2.0          2.8          1.6          2.6         10.0           5.2        44.1
Incremental Economic Cost of Labor
(Re Million)
Future With Project minus
Future Without Project             0.1          0.6          0.0         5.8          2.9          0.2          0.0          1.8          0.1          0.0          2.7           3.2        17.4
Febru,ary 24. 1975                                               1
m 



ANNEX 13
Table 3
INDIA
CHAMBAI COMMAND AREA DEVELWOMENT PROJECT (MADHYA PRADESH)
Economic Costs and Benefits
(Rs million)
Entire  ProJect                             On-Fars Development Area (12.000 ha)
Costs                   Benefits                        Costs                   Benefits
Year        Capital       0 & M       Total                                       0 & M        Total
1            50.4        10.4         60.8          0.0       -       8.7         0.5           9.2         0.0
2            96.1        11.4        107.5          3.1              15.8         o.6          16.4         0.3
3            68.5        12.4         80.9         16.2              13.1         0.6          13.7         2.1
4              -         11.8         11.8         42.1 1/             -          0.6           o.6         9.9 1/
5              -         12.3         12.3         55.7                -          0.7           0.7         9.1
6              -         12.2         12.2         68.4                -          o.6           0.6        11.4
7              -         12.2         12.2         78.3                -          o.6           o.6        12.5
8              -         12.2         12.2         86.9                -          0.6           0.6        13.6
9              _         12.2         12.2         95.1                -          o.6           0.6        14.5
10              _         12.2         12.2        103.1                -          0.6           0.6        15.3
11-25           -         12.2         12.2        lo.64                -          0.6           0          15.8
Rate of Return                      22.45                    Rate of Return                25.15
Chak-Drainage Area (20.000 ha)                               Extensive Area (192,000 ha)
Costs                   Benefits                        Costs                   Benefits
Year        Capital       0 & M       Total                         Capital       0 & M        Total
1            10.0         1.0         11.0          0.0              31.7         8.9          40.6         0.0
2            19.5         1.0         20.5          1.5              60.8         9.8          70.6         1.3
3            13.4         1.1         1I.5          6.9              42.0        10.7          52.7         7.2
4              -          1.1          1.1         15.3                -         10.1          10.1        16.9
5              -          1.1          1.1         19.9                -         10.5          10.5        26.7
6              -          1.1          1.1         21.2                -         10.5          10.5        35.8
7              -          1.1          1.1         22.2                -         10.5          10.5        43.6
8              -          1.1          1.1         23.2                -         10.5          10.5        50.1
9              -          1.1          1.1         24.0                -         10.5          10.5        56.6
10              -          1.1          1.1         24.7                -         10.5          10.5        63.1
11-25           -          1.1          1.1         25.5                -         10.5          10.5        65.1
Rate of Return                     35.95                     Rate of Return                18.25
1/ Includes Rs 4.2 million residual value of equipment.






ANNEX 13
Figure 1
INDIA
CHAMBAL COMMAND AREA DEVELOPMENT
(MADHYA PRADESH)
Labor Cost Versus Demand
8
6 6
a
y    4
E
0II                                          I                       I               I                                       i
0.5             1.0            1.5             2.0             2.5             3.0             3.5             4.0
Labor Requirement (million mandays/month
World Bank-9659






ANNX 13
Figure 2
INDIA
CHAMBAL COMMAND AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT IMP)
Rate af Build-up in BSn.fits
100 --w* -
0                      DDevelopnent
Area
C 60-
Eensive Area
40                  Ae
20 L                         S 
1            2             3             4            6             6             7             8             9             10           11
Years
World Bank-9639






INDIA
CHAMBAL COMMAND AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (MADHYA PRADESH)
Project Operational Diagram
Pubic Wor ks Departmnt                        D
lrrlOatinrr DcPartrrrrnr 
Ir rigeriso and
DrrnU   Cirle
'  O| nrettin Canal Caasirinoe                                                                                                     a
Agro-lndastries Corporation
Agarciult- DepWrrhenr                                                                                                                    Fr-
S v oil Conservation Division/\\ 
D ~ ~    ~     ~    ~    wi
tF                                                                     | ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Topography SurveY   /\\  
u,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C~ EIn                                                                                                                                                   F ( \             I
tt                                                                | ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PtelWittry  Layouts                                      Rncisiot of Layouts|\  
Comman      - Aren Authotity
Lend Development Beeks
Loan Processng                                                   C plet en                 Agritultura1
9~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ct                                                                                                                                                  ,       n 
Cl.   Commercial Banks                                                                                                                                                                                                                   CesfcstPooto
|Crc dies   |
Governnent of Indir
Coopers tines
Agro-Service Cottons                          Coordination of lrputs                                                                                                                     Supp*   o
=     Extension Srrmice                           iAgricalluoral Enteosiun                           _--
Reseat-i Stations-
|Agricultural Research   |                                     _                                                                                                                   _            _      _






INDIA
CHAMBAL COMMAND AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (MADHYA PRADESH)
Implementation Schedule
Calendar Year and Quarters                       1975                     1976                             1977                    1978
Total   Unit
Item                                             4thQ    1stQ    2ndQ            4thQ    1stQ    2ndQ              4thQ    1stQ    2ndQ
Irrigation and Drainage
Man Canai Erosion Protection                                             1  1                        1   40 I                              4        0
Canal Capacity Works                    400    km
Canal Con-trol Structure              3177    no                       9                                 1 9                              13
Aquatic Weed Control 
115                             300                               345
Main Drainage Works                     760    km                    1      1
15                              40                                4
Miscellaneous Works 
On-Farm Development
400    400      401400    1400   140                             20       20_20
a) Full Pakage Area12,000    ha1000   1000    1002600    2700   2700                                             3000    3000   3000
b) Chak Drainage Area                20,000    ha               t
Roads                                     206    km
Ravine Erosion Control                      50    km                                     i
World Bank-9725






INDIA
CHAMBAL COMMAND AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (MADHYA PRADESH)
Organization Chart: State Level and Command Area Authority
r-~~------*---* ~                    - -     - - -- - -      - - 
r *              -           *    *  .L    _  ankd DevaloPnrenf    *    *~ -.         *             Ref9
+      ~              ~~~~~~~~~~~ tARCCoprto
Ccno erttnc Art                       AgrIcutrre       __       _       AdtvtIOOat ChIef        --i           -    ~
Cccndicai,cO  Production               Scry. Prd
CpLadi d Aretoi
,  ~~~~~~~~~h                r    "Y   iC A Ai
!  -1                             =---- ~~~~~-----------  ----------'
nment tSCDl                  Research
Cn     d
NOTE   Bnard of D-r-ctor of CAA Inc udet alt h,aid of den -rtmertrno A,r-c.Itre Irr,tatn                                 omm1a-n
R-e-en  Pobhrc Works Co-tetr-on, Ildutrret, Ve-eri-r, Forf-rvy. SCO S tIe So6t
Co0te-vtIOn Diota-on of the Agn-cltnt-l De,a-r-ert.                                              _              Flow af Investment -fnds                                                         World Eank-9697






INDIA
CHAMBAL COMMAND AREA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (MADHYA PRADESHJ
Organization Chart: Irrigation and Land Development
C|o       od Ar   A
3~~~~~~
* -- -------------- mm m -   - -                                          -Am- -w- -- 
ro           0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~JitDrctr0                                                                                                                          aae
|   D,-tric,  |        |        DistrictC b
Ch Lobe                                                                                                                   Agninultoa. Chamb AgAo..baus Driesn
Irrigatlon       1                                                                                                        Agriculture Dep rtment                                                                                Corpg ati,o
Flonnirng                                                     R-sac                                                              Wokhp
Sorney                 e~~              ~~nd            WorIc                         aed                                 Worhs                          sead S1.,ts
Dep ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~Ui                                                         Design                           Uni                          D_eootn                               ntU
ProIec-  I                                                                        Ui                               * 
Pciall milg       j          Part es      l      -|        le~~~~ttrastruc-                 C |  ocntract                                                     chdlm                 -|iato   SProluemen
Field                                                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~           ~          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Snidhndrn  -nd
- 4 3               2                 XC                                   _                   +       ~~~~~~ ~~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~                         ~~~Maccing  l  | Realign- l~  ofrksFerm      Improorment of   |oit> On-Farm                                      Mai|ntenance
mant            WonIct~~~~~~~~~~F..  .,,
DiojerOt                                                              iii                            0                                                               Leoeling                        Wok                            Renaci |o "-                                                      f Machines
I   I  _           I                               I                                                                 r~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~Estimating                              PonEttemmon  
|    Cunal  l    l   Dramage    t    l   Mechameal   l                                                 J     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Specitinatont 
o|   f Loane         |                                                           Ageinulture Department Chamluat
Irrigation OperArtment Chainball
Total comber of sp-Ch    bTisiont  Constructionb-t4
Tota number of aobduitinoa   0 & M-2A                                                                                                                                                                                                                       World 6ank-9656(RC
Each C-ircl heeded by   a SAperitr-dng Engineer lSE)                                                                          Techn_ Wc ains inn966
Etch planingi cr1 an,d dMoi-iu  heaiIde  bn art Encutica Enoi-er  EElIe Fonet ton Farm
Eac,h so.bdi-i-io  headed by ani Assit-n E,,gi-e (AE)                                                                          DthsadFr






INDIA    Ae                                       lur~7                                                                                                                   O
-2- Chambol CommonMdrurea
Development Project                                                                                                                                                                 2'
(Madhya Prodesh)
< ,Pmjeot areaH A                                                R Y A N            A  
JOF                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NEWDE *Pbi
Chatmbol Command Area Deo. ProjeCt(Rajnstha)-
Other irrigated areas 
- Major canals                                                                                                                                                           B  lt 
s<11:1Reservoirs and darns                                                                                         Si 
-Main raads
RailwaysSahatr
 National capntalPS H
tWStote capita)Wo
oDistrict headquarters
o  TnwnsFae
District boundariesR AH A N                                                                    Bhrtu
State boundaries                                                                                                          r%-a  r
27-
0   2p~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C ~O75 10715'~
wallor             -
MOIJA~~~~~~~~~~~~adeI Khafar                                                       I
KAO-crcl~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Chittou       04.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                         hhtro
(VIAGAki,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Cra IA
no ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~(n
SAMAID ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~?                                                            ML(
I                                                                                         KEA                                                         BAnI r 
4 4~~'l  oa~7   A                      -                                                                                                                  Narsiarhopdoso
24-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
5ADAONAD7~ ~~2A
Sen
R A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~D
s~~~~~~~~M~7C
d,     'I)        I     Rll~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                   LA    r~~~~~~~~~~~uIC4 5'
-P'Y~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~






IBRD 11507
~~~~~~~~                                                        INDIA ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~APRIL 1975
Chambal Command Area Development Project
(Madhya   Pradesh)                                                           Numbers cand names of
P RO J EC T   AREA RE                                                                    on-fabrm developmentf reas:
5      Areas for on-farm  development   c : ==1   Reservoirs, tanks, with dams                          (           S    heopur- Kremsiar
Areas for drainage                                      Rivers                                               Jora-                                  A R
0          t j   F   o   lO  20  3o          4o         5o                       Seepage drains to be constructed                0       Towns                                                JorBhind-Mau                  U   i
SLOMETER                                                 Existing major canals                                   Roads                                                Ambah
BANGLADE$               KILOMETERS                                               ~ ~~~~~Exnsting minor canals                  -.-----Railways                   oP R  A  D  ESH
i0                      10                 20                30             -_          Ccinals to be increased in copoicity                    Staite boundaries 
.--.I^erlo  ol  MILES                                                                                                                                                                 r T
-"N ~ ~
b.udre                                               R A J A S T H A N                               ,'A  /' 
KO8  o hiprlmOAMu                                                     K
Porboti Aqoedunt                                                                                                                                              a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l
iheo   ur ~ ~ ~  ~    ~ ~ ~ '                                                                                                                                              
TIGHRA                                   ha~~~~               -
ToSipur,                                                                                                               aou






IBRD 11524
APRIL 1975
06 6
0   50   100   150   200       250         300                                              --   -Dr:ins___________C                                Cntrol sructures                                                  -    \  arI                   E5P
METrERS                                                -.sY__Roads                                                                        -       Naturall gullies \-orQ 
O  100    200    300    400    500    000    700    bO0    9000   1000                                                                                                                                                                                    \                   nuecdurba
FEEr                                                                                              Note  Fel .h-nl  n    l  r,shhnPOet  onolsntzon0~                                                                                   ---SttuF  flbaarda
Oh'  f     s    .          m
BRA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0   wr.., ~mir0o                                                                                        5i0R
f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~k$C0w00&



