CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 562 IN
Development Credit
Agreement
(Chambal Command Area Development Project - Madhya Pradesh)
BETWEEN
INDIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 20, 1975


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 562 IN
Development Credit
Agreement
(Chambal Command Area Development Project - Mauhya Pradesh)
BETWEEN
INDIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 20, 1975


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 20, 1975, between INDIA, acting by its President
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by extending
the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B)   By an agreement of even date herewith between the Association and
the State of Madhya Pradesh acting by its Governor (hereinafter called Madhya
Pradesh), Madhya Pradesh has agreed to undertake certain obligations in respect
of the carrying out of the Project;
(C)   By an agreement of even date herewith between the Association and
Agricultural Refinance Corporation (hereinafter called ARC), ARC has undertaken
certain obligations in respect of the carrying out of the Project; and
(D)   The Association has agreed on the basis inter alia of the foregoing
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon terms and conditions hereinafter set
forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated March 15, 197 1, with the same force and effect as if they were
fully set forth herein.
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "Madhya Pradesh" means the State of Madhya Pradesh, a State of
India, or any successor thereof;


﻿4
(b)   "ARC"   means Agricultural Refinance Corporation, a statutory
corporation established and organized under the laws of the Borrower;
(c)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Association
and Madhya Pradesh acting by its Governor of even date herewith, as the same
may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the
Project Agreement;
(d)   "ARC Agreement" means the agreement of even date herewith between
the Association and ARC, and all Schedules thereto, as the same may be amended
from time to time;
(e)   "LDB" means Madhya Pradesh State Cooperative Land Development
Bank, Limited, a cooperative society established and organized under the laws of
Madhya Pradesh;
(f)   "Participating Bank" means LDB or any commercial banks making
loans which are, or are proposed to be, refinanced by ARC under the Project;
(g)   "Category" means a category of the allocation of the proceeds of the
Credit set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(h)   "CAA"   means Command      Area   Authority, established  in  the
Government of Madhya Pradesh;
(i)   "Project Area" means the command area of the Chambal Irrigation
Project in Madhya Pradesh;
(j)   "Rs" means rupees in the currency of the Borrower; and
(k)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and ARC pursuant to Section 3.01(c) of this Agreement,
as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules
to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE H
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in    various  currencies equivalent  to  twenty-four million  dollars
($24,000,000).


﻿5
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the
Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule I to this Agreement,
as such Schedule may be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
(b)   The Association may, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Credit Account and pay to itself an amount of the Credit not exceeding the
equivalent of $300,000 in respect of any costs to the Association deriving from
the employment of the land development specialist under Section 3.02 of this
Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods,
works and services (other than consultants' services) for the Project to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be procured in accordance with the
provisions set forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
(b)   Where a contract is concluded for the supply for the Project of goods
manufactured outside India, the Borrower shall immediately grant permission to
import the goods covered by the contract, and no reviews of such permission to
import shall be made by the Borrower or by any of its agencies, and all foreign
exchange required therefor shall be promptly made available.
(c)   Where a contract is concluded for the supply for the Project of goods
manufactured in India, the Borrower shall: (i) promptly upon receipt of the
appropriate applications, issue, or cause to be issued, such import licenses as shall
be required to carry out the contract: (ii) make available, or cause to be made
available, promptly as needed, all foreign exchange which shall be required therefor;
and (iii) with respect to locally produced materials which are subject to allocation,
make, or cause to be made, allocations of such materials promptly and in such
quantities as shall be required for such contract,
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1979 or such later
date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the
Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of I%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on March I and
September 1 in each year.


﻿6
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each March 1 and September 1 commencing
September 1, 1985 and ending March 1, 2025, each installment to and including
the installment payable on March 1, 1995 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United Kingdom and Northern Ireland
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out Parts F(l) and H of the
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial, agricultural and engineering practices and shall provide,
or cause to be provided, promptly as needed the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the purpose.
(b)   Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations
under the Development Credit Agreement, the Borrower shall cause Madhya Pradesh
and ARC to perform in accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement,
the ARC Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement all the obligations therein
set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all action, including the provision of
funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable
Madhya Pradesh and ARC to perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit
to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(c)   The Borrower shall enter into a Subsidiary Loan Agreement with ARC
on terms and conditions (including inter alia those set forth in Schedule 3 to this
Agreement) satisfactory to the Association for the purpose of lending to ARC
an amount equivalent to 85% of such amount as shall be required by ARC to
refinance not less than 75% of loans made by Participating Banks to farmers in
the Project Area for land development. The Borrower shall exercise its rights under
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the
Borrower and- the Association and to accomplish the purpose of the Credit and
except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign,
amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
(d)   In order to assist Madhya Pradesh in carrying out Parts A through
E, F(2) and G of the Project, the Borrower shall make available to Madhya Pradesh
the proceeds of the Credit under Categories (I )(a), (2) through (4) and (6).


﻿7
(e)   The Borrower shall cause Madhya Pradesh to make arrangements in its
annual development plan for the provision of funds required for the implementation
of the Project in accordance with a detailed schedule of construction which shall
be acceptable to the Association.
Section 3.02. In order to assist in carrying out Part B(1) of the Project
and such other works as the Borrower and the Association shall determine, the
Borrower shall cause to be employed a land development specialist. The
qualifications, experience and period of employment of the said specialist shall
be satisfactory to the Borrower and the Association.
Section 3.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to
be used exclusively for the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Association
Section 4.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions
the following additional events are specified pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a)   Madhya Pradesh shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement.
(b)   ARC shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the ARC
Agreement or under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
(c)   An extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it
improbable that (i) Madhya Pradesh will be able to perform its obligations under
the Project Agreement, or (ii) ARC will be able to perform its obligations under
the ARC Agreement or under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
(d)   ARC shall have become unable to pay any of its debts as they mature
or any action or proceeding shall have been taken by ARC or by others whereby
any of the property of ARC shall or may be distributed among its creditors.
(e)   The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have
taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of ARC or for the
suspension of the operations of ARC.


﻿8
Section 4.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified pursuant to paragraph (d) thereof:
(a)   any event specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of Section 4.01 of this
Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60 days after notice
thereof shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower; and
(b)   any event specified in paragraphs (d) and (e) of Section 4.01 of this
Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 12.01(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)   the execution and delivery of the Project Agreement on behalf of
Madhya Pradesh have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary governmental
action;
(b)   the execution and delivery of the ARC Agreement on behalf of ARC
hve been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate action; and
(c)   the execution and delivery of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement on behalf
of the Borrower and ARC, respectively, have been duly authorized or ratified by
all necessary corporate and governmental action.
Section 5.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the
meaning of Section 12.02(b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
(a)   That the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by,
and executed and delivered on behalf of, Madhya Pradesh, and is legally binding
upon Madhya Pradesh in accordance with its terms.
(b)   That the ARC Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by,
and executed and delivered on behalf of, ARC, and is legally binding upon ARC
in accordance with its terms.


﻿9
(c)  That the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and ARC, and
is legally binding upon the Borrower and ARC in accordance with its terms.
Section 5.03. The Date September 19, 1975 is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. Any Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint Secretary, Director
or Deputy Secretary to the Government of India in the Ministry of Finance of
the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Secretary to the Government of India
Ministry of Finance
Department of Economic Affairs
New Delhi, India
Cable address:
ECOFAIRS
New Delhi
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.


﻿10
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
INDIA
By /s / G. V. Ramakrishna
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ M. L. Weiner
Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿11
SCHEDULE 1.
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each
Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated              % of
(Expressed in            Expenditures
Category                     Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)   Civil works
(a)   infrastruc-              14,400,000           60%
ture (irriga-
tion and drain-
age, roads and
ravine erosion
control)
(b)   on farm                   1,900,000           68%
development
full package
(2)   Equipment and                   3,500,000
Vehicles
(a)   directly                                      100% of foreign
imported                                      expenditures
(b)   locally                                       100% of local
manu-                                          expenditures
factured                                      (ex-factory)
(c)   imported                                      70%
items pro-
cured
locally


﻿12
Amount of the
Credit Allocated             % of
(Expressed in           Expenditures
Category                    Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(3)   Fertilizer                       500,000           100% of foreign
expenditures
(4)   Technical assis-                 400,000           100% of foreign
tance under Part                                   expenditures
A(7) of the Proj-
ect
(5)   Technical assis-                 800,000           100% of foreign
tance under Part H                                 expenditures and
of the Project and                                 75% of local
land development                                   expenditures
specialist
(6)   Unallocated                    2,500,000
TOTAL         24,000,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency
of any country other than the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from
the territory of any country other than the Borrower; and
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of
the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.    The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compliance with the
policy of the Association that no proceeds of the Credit shall be disbursed on
account of payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on
goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply
thereof; to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit decreases or increases,
the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, increase or decrease the


﻿13
disbursement percentage then applicable to such item as required to be consistent
with the aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit or the
disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph I above, if the
Association has reasonably estimated that the amount of the Credit then allocated
to any Category will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all
expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then allocated to another Category and
which in the opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other expenditures,
and (ii) with respect to Category (1), if such reallocation cannot fully meet the
estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such
expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such Category may continue
until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.    If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the procurement
of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred
to in this Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association under the
Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount
of the Credit as, in the Association's reasonable opinion, represents the amount
of such expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out
of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿14
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is the first stage of a program to improve and complete the
existing irrigation facilities, construct drainage works, provide on-farm development,
improve the road system and provide agricultural supporting services (extension
and research) throughout the Project Area. The Project consists of:
A.   Irrigation and Drainage Works
(1)   Right Main Canal Bank Strengthening and Lining
Strengthening of the embankments, and the lining of 11 km of canal
bed and inside side slopes to reduce piping damage.
(2)   Canal Capacity Works
The enlargement of some 300 km of distributary canals and the
increasing of the carrying capacity of some 100 km of watercourses
which serve the 12,000 ha On-Farm Development Full Package Area
and selected other areas.
(3)   Canal Control Structures
Installation of 3,000 gated and enlarged pipe outlets to chaks,
44 canal regulators, 11 escape structures and 100 small tail clusters.
(4)  Aquatic Weed Control
Installation of 22 draw-off structures and the contstruction of
embankments for two tanks in the RMC and Bhind canals.
(5)  Main Drainage
The improvement of about 200 km of natural drainage courses, and
construction of about 560 km of interceptor drains.
(6)   Operating Facilities
Installation of a 300 km telemetering/telecommunication system,
surfacing of 220 km of canal roads, construction of about 54 access
bridges and provision of housing and buildings for the operating staff.


﻿15
(7)  Preparation of further phases of the Chambal Command Area
Development Project and of other such projects in the Madhya Pradesh.
B.   On-Farm Development
(1)   On-Farm  Development (Full Package) on about 12,000 ha of
undulating land, consisting of land levelling, construction of water
courses, drains and access roads.
(2)   Drainage Improvement Works on about 20,000 ha of flat land.
C.   Roads
Construction of about 206 km of roads linking villages and markets.
D.   Ravine Erosion Control
A pilot project to identify the "least cost method" ravine erosion control,
covering about 50 km of ravine perimeter.
E.   Mechanical Equipment
The provision of mechanical equipment needed for Parts A, B and C of
the Project.
F.   Project Administration during Implementation and Technical Assistance
(1)  The provision of a land development specialist.
(2)  The training of CAA in on-farm development and extension work.
G.   Fertilizer
The provision of about 2,000 nutrient tons of fertilizer and its distribution
over a two year period to farmers benefiting from Part B (1) of the Project.
H.   Technical assistance to the Borrower for the preparation of command area
development projects throughout India.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1978.


﻿16
SCHEDULE 3
Principal Terms of Subsidiary
Loan Agreement
For ARC refinancing up to 9 years:
(a)   Annual interest rate to be not less than 6-3/4%, less 1/4% for prompt
repayment;
(b)   Repayment to be made at the end of nine years.
II.        For ARC refinancing from 9 to 15 years:
(a)   Annual interest rate to be not less than 7-1/4%, less 1/4% for prompt
repayment;
(b)   Repayment to be made at the end    of 15 years.
III.       General
The exchange risk to be on the account of the Borrower.


