Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 24198
IMPLEMENTATIC)N COMPLETION REPORT
(SCL-401 10; PPFB-P2700)
ON A
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$10.0 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA
FOR THE FIRST AGRICULTURE PROJECT
June 25, 2002
Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development Project
Europe and Central Asia
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective at Appraisal, April 5, 1995)
Currency Unit = MDL
MDL I = US$ 0.22
US$ I = MDL 4.5
Exchange Rate Effective at Closing, December 31, 2001
Currency Unit = MDL
MDL 1     US$0.08
US$ I = MDL 13.08
FISCAL YEAR
January 1  to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAPMU                              Consolidated Agricultural Projects Management Unit
ERR                                Economic Rate of Return
FAP                                First Agricultural Project
FRR                                Financial Rate of Return
GDP                                Gross Domestic Product
GEF                                Global Environmental Facility
IBRD                               International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICR                                Implementation Completion Report
IDA                                International Development Association
IFI                                International Financial Institution
IRR                                Iriternal Rate of Return
LIL                                Learning and Innovation Loan
NALIB                              National Agency for Livestock Improvement and Breeding
NIVO                               National Institute of Viticulture and Oenology
PHRD                               Policy and Human Resource Development
PHU                                Project Implementation Unit
PMC                                Project Management Committee
RIFP                               Research Institute for Fruit Production
SAR                                Staff Appraisal Report
Vice President:  Johannes F. Linn
Country Manager/Director:   Roger W. Grawe
Sector Manager/Director:  Laura Tuck
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Hoonae Kim



MOLDOVA
FIRST AGRICULTURE PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    I
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                    1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry          1
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                             11
6. Sustainability                                                                 13
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                  15
8. Lessons Learned                                                                17
9. Partner Comments                                                               19
10. Additional Information                                                        27
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                              28
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                              31
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                              33
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                              35
Annex 5; Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components              37
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                 38
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                             39
Annex 8. Financing Received by the Beneficiaries from All Sources                 40
Annex 9. Status of Goods Received by Beneficiaries                                41
Annex 10. Changes in Land Allocation and Production                               45
Annex 11. Publication Record of Research Institutes 1994-2000                     46
Annex 12. Training and Study Tours                                                48
Annex 13. Category Recap at Appraisal and After Each Reallocation                 49






Project ID: P008556                                       Project Name: FIRST AGRICULTURE PROJECT
Team Leader: Hoonae Kim                                   TL Unit: ECSSD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                        Report Date: June 27, .2002
1. Project Data
Name: FIRST AGRICULTURE PROJECT                      L/C/TFNumber: SCL-40110;
PPFB-P2700
Country/Department: MOLDOVA                                              Region: Europe and Central
Asia Region
Sector/subsector: AE - Agricultural Extension
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:   06/02/1994                              Effective: 02/27/1997         02/27/1997
Appraisal:  04/05/1995                                MTR: 04/05/1999            04/06/1999
Approval:  05/07/1996                              Closing: 12/31/2001           12/31/2001
Borrower/lImplementing Agency: REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA/MIN. OF AG. & FOOD (MAF)
Other Partners:
STAFF                 Current                                   At Appraisal
Vice President:      Johannes F. Linn                           Wilfred Thalwitz
Country Manager:     Roger W. Grawe                             Basil G. Kavalsky
Sector Manager:       Laura Tuck                                Geoffrey B. Fox
Team Leader at ICR:  Hoonae Kim                                 Brian Berman
ICR Primary Author:   Tjaart W. Schillhom-Van Veen;
Sandra Broka
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: U
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: M
Bank Performance: U
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry:                        U.
Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
Background



Moldova is a small landlocked country situated between Romania and Ukraine with a population
of 4.3 million. Endowed with rich agricultural land and a temperate climate, Moldova is a
producer of raw and processed foodstuffs; primarily grapes, corn, grains, wines, fruit, vegetables,
and livestock products.
The First Agriculture Project (FAP) was the first investment project that the Bank supported for
the agricultural sector of Moldova. Preceding this operation, the Bank approved three
operations, two that supported the importation of production inputs, raw materials, fuels, and one
that provided budgetary support to the Government. They were the Emergency Drought
Recovery Project (approved March 1993 and closed March 1994), the Rehabilitation Loan
(approved October 1993 and closed March 1995), and Structural Adjustment Loan (approved
December 1994 and closed June 1996). ICRs for these operations rated their outcome as highly
satisfactory or satisfactory and project sustainability as likely.
The FAP was approved in May 1996 and closed in December 2001. During the implementation
of the FAP, the Bank Group approved two additional adjustment operations - the Second SAL
(approved in September 1997 and closed December 2000) and the first Structural Adjustment
Credit (approved June 1997 and closed September 2001), under which significant policy reforms
were sought, particularly for advancing agricultural land reform and farm restructuring.
Despite the support from several adjustment operations, Moldova's transition to a market
economy has been difficult. The country suffered from inherited obsolete and misaligned
industrial, financial and agricultural sectors, weak institutions, and wavering commitments on the
part of the Government to implement politically difficult decisions that were necessary to
restructure the economy. Government initiated reforms stalled in some cases, such as enterprises
restructuring and actually regressed in others, such as agricultural land reform. The country also
suffered from external shocks, including severe terms of trade deterioration and the regional
financial crisis of 1998. Meanwhile, Moldova has gone from an IBRD country to an IDA
country.
During the transition period, the agricultural sector was, and continues to be, the dominant sector
in the Moldovan economy. At the time of appraisal in 1995, agriculture accounted for about 40
percent of Moldova's GDP, and more than 50 percent of the population directly, or indirectly,
depended on agriculture as a source of income. Today, agriculture remains the mainstay of the
Moldovan economy, accounting for about 33 percent of the GDP, over 40 percent of employment
and 65 percent of exports. Unfortunately, the Gross Agricultural Product (GAP) in 2000 was
only about 45 percent of the 1990 level. While the overall economy registered modest growth of
1.9 percent in 2000, the GAP declined again by 3 percent. Fifty-four percent of the population
lives in rural areas with rural poverty accounting for 68 percent of total poverty in Moldova.
Project Objectives
The objectives of the Project were to: (a) upgrade and improve the effectiveness of key
agricultural research programs, focusing on priority export crops and products; (b) strengthen
institutions in priority areas: the agricultural knowledge system; product quality regulatory
- 2 -



system; management in the post-privatized agro-processing sector; (c) develop capacity to
prepare sector investments and develop sector policy; and (d) develop project management and
implementation capacity for the agricultural investment program.
In order to achieve these objectives, the FAP was designed first, to support agricultural research
for key export commodities, promote farmer outreach programs, restructure agro-enterprises,
enhance investment planning; and second, to assist the Government in sector strategic planning,
analysis of sector reforns, and preparation of further public investments in the sector. FAP did
not include any policy conditionality since the parallel adjustment operations were addressing
macro and agricultural sector policy issues.
3.2 Revised Objective:
The overall project objectives did not change during implementation, but various adjustments
were made in components and implementation arrangements, which had an impact on
achievements of the project objectives. They are discussed in Section 4 of this report.
3.3 Original Components:
The project had four components, with several subcomponents, involving nine research institutes,
twelve farms, two ministries, and a project implementation unit (PIU), which managed day-to-day
operations.
Project Components. The Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) contains the following components,
with the original component cost of US$18.49 million, including all contingencies:
Component 1: Agro-technology Development and Transfer (US$13.20 million)
Sub-component 1:   Viticulture Improvement
Sub-component 2:   Horticulture Improvement
Sub-component 3:   Animal Breeding
Sub-component 4:   Integrated Pest Management
Component 2: Institutional Strengthening (US$1.00 million)
Component 3: Project Preparation and Policy Development (US$0.30 million)
Component 4: Project Management (US$0.67 million)
Contingencies and Taxes (US$3.32 million)
3.4 Revised Components:
The project components did not change but three reallocations were made, mainly from
Consultants' Services and Training to Goods. Goods and services procured from the loan
proceeds were, by and large, in accordance with the appraisal estimates. Due to significant
devaluation (300%) during implementation, local cost in US dollar equivalent was substantially
revised downward and the total project costs were reduced from the appraisal estimate of
US$18.49 mitlion to US$12.9 million at completion. Annex 2 provides the details.
- 3 -



3.5 Quality at Entry:
Quality at entry was not formally assessed for the project. However, it is the ICR mission's
assessment that with some exceptions, the project design and components to achieve the project
objectives were not appropriate. Following a long, intensive preparation effort involving a large
number of studies by foreign consultants financed by a PHRD and other trust funds, a draft
project proposal, comprising three different projects, with the FAP as the first one, was reviewed
in the Bank in Fall 1994. Three preparation missions to Moldova followed, and the version of the
project as implemented was approved on April 5, 1995. According to the ex- government
officials interviewed during the ICR mission, the Government's expectations for the FAP initially
differed, and the final design, according to current Government officials, was not
comprehensively discussed with nor understood by the Borrower. Furthermore, during this
period, large beneficiary research institutes were engaging in heavy lobbying to maximize
potential financial support designated to them.
The ultimate design, particularly provision of commercial-scale processing lines to research
institutes with no business experience, was clearly inappropriate. The design choice to expose
Moldovan specialists, managers, and researchers to international standards was appropriate.
Equally appropriate was the decision to import virus-free, genetically superior rootstocks for
grape and fruit production; however, providing them to state-owned research institutes and state
and collective farms was clearly an error. The subsequent transfer of these assets to new private
farmers without clear accountability for disseminating the rootstocks for benefits of many others
was also an error. Both the Bank and Borrower inadequately distinguished public versus private
investment and placed excessive emphasis on physical improvement of the key agricultural
research institutes.. The project design did not provide for specific links between the research
institutes and farmers, who should ideally be the ultimate beneficiaries of any agricultural research
activity.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The Project objectives were, by and large, consistent with the Agriculture Sector Review Report
(12581-MD, February 1995) and Country Assistance Strategy (1996), which promoted an export
oriented agricultural sector, while improving human and institutional capacity of key agencies.
The project objectives, however, were not clearly defined, and the components and financial
support actually provided lacked specific linkage to the project objectives. On balance, the
project outcome at completion is rated unsatisfactory, and development objectives of the project
are rated marginally achieved.
Objective: Upgrade and improve the effectiveness of key agricultural research programs,
focusing on priority export crops and products.
The research objective has not been achieved. Nine (out of eighteen prevailing at appraisal)
research institutes were selected and received goods such as testing equipment, laboratory
equipment and quality control equipment, and key staff at these institutes participated in overseas
-4 -



study tours and training. The project did not, however, have a significant impact on upgrading
and improving research programs. Out of these nine institutes, the wine and fruit institutes were
audited, and the wine institute was officially declared bankrupt in late 2001, five others are
struggling to survive, and only two have a reasonable prospect to be sustainable by shifting focus
towards commercial activities rather than the original research mandates. This dire situation with
regards to agricultural research is largely due to a near absence of budgetary support by the
Government, a lack which forced research institutes to divert their focus from the research they
should have been doing to various commercial activities in order to cover their operating
expenses. An opportunity to improve the country's research capacity was lost because of
differing interpretations of experiment and research. The ultimate choice made to support
commercial-scale investments rather than a meaningful restructuring and consolidation of the
overall research system was clearly a missed reform opportunity.
On a positive note, as a part of the research support, the project provided Moldova's first
importation of virus-free, genetically superior rootstock for grapes and fruits. The Genetic Bank
for grapes has been upgraded with 75 new varieties and 116 clones from Italy, France and
Germany. Similarly, the project supported the introduction of improved fruit varieties. All of
these varieties are still in an experimental stage and commercial application will not start until at
least 2005. Once commercial application begins and full maturity is achieved, Moldova could see
a large increase in the production of grapes and fruit of international: quality, and if properly
managed and executed, the country could significantly increase its exports of these important
crops. The remaining challenge is to create the necessary linkage between the genetic varieties
and commercial cultivation.
Objective: Strengthen institutions in priority areas: the agricultural knowledge system; product
quality regulatory functions; management in the post-privatized agro-processing sector.
Study tours, training, and laboratory equipment were provided and these objectives were partially
achieved. Research institutes have established various technical capacities for testing,
certifications, and quality control, but only at the laboratory level; very little has been done in
terms of on-farm applications. Strengthening of agricultural knowledge through importation of
improved materials, the provision of equipment, and the undertaking of training and study tours
have benefited some institutes, but the dissemination linkage is still missing. A system to control
quality and issue certificates for local producers and exporters of grain is in place, the wine
institute has the physical capacity to detect viruses, and some technological specifications have
been prepared; however, systematic quality control and certification systems for commercial
producers are not yet in place.
Objective: Develop the capacity to prepare sector investments and develop sector policy.
In 1993, three IBRD loans for the agricultural sector were simultaneously prepared. They were
the FAP, Agriculture II and Agriculture III. The intent of this particular objective appears to be
to create the capacity for future project preparation and also to create a legal and policy
environment that would be conducive to sector development. Since each of the three operations
had a PHRD grant, it is not clear what was to be achieved in the FAP on this particular front.
- 5 -



Furthermore, policy, legal, and regulatory issues were being addressed through adjustment
operations which were being implemented simultaneously. Several draft laws were prepared -
such as the Law on Research, the Law on Seeds, the Law on Plant Protection, and the Law on
Nut Growing, but the impact of these laws on real sector development is unclear.
Objective: Develop project management and implementation capacityfor the agricultural
investment program.
The Project Implementation Unit (PIU) was created to manage the project and implement the
project components, including procurement, disbursement, financial management, and reporting
and monitoring. During the period of 1995-2001, there were six changes of government, three
new parliaments, four different presidents, and three different Bank task managers. In hindsight,
the creation and maintenance of the PIU, which had the same PRU director and staff throughout
implementation, may have led to at least partial achievement of the project objectives. The PIU
has been closed, but the director has been retained to disseminate the FAP results to private
farmers.
4.2 Outputs by components:
At appraisal, 71 percent of the loan was to finance goods and the remaining 29 percent was to
finance consultant services, studies and training. At closing, more than 93 percent of the loan was
used to finance goods.
Viticulture Improvement Component (US$7.5 million). This was the largest component with
US$8.6 million financing and involved the National Institute of Viticulture and Oenology (NIVO)
and nine grape growing farms.
NIVO was the major beneficiary of the project receiving US$4.4 million of the IBRD loan. It
received: (a) US$1.4 million worth of laboratory and testing equipment, including fermentation
equipment; (b) US$0.4 million worth of virus-free genetic planting material, including 75 new
genes of varieties to expand its genetic bank; (c) US$2.6 million for two complete turn-key
bottling lines; and (d) several overseas study tours and multiple training programs for NIVO
management and technical staff. Although the institute has an "experimental" nursery with over
60 hectares of virus-free planting material, its laboratory certification is in place, and it utilizes
virus detection techniques, commercial application of what NIVO has received has not yet started.
Perhaps the largest error may have been providing expensive, imported, commercial-scale bottling
lines to NIVO under the name of experiment and research. NIVO is engaged-in providing
commercial bottling services to bulk-wine producers and has sometimes resorted to bottling other
varieties of spirits based on customer demand. The bottling lines' capacity utilization has been
low, they have generated only limited revenues, and they have not contributed to any meaningful
research results. An independent operational and financial audit was carried out per IBRD
request, which confirms that NIVO is, in fact, financially insolvent and should not be engaged in
commercial activities. The Government has not yet proposed a clear resolution to the situation
while NIVO is undergoing bankruptcy procedures.
Vine Nursery Farms. This component also provided US$0.84 million worth of virus-free, high
- 6 -



quality rootstocks and new varieties of grafting material to ten pre-selected, state-owned farms.
These farms also received US$0.5 million worth of tractors, sprayers, irrigation systems,
generators, etc. from donor-financed counterpart funds. Since the inception of the project,
Moldova has privatized most state and collective farms, and all the project vine nursery fanns
were privatized as well. During the privatization process, some of the initial farms selected for
the project were dropped, as the new owners did not care to participate. Substitute farms were
identified and received the goods. From a technical perspective, the planted rootstocks are well
cared for. The privatization process and subsequent leasing of land by new land owners, mostly
to old collective farm directors, have led to an unusual situation where the expensive and valuable
rootstocks and equipment procured under the project legally belong to a small number of new
owners without a clear mechanism to share the potential future benefits from the investment. In
cases where new private land owners decide to manage small segments of the nurseries they now
own, they would be faced with unaffordably high maintenance costs (about US$1,500 per hectare
annual cost) while revenues from these rootstocks will not begin to be realized until the year 2005
or beyond.
Horticulture Improvement Component (US$3.1 million). This component was the second
largest component under FAP and involved The Research Institute for Fruit Production (RIFP),
the Research Institute for Maize and Sorghum (Porumbeni), and two fruit tree nursery farms.
RIFP received US$2.1 million from the project. About US$0.06 million was spent on importing
virus-free planting materials, US$0.35 million on laboratory and research equipment, and like
NIVO's bottling line, under the name of "experiment and research," a complete tum-key fruit
processing line for US$1.7 million. Support for a research program through the financing of
laboratory equipment, imported, modem, virus-free seedlings and other goods, and the provision
of technical assistance were well received and managed. However, preparation of the Fruit
Grower Encyclopedia was dropped due to high costs. With support of the project, modem
diagnostic methods are being utilized, and the development of virus-free planting materials is in
place. Commercial application is also feasible if farmers can be convinced of the benefits of
buying relatively expensive rootstocks which will lead to higher yields (7-10 percent increase per
ha), to savings on agro-chemicals (estimated at US$160 per ha) due to increased resistance to
viruses, and to faster maturing rates (a shortening of one to two years). For the benefits of this
component to be realized and sustained, efforts need to be made to disseminate information and
provide finance to farmers.
Like NIVO, RIFP also received an expensive processing line and was never able to initiate a
full-scale commercial operation. Like NIVO, this institute has no expertise in competitive
commercial business, it was not able to reduce the production costs during the run-in period, and
it lacked the necessary working capital to procure raw materials or pay for operating
expenditures. Following an operational and financial audit by an independent agency, similar to
the one conducted on NIVO, it was determined that RIFP is also going to face a struggle to
survive financially. The Government has made a final decision to auction the processing line to a
business entity in order to try to recover the investment costs. Once completed, RIFP would be
able to concentrate on its real agenda - experimental and applied research.
-7 -



Fruit Tree Nursery Farms: Like vine nurseries, fruit nursery farms also underwent land
privatization. Initially, both were collective farms - one was converted into a limited liability
company and another into a joint stock company. It is not yet clear who owns the planted trees
and irrigation systems provided under FAP. One of the farms is planning to convert into a
cooperative with 20 members, although the farm has more than 1,000 land-owners. Equally
unclear is how new land owners would share the benefits of the planted rootstocks and
infrastructure already installed through public support.
Research Institute for Maize and Sorghum (Porumbeni). The project provided support for the
institute to carry out research activities through the financing of modem technological equipment
and potato seeds for US$ 0.37 million, including donor financed counterpart funds. The initial
potato crops failed due to fungal diseases caused by adverse weather conditions. Since then,
using its own funds, the institute was able to import more potato seeds with successful results.
The project introduced the institute to tissue culture propagation and the rapid testing of new
varieties. Moldova is self sufficient in potato production but this is not attributable to the
Project. The institute is also engaged in the production and export of maize seeds and deemed to
be financially sustainable through these commercial activities.
Animal Breeding Component (US$0.4 million). This component supported the Veterinary and
Animal Breeding Research Institute (Tevit) for promotion of better utilization of artificial
insemination (AI) resources through the provision of modem laboratory, semen processing and
storage equipment.
Tevit received imported Al equipment worth US$ 0.3 million from the loan proceeds and also
US$ 0.03 million from donor-financed counterpart funds for site improvement, including a diesel
power station, and procurement of new semen collection and freezing equipment. While this
component has led to lower storage and semen production costs, the institute was only able to sell
about 200 doses. The Government created the National Agency for Livestock Improvement and
Breeding (NALIB) to provide AI services to farmers; however, while the agency has a stock of
over 10 million doses, it does not have the necessary equipment to use Tevit's new straws. As a
result, equipment procured by Tevit under the project is significantly under-utilized, and
dissemination of improved AI materials is very limited.
Integrated Pest Management (US$0.7 million). This component was intended to provide
education and extension of sustainable agriculture methods by financing trainings, importation of
vehicles and equipment, and a pilot demonstration farm. Changes to the list of equipment were
discussed and approved by the Bank supervision mission in 1997, and the project funds were used
to procure laboratory equipment, not pest and phytosanitary forecasting equipment envisioned at
appraisal. Four institutes, National Station for Plant Protection, Sanepid, NIVO and RIFP
received laboratory equipment to upgrade their diagnostic capacities for testing the quality of
pesticides and chemical residues. Training and overseas study tours were also arranged for staff
of the institutes to provide instruction in the proper use of the equipment. While some benefits
were cited by the institutes regarding the overall improved environmental situation within the
country, with a reduced need for pesticide analysis and fewer cases of pesticide overdose, the
actual case load and utilization of the laboratory equipment appear to be low. The Crop Research
- 8 -



Institute (Selectia), a training center to promote education and extension of sustainable
agriculture methods, was also dropped. Support for IPM applications by Moldovan farmers
through re-equipping the pesticide residue laboratories at Sanepid with modem analytical
equipment appears to have been marginally effective.
Institutional Strengthening Component (US$0.3 million). This component provided capacity
building support in research management through a series of study tours to France, Israel, and
UK. The main aim of the study tours was to assess the agricultural knowledge system, leading to
the preparation of a comprehensive report by a selected working group of policy makers on a
proposed structure for the research system in Moldova. The participants prepared a report, which
was revised after it was initially deemed unacceptable by a Bank supervision mission. The overall
results of this US$0.175 million in support were the reduction of the number of the research
institutes from 18 to 13, and the preparation of several draft laws on seeds, plant protection,
walnut growing, state research and development policy, animal breeding, viticulture, and soil
protection. Agro-industry management and staff training were limited to study tours abroad, and
no technical assistance was provided. About 90 persons equivalent (as some people went on
multiple trips) benefited from the overseas study tours, and about 900 persons equivalent
benefited from local training.
This component also envisaged financing of sector policy analysis and the preparation of two new
IBRD projects for the agricultural sector. At closing, the main beneficiary was Akva Projekt, an
irrigation engineering institute in Moldova, which received computers and plotters valued at
US$105,000 equivalent and US$17,000 equivalent from-the counterpart funds. One of the IBRD
projects focusing on irrigation never materialized and the other became a smaller LIL operation -
Rural Finance Project - which developed Savings and Credit Associations as financial
intermediaries to small-scale rural borrowers.
Grain Regulatory Laboratory (Cereale). The project financed the importation of equipment to
modernize and increase the capacity of the grain regulatory laboratory for about US$0.09 million.
The institute is the only one that has the capacity to conduct tests according to ISO standards for
gluten, oil and protein levels. The institute issues certificates to local producers and exporters,
and provides training to specialists and entrepreneurs. The institute is operating on full cost
recovery and is not dependent on budgetary support from the Government.
Project Management Component (US$0.34 million). In the SAR, the original component cost
was US$ 0.67 million but was reduced to US$0.34 million at completion. The Government
issued a decree on March 1996 and created the Project Management Committee (PMC), mainly
composed of officials from various ministries with overall coordination and supervisory functions.
During the project implementation, the PMC held 16 meetings. For day-to-day project
irnplementation, the Project Implementation Unit (PIU), as an executive arm, became operational
in Fall 1996 with the head of the Agricultural Research Departnent of the Ministry of Agriculture
and Food (MAF) serving as a PIU Manager. During 1999, the PIU was merged into the
Consolidated Agricultural Project Management Unit (CAPMU), which managed implementation
of two previous BanklIDA agricultural projects, including the FAP. 'CAPMU will implement new
operations: the Rural Investment and ServicesiProject (FY03) and two-GEF projects (FY03 and
-9-



FY04). The PIU was responsible for managing overall project coordination, technical
supervision, procurement, disbursement, financial management, and monitoring and evaluation.
One significant shortcoming with regards to project management was the financial management
and control over the loan proceeds, including finalization of legal agreements with project
beneficiaries regarding use and repayment of the loan funds. An international project department
of the Ministry of Finance had the overall financial fiduciary duties, but it lacked the necessary
skills and capacity for proper financial management, including monitoring the financial
performance of research institutes and farms. Consequently, the cost recovery of the FAP IBRD
loan is likely to be limited. Meanwhile, FAP is an IBRD term loan and the grace period for the
principal payment expired in August 2001. The Borrower has already started making semi annual
principal repayments amounting to approximately US$500,000 annually, due on February 15 and
August 15 each year until year 2016.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
The SAR specified that given the nature of research investments, the calculation of specific ERRs
would be misleading as further investments are required in primary production and processing in
order to assess the full economic benefits of the research investment made. In addition,
calculation of ERR is uncommon for research projects, as there are both direct and indirect
benefits which are materialized over a long period. Ultimate benefits from the project would
include increased efficiency of agricultural production through the application of agricultural
research results and increased export earnings resulting from enhanced quality of the major
products. In addition, the project would have a positive environmental impact by: (a) supporting
the provision of virus-free seedlings which require less pest control and pesticides; (b) improving
the monitoring of food and human exposure to pesticides and other food contaminants; (c)
lowering the intoxication cases among farm workers through utilization of improved safety
equipment and proper sprayers; and (d) improving forecasting of plant disease.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
In an attempt to quantify the benefits from the project, the ICR mission attempted to evaluate the
incremental benefits of key crops (see Annex 3 - Economic Costs and Benefits). It is expected
that the improved genetic materials introduced in the project along with more efficient equipment
and improved management, would lead to substantial incremental returns. On the basis of actual
investments made in two of the project beneficiary farms (one vine nursery and one fruit tree
nursery), financial returns have been estimated. The IRR analysis shows that vineyards are more
profitable in the long-term (25 percent) than fruit orchards (14 percent). For assumptions used
and a more detailed financial analysis, please see Annex 3.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
As discussed earlier, a significant design error of the project was its failure to properly distinguish
between public and private investment. There was no substantial, systematic restructuring of
research institutes, and as a result, they continue to struggle to provide research contributions.
Meanwhile, independent audits of the two largest beneficiary institutes - Wine Institute, NIVO,
and Fruit Institute, RIFP, which together received US$6.5 million (65 percent) from the IEBRD
- 10-



loan, confirmed that both institutes are financially insolvent. The audits stated that these facilities
would not be sustainable as research institutes unless urgent and special attention was paid to
restructuring them. These results were discussed with the Government, and with the institutes
themselves.
Farms that have received genetically superior rootstocks, many of them under new private
ownership, show promising improvement and a commitment to maintain and replicate the
rootstocks for commercial applications, which will generate substantial income. On the other
hand, about one-third of the beneficiary farms face financial difficulties and without generating
any income may not be able to maintain the nurseries during the required gestation period. A
clear lack of linkage between the provision of goods under the FAP and access to long-term
financial resources for farmers to establish new commercial vineyards will be addressed under a
new IDA-supported project: the Rural Investment and Services Project (RISP). For specialists
and technicians who received training, the project's contribution is somewhat more positive.
Many who gained knowledge, training, and expertise are engaged in research, operation of
nurseries, and/or commercial farming and thus, continue to contribute to regenerating growth of
the high value-added wine and fruit subsectors.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The period of 1995-2001 saw a dramatic decline in Moldova's economy, particularly the
agricultural sector. The country suffered both from the internal shock of the privatization of land,
industries and the banking sector and the external shock of the 1998 Russia crisis, which had a
profound ripple effect on the region's economy. This led to significant downsizing of the overall
production level, the agricultural GDP, and the fiscal condition of the country. Public funding
support for research, extension and education has been at an all-time low level. Depressed
income levels led first to decreased demand for non-staple foods such as grapes, fruits, and other
high value commodities. Loss of the major export market, Russia, especially for Moldova's
livestock, fruit and wine sub-sectors where Russia was the largest export market, dampened
public and private incentives to invest in knowledge and improved but expensive rootstocks,
which may not generate cash flow in the near future. Furthermore, the project's focus on the
transfer of technology to promote exports did not lead to concrete results as increasing exports
was much more difficult to achieve in reality mainly due to a loss of traditional export markets and
constantly changing market demands for new products.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
During the project implementation, the Government changed six times. With such frequent
changes, commitment, ownership and accountability for the project outcomes were significantly
eroded, particularly when financial cost recovery issues became evident. It took the Government
more than one year to take concrete steps recommended by the Bank supervision team.
Land reform and farm privatization led to unexpected cornplications. The project design
envisioned working with collective farms under the assumption that research activities did not
depend on the success of land and farm restructuring reforms. However, it became clear during



the actual implementation of the project that land privatization was clearly a major factor
influencing the project implementation, in terms of accountability for the project outcomes,
responsibility for asset ownership, and liability for outstanding financial obligations. The
Government renegotiated with new farm owners and signed revised legal obligations, which
clearly specified responsibilities, obligations, and the rights of the beneficiary farms.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
As FAP was the first Bank-supported agricultural investment project for Moldova, the Project
Implementation Unit was new to Bank procedures and policies regarding procurement,
disbursement, financial management, accounting, and monitoring and evaluation of project
implementation results. Furthermore, because PIU was composed mainly of staff with technical
backgrounds and supervised by Bank teams comprised mainly of members with technical
backgrounds, most of the financial and legal issues regarding Project implementation were
overlooked until a new task team took over supervision responsibility for the project in April
1999. By that time, more than 95 percent of the goods and services contracts were awarded, and
over 80 percent of the loan was disbursed. Despite the late intervention, the PIU took proactive
steps to remedy the situation. Revised legal agreements were signed, cost recovery ratios were
re-negotiated and entered into the legal agreements, and performance indicators for each
component were tightened to better evaluate the project outcome. PIU facilitated additional
audits and financial analyses of beneficiary farms and research institutes, and maintained
up-to-date financial, operational, technical and repayment databases of all project beneficiaries.
Although FAP was closed on December 31, 2001, the previous PIU director and core staff have
been retained in CAPMU, where they focus on the "dissemination" of goods, knowledge and
benefits to a wider range and larger number of beneficiaries.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
Project Financing. At US$12.92 million, the total project cost at closing was substantially
smaller than envisioned at appraisal (about 70 percent of the appraisal cost). The reduction was
mainly due to smaller dollar equivalent local costs. The local contribution at appraisal was MDL
22 million, and at closing amounted to MDL 21 million. Most counterpart funding was used to
cover, among others items, local costs for civil works, including local equipment and labor.
Disbursement of the IBRD loan at project completion was 98.25 percent of the loan amount of
US$10 million, which accounted for 76 percent of total project financing at closing versus 54
percent estimated at appraisal.
The Moldovan Government counterpart funding was substituted with a Dutch Government grant
when the Government was faced with extremely difficult fiscal conditions, which nearly eliminated
any counterpart funding support to all IFI financed projects. About 60 percent of the total
counterpart funds were given to research institutes (of which more than 50 percent was given to
NIVO and about 40 percent to RIFP). Further, 40 percent of the total counterpart funds were
distributed among beneficiary farms in widely varying amounts. The smallest amount received by
a beneficiary farm was MDL 35,000 or 0.4 percent of total allocated for farms, and the largest
was MDL 2.2 million, 26 percent of total allocated for farms. The counterpart funds were utilized
mostly for site preparation, for installation of irrigation facilities and other civil works, and for
- 12-



purchases of locally manufactured products and office equipment.
Reallocations. Three reallocations were done during the project implementation in 1998, 1999
and 2000, and each reallocation, as well as the final allocation, by category is summarized in
Annex 2.
Disbursement. The loan effectiveness was delayed by seven months due to a delay in the
selection of the procurement consultant, which was a condition of loan effectiveness. During the
first one and a half years, disbursement was slow, mainly due to the long tendering procedures,
but once procurement contracts were awarded, the disbursement pace picked up considerably.
All but US$174,280 of the IBRD loan was disbursed, with the undisbursed amount cancelled on
August 27, 2001.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
At closing, the government was addressing the outstanding institutional, operational, financial,
and legal issues. An action plan has been prepared and the government, with support of the
Consolidated Agricultural Project Management Unit (CAPMU), was actively focusing on the
most pressing issues. Although a challenge, provided that these issues are adequately resolved,
the long-term sustainability of over 25 years (based on the economic life of vineyards and
orchards), is likely.
Institutional and Operational Sustainability. Research institutes are facing difficult
conditions, and major restructuring is necessary. Diagnostic assessments for the two largest
institutes - NIVO and RIFP - were carried out and specific recommendations have been made for
their restructuring, including: (a) the consolidation and re-organization of the research
infrastructure; and (b) development of a mode of operation that produces relevant and beneficial
research results for Moldovan farmers. Implementation of the recommended actions is being
followed by CAPMU.
Dissemination of the high quality, virus-free planting material imported under the project for
vineyards and orchards is critical if the development objectives are to be achieved when the
seedlings become ready for commercialization, around 2005. In order to help disseminate these
materials, a non-governmental organization of the project beneficiary vineries, "Association of
Vine Nurseries," was established in July 2001. The objectives of the Association are: (a)
implementation of modern vine planting material production technologies; (b) provision of the
vine nurseries with the necessary technological resources; (c) coordination of planting material
and sales; and (d) promotion of Moldovan vine planting material abroad.
Financial Sustainability. Both NIVO and RIFP are unlikely to be financially sustainable as
self-sufficient entities without receiving the Government budget support necessary for developing
and disseminating public goods; that is, research. In fact, NIVO is undergoing court procedures
for insolvency, and both institutes have already commenced the process of auctioning off their
fully installed but underutilized processing lines so that the government can recover its investment
- 13-



as fully as possible. All other project beneficiaries received goods and equipment in order to be
able to provide services, most of which are marketable, with the exception of the Sanitation and
Epidemiology Station. Farmers and other research institutes, which are engaged in commercial
activities and fee-based certification, are expected to generate either full or at least substantial cost
recoveries.
The staff appraisal report envisioned that a part of the output of the research institutes - wine,
fruit products, and improved planting material (vine stocks, rootstocks or fruit tree seedlings) -
would be directly sold by the institutes and the revenues would be used to recover capital and
operating expenses of the nurseries (Table 5.1. of the SAR). The research institutes were also
expected to sub-contract the (at the time) state-owned nurseries to carry out the investments
using the improved planting materials. This did not happen, and based on the limited capacity of
NIVO and RIFP, the diminished role of these institutes as financial intermediaries was a preferred
outcome. Instead, the marketing of rootstocks and fruit tree seedlings will be carried out by
post-privatization nursery farms. CAPMU staff has a mandate from the government to continue
to visit the project beneficiary farms and support them in marketing their products. This will be
achieved, in part, through the recently approved Rural Investment and Services Project (FY03),
which includes marketing support as well as a financing facility for farmers to borrow funds for
procurement of high quality vine and fruit seedlings.
Legal Sustainability. Mainly due to oversight, most of the project beneficiaries did not sign the
legal agreements. Even those that signed the legal agreements went through privatization and
restructuring which significantly altered the legal ownership. By completion, the beneficiaries,
including NIVO (after a considerable delay), had signed legal agreements with a clear delineation
of public and private goods and appropriate cost recovery rates. One exception is the RIFP,
which still has not signed the agreement with the MOF. The Government issued a decree in
March 2001 which outlined the strategy for the FAP loan repayment. The full text of the Decree
is available in the project files.
Completing the legal agreements with project beneficiaries was difficult due to changes in their
legal status. Farms were privatized, which required re-signing of the legal agreements, for
example, two of the project beneficiaries changed their legal status three times, and on three
occasions, it was impossible to find successor farms to take over the rootstocks. In these cases,
completely new farms were identified and goods delivered after signing of the legal agreements.
By completion, all farms had signed legal agreements with the Government.
Technical Sustainability. Equipment, goods and hardware received under the project were of
the latest standards, and adequate training was provided. Consequently, from a technical
perspective, the project is considered sustainable.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
When the project was completed in December 2001, the Government made a decision to retain
the PIU director with terms of references that he will: (a) continue to monitor the resolution
regarding the NIVO and RIFP and the sales of their processing lines; (b) work with nursery farms
to ensure planted rootstocks are well cared for; (c) inform farmers about the benefits of the
- 14 -



improved seedlings, and proper techniques for cultivation; and (d) monitor repayment and cost
recovery as articulated in the signed legal agreements. These activities can be implemented as an
integral part of already on-going activities of the CAPMJ, which has full-time staff handling
advisory, business development and rural finance components, in addition to staff trained on
disbursement, financial management, accounting, and monitoring and evaluation. Additional
support will be needed to realize the full benefits of the project. Farmers would need information
and training on cultivation technology, basic business accounting and access to working capital
and long-term investment funds to procure rootstocks. All these elements are included in the
follow-up Rural Investment and Services Project (RISP), for which CAPML will manage the
day-to-day implementation, and ensure concrete linkages between the FAP and RISP.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
During the preparation period, which took over three years beginning with the identification
mission in December 1993, the Bank simultaneously prepared three agricultural investment
operations under the same task team leader. The two subse6quent projects did not materialize and
as a result, there was no provision of investment financing for development of commercial
vineyards and orchards from the FAP rootstocks. In hindsight, a program approach with multiple
projects under preparation in a new client country with limited institutional capacity and
understanding of Bank's operations was overly optimistic.
A number of consultants, financed from various sources such as PHRD, Swiss and French trust
funds, prepared numerous technical documents. The Bank also approved a Project Preparation
Facility (PPF) for US$500,000 on March 31, 1995, but only US$1,111 was utilized from the PPF.
While the stated objectives were consistent with the ESW and CAS, project components and
project inputs financed under the loan were not fully consistent with the objectives. A clear and
expensive design error was made when the Bank and Borrower agreed to support two major
processing lines under the misguided notion of experiment and research. Another shortcoming
with regards to Bank and Borrower performance was the decision to provide over 65 percent of
total IBRD funds to two research institutes, NIVO and RIFP, without a frill assessment of their
financial and operational capacity. Involvement of nine research institutes, each engaging in
different areas of research, and twelve collective farms, each pursuing different kinds of
businesses, appears to have been too complex. Notwithstanding political uncertainties, the risk of
supporting collective farms while land reforms were progressing was also not adequately
addressed, especially when investments in rootstocks with a minimum five-year gestation period
were made in these farms.
7.2 Supervision:
The SAR states that signing of cost recovery agreements satisfactory to the Bank, between NIVO
with vineyard nursery farms and RIFP with fruit nursery farrns was a condition for disbursement.
However, disbursement already started in March 1997, and the agreements were not signed until
eight months later, in November 1997. The project became effective in February 1997, seven
months after the Board approval because the condition for effectiveness - contracting a
- 15-



procurement specialist - was delayed.
Frequency of supervision by the Bank was adequate, but the missions were for the most part
comprised of technical specialists. With rapid changes in land ownership and the resulting
complications in the transfer of assets and liability, financial and legal due-diligence work was not
carried out on a timely basis. Problems also ensued due to changes of task managers (three in
total) who all had different backgrounds. During the last quarter of the implementation period,
when most of the procurement and physical work was completed, the supervision focus was
shifted to cost recovery, financial sustainability at the beneficiary level and signing of the
outstanding legal agreements. While this focus may have been justifiable given the nature of the
urgent issues the project was facing then, the project would have benefited from continued
technical supervision of physical works. The ICR mission field visits confirmed that the quality of
civil works funded by the counterpart funds and executed by beneficiary farms varied. Seedlings
and rootstocks, however, were well maintained.
7.3 Overall Bankperformance:
On balance, overall performance of the Bank has been unsatisfactory.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
With six changes of the Government, each new Government had to be briefed about the project
concept and design and the role of the research institutes. There may have been conflicts of
interest when more than 65 percent of the loan funds went to the two largest research institutes,
including support for non-research related commercial processing lines. The inclusion of seven
other research institutes to conduct diverse and seemingly uncoordinated research may have
resulted from the lack of a comprehensive Government strategy for restructuring the agricultural
research system. The Bank requested the Government to establish counterparts for each
component during preparation, but very little reference to their work exists in the project files.
The supervisory body - the Project Management Committee - was appointed in March 1996, only
two months before the Board approval. The ICR mission interviewed previous Government
officials, who indicated that the Government might have been overly eager to start the project
before it fully understood the project development objectives, designs and implementation
requirements.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
Partially because of the frequent changes of the Govermment, and also partially because the FAP
was the first investment operation for the agricultural sector, the Government's understanding of
and capacity to supervise project implementation were limited. The Ministry of Finance did not
have adequate capacity to monitor utilization and financial performances of the beneficiaries. The
Project Management Committee (PMC), chaired by the Deputy Minister of Agriculture, mostly
endorsed what the research institutes had proposed, and for the most part, focused on technical
fine-tuning and making procurement decisions. At completion, information in the project files and
interviews during the ICR Mission indicated that Government oversight of the project was
marginal and hinds-off.
- 16-



7.6 Implementing Agency:
The Project Implementation Unit was responsible for day-to-day technical implementation of the
project. Overall, PIU did a sound job and executed the FAP closely following what was
appraised and approved. Several modifications on the physical goods were made per requests of
research institutes and beneficiary farms, and PIU promptly accomrmodated the requests. Despite
the fact that FAP was the first investment project that they implemented, PIU made excellent
efforts to procure goods following the Bank procedures (22 ICB packages were planned at
appraisal, but only 10 were actually carried out). A procurement audit was carried out by the
Bank, which concluded that, with exception of minor procedural issues, procurement was done
satisfactorily and no mis-procurement was found. Details of the procurement results, including
audit comments, are in the project files. PIU also handled the disbursement well; after a delay in
effectiveness and initially slow disbursement while procurement packages were being prepared,
the pace of the disbursement became rapid. Nearly all loan proceeds were committed by
mid- 1999, and the disbursement was nearly completed by mid-2000.
The PIU kept excellent records of the various implementation activities, prepared a mid-term
status report, submitted regular procurement status reports to the Bank, and reported to the PMC
regularly. The SAR does not adequately discuss the monitoring and evaluation, and particularly
lacks performance indicators for institutional development support. Consequently, the monitoring
was inadequate, mainly focusing on the procurement of goods and other investments. Technical
assistance in Monitoring and Evaluation, foreseen in the SAR, was not implemented.
The overall financial management of the project rested mainly with PIU which was responsible
for management of the loan account and special account, transfers of payments to the winning-bid
suppliers, coordination of signing of legal agreements, and monitoring of the financial status of the
beneficiary farms. Unfortunately, during the first three years of project implementation, PIT did
not have a designated financial management specialist and so there-was little supervision over
financial issues. Only in mid-2000, was a financial specialist recruited who continues to serve as a
full time staff in CAPMU.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
On balance, the overall performance of the Borrower was marginally satisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
Based on the above evaluation, several valuable lessons were learned and are discussed below:
Design-related:
(a) Moldova was a relatively new Borrower, which was not familiar with Bank operations and
requirements. Simultaneous preparation of multiple projects for a new client country was
overly ambitious, and in the end, led to costly project preparation with limited development
impact. Project design should be kept simple, and its success not dependant on other projects.



(b) Support for research activities without an overall research development strategy and
program, including a full assessment of research priorities and clearly defined needs of farmers
proved not to be effective;
(c) There should have been clear distinctions between public and private investments. Under
the project, commercial-scale processing equipment was provided to public institutions as
"experimental," with no accountability for optimizing usage or repayment of the investment;
(d) Initiating investment projects in an unstable environment is risky but particularly so when
support is given to state-owned entities where major restructuring is looming. Clear
ownership and accountability for outcomes should be a prerequisite for beneficiaries. The
uncertain status of the ownership of assets and of some of the goods provided by the project
created significant problems during implementation;
(e) High quality, state-of-the-art equipment given to non-reformed institutions in the public
sector did not necessarily improve the overall effectiveness of the research institutes. More
profound reforms, including a complete restructuring based on priorities and mandates,
changes of management, increased accountability, and increased linkage to ultimate
beneficiaries (farmers) should accompany investment in hardware and technology;
(f) Research which can be clearly defined as public goods and services should be
appropriately funded by the government, rather than requiring research institutes to divert
their efforts to commercial activities;
(g) When a loan from an international financial institution is being utilized, repayment matters
should be addressed up front, with cost recovery and repayment terms and conditions clearly
defined in the project document and properly monitored during implementation; and
(h) A public investment, which is expected to generate "public goods," such as research,
should be clearly defined up-front, and specify appropriate cost recovery rates;
Implementation-related
(i) Support for research should have clear linkages to the farming community, which would
reap concrete benefits and would be willing to pay for the know-how and/or genetically
superior planting materials;
(j) Investments in an export-oriented sub sector may not lead to expected results unless such
investments are made in an environment where macroeconomic (exchange rates), sector
policies (promoting high quality output with minimal interference in business decisions), and
regulatory conditions (minimal licensing) are conducive to such investments;
(k) Procurement should be executed in more flexible ways, without violating the rules. Under
the project, due to non-availability of tender documents in Russian, companies from the FSU,
- 18-



traditionally a major supplier, in some cases could not participate. As a result, some
companies that could have provided cheaper and more useful equipment were excluded from
the tender;
(1) Frequent changes of the Government, coupled with changes of the Bank task managers,
suggests that whenever significant changes occur, both sides should jointly review the original
project objectives and implementation results, and make modifications as necessary;
(m) Supervision missions should be composed of members with diverse skills. For the FAP,
both technical and financial expertise was required. Tighter supervision was required both
from the Borrower's as well from the Bank's side. The Bank's team should have extended
supervision over all project-related activities, although they may not have been financed out
of the Bank loan. The quality of performance of such activities will inevitably affect the
overall quality of implementation of the project;
(n) With frequent changes in the Government, a full time PIU should have staff with a
complete set of skills and adequate resources to maintain them throughout the whole project
implementation period.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT (BORROWER CONTRIBUTION)
Moldova: First Agriculture Project, Loan 4011-0-MD
Consolidated Agricultural Project Management Unit
PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND COMPONENTS
The main objectives of the project are: increasing the efficiency of agricultural research programs,
especially, food export programs; strengthening of research institutes in the key sectors of agriculture, and
providing support for the development of a sector strategy and preparation of sector investments. Eleven
private farms and nine research institutes and state services are beneficiaries of the project.
Implementation ofproject components resulted in:
* Equipping the research institutes with up-to-date equipment for testing and production of vine and
fruit virus-free planting material and equipment for experimental processing of fruit and wine;
* Diversifying the fruit and vine genetic banks;
* Establishing vine nurseries;
* Equipping research institutes with necessary technical means for elaboration and acquirement of
new adequate agricultural technologies;
* Improving the food products quality control;
* Training for researchers and specialists, improvement of the Agricultural Knowledge System.
IMPLEMENTING PROJECT OBJECTIVES
The Loan Agreement was signed on July 3, 1996 and ratified by the Parliament of Republic of Moldova on
- 19-



July 24 1996. The FAP started on February 27, 1997 and its closing date was December 31, 2001.
Project Cost
18,49 mil. USD were provided for the implementation of the project, of which 10 mil USD (54%) was from
World Bank loan, 4,83 mil. USD (26%) was from Government contribution and 3,66 mil USD (20%)was
from the beneficiaries' own funds.
From the proceeds of the loan, USD9,825,720 were disbursed for procurement of goods and services, of
which around 93% was for goods and 7% was for technical assistance, although the initial ratio was 72%
and 28%. The total amount of Government contribution received was 21 million Lei (or 43% from its
obligations), of which 18 million Lei was from the Dutch Grant.
Objectives Achievement / Benefits
I.     Providing the research institutes with up-to-date equipment.
i) Equipping NIVO 's and RIFP 's research programs for assessment and certification ofplanting
material, progress of research and wine quality control, improvement of informational bases.
(a) In accordance with MAFI disposition, NIVO's Virology and Phytosanitary Control was authorized to
test vine multiplication and planting material. Until now, methods for obtaining antiserum were tested
utilizing the procured equipment. Plants affected by viruses (stem-pitting, vein mosaic, leafroll) were grown
to obtain pure preparations and immunization of animals in order to obtain necessary antiserums for virus
testing.
NIVO's Laboratory of Physiology determines, dynamically, photosynthesis activity of leaves of classic,
new and prospective varieties and of selected forms for determination of their state during summer and their
preparation for winter, their reaction to draft and photosynthetic active radiation.
(b) The Virology and Biotechnology Laboratory of RIFP was provided with necessary equipment and
auxiliary devices, and the greenhouses and rooms were repaired. By the same Government decision, the
laboratory was accredited as a testing center for virus-free planting material, and for raising of new
varieties resistant to viruses and mycoses in accordance with ISO,.UPOV, etc. requirements. In the last 2
years, RIPF started to cultivate 4 varieties of apple rootstock, 7 homologated and perspective varieties of
strawberry and 5 varieties of raspberry. At the request of the Ukrainian Fruit Production institute 53 apple
varieties affected by 3 latent viruses were tested. In addition, multiplication of apple rootstock 32-396
(25,000 plants) commenced by request of JSC "Alfa-Nistru" - one of the biggest local fruit processing
companies.
(c) The Laboratory for wine quality control, already-accredited as a certifying organization, using received
equipment, has extended the range of indices necessary for certification of export products, thus
contributing to the improvement of wine-making technologies. Micro-oenology equipment is widely used
for testing grape harvests, obtained from the experimental plots, planted with planting material imported by
FAP. Thus, new forms of prospective varieties of industrial grapes and new varieties homologated for
cultivation in Moldova are studied.
- 20 -



ii) Modernization of NIVO 's Experimental Wine Factory and equipping RIFP with experimental
equipmentfor fruit processing.
Due to the procurement of the advanced bottling equipment, the factory now has an annual production
capacity of 9 million bottles of wine and sparkling wine, liquors and other alcoholic beverages. There have
been significant improvements in the initial processing of grapes, clearing of wine material in the process of
wine stabilization, continuous stabilization of wine material, its transportation during the closed production
circuit, and bottling the finished product in different conditions. The usage of this equipment contributes to
the considerable reduction of energy consumption, and increases the quality of wines and other beverages,
decreases operational costs, contributes to the improvement of ecological conditions and diminishes the risk
of workers poisoning with S02.
With the installment of the new equipment, the RIFP experimental production section has a maximum
output capacity of 1,200 tons or 2,4 mln. conventional jars. The existing equipment allows production of
over 50 types of canned goods, with annual outputs of 725t fruits, 430t vegetables, and 45t food products.
Along with production, the mentioned factories can be used to organize development of technologies and
technological instructions for new vine and canned products, testing and certification of the respective
products, production of environmentally pure products and training of institute staff.
II. Diversification of vine and fruit genetic banks.
i) Replenishment of NI VO 's Genetic Bank
NIVO's ampelographical collection, created in 1910, remained unchanged for the last 30 years. In
1998-1999, with the participation of the project, 75 new varieties and forms of 116 clones, selected in Italy,
France, Gernany were added to the collection. They were planted on NIVO's experimental nursery and on
experimental stations plots.
Quality of the finished produces (table grapes and wine samples) will be tested after commencement of the
grape-bearing phase. Following evaluation of biological parameters, varieties that will contribute to the
improvement of the existing vine assortment would be determined.
ii) Replenishment of the horticultural Genetic Bank.
RIFP conducts research on 14 apple, 2 pear, 8 cherTy, 7 apricot and 1 peach varieties procured from the
proceeds of the loan and planted on the experimental plot of the institute to study such characteristics as
immunity and resistance to draught, frost, diseases and pests, fluorescence and ripening phases, shelf life
and fruit transportability, form of the crown. The process of improvement and creation of new local
varieties on the basis of introduced varieties would last 12-14 years and the first results serve as basis for
homologation and production of planting material would appear in 2012-2014. In addition, research and
testing of 101 berry varieties continues for detection of the most adaptable and productive varieties of high
quality fresh or processed fruits in order to replenish the existing assortment.
III. Rehabilitation of vine nurseries.
Out of 42 farms participating in the tender for establishing niurseries, the Evaluation Committee selected 10
farms, which were approved by the Project Steering Committee. IN the end, 127 ha of certified, virus-free
grafts and 147 ha of rootstock with planting material were planted in 8 existing, private vine nurseries. The
sprinklers, tractors, diesel generators and irrigation sets that were delivered to beneficiary farms are used
mostly for technological works both on vineyards planted under the project and on other production fields.
Necessary funds for procurement of the equipment necessary for the establishment of nurseries and
production of grafted planting material were allocated from the proceeds of the Government contribution.
Models show that nurseries are profitable at an Internal Rate of Retum (IRR) between 19% and 28% and a
- 21 -



Net Present Value (NPV) from 165.508 USD (for a USD 104,900 investment) to USD 641,634 (for a
USD 302,400 investment). Calculations demonstrate that a positive cash flow with a Debt Reimbursement
Coefficient (DRC) bigger than 1.2 is generated starting with the fifth year. The point of investment
recovery is 2009-2010 (depending on the year the nursery was planted).
The macro-economical impact of the vine nurseries will last until 2048, when the last vineyard planted with
planting material from the nurseries-beneficiaries of First Agricultural Project will be cut.
Starting with 2005 and until 2024, the projected amount of plants produced by the vine nurseries will be
approx. 67 mil. grafted rootstock, which will allow the planting of approx. 22 thousand ha of vineyards (an
average of 1 100 ha annually). One of the advantages of this planting material is that it will contribute to
the increase of cultivated crop per ha up to 8-10 t/ha, which will significantly increase the gross profit per
ha (approx. 400 USD) and the lifetime of yards. Taking into consideration these indices, 3,8 mil. of grapes
will be cultivated during 2008-2048, out of which approx. 2,5 mil t of wine will be produced.
IV. Equipping the institutes with necessary technical means for development and acquisition of new
technologies adequate for modern agriculture.
i) Irrigation systems in pilot horticulture farms and RIFP plots.
Installment and setting of the irrigation system in "Basarabia" (real - 86ha planted, projected - 90ha) and
demonstrational RIFP orchard (16 ha) are completed. In "RusMiLiud" installment and setting of the
irrigation system are only 95% completed and the orchard was planted on 47 ha (initially planned 105 ha).
The irrigation norms of the new system are 2-4 times smaller than that of the aspersion system. To pump
the water there is 2 times less pressure needed. Less power is used and it is easier to operate.
Models show that producing fruit with the help of irrigation systems is profitable at an IRR between 12%
and 14% and a NPV from 96,736 USD (for an investment of USD 84,900) and 136,609 USD (for an
investment of USD 65,000). Calculations demonstrate that a positive cash flow with a DRC bigger than
1.2 is generated starting with the fifth year. The point of investment recovery being 2009-2010. Annually,
from approx. 206 ha an average of 20 tlha or a total of 4,1 thousand t of apples could be harvested, which
will increase the amount of cultivated crop per ha up to lOt/ha and the gross profit per ha to more than 500
USD.
ii) Agricultural machinery for NIVO and RIFP.
The tractors and sprinklers procured for the institutes are used within their experimental plots for soil
toiling, plant protection, testing of various technologies and technological means and other works.
iii) Providing Porumbeni with necessary equipment and seeds for the research program on
modernization of potato seeds and vegetable seedlings production.
After receiving the equipment, PORUMBENI started the implementation of a complex technology of
cultivating and planting vegetable seedlings and seed potatoes. As a result, it is possible to double the
production of vegetable seedlings both for improvement of development works and seed production.
Unfortunately, there was a pest outburst in the first year of plantation of the seed potatoes. However, based
on testing and multiplication works, the State Committee for Plant Variety Testing homologated two
varieties for cultivation in Moldova. It should be mentioned that in Moldova, due to assortment
diversification and implementation of new technologies, the production of vegetables and potatoes has
increased considerably, while the price of potatoes has decreased from 2,5 lei/kg to 1,6 lei/kg.
- 22 -



iii) Providing the Tevit with modern equipment for collecting, freezing and storage of semen material.
TEVIT was supplied with a whole package of devices and consumables necessary for collecting testing,
freezing and storing seminal material. It is important to mention that seminal material frozen in
minipailettes gives twice as many doses as compared to freezing seminal material using older technology.
In three centers of artificial insemination, 225 doses have been sold and artificial insemination of cows and
heifers by means of pailettes and subsequent testing of sire bulls through their offspring has been
performed.
During the reported period, approximately 1,0 mln. minipailettes from 36 sire bulls of 9 pedigree lines
were frozen utilizing the procured equipment. When the testing process is over, and it will last 5 years, the
seminal material of the sire bulls will be used for artificial insemination. The institute announced its
willingness to sell 300,000 doses annually of local sire seminal material, which they are in the process of
testing, at a cost 50% less than the inter-regional centers currently offer. This seminal material would be
sold through the National Agency for Amelioration and Animal Breeding following a mechanism currently
under development.
iv) Providing Selectia with equipment contributed both to the development of new cultivating methods
based on reduction of toxic inputs, and to the development of ecologically pure product cultivation.
As a result of long term testing, Selectia has proved the possibility of reducing the energy consumption and
confirmed the possibility of soil erosion prevention and underground water improvement, using soil tillage
and fertilizing systems. Testing has shown that the spading machine, hydraulic dump wagon, sprayer and
meadow with ploughing-verticator are efficient in Moldovan conditions.
Selectia is using the results of research and testing for demonstrations on workshops held for farmers and
students of colleges and the Agrarian State University, for processing enterprises and trade companies of
agricultural equipment. There results have been presented at an international conference on environmental
agriculture, included into the corresponding conception, approved by the Government and published as
books, recommendation notes or mass-media articles.
v) The "Aquaproiect" institute was equipped with computers and other office equipment in order to
implement the irrigation and potable water supply project in rural communities, as well as the safeguarding
of sites from landslides, floods and other natural calamities. Currently, the entire project documentation and
all cost tables of the institute are drawn up electronically and according to international standards. The
specialists of the institute are also training in operating design programs.
Due to utilization of modern equipment, software and staff training, the output of the designing works
increased twice and the number of involved people was significantly reduced. Currently, 15-20 projects are
designed quarterly.
V. Improvement of food product quality control.
i) The equipment received by Sanepid from the proceeds of the loan allowed it to implement new laboratory
research methods, enlarge the range of investigations and perform better and more objective assessment of
hygienic and sanitary situation.
In only 8 months, Sanepid performs testing of more than 1,500 samples, permanently applying internal and
external systems of test quality control and verification of results. Reference tests are performed by the
Standardization and Metrology Department of Republic of Moldova, Vine Raw Material and Products
Quality Control Center, NIVO, Canned Products Quality Control Center, State Standardization and
Metrology Department of Russia, etc.
ii) With the utilization of the equipment provided by the project, the Republican Station for Plant
- 23 -



Protection was accredited by the "MoldovaStandard" department to determine the quality of imported and
stocked pesticides, the quality of seed material treatment and pesticides, and the amount of nitrate residues
in agricultural produce. In the past few years the specialists of the Toxicology Laboratory have detected
discrepancies with technical requirements in many submitted samples. They have also introduced changes
in the application regulations of doses used according to quantity of active substances lost.
Only in one year, based on the research carried out by the specialists of the institutions participating in
Moldagroeco Program, as well as other institutions from Moldova, the Interdepartmental Republican
Council for Licensing of Chemicals and Biological Staff for Plant Protection and Plant Growing
Stimulation has analyzed and registered 25 plant protection substances. There were 5 insecticides, 10
fungicides and 4 substances for seed treatment introduced in the List of Chemicals and Biological Staff for
Plant Protection and Plant Growth Stimulation. They cooperated to elaborate the "National Concept of
Environmental Agriculture, Production and Sales of Environmentally Pure and Genetically Modified Food
Products", which was approved by the Government.
iii) The Cereale, being an arbitrary MAPI's service for testing of cereal, oil, and fodder produces' quality,
equipped from the proceeds of the loan, is the only one that carries out tests according to ISO standards for
gluten and falling number. Due to the procured equipment, the precision of determination of oil and protein
content increased, according to ISO standards and the Center was accredited to issue export-import
certificates for the given products. Thanks to the equipment and the training courses followed by the
Center's specialists, the Center has become a training facility for specialists from enterprises that acquire
and process similar produce and for the students of the Chisinau Technical University.
VI. Training for researchers and experts, improvement of the Agricultural Knowledge System.
From the proceeds of the loan, 1053 people participated at trainings held in Moldova or abroad. The
duration of the studies and training was of average 10 days per trainee. 263,682 USD were invested in
training as compared to 700,000 initially planned. The trainees have acquired new knowledge in the
following areas: production and marketing of vine planting material, financial control of food products
production and wine-making. Most of them are currently working and implementing the acquired
knowledge.
i) Improvement of the Agricultural Knowledge System (AKS)
Based on the suggestions of the report, approved by the Bank, on the results of the study tours in Israel,
Holland, France and Great Britain, Republican Council for Improvement of AKS approved over 20
proposals of the Working Group for Improvement of AKS regarding the improvement of the AKS in
Moldova. Several laws and normative acts were elaborated. The research, education and extension sectors
are currently unrder reform.
Based on acquired experience, voluntary associations of sugar producers, fruit growers, wine makers, vine
nursery farmers, poultry breeding farmners, canned goods producers and other kinds of producers that are
currently working on the organization of such associations have been organized.
The studies and training were useful for the drafting and approval of the following laws: Conception on
State Policy in Research and Development Sector, Law on State Policy in Research and Development
Sector, Law on Seeds, Law on Plant Protection, Law on Animal Breeding. As well as to the amendment of
the Law on Viticulture and Oenology and Law on Fruit Growing. The Law on Soil Protection and Fertility,
as well as a series of other prospective programs are under preparation.
Certain steps for the establishment of branch extension centers under the respective institutions have been
taken, as well as for the establishment of territorial and local extension centers appropriate for the
conditions of property relations in the agricultural and food sector. The first efforts demonstrate that the
right direction was approached, but it is necessary to extend the coverage area, to adjust it to the
- 24 -



administrative and territorial structure and to continuously improve the level and the range of consulting
services provided to agricultural producers.
ii) Providing technical assistance in reforming and privatizing farms.
According to part C (I, III, and IV), the outcome of technical assistance provided to ARA for carrying out
a study for privatization in agriculture was reflected in the report " Land Reform and Agricultural Farm
Restructuring in Moldova. Development and Perspectives." The report was published and distributed to
decision-makers for analysis and identification of the next stages of agrarian reform development and for
developing a coherent policy for private agriculture sector development. The report was also useful to local
public administration bodies and experts in overcoming obstacles and mistakes of the initial stage of
privatization.
Repayment of the Loan
In March 2001 Government approved the Resolution regarding the repayment of the loan granted by the
IBRD for the FAP. The modality of loan repayment, stated in GOM resolution follows the provisions of the
WB missions recommendations, ARIA analysis, audit of the international company Deloitte & Touche, the
decisions of the Reform Coordination Council and CAPMU Steering Committee.
The main conditions stated in the resolution are:
* To extend the grace period for the principal for all beneficiaries until the year 2004;
* To consider as state investments, the loan used for the rehabilitation of the following research
institutions and state services: TEVIT, Cereale, National Station for Plant Protection, Sanepid;
* To consider as state investments, the interest, computed by January 15th 2001, for all state
beneficiaries, except NIVO's experimental wine processing line;
According to the Loan Agreement, the repayment of the principal begins on August 15, 2001. On October
1, 2001, the MOF reimbursed to the World Bank USD 1.86 million, of which USD 1.65 million was
interest, and USD 0.21 million was the principal. Up to now, only three beneficiaries have paid the
outstanding liabilities computed by the 15th of July 2001. A range of factors has impacted this situation,
including that most of the investments are not resulting in profits, and the financial situation of the
beneficiaries is difficult.
According to this resolution, amendments to the initial contracts with 18 beneficiaries out of 19 have been
signed. The general analysis of the reimbursement forecast states that beneficiaries will be able to repay
73% of the loan.
FACTORS THAT INFLUENCED PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND KEY FINDINGS
*   The project was implemented during a politically unstable period, when the national currency was
in process of accommodation, the prices were liberalized, the agricultural reform was under
development, and the inflation rate was fluctuating. Since 1996, when the loan was negotiated,
until 1999 as to its economic status, the country moved from the 90th to the 167th place. The net
income per inhabitant decreased from 920 to 410 USD, during project implementation the
USD/MDL exchange rate increased from 4.5 to 12.9
*   Slow identification of markets for output sales, lack of commodity research, insufficient
management of patrimony and royalty fee and other.organizational factors create prerequisites for
inefficient use of the investments made for the establishment of vine nurseries and research
institutes.
*   Lack of clearly stated conditions regarding loan repayment, caused the state bodies and services to
claim that the loan was partially granted by the state;
- 25 -



*   The lack of feasibility studies during the development and initial evaluation of the project
components and lack of objective coordination between the initially set grace period for the
principal and the period when investments will start generating profits;
*   The PIU should have included a legal consultant and a financial analyst in order to ensure the
proper legal aspect of working with beneficiaries and monitor their financial situation from the very
beginning;
*   The weak points of the FAP was ignoring both at the initial evaluation stage and during project
implementation of the economic and financial aspects. In the SAR there are no calculations
regarding Cost and Benefits Analysis, IRR, NPV, which would show the efficiency of the project
per beneficiary, components and as a whole. The findings of the SAR were based on numerous
studies performed in other countries and which identified positive relations between agricultural
research investments and increase of production. Unfortunately, in Moldova these expectations
have not become reality yet.
*   The terms.of loan utilization and repayment should be clearly and fully presented in the official
documentation and the credit relations with beneficiaries should be set out before awarding the
credit;
*   The interest rate applied to the IBRD loans is very high for equipping the research institutes;
Future Actions
i) MAFI should ensure utilization of the analytic equipment provided to project beneficiaries and that
the equipment could be used by other similar institutes for research and training;
iii) to set up demo plots in different zones of the republic for implementation of technologies developed
by means of technical equipment procured within the project, which should be coordinated with the
needs of the future beneficiaries of these technologies;
iv) should contribute to the implementation of a cooperation mechanism between TEVIT and the
National Agency for Amelioration and Breeding, animal breeding enterprises, territorial
consultant, and animal reproduction offices;
v) should re-orient the experimental lines of wine and agricultural produce processing of NIVO and
RIFP to produce original production, for testing and personnel training;
vi) should legalize the tasks of the scientific institutes to test planting material and seedlings,
reproduction material, pesticides, agricultural equipment and technologies, food and agricultural
products; and
vii) should ensure the separation of institutes' commercial activity from research activity.
The same should be done for NIVO's and RIFP's and their subdivisions experimental wine and agricultural
processing lines, which benefited from substantial amounts from the loan. They also have to:
a) switch to internal management (separate current account and bookkeeping);
b) develop a business plan, which will include development, marketing and sales strategies;
c) establish marketing and financial management positions;
d) implement a computerized management system;
e) implement ISO standards.
In order to ensure efficient activity of the research institutes, nurseries and for credit repayment, the MAFI
and MOF should:
i) Annually disburse budgetary funds necessary for the maintenance of the plant and animal genetic
banks and of long-term experimental sectors;
- 26 -



ii) To speed up the transfer of social, cultural and communal units of the research institutes to the
responsibility of the local public administration.
iii) In order to ensure the necessary technological resources, coordination between the production and
sales of the planting material, the implementation of modem production technologies for vine
planting material, cooperation with potential donors, which would financially support the
development of the Vine Nurseries Association, recently years established should be initiated.
(b) Cofinanciers:
N/A
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
N/A
10. Additional Information
- 27 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome / Impact Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix                   Projected In last PSR                Actual/Latest Estimate
- Upgrade and improve the effectiveness of  - Research programs of priority crops  - Virus-free planting material (vine cultivars
key agricultural research programs on priority supported through import of virus-free  and fruit varieties) was received and planted
export crops and products.            genetic material.                    in over 500 ha.
- Beneficiary institutes and farms fully  - Growing conditions have improved in the
equipped to ensure optimum conditions for  beneficiary farms and institutes.
the vinus-free material.
- The processing equipment has been
- Research disseminated to modemize   procured for all operations, but mostly not
processing of priority crops and agricultural  used.
products.
- Very limited use of the processing material
- Technical assistance and advice provided  in research, and the results are not being
to ensure full exploitation of benefits from the disseminated.
improved resources for received under the
project.                              - The laboratory equipment successfully used
and deemed very good.
- Conditions created for multiplication of the
research results in the future.       - Technical assistance and advice has been
provided to the project beneficaries on
utilization of equipment received under the
project.
- Actions are being taken to ensure
dissemination of the virus-free planting
material in the future (e.g., establishment of
the association of the nurseries).
- Strengthen institutions in priority areas: the - A national committee formed, and  - Although the national committee was
agricultural knowledge system; product  experience obtained to develop a national  formed and existed for some time, it has
quality regulatory functions; management in  agricultural knowledge system strategy.  terminated its activities.
the post-privitized agro-proccesing sector.  - An integrated national strategy for the  - A strategy document has been drafted, but
agricultural knowledge system developed.  with a marginal impact on the agriculture
sector development.
- Grain quality regulatory functions improved
significantly to ensure high quality of these  - The agricultural knowledge system has
priority agricultural crops.         improved through training, but with limited
tangible results and impact.
- Management and staff of the
agro-processing enterprises trained in  - Grain quality regulatory functions have
management and technical issues.      improved considerably.
- Management and staff of agro-processing
companies have received training.
- Develop capabilities to prepare sector  - Further investment operations in the sector - Capabilities to prepare sector investments
investments and develop sector policy.  by the Bank prepared.              and develop sector policies have marginally
improved.
- Improved engineering design capacity to
assist in preparation of future sector  - Subsequent Bank's operations in the
investments and prepare sector policy.  country have been prepared and launched,
but without a direct impact of the FAP
- Necessary amendments proposed to the  resources.
existing legislation to improve conduciveness
to further investments in the sector.  - Amendments to a number of laws
proposed, but with marginal overall impact.
- Develop project management and      - Sufficient capacity developed in the PIU to  - PIU was merged into a consolidated unit
implementation capacity for the agriculture  assist in implementation of the future Bank's responsible for implementation of all Bank
investment program.                   operations in the country.           agricultural projects in the country.
- 28 -



Output Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix  .                Projected in last PSR                Actual/Latest Estimate
NIVO                                 - Planting 100ha of virus-free clones  - 73 ha. of virus-free genetic material was
planted in NIVO (75 new varieties and 116
- Importation of improved cultivars   - Nurseries fully equiped and land prepared  forms of clones).
for planting
- Equipping of viticulture nurseries                                        - 275 ha. of virus-free planting material were
- Research diseminated to mondemize wine  planted in properly prepared land in nurseries
- Enterprise accounts from vine nurseries  processing                      for improvement of vine genetics in the
- Modemization of wine processing     - Experimental line fully operating       ry
procedures                                                                 - The wine processing plant is operational;
- Establishment of experimental wine bottling                               however, it is not being used.
lines                                                                       - Research in wine processing was carried
out to a very limited extent. No dissemination
of research results.
RIFP                                  - Genetic material received and planted  - Improved genetic material was imported and
planted in the Institute's and farm nurseres
- Importation of improved genetic materials  - Irrigation systems installed and operating  (190 Ha).
- Demonstration of drip irrigation and  - Modem technology disemenated      - Genetic fund of RIFP improved through
plasticulture                                                              imports of improved genetic material.
- Demonstration of modem crop protection                                    - Irrigation systems is fully installed.
technology
- The potato sub-component failed under the
- Establishment of experimental fruit                                       project; however, knowledge has been
processing line                                                             provided.
- Fruit processing plant installed in RIFP; it is
operational, but not being used.
- Very limited use for research purposes, not
disseminated.
- Laboratory equipment has been well used.
TEVIT                                 - Artificial insemination equipment and  - Artificial dissemination procedures and
procedures modernized                 equipment modemized, no efforts to market
-Modernization of artificial insemination                                  the output.
procedures                            - Parental herds improved
- Parental heards not yet imporved, as the
-Improvement of parental herds, mainly cattle                              improved semen material is not being
and sheep                                                                  disseminated.
IPM                                   - A network of early waming system station  - The network of early waming was not
introduced                           installed, although some equipment was
- Introduce network of early waming system                                  procured.
stations                              - Experimentation on sustainable farming
systems started                       - No experimentation on sustainable farming
- Start medium- and long-term                                              systems has been done.
experimentation on sustainable farming  - Sanepid and Cereale equipped with modem
systems (Moldagroeco)                 analytical equipment                 - Sanepid and Cereale have been equipped
with modem analytical equipment, and
- Equip SANEPID and CEREALE                                                 improved analytical capacity in the institutes
laboratories with modem analytical                                         has been reported leading to positive overall
instrumentation                                                            environmental impacts.
Agricultural Knowledge System Study                                        - Under AKS, recommendations were made
on improvement of the research system in
- Strengthened SANEPID and CEREALE                                         the country, but they are very difficult to
analytical capacity                                                        implement due to the difficult situation in
Moldova.
- 29 -



- Operabonal training to agroprocessing
managers provided                                                          - Training to agro-processinga managers has
been provided: a total of 1,053 persons were
- Professional training to selected scientists                             trained and participated in study tours
abroad.
- Training and study tours to selected
scientists was provided and deemed helpful.
End of project
- 30 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Project Cost By Component               Appraisal      Actual/Latest    Percentage of
Estimate         Estimate        Appraisal
Agro-technology Transfer                             13.2              12.1             0.9
Institutional Strengthening                            1.0              0.3             0.3
Policy and Project Preparation                        0.3               0.2             0.5
Project Management                                    0.7               0.4             0.6
Value Added Taxes                                      1.5              0.0
Total Baseline Cost                                   16.7             12.9             77.6
Physical Contingencies                                 0.8
Price Contingencies                                    0.9
Total Project Costs       18.5             12.9             70.0
Total Financing Required                   18.5              12.9
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Component                  Ap raisal Estimate          Actual/Latest Estimate   Percentage of Appraisal
Bank      Govt.     CoF.     Bank      Govt.     CoF.    Bank   Govt.  CoF.
Agro-technology           10.8      2.4       2.8       9.2       1.9      1.0     85     82     35
Transfer
Institutional              0.9     0.01      0.07       0.3      0.04     0.02     29    400     29
Strengthening                                                                                I
Policy and Project         0.1     0.03      0.02       0.1      0.02     0.03    100     67     150
Preparation
Project Management         0.7      0.1       0.0       0.2       0.1      0.0     37     90       0
Total                    12.5       2.5       2.9       9.8       2.1     1.0      78     83     35
Most of the GOM constribution was provided from a Dutch Govermnent grant funds.
Project Financing by Source, USD million, as a % of Total Project Financing
IBRD            Government        Beneficiaries     Total Project Cost
Foreseen in SAR                  10.0              4.8                3.7                  18.5
Percentage of total              54%              26%                20%                  100%
project cost
As of October 2001                9.8              2.0                 1.0                 12.9
Percentage of total            76.1%              19%               9.5%                  100%
project cost
- 31 -



Counterpart Funding
Year        Amount in MDL,     Average MDL/US$       Amount in US$,
million.         Exchange Rate           million
1997                        0.6                  4.6                 0.1
1998                         1.3                 5.4                 0.2
1999                        14.9                10.6                 1.4
2000                         3.3                12.4                  0.3
2001                         0.4                12.8                0.03
Total                      20.5                                     2.06
Procurement
ICB         LIB         IS          NS         DC
A. Loan Agreement Provisions, US$     3.0         3.5         0.8        0.07        1.9
million
B. Actual bids carried out:
Number of bids                   9           3           7          1           5
Number of contracts              22          3           13         1           12
Total amount, US$ million       6.5          0.6         0.6       0.05        1.3
Note: ICB - International Competitive Bidding; LIB - Limited International Bidding; IS - International
Shopping; NS - National Shopping; DC - Direct Contracting
- 32 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Financial Analysis of Fruit Orchards and Vineyards
The Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) states that, given the nature of research investments,
calculation of specific rates of returns would not be feasible. Furthermore, calculation of ERR is
uncommon for research projects since (a) there are direct and indirect benefits from research
investment: (b) they benefit a wide spectrum of beneficiaries; and (c) the actual benefits are
realized over a long period time, often accompanied by continuous support for research.
Similarly no attempt was made to estimate an aggregate returns for the project. In view of the
volatile macroeconomic conditions, it was decided to focus on the calculation of the specific
benefits to project beneficiaries, especially the investments in the private beneficiary farms. In
addition to pure technical research supported, several investments were made for primary
production and processing. Since both processing lines (for NIVO and RIFP) are currently
underutilized and undergoing restructuring, they were not analyzed at the ICR stage. Instead,
two key commodities supported under the project, fruit and wine grape, were analyzed on the
basis of actual investment made. Detailed models for viticulture and horticulture farms are
available in the project files. Both analysis shows positive returns to the investment mainly
resulting from: (a) production cost savings from reduced use of pesticides and chemicals; (b)
improved quality of final products (root stocks, fruits, and grapes); (c) higher yields; and (d)
higher income for the producers as they will be able to charge a higher price for better quality
products.
VINE NURSERY
This particular investment model is for a vine nursery. The nursery would be producing grafting
material (rootstock), which they would sell as their main product. For this nursery, grapes would
be "by-products," and would have a yield of only about 3 tons/ha of grapes instead of a potential
yield of about 8 tons/ha. The economic life of the vineyards planted with planting material
provided under the project would be about 20 years. Based on the gestation requirement, output
from the planted root stocks will start only in 2004 and will continue for about 20 years. The
calculation of the rate of return (IRR) on these investments shows that vine nursery business is
profitable with an IRR of 25 percent.
Other Assumptions                      Results: 1RR = 25%; NPV = US$617,507
1.   Exchange rate: MDL13               US$1
2.   Total areas of grafted saplings   13.81 hectares
3.   Total areas of rootstocks planted  23.51 hectares
4.   Total nursery area                11.76 hectares
5.   Annual harvest of grafted saplings  35,000 units per hectare
Total grafted saplings           435,000 units
6.   Annual harvest of rootstocks      60,000 units per hectare
Total harvest of rootstocks      1,410,600 units
- 33 -



7.   Rootstock rejection rate            20%
8.   Annual harvest of grapes            3 tons per hectare
9.   Priceofgrapes                       US$131 perton
10.  Price of planting materials         US$0.5 per unit
FRUIT (APPLE) ORCHARD
An investment model for a fruit tree nursery based on 20 years of economic life was analyzed.
This is based on an actual apple orchard which has been in production since 2001. In the model,
the farm is expected to reach 70% of the notional yield in year 2004 and would peak with 100%
expected yield in 2010 and continue at that level for five more years. The calculation of the rate of
return (IRR) based on a conservative projection of production growth and sales shows that the apple
orchard would be profitable with an IRR of about 14 percent.
Other Assumptions:                       Results: tRR = 14%; NPV = US$136,609
1.   Exchange rate: MDL13                = USS1
2.   Total planted area                  86 hectares
3.   Annual harvest of apples            20 tons per hectare
4.   Price of apples                     MDL 1,600 per ton
5.   Total apple production              1,720 tons
6.   Total revenue (peak)                MDL2.752 million or US$217,000
Detailed models are available in the project files.
- 34 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle       lNo. of Perisons and Specialty                    Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Econornistsf 1 FMS, etc.)  Implementation Development
Month/Year    Count           Specialty                      Progress     Objective
Identification/Preparation
July 1994                  13    Task Manager, Financial Mngt.
(3 part- time)  Specialist, Agronomist,
Extension Specialist, Senior
Policy Advisor; Marketing,
Financial Mngt, and 4 others
(consultants); Country Specialist
(FAO/CP)
December 1994                2   Agronomist, Economist
April 1995                   7   Task Manager, Senior Policy
Advisor, Financial Mngt.
Specialist, Agronomist,
Environment/Social Specialist,
Extension Specialist, Project
Costing Specialist
July-August 1995             1   Banking Specialist (consultants)
Appraisal/Negotiation
November-Decem               2   Task Manager; Agricultural
ber 1995                         Economics/ Project
(pre-negotiation                 Mngt/Monitoring and
discussions                      Evaluation Specialist
(consultant)
April 1996                  2    Task Manager, Procurement
(pre-effectiveness)              Specialist
Supervision
October-Novemb               3   Task Manger, Senior Policy         S             S
er 1996                          Advisor; Agronomist
(consultant)
June 1997                    2   Agronomist, Agricultural           S             S
Economics/ Project
Mngt/Monitoring and Evaluation
Specialist (consultants)
November 1997                1   Agronomist (consultant)            S             S
March-April 1998             2   Team Leader, Agronomist            S             S
(consultant)
November 1998                1   Agronomist (consultant)            S             S
December 1998                1   Agriculturist                      S             S
April 1999                   6   Team Leader, Rural Financial       S             S
Advisor, Agricultural Economist,
Operations Analyst; Rural
Banking Specialist, Agronomist
(consultants)
October 1999                 4   Team Leader, Agricultural          S             U
Economist, Operations Analyst;
Agronomist (consultants)
- 35 -



April 2000                   3   Team Leader, Operations            S            U
Analyst, Financial Analyst
(consultant)
June 2000                    3   Team Leader, Operations            S            U
Analyst; Financial Analyst
(consultants)
October 2000                 2   Team Leader; Financial Analyst     S             U
(consultant)
November-Decemb              2   Team Leader; Financial Analyst     S             S
er 2000                          (consultants)
February-March               2   Team Leader; Financial Analyst     S             S
2001                             (consultants)
May-June 2001                2   Team Leader; Financial Analyst     S             5
(consultants)
ICR
September 2001              4    Team Leader, Sr.                   S            U
Agricultural Specialist,
Operations Analyst;
Financial Analyst
(consultants)
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate               |
._____________________ _ . .No. Staff weeks          US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation                n/a                       420.2
Appraisal/Negotiation                     n/a                       183.3
Supervision                               n/a                        279
ICR                                       n/a                        48.7
Total                                     n/a                       931.2
- 36 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
LI Macro policies                      ORH  OSUOM      ON    * NA
O Sector Policies                      O H  OSUOM * N        O NA
O Physical                             O H  *SUOM      O N   O NA
O Financial                            O H  OSUOM * N        O NA
? Institutional Development            0 H  O SUO M    0 N   0 NA
Z Environmental                        O H  OSUOM      O N   O NA
Social
LII Poverty Reduction            0 H  O SU O M   0 N   0 NA
L Gender                         OH OSUOM ON *NA
D Other (Please specify)         O H  OSUOM      O N   * NA
O Private sector development           0 H  O SU O M   * N   0 NA
3 Public sector management             0 H  O SUO M    0 N   0 NA
LII Other (Please specify)             O H  OSUOM      O N   * NA
- 37 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                Rating
 Lending                                           OHS OS *U OHU
3 Supervision                                       OHS OS       OU    OHU
F Overall                                           OHS OS       * U   O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                             Rating
F Preparation                                       OHS OS       * U   O HU
 Government implementation performance             O HS O S     0 U   0 HU
? Implementation agency performance                 OHS OS       O U   O HU
N Overall                                           OHS OS O u O HU
-38 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
1.     Staff Appraisal Report - Moldova: First Agricultural project - Report No: 15120-MD
2.     Agreed Minutes of Negotiations between the World Bank and the Government of Moldova
3.     Loan Agreement - Moldova: First Agricultural Project (Loan number 4011 -MD)
4.     Mid-term Review Report
5.     Moldova - Economic Indicators, 1992 - 2000
6.     Audited Financial Statements for Project, June 30, 2001
7.     List of equipment received by the Project beneficiaries
8.     Presentation Material on the FAP, and recommendations on the problematic beneficiary institutes -
NIVO and RIFP
9.     Terms of Reference for the financial and operational analysis, and the financial audit in the
Viticulture Institute (NIVO) and the Fruit Institute (RIFP)
10.    Diagnostic Analysis of the NIVO - ARIA - 2000
11.    Diagnostic Analysis of the RIFP - ARIA - 2000
12.    Audit Reports for year-end 1999 (including the Management Letters) for NOVO and RIFP
13.    Further Recommendations on NIVO and RIFO by the ICR mission, September 2001
14.    Letter form the GOM regarding separation of the processing line in the RIFP (Fruit Institute),
April 23, 2002
15.    Diagnostic Analysis of the Beneficiary Companies - FAP PIU - 2000
16.    Statutes of the Association of Vine Nurseries
17.    A copy of the Sub-loan Agreement among the MOF, beneficiary (nursery/farm), and the respective
Institute
18.    GOM Decree on repayment of the FAP loan proceeds by the Project beneficiaries
19.   Inventory of equipment received by the Project beneficiaries
20.    First Agriculture Project Audit Reports for year-end 1999 and 2000, and nine months of 2001
21.    Procurement Audit Report - FAP - Final - June 2001.
22.    Monitoring and Evaluation Program Report for the First Agriculture Project
23.    Intermediary and Annual Reports - PIU
- 39 -



Additional Annex 8. Financing Received by the Beneficiaries from All Sources
All amounts in thousand USD
(US$/MDL exchange rates: at appraisal US$1 = MDL 4.6; avera e at closing US$1 = MDL 12.9)
.  ,  - -    ' ,}t -t,      Wo!i:.'.'' .  rId:BanhkV?  Counter-part y- Tota F -ndW:
s =, ... w .   .   , -  :Lioa n. .Ir,sing                         .Receiv'd .i. f
VinelNurseries   -                                         $        .      $
1. Vialtos                                      175.3           88.9           264.2
2. SadacAgro                                    178.8           77.5           256.3
3. DimCairacAgro                                227.7           52.9           280.6
4. GhelirAgro                                   157.7           50.6            208.3
5. Crocmaz Agro*                                110.2           51.3            161.5
6. Mitarix                                      253.6           85.6           339.2
7. Valeni*                                       54.1            3.8            57.9
8. Vorniceni                                     99.7           33.4            133.1
9. Codru-ST*                                     74.7           30.2            104.9
10. Carpineni*                                                   1.4             1.4
TOTAL                                         1,331.8          475.6          1,807.4
FruittFarms ,
1. Basarabia                                     65.1          197.1           262.2
2. Rusmiluid                                     84.1           90.3            174.4
3. Progress                                                      3.2             3.2
TOTAL                                           149.2          290.6           439.8
lnstitfutes       -
1. Aguaproject                                  105.5           15.7            121.2
2. Laboratory of Cereal Control                  84.5            3.7             88.2
3. NIVO                                       4,408.0          657.1          5,065.1
4. Porumbeni                                    290.1           64.0           354.1
5. Republican Station of Plant Protection       104.0            1.4            105.4
6. RIFP                                       2,113.0          407.3          2,520.3
7. Sanepid                                      305.0            4.1           309.1
8. Selectia                                     186.0            5.2            191.2
9. Tevit                                        324.5           43.4            367.9
TOTAL                                         7,920.6        1,201.9          9,122.5
[GRAND TOTAL Beneficiaries      .             r 94O.1 i ' 7(.  1,968.1       . 11,369:7
Valeni were substituted by Codru-ST, Carpineni were subsituted by Crocmaz Agro and Progress were substituted
by RusMiLiud
- 40 -



Additional Annex 9. Status of Goods Received by Beneficiaries
NIVO:
Type of goods                   Function                         Status
Goods financed by IBRD:
Quality testing equipment and   Testing equipment, incubators, etc.  Used, one cooled centrifuge was not
support                                                          functioning (being repaired; still
under warranty)
Laboratory equipment (HPLC, GC  Testing contaminants             Operational, not used frequently.
etc.)                                                            The purpose of testing was more or
less evenly divided by (i) training,
(ii) in-house testing and (iii) testing
services for third parties.
Photosynthesis lab equipment    Photosynthesis testing           Operational.
Field research                  Portable photosynthesis equipment  Operational, not used
Fermentation research            Fermentation tests              Used
Building                        House bottling line, etc,.       Used
Irrigation equipment                                             Used
Green house/irrigated           Production of seedling           Questionable; poor state
Farm equipment                  Tractors, sprayers               Used
Genetic material                                                 Planted
Wine processing equipment       Presses, stabilizers, tanks      Operational (season was to start)
Wine processing equipment       Fermentation tanks               Operational (season was to start)
Wine processing equipment       Bottling, capping line           Operational
Wine processing equipment       Labeling line                    Operational
Wine processing equipment       Modular building                 In place
Wine processing equipment       Fork lift and other eqpt         Operational
Office equipment                                                 Operational and used
Goods and services financed by counterpart:
Design and site preparation for  Housing wine processing plant   Used
modular building
Repairs to grafting workshop and new Preparation and planting of need  Repairs poorly carried out, greenhouse
greenhouse                      seedling                        in disrepair.
Repair of selection center, installation Preparation and planting of need  Used
of heating system               seedling
Design and field preparationof field  Preparation and planting of need  Used
for new plantings               seedling
Installation of irrigation system  Preparation and planting of need  Used
seedling
Farm inputs (props, fertilizer,  Preparation and planting of need  Used
fungicides etc.)                seedling
Farm equipment                  Preparation and planting of need  Used
seedling
Lab equipment repair and installation Detection and development of  Used
virus-free plant materials, etc.
-41 -



RIFP:
Type of goods                    Function                         Status
Goods financed by IBRD:
Laboratory research equipment   Diagnostic equipment              Excellently used
Processing research equipment   Small scale pitter and peelers    Operational, not used
Office equipment                Computers, Facsimilies, etc.      Used
Farm equipment                  Tractors, sprayers                Used
Irrigation equipment                                              Used
Genetic material                                                  Planted
Fruit processing equipment      Juice/Puree processing line       Not used
Fruit processing equipment      Bottling, capping line            Operational, not used
Fruit processing equipment      Labeling line                     Operational, not used
Fruit processing equipment      Brick processor                   Operational, not used
Goods and services financed by counterparts:
Design, site preparation/repair of  Housing of fruit processing plant and  Currently not in use
building.                       selected research equipment
Design, site preparation/repair of  Cultivation of seedling of new genetic Installed and used.
irrigated fields, and installation of  materials
irrigation systems
Farm equipment                  Land preparation and maintaining  Some not yet used (not suitable for
nursery fields                   small trees)
Farm inputs                     Land preparation and maintaining  Used
nursery fields
Repair greenhouse, laboratories  Improvement of research facilities  Used.
Training                        Improvement of research facilities  n/a
Porumbeni:
Type of goods                    Function                         Status
Goods financed by IBRD:
Farm equipment                   Farm operation on seed /selection  Used
.           ~~~~farm.
Seed potatoes                    Production/multiplication        Spoiled during drought
Plasticulture                    Cultivation research             Procurement cancelled
Goods and services financed by counterparts
Farm equipment                   To be used in seed production
Repair of potato storage,heating  Seed storage and propagation    In use
Tevit:
Type of goods                   Function                         Status
Goods financed by IBRD
Production line for frozen semen  Freezing semen                  Operational, not fully used due to
- 42 -



low demand.
Large liquid nitrogen tanks      Storage                          Used
Al thawing kits, application     Field use by inseminators        Partly used
equipment
Goods and services financed by counterparts:
Site preparation and building repair  Prepare laboratory for new  Repairs made.
equipment
Diesel power generator           Standby power                  Used
Selectsia:
Type of goods                    Function                        Status
Goods financed by IBRD:
Farm equipment                  Farm operations                  Not verified
Goods and services financed by counterparts:
Building repairs                 Farm operations                  Not verified
Sanepid and Plant Protection Station:
Type of goods                 Function                       Status
Goods financed by IBRD:
SANEPID
Laboratory equipment (HPLC, GC Detection of chemical residues  Operational and used
etc.)
Office equipment                                             Operational and used
PLANT PROTECTION
STATION
Laboratory equipment (HPLC,  FQuality testing of agricultural  Used at low capacity
GC etc.)                      chemicals                    l
Goods and services financed by counterparts:
Building repairs
Cereale:
Type of goods                    Function                        Status
Goods financed by IBRD:
Laboratory equipment            Testing of grain quality         Operational and used
Office equipment                Copier, fax, etc.                Operational and used
Goods and services financed by counterparts:
Building repairs
-43 -



AkvaProjekt:
Type of goods                    Function                         Status
Goods financed by IBRD:
Plotters etc.                    Design, drafting                 Used (already partly outdated)
Office equipment                                                  Used
Goods and services financed by counterparts:
Office repair and installation of  Support for office and design  Implemented
equipment                       equipment
Design software                 New software to be used with new  Used
plotter
Vine and Fruit Nursery Farms:
Type of goods                    Function                        Status
Goods financed by IBRD:
Virus-free planting material                                     Planted
Agricultural equipment           Farm machinery                  Operational and used
Goods and services financed by counterparts:
Building repairs
Agricultural machinery          Farmn equipment                  Operational and used
Project design services         among others, irrigation and planting
.___________________________________  projects
- 44 -



Additional Annex 10. Changes in Land Allocation and Production
(specific crops, and animal inventory 1995-2000)
Change
1995      1996      1997     1998      1999      2000    1995-2000
Land allocation (in HA x 1000)
Maize            307     339.4     431.2    399.5     403.2       424       38%
Barley         111.44     89.7       106    107.7       108       101       -9%
Wheat           346.4      335     355.4    356.2       340       341       -2%
Legumes          48.6     41.1       43      54.1      59.4        60       23%
Industrial crops                 255       300     269.6    309.1      313.4      305
Soybean          3.3       2.3       2.3      6.3        17        17     515%
Sunflower       142.9    198.4     174.3    204.3     216.7      201       40%
Sugar beet      82.2        77      70.7     71.5      61.1        65      -21%
Tobacco           20      16.3      17.2     21.8      18.6        22       10%
Vegetables                       59.3      51.4      53.6      49       47.8       49       -17%
Potatoes                         52.6      59.1      61.9     61.9      66.5       66       25%
Fruits (mature)                144.78     147.7     150.3    147.5       142       140       -3%
Grapes (mature)                 173.2     169.7     165.3    158.7       148       140      -19%
Cattle                            644     nd          nd       nd        420      391       -39%
Cows                              500        nd       nd       nd        360      300       -40%
Pigs                              910        nd       nd       nd        690      501       -45%
Poultry                         1,394        nd       nd       nd      1,056      830       -40%
Production (in MT x 1000)
1995      1996       1997      1998       1999      2000     Change
95 to 2000
Grains and legumes
Maize             908        988      1,717     1,239      1,140     1,250      38%
Barley            338        118       233        216        183       150      -56%
Wheat            1,126       673      1,153       951       798        700      -38%
Legumes            50         29        58         71        58         40      -20%
Industrial crops
Soybean             3          2         3          .6       14         19     633%
Sunflower         203        277       175        199       286       268       32%
Sugarbeet        1,916     1,807      1,748     1,451      1,009     1,000      -48%
Tobacco            27         19        24         25        22         27       0%
Vegetables                   486       319        355       486        489       500        3%
Potatoes                     383       343        391       372        330       340      -11%
Fruits (mature)              528       521        446       367        136       220      -58%
Grapes (mature)              853       767        401       343        465       497      -42%
-45 -



Additional Annex 11. Publication Record of Research Institutes 1994-2000
1994    1995   1996    1997   1998     1999     2000    2001*
NIVO
Publication in journals
Publication in annual report   10      10     15      17      17      20       20
Books and monographs            8       3      1       1       1       2        3
Newspaper articles             40      30     33      32      57      60       38       12
Extension bulletins            17      22     21      31      25      27       32
Other written materials        20      17     23      27      25      23       40       10
Total written                  95      82     93     108     125     132      133       22
Presentations in meetings
Intemational      0       1      4       3      2       2         2        l
National         30      30     31      38     35       23       36       14
Training courses given
Specialists trained             4       1      2       1      22       3        3        3
Farmers trained
Horticultural Research Institute
Publication in journals        35      27     29      30      22      20       28        0
Publication in annual report    1       2      1       3       1       2        1        0
Books and monographs                                                   2        2        1
Newspaper articles              4       7      2       5       3       4        5        2
Extension bulletins            12      14      8       7      11       7        3        0
Otherwrittenmaterials           19     13     15      18      16      11       17        0
Total written                  71      63     55      63      53      46       56        3
Presentations in meetings
International     5       7      6       4      2        3        4        0
National          8       5      7       9      7        5        8        0
Training course given                                                  1                 1
Specialists trained                                                   28                 2
Farmers trained
Field crops research institute
Publication in journals         5       7      2        1      6       5        6        4
Publication in annual report    7       7      7       7       7       7        7
Books and monographs            3       5      1        1      1       4        2
Newspaper articles              2       3      1       2       4       4       15       11
Extension bulletins             8      15     12       7      16       8        8        6
Otherwrittenmaterials           2       5     21      19      13      10       15        9
Total written                  27      42     44      37      47      38       53       30
Presentations in meetings
International    13      10     15      11     12       17       10       15
National          3       2      4       3      4        5                 1
Training course given
Specialists trained
Farmers trained
-46 -



1994    1995    1996    1997    1998     1999    2000   2001*
Institute Maize and Sorghum
Publication in journals        98       20      62      69      72      59      25
Publication in annual report
Books and monographs                     1       4       2
Newspaper articles              10       4      11       7      12       8       4
Extension bulletins
Other written materials        11       11      15       5       7       6       11
Total written                  119      36      92      83      91      73      40        0
Presentations in meetings
International        7       5       4       5        7       5       4
National            63      24      16      42      18       22      41
Training course given
Specialists trained
Farmers trained
TEVIT
Publication in journals         14       6       1       5      10      16       18       9
Publications in annual report   2                1       1                                1
Books and monographs             1       1       1       1                1       I
Newspaper articles               3       4       8      12       5       4        4       2
Extension bulletins              8       8       1       3       8       4        4       2
Other written materials        61       46       3      13      58      45      22       18
Total written                   89      65      15      35      81      70      49       32
Presentations in meetings
International        3       2       1       2       5        6       5       4
National            47      15      18      17      24       41      36      27
Training course given           18      14      11      21      15      11       17       4
No of semen doses produced ('000)                              385     170     238      770
Specialists trained              2       3       2       4       2       2        3       2
Sanepid (including all regional centers)
Publication on toxicology                                               26      31       39
Extension report
Number of samples tested                                             11,274  13,181  13,500
Specialists trained                                                     15       15      14
- 47 -



Additional Annex 12. Training and Study Tours
Topic                             When and where       Duration and time  Number of Age
trainees
Study of methods of quality control  June 1997                 7 days           5          45
(Cereals, wine)                   Netherlands                                            (41-55)
and Belgium
Training in business management,  Oct-Nov '97                  26 days          17        43.5
finance and marketing for managers and Italy,                                            (31-54)
staff of private agro processing
Study tour of agricultural knowledge  1997, three separate tours Total of 45 days Not  17  56.8
systems                           Israel, France,       all participants visited         (47-67)
Netherlands, UK           all countries
Study of commercial production of seed 1997 and 1998           7 days           3         46
stock for specialists             Italy                                                 (30-55)
Study on research methods and planning July-Aug., 1998         18 days          19        49
for managers of Fruit Institute   Czech Rep, Poland,                                    (33-63)
Germany, France and
Netherlands
Studies on research techniques and  1998-1999                30-120 days        10        45
collaboration (Fruit Institute)   Various countries                                     (32-53)
Training in vineyard management and  1998-2000                7-44 days         11       45.4
plant protection for NIVO staff   France                                                (42-52)
Study of organizational forms and  1999                   2-3 weeks for each   680         N/a
methods of the consulting service of the Chisinau, Moldova     group
MAFI's Rural Management and
Development Institute
Training for nursery specialists, First  1999-2000       3 days for each group  180        N/a
Agricultural Project beneficiaries, in  Chisinau, Moldova
implementing production technologies
for virus-free planting material
Computer courses for MVO's, RIFP's  1999                       30 days         100         N/a
and NSPCPM's specialists          Chisinau, Moldova
Training in artificial insemination  March-Apr, 1999           9 days           2          49
research for TEVIT staff          France
WB workshop on the organization of  May 1999                   5 days           2         59-60
agricultural research and extension  Hungary
systems
Study of organization and research in  Aug-Sept, 1999         19 days           7          50
viticulture for NIVO managers     Hungary, Czech Rep.,                                   (40-63)
Germany, Italy and
France
- 48 -



Additional Annex 13. Category Recap at Appraisal and After Each Reallocation (US$
million equivalent)
Group        Category    Amount at      After First  After Second   After Third
Appraisal, US$  Reallocation,  Reallocation,  Reallocation,
US$           US$            US$
1-A          2.0           1.6           2.1            2.1
Goods
_1-B         0.7           0.4           0.02          0.02
1-C          4.5           6.9           7.1            7.2
Total        7.2            8.9           9.2           9.3
Consultants, Studies  2-A          0.4           0.2           0.2            0.2
and training
2-B          0.2           0.2           0.1            0.1
2-C          0.5           0.5           0.2            0.2
Total         1.1           0.9           0.5           0.5
Operating costs        3           0.2           0.2           0.2            0.2
PPF refund             4           0.5          0.001          0.001         0.001
Unallocated            5           1.0            -
Grand total                       10.0           10.0          10.0          10.0
- 49 -



I
C)
LO)



IBRD 31693
2700'         2730           28'00'         2830'           g   _at
  RUSSEHUANI-    ''
RUSSIAN
.OLAND   BELARUS r    FEDERATION
48=30'                               M[h                           48130'-
0>  ,             051 0;portolswCZREPC.t                       J     UKRAINE            (
<A*  ,~~~'----x2 ~ OOcnito                                        $- SRjUMOSTRBAN'Z":o--._MLDOVA
J ') Briceni l                            U K R A I N E           _,UNGATR                           '
EDINET       oDondujei             ,,  ,
- 48,00 '>.                    D(chiao        SOROCA      Ccanenc   ,N 29-000           29030'         3000' 48-000-
1I /  R  nFloresti                                        J f _
PCostesti                   Mdr6cuolest0 ;o
,> Glodeni  BALTI *8oatI  - n       , ,Sidanest'i  ;  RTbnino  /   *   oi Voriceni-Vin,CAPC
aBltina    Rt~eorco Bns-tubeit..                                           SA
o  ie * rops      f                  ,                *   N:fionof Instibte for Livestock
aSingerei      g                        o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~eernry Medicine
\ oSingerei   ORHEI               "f                 too ..en!.[ fo, S-it.fi-
470 0  Faleti,             . -         Rusmiliud SRL       J      -  N:........ * e,d -liogy
- 47 30'O *                                            TeIenesfi     OChipercsni  \R,3       lPioStotio . o fCorPlo
s  07elenq1i ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Aco'o e ion
; .'-  I   -)\  '              / 1_t 1/-       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Conlr.1
Orhei                   A~orooc
VulenI                    *           <3Orhei s;Xo *)  t       Reseorch lntfitto for More e nd
tScuieni UNGHENI                                               Sorghum
\C, Coloros  ri \  >  uIesni'3  / .  N:Nig.nI n.o for Vificult-ro
Ungheni0                                 /        Reseorch Insitute lfor Frit
RO M     AN    I A          WtUngheni       {   Sr,eizr           ,         rU8rl     Protection.
\_NosporenyO  f' _n O) rSrei \
4700'                                                                      a         \) Vu
MOLDOVA                                     \oalovenio'\                  L
FIRST    AGRICULTURAL                        L8pusnao  ;A neAniO
0   H?nce~lti0             Noi       '-.ZTrap~
PROJ ECT                         Leuseni
LAPUSNA                                 L iaSI bazia
g*SodBRoc Agro ,/     Cainori     
*     BENEFICIARY FARMS                   *Miori.-VC SRL HIcauseni                     !t
TIG 4NA
*     INSTITUTIONS                                 Cimi,Iia      i   .r' * CSrorrLno Agro  f      4630'
--46,301  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~     Leova                              o~~ SI  Stefan-VodaL
46030>     0    SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS        'bleovo                 >-           t\
@     JUDET CAPITALS                                         0        ,:       \    (
69    NATIONAL CAPITAL                                        osarabesca-
-   JUDET BOUNDARIES                               Crcanlem r  o Qgaio sb
- - -    INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
< tGAGAUZIA\/>
/ CAHUL  j\O GhelirAgro, SR
l'O 2,0~O ~O       0                "-        .  Lsna
0E10   20  30  40  50       , *Violto, SRo ;J.                 U  K  R A      I N   E     460000
4600'             KILOMETERS                 k        '
0         rMRACUA f
This map was produced by the               Cahul   *IqtcscIia
Mop Design Unit of The World Bonk.
The boundaries, colors, denominotions
and onyother information shownan on 
this mop do not imply, on the port of             - J
The World Bank Group, any judgment         yuIcarjeti0  (
on the legalstatus of any territory, or            r f
any endorsement or occeptance of        0                                                      -   B I a c k
such boundaries.                                 u                                      -           sea
4530'  27000           27030'           Giurgiulest 
DECEMBER 2001









`lA-GING
Report No.:         24198
Type:     ICR



