Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 15120-ND
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF NOLDOVA
FIRST AGRICULTURE PROJECT
April 8, 1996



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of November, 1995)
Currency Unit   =    Lei
Lei I    =   US$ 0.22
US$1      =   4.50 Lei
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ha    =   hectare
kg    =   kilogram
ton    =   metric ton
MOLDOVAN FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ARD   -  Agricultural Research Department
DC   -  Direct Contracting
EAA   -  Enterprise Assistance Agency
EBRD   -  European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ERR   -  Economic Rate of Retum
EU (Tacis)  -  European Union Technical Assistance Progranm for the FSU
FAO   -  Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations
FSU   -  former Soviet Union
GDP  -  Gross Domestic Product
GOM   -  Govemment of Moldova
ICB   -  Intemational Competitive Bidding
IFAD   -  Intemational Fund for Agricultural Development
IMF  -  Intemational Monetary Fund
IS  -  Intemational Shopping
IPM   -  Integrated Pest Management
LIB   -  Limited Intemational Bidding
MAF  -  Ministry of Agriculture and Food
M&E   -  monitoring and evaluation
NGO   -  non-govemmental organization
NIVO   -  National Institute of Viticulture and Oenology
NPV   -  net present value
NS  -  National Shopping
PFI  -  Participating Financial Intermediary
PHRD   -  Policy and Human Resources Development Grant
PMC   -  Project Management Committee
PPF  -  Project Preparation Facility
PPC   -  Project Preparation Committee
PSDP  -  Private Sector Development Project
R & D   -  research and development
SAL  -  Structural Adjusment Loan
SOE   -  State-owned Enterprise
STF  -  Systemic Transformation Facility
GLOSSARY
Adsisio  -  a farners volunteer assistance (domestic) NGO
Apek Moldova  -  the state institution responsible for national water resource management
AcwaProjekt  -  the technical design institute of Apele Moldova
Codru  -  Research Institute for Fruit Production
kolkhoz - collective farm
Porumbeni  -  Research Institute for Maize and Sorghum
Sekcisia  -  the Field Crops Research Institute
sovkhoz - state farm
Tevit  -  Veterinary and Livestock Research Institute



STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA
THE FIRST AGRICULTURE PROJECT
Table of Contents
pAge
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY  ...........................................                                       i
1. THE AGRICULTURE SECTOR  ............................................    I
A. The Macro-economy and Agriculture .............                 ......................   1
B. Sector Overview  ........................................... ..   2
C. The "Agriculture Knowledge System" ..            ..................................  4
D. Land Reform  and Farm  Restructuring  ............              ......................  5
E. Sector Institutions .............................................                               8
II. THE AGRICULTURAL INVESTMENT PROGRAM  ........                              ....................   10
A. GOM's Agriculture Investment Strategy .             ...............................   10
B. Country Assistance Strategy Context ............               ......................   12
C. The Agriculture Investment Program Concept ........                ....................   14
D. Rationale for Bank Involvement .         .....................................   18
E. Lessons from  Past Bank Experience .............              ......................   18
Ill. THE FIRST AGRICULTURE PROJECT . .................................... 20
A. Objectives .............................................. 20
B. Project Description and Components  ............               ......................   20
Agro-technology Development and Transfer .......                ...................   20
Institutional Strengthening .     ......................................   23
Project Preparation and Policy Development .......              ...................   23
Project Management ...........................................    24
C. Project Costs .............................................. 24
D. Project Financing  .............................................    25
This project was identified by the Government, FAO Cooperative Program and the Bank; project preparation
was conducted by Bank and GOM counterparts. This report is based on an appraisal mission which visited
Moldova in April 1995, and subsequent post-appraisal visits during 1995. The appraisal mission consisted
of Brian Berman (Task Manager), Camilla Brown (Project Assistant), Michael Cermea (Senior Advisor),
Csaba Csaki (Senior Advisor), Florian Grohs (Economist), Oskar Honisch (Principal Agriculturalist), Willem
Zijp (Agriculture Extension Specialist), and Frederick Hasselback (consultant).  The Division Chief is
Geoffrey Fox, and the Deparment Director is Basil Kavalsky.



E.  Procurement                                 ...................................................                                                            26
F.   Disbursement    ..................................................                                                                                        29
G.   Accounts  and  Audit                           ......................                                 ........................                             31
H.  Environmental Impact   ........                                  ........... .........................                                                      31
I.   Gender and  Family  Issues   ..........................................                                                                                    31
J.  Participation              ...................................................                                                                              32
K.  Rural Poverty                        ........................                                    ..........................                                 32
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION  ..........................................   33
A.   Introduction    ...................................................                                                                                        33
B. Summary of Implementing Agencies  ..................................   33
C.  Project Implementation  Details   ......................................                                                                                    34
Project Management ...........................................                                                                                    34
Agro-technology Development and Transfer Component  .................   34
Institutional Strengthening  Component  ..............................                                                                            35
Project Preparation and Policy Development Component  .................   35
D.  Implementation  Schedule   ..........................................                                                                                       36
E.   Reporting  and  Evaluation    ..........................................                                                                                   36
F.   Project Supervision    ..............................................                                                                                      37
V. BENEFITS AND  RISKS ................................................   38
A.  Benefits  and  Justification    ..........................................                                                                                 38
B.  Project Sustainability  and  Risk    ......................................                                                                                44
VI. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS  ............                                                                           ..              .................  46
A. Agreements Reached During Negotiations   ..............................   46
B.  Condition  of Effectiveness    .........................................                                                                                   47
C.  Condition  of Disbursement  .........................................                                                                                      47
D. Recommendation ................................................  47



LIST OF TABLES:
Table 2.1: Bank Assistance and Critical Elements to Strengthen the Rural Economy  ....               .....  14
Table 3.1: Estimated Project Costs Summary  ....................................   25
Table 3.2: Project Financing ................................................   26
Table 3.3: Project Procurement ..............................................   27
Table 3.4: Disbursement Categories ...........................................   29
Table 3.5: Estimated Bank Disbursements  ......                      ...............................   30
Table 4.1: Project Implementation Responsibility Summary  ..........................   33
Table 4.2: MAF Oversight of Research Components ...............................  35
Table 5.1: Expected Cost Recovery ...........................................   39
Table 5.2: Projected Farm  Income ............................................   40
Table 5.3: Project Objectives, Benefits, and Development Indicators ....................   42
Table 5.4: "Feasibility" Analysis of R&D Expenditures .............................  43
Table 5.5: Sensitivity Test of "Feasibility" Analysis ................................   44
Table 5.6: Project Risks and Mitigations  .......................................   45
LIST OF BOXES:
Box 1.1: Environmental Impact of Agriculture  ....................................  2
Box 1.2: The Agriculture Research System  .......................................   5
Box 1.3: Land Reform  Statistics ..............................................  6
Box 2.1: Agricultural Sector Policy Reforms  ....................................   15
Box 2.2: Complementary Assistance  ..........................................   17
Box 3.1: Strengthening Rural Finance .........................................   22
ANNEXES - VOLUME I
o       Annex  I         Implementation Schedules
o       Annex  2         Terms of Reference for Project Management
o       Annex  3         Environmental Data Sheet
o       Annex  4         Economic Analysis
o       Annex  5         Summary of Major Procurement Packages
ANNEXES - VOLUME II - PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
o       PIP I - The Viticulture Component
o       PIP 2 - The Horticulture Component
o       PIP 3 - The Integrated Pest Management Component
o       Attachment I - Detailed Cost Tables
Map Number - IBRD 24285R2






REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA
FIRST AGRICULTURE PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:               Republic of Moldova
Implementing Agency:  Ministry of Agriculture and Food (MAF)
Beneficiaries:          MAF; National Institute for Viticulture and Oenology (NIVO); Research
Institute of Fruit Production ("Codru't), Research Institute for Field Crops
("Selectsia'); Research Institute for Maize and Sorgum ("Porumbeni");
Veterinary and Livestock Research Institute ("TeviJ"); agro-industry managers;
Fanners
Poverty Category:       not applicable'
Amount:                 US$ 10 million [equivalent]
Loan Terms:             Standard amortization terms, grace period and interest rate for LIBOR-based
US$ denominated loans.
Commitment Fee:         0.75 % on undisbursed credit balances, beginning 60 days after signing, less
any waiver.
Financing Plan:         see Schedule A
Economic Analysis:       As the direct benefits from R&D (improved product quality and lower
production costs) could not be achieved without additional investments in
improved production and marketing of key crops, an "affordability" approach
was used. To achieve a 10% economic rate of return on research, the net
present value (NPV) of export benefits directly attributable to research
investments need not be more than 8.6% of the NPV of the added value of
projected incremental exports over the next 15 years -- an achievable level.
Map:                     IBRD 24285R2
Project ID Number:       MD-PA-8556
1.    Poverty groups are not directly targeted benficiaries under this Project. However most of the farmers are near or
below te poverty line. The project will, in the short term, have indirect impact on farmers' productivity, while in the longer
run the benefits will be direct.






MOLDOVA
THE FIRST AGRICULTURE PROJECT
I. THE AGRICULTURE SECTOR
A. The Macro-economy and Agriculture
1.1          Moldova, which gained independence from the formner Soviet Union (FSU) in 1991, lies
in southeastern Europe sharing borders with Romania and the Ukraine. It is a small, densely settled
country with a population of 4.4 million; slightly more than half of the population live in rural areas.
Moldova initiated a reform program as early as 1990 aimed at creating a market economy. In March
1993, Parliament adopted a comprehensive action program for the stabilization and recovery of the
economy. Shortly thereafter, a new currency, the Lei, was introduced and supported with firm financial
policies. Although progress has been hampered by the legacy of central planning practices, significant
results have been achieved under the macroeconomic stabilization program. Budget transfers to enterprises
were cut to about 1% of public expenditure in 1993 from 21% in 1992, and the largest consumer subsidies
were eliminated in May 1994. Annual inflation fell from almost 2,000% in 1992 to 1% in the third
quarter in 1995. The Gross Domestic Product (GDP) per capita fell over 50% between 1990 and 1993,
and there was a further decline in 1994 of 22% to US$870. A turnaround, and a small but positive
growth rate in GDP was recorded in 1995.
1.2          Moldova has followed a tight monetary policy since late 1993, supported by an
International Monetary Fund (IMF) Systemic Transformation Facility (STF) and two stand-by
arrangements. Although monetary policy changes have succeeded in sharply reducing inflation, they have
not been accompanied by equally far-reaching structural changes in the economy. Severe problems of
inter-enterprise arrears and illiquidity continue to constrain all commercial and industrial activity, including
agriculture. The combination of monetary policy, fiscal policy and administration, and enterprise behavior
is not yet balanced adequately to provide strong support for sustained stabilization or growth of the real
sectors of the economy. A deepening of the initiated structural changes, especially in the enterprise and
trade sectors, is needed.
1.3          Agriculture Sector. Between 1989 and 1993 Moldovan agriculture and its food industries'
output declined 33%, due to a series of shocks.) Output fell an additional 26% in 1994, due to severe
drought, inadequate financing of agricultural operations, and a decline in domestic demand and export
possibilities. Favorable weather in 1995 helped to stabilize agricultural production, but at a relatively low
level.
1.4          Agriculture accounts for about 40% of Moldova's Net Material Product and employs one
third of the labor force. In addition, processing of agricultural products accounts for 40% of industrial
output and 20% of industrial employment. Agricultural and food products accounted for over 50% of
Moldova's exports in the last years of the FSU. This output was heavily dependent on imported inputs
of feedgrains and agricultural inputs. In turn, Moldova's exports were based almost entirely on the
centrally planned system of specialized production areas, and directed distribution, across the entire FSU.
I     including: a large unfavorable adjustment in terms of trade; increase in input and energy prices to international levels;
severe droughts in 1992 and in 1994; and the economic disruption associated with the break-up of the former Soviet Union (FSU).



2                                                                                    Chapter I
1.5           Agriculture is likely to remain the dominant sector of the Moldovan economy and could
lead economic growth in the short-run. More than 50% of the population, directly or indirectly, depend
on agriculture as a source of income. The country is densely populated and agricultural land is fanned
relatively intensively. Moldovan agriculture is characterized by a high proportion of viticulture and
horticulture production. These are typically high value and labor intensive crops and, once processed, are
the country's major exports. Fertile soils, a favorable climate, well-educated agricultural specialists, and
an abundance of low-cost labor will form the basis for successful agriculture after the restructuring of the
sector is completed.
B. Sector Overview2
1.6           Moldova's agriculture is well favored with a moderate climate and excellent soils. Eighty
percent of the soils are chernozems that rank among the most fertile in the world.  Production is
constrained by erratic rainfall (drought frequency 6 to 7 years in 10) and low levels of groundwater
resources in the south of the country. Important products include wine, horticulture, grains, tobacco, and
livestock products (hogs and poultry). In part, the dominance of livestock (dependent on imported
feedgrains) is a remnant of former Soviet Union (FSU) central planning decisions, which placed an
emphasis on Moldova's role as a supplier of both horticultural and livestock products to its pan-Union
food supply system.
1.7           Since Independence in 1991, there has been an overall decline in sector output, as the
systems adjusts to real market prices, increasing export competition, and reduced domestic demand (see
also environment impact -- Box 1.1).
Box 1.1: Environmental Impact of Agriculture
During the period of the Soviet Union, fertilizers and pesticides were liberally applied with little
concern for environmental impact. Groundwater resources became polluted both from agricultural
chemicals run-off and from the effluent of the large livestock complexes. Further, the agro-
processing plants were not operated with environmentally appropriate waster disposal systems. High
levels of pesticide residues were also reported. With the post-independence down-turn in the
economy, the levels of application of agro-chemicals have been significantly reduced, and agro-
chemical runoff is today not a significant pollution source. Thie livestock and agro-processing
complexes have reduced their operating volumes, and consequently, pollution from these point-
sources has declined.
However, this could quickly be reversed to the previous levels of pollution if there is a return to past
levels of economic activity without the introduction of better agro-chemicals, and better controls on
levels and methods of application. Similarly, to prevent point-source pollution, the livestock and
agro-processing complexes require investments in effluent and wastewater treatment as an integral
part of their restructuring and expansion programs.
2      This section based on "Moldova Agriculture Sector Review," (Rept. No. 1258 1-MD, Feb., 1995), with recent updates.



The Agriculture Sector                                                                  3
Livestock: Since 1991, the loss of export markets in the FSU, high feed prices, and reduced
domestic demand have severely impacted the livestock sector. Meat production decreased by
40%, dairy production by 30%, and egg production by 46%, between 1991 and 1993. Livestock
production continued to decline in 1994 as the drought worsened feed shortages, and has held
steady in 1995 due to a static domestic market and low export prospects. Further downsizing can
be expected over time.
Horticulture: Fruit and vegetable production is important in Moldovan agriculture covering about
10% of the arable land, but contributing to about 28% (18% and 10%, respectively), of Moldova's
earnings from food exports to the FSU in 1993. Production of horticultural crops fluctuates
mainly due to drought, low productivity, poor irrigation systems, and unreliable marketing
channels, (e.g. vegetable production in 1993 was 39% lower than in 1986). Potential areas of
improvement encompass the full range of activities in horticulture, including availability and
choice of plant varieties, crop management, post-harvest treatment, and processing and packaging
of finished products.
Viticulture: Wine production also plays an important role in Moldovan agriculture with about 8%
of the agricultural land under vineyards.  Wine production represents one of the major
comparative advantages of the country and has good medium-term development prospects.
However, a majority of the wine products are of low quality and need to be improved in order
to be internationally competitive. The wine industry can be improved through increasing grape
yields and improving the quality of wine products, improved processing, adoption of standardized
packaging and improved marketing.
1.8          The rural economy is presently experiencing significant de-monetization, with both the
fanners and the processors being heavily indebted. There is a dominance of barter trade both for domestic
and international transactions by the large agro-processing complexes (formerly state-owned, and now
privatized but not effectively restructured or efficient). Some competition is now emerging as a result of
de-monopolization and privatization of the state-owned enterprises (SOEs) in agricultural trading and
processing. Small and medium scale processors, and informal traders, are emerging.
1.9          Due to tight credit policies, concessional financing to primary production and processors
has been very limited in recent years. The Government (GOM) does not intend to provide concessional
financing in the future; rather, financing would become the responsibility of the banking sector from its
own, and mobilized, resources. During reform and restructuring of the financial sector, financial resources
to agriculture, a perceived high risk sector, are expected to remain severely limited.
1.10         The consequent scarcity of working capital from the formal financial markets has resulted
in crops not being harvested because the agro-processors could not purchase them. Some of this "surplus"
found its way into informal fresh produce trading in neighboring countries' (predominantly in Ukraine and
Belarus). The continued economic activity of the agricultural sector during the transition has been, in
large part, a result of the emergence of the informal sector, based on the bartering of "surplus" fresh
produce and processed produce (given as payment-in-kind for wages to enterprise workers, or as payment
for the raw material supply from the farms). These goods were bartered for scarce essentials (fuel, agro-
chemicals and spare parts) obtained from neighboring countries.



4                                                                                  Chapter I
1.11          The Agriculture Sector Review' recommended for the medium term, that Moldova's
strategy should emphasize:
*      yield and efriciency enhancement, through public investment in agricultural research,
education and extension;
*      promotion of agricultural exports-led growth, through liberalized pricing and trade in
agricultural inputs and products, improvement of product quality, development of new
markets, marketing channels and marketing institutions; and
*      sector structural reforms in production  through  rapid de-monopolization  and
privatization of agro-processors and traders, with parallel farm restructuring, privatization
and land reform, the development of land markets and adequate rural (non-concessional)
financial services, and the development of new sector institutions, both public and private.
1.12         The Role of New Technology: The comparative advantage of agriculture in Moldova lies
predominantly in the production of high value crops, such as grapes, fruits, vegetables, some medicinal
and aromatic plants, and in seed and planting material production. To support the production and improve
the export potential of high value crops, agricultural research needs to focus on the adaptation of foreign
crop varieties to the local climate and the drought risk; improved quality of food and agricultural products;
mechanization adapted to the changing land tenure pattern; improved soil fertility practices and crop
protection (including integrated pest management (IPM)) to reduce both production costs and the negative
impact of agro-chemicals residues on groundwater and food quality (Box 1.1); efficient and economical
irrigation; and improved technical and economic crop production and agri-business management.
1.13         To improve productivity and expand agricultural exports, agriculture would need to utilize
new production technologies appropriate for high value crops. The full range of improved technologies
are needed, e.g. high yielding seeds; integrated pest management; disease resistant new plant breeds;
drought tolerance; energy-efficient smaller-scale farm mechanization; water-conserving irrigation; plastic
tunnels and greenhouses; etc., all adapted to Moldova's conditions. In addition, new technologies will be
essential to ensure the transformation from extensive large-scale collectivized farming systems (now
characterized by excess under-utilized labor) to more cost-efficient smaller scale farning, on scarce land
resources, with intensive land use, a focus on high value crops, and limited capital and labor (mostly
family) resources. Moldova's "agricultural knowledge system" -- agricultural research, education and
extension -- will be critical to the success of this technology-facilitated transformation.
C. The "Agriculture Knowledge System"
1.14         The "agriculture knowledge system" consists of:
*      three universities teaching agricultural sciences, and a number of technical schools;
*      18 agricultural research institutes under the Ministry of Agriculture and Food (MAF),
complemented by basic sciences research under the Moldova Academy of Sciences
(Box 1.2); and
*      MAF's regional network of agricultural extension staff.
3      op. ct.



The Agriculture Sector                                                                              5
Box 1.2: The Agriculture Research System
Ministry of Agriculture and Food
Research Institutes:                               Experimental Stations:
Viticulture and Oenology                           Vegetable oils*
"Selectsia" -- Field Crops                         Irrigation*
Vegetables*
"Codu" - Fruits                                    Academy of Science of Moldova
'Porumbeni" -- Maize and Sorghum                  Agriculture-related Research Institutes:
Tobacco and Tobacco Products                       Biological Plant Protection
"Tevit" Veterinary and Animal Breeding             Botany
Agro-processing                                    Ecology
"Mecagro" -- Agricultural Mechanization            Genetics
Water and Water Conservation                       Microbiology
"Dimo" - Soil Conservation and Amelioration        Zoology
')     in Transnistia
1.15           The existing agricultural knowledge system has an unsustainable demand for public
resources. There are inherent problems with the multi-institutional and multi-tier approach inherited from
the FSU. There is a significant lack of integration of research, education and extension, to the detriment
of farmers, educators, researchers and students. Its output is, by and large, not adapted to agriculture
operating in an open competitive economy. MAF recognizes the need to tackle these problems, but it
does not have the resources to do this. A vision of the future needs of agriculture, the role of new
technology and the knowledge system, has yet to emerge from the stakeholders. Without this vision, and
an overall consensus around it, no rationalization of the system can commence.4 Nevertheless, even in
the absence of an overall strategy, immediate priority areas for public investment have been identified
(relevant to whatever future form the knowledge system will take -- para 2.5) with the initial focus on
research capabilities to introduce new technologies for key export crops, especially for viticulture and
horticulture.
D. Land Reform and Farm Restructuring
1.16           Land reform and restructuring of farms has proceeded relatively slowly (Box 1.3). The
first stage of the land reform aimed at the distribution of land for household plots (average size 0.3ha) to
the rural population. This first stage is substantially complete, although title documents have not been
distributed to all new owners. Agricultural land subject to privatization was to have been transferred in
the second stage of land reform, which began slowly in late 1992, accelerated in the summer of 1993, but
was suspended in November, 1994. The second phase of land reform was resumed in mid-1995 on the
basis of the Land Code as amended by Parliament in February, 1995.
4      Tchluical assistance under this project will facilitate the development (in a participatofy manner) of this vision,mnd
subequenfly a rationalization, prioritization, and reorganization plan for the agricultural knowledge systemi, including the resw
system (Chapwer 3).



6                                                                                                         Chapter I
Box 1.3: Land Reform Statistics
General Land Survey
(January 1, 1995)
Land Holders              Area
Category and Land Holder                       %        ('000 ha)    %
Agricultural Lands                 806,614   100%           2,050   100%
including
1.0   State ownership                 1,199      n.s.         456    22%
2.0   Others                        805,415  99.9%           1,594    78%
of which:
2.1 Collective farms                  549      n.s.         984    48%
2.2 Stock company farms               100      n.s.         190      9%
2.3 Cooperative farms                 116      n.s.          78      4%
2.4 Individual farms *            42,968       5%            55       3%
2.5 Farmers' associations             241      n.s.          20       1%
2.6 Household plots **           761,429    94%             267      13%
2.7 Other                              12      n.s.            I     n.s.
* registered and non-registered 11 mission estimate
Sources: GOM statistics
Notes:
"Collective farms" are those sovkhozes and kolkhozes, not restructured, but where the state has no claim to the ownership
of the land.
"(Joint) Stock companies" are corporatized former sovkhozes and kolkhozes that have not undergone any significant
additional restructuring
"Cooperatives" are privatized sub-sets of the former sovkhozes and kolkhozes where the land is an indivisible asset of a
production cooperative, and not of the individual members of a cooperative.
"Individual farmers" and "Farmers' associations" are those individuals who exited from the collectives with individual
land shares that have not been placed into the asset pool of a production entity other than that of the owner's -- the
emergent "private farmers."
"Household Plots" including those plots private individuals and those owned by members who ave not exited from the
former sovkhozes and kolkhozes.
1.17             This amendment included the decisions to:
extend the circle of eligible persons for firee land entitlements, to employees of inter-farm
and service enterprises and some workers in the rural social sector;



The Agriculture Sector                                                                                    7
*       limit the minimum  size of land allowed to be taken out from a farm  to the size of one
crop rotation field' at that specific farm; and
*       to require only a "qualified farmer" certified by local authorities to manage any of the
newly formed farms.
1.18            These measures were justified by the legislators as a response to increasing tensions in
rural areas among those who were not included in the list of beneficiaries of the original land reform, as
well as concerns by MAF and GOM regarding the fragmentation and improper use of agricultural land
as a result of the implementation of the initial legislation. While the decision of the Parliament to modify
the land reform procedure is understandable, the amendments have had negative consequences for farm
restructuring. The amendment issued in February, 1995 has seriously compromised the rights of
individuals to exit from a large-scale farm and to establish new private farms,6 and consequently these
changes were not welcomed by the farming population.7 The early 1995 status of the land reform, just
prior to the change in legislation, is shown in Box 1.3. "True" private farming is represented by categories
2.4, 2.5 and 2.6 - only 16.7% of agricultural land area, and yet 99.75% of all land holders (including the
small household plot holders'). As the freeing up of exit rights occurred only early in 1996 (para. 1.19),
and is temporarily suspended from the beginning of April 1996 until the end of the 1996 harvest, these
statistics remain a reasonable representation of the current position.
1.19            The Land Code introduced post-independence established a moratorium on selling any land
received under privatization and land reform measures until 2001. The moratorium for urban land and
rral housing land, as well as household plots and orchards, was lifted on January 1, 1995. This measure
has already created a limited land market in Moldova and is a progressive step forward. Selling of land
shares inside the large-scale farning structures has recently become possible. At the beginning of 1996,
the Prime Minister informed Parliament that the Cabinet has endorsed legislative reform for the rural land
code, as proposed by the State's President. This proposal will remove the moratorium on rural land sales
(previously set at 2001), and permit immediate trading of rural land parcels. It is now the Cabinet's stated
policy that farm land should be treated under law as any other tradable commodity. Very recently the
Constitutional Court ruled certain provisions of the 1995 revision of the Land Code to be unconstitutional.
The practical implications of this move are as yet unclear.
1.20             It is also not clear at this time: (a) the extent to which the proposed revisions to the land
code will permit a range of land reform and fann restructuring options (e.g. the exit of individual farmers,
with personal title to identified land parcels and possession of other farm assets from their former
5       This is an FSU agronomic concept which defines the size of a field required to achieve a multiple crop rotation over
several seasons, where the rotation is designed for agronomic productivity and fertility conservation. In the Moldovan context, this
applied to annual cropped land, and would mean fields of between 30 and 100 ha, depending on location, soil fertility, and agro-
climatic conditions. At an average allocation per family of 1.5 ha, of which over SOff (on average) would be in fruit orchards and
vineyards, legal compliance requires group exit of between 60 and 200 individuals.
6       defined as non-collective farming, i.e., for the farmer's 'own account," on rented or personally owned land.
7       Systematic surveys, interviews and consultations with farmers and rural elites was carried out as a part of project
preparation. The results of this survey are reflected in this section (se also Through Farmers' Eyes: Stud on Land Priw4tzton
In Moldova, Badina, 0. and S. Raddulescu; M. Cernea, ed. (forthcoming World Bank Staff Working Paper)).
£       household plots are on average, 0.35ha each



8                                                                                    Chapter I
collectives, or newly formed smaller cooperatives); or (b) if Parliament will agree to the lifting of the rural
land sale moratorium, or be prepared to go even further in the necessary reforms and reverse its early
1995 decisions that introduced restrictions on rural land reform and farm restructuring options.
Consideration is also now being given by GOM to permitting the formation of rural service cooperatives:
this will move the rural sector into a more flexible mode of operation and enable farmers to be able to
obtain services which were previously the monopoly of the ex-sovkhozes and ex-kolkhozes.
1.21          Further progress with rural land reform and farm restructuring is critical to the overall
economic growth of the agriculture sector, and the entire economy. The Bank has expressed its serious
concerns to GOM, and has indicated that further changes to the Land Code and related legislation are
advisable to give investors confidence in the medium term sustainability of the agriculture sector. Donors
have expressed similar serious concerns. The Bank has indicated that investments in the agriculture sector,
beyond this first proposed project, will be conditional on significant progress in rural land reform (Chapter
2). To assist in progress to equitable land reform, funding for the development of enabling and related
legislation (e.g. laws related to the rural land market and land ownership registration and transfers, the
legal provisions for establishing service cooperatives, clarification of land ownership rights, etc.) would
be available under this Project (Chapter 3).
1.22          If a wider concept of rural land reform and farmn restructuring is embraced by Parliament,
a farming sector based on a variety of farm sizes and management systems is expected to emerge in
response to crop-specific technologies and social and economic considerations. Farm sizes would range
from large "corporate farms," to smaller partnerships, and also small-cropped single family farms. This
development would also widen the range of efficiencies and technologies, from export-oriented, profit-
maximizing farms to subsistence-oriented farms. This development will be dependent on individual skills
and preferences, capital resources, and the transfers of new technologies to the emerging farrners.
Preventing a downward slide into subsistence of the smaller (family) farms, will require (aside from on-
farm investments and access to rural services and finance) significant levels of entrepreneurship
development and improvements in the technical skills of the new farmers.
E. Sector Institutions
1.23          The sector is administered by the Ministry of Agriculture and Food (MAF), through its
regional and district offices. MAF, on behalf of GOM, continues, in the mode of a centrally planned
economy, to administer the sector's "production oversight" of primary and processed products, trade
promotion, rural land reform, as well as providing some (minimal) regulatory functions and coordinating
the sector's research system (para. 1.14 et seq.).
1.24          The remnants of the centrally planned administration of the sector are represented by the
crop-specific "production" departments at headquarters (horticulture, viticulture, livestock, grains,
agroprocessing, etc.), and MAF's regional offices. They have continued to see it as their mandate to
"ensure production" of raw materials to support the large-scale agro-industrial complex. While these
central departments and regional offices have the technical capability of providing the core of an
agricultural extension service, the concept of a "client-responsive service" to recently established private
farmers, as well as restructured former collectives, has not yet evolved.



The Agriculture Sector                                                                           9
1.25          MAF maintains a Land Office, whose task in the FSU period was to define land use and
cropping based on technical soil classifications, and to meet centrally planned production target
requirements, while ensuring that "appropriate use" was made of each soil type (i.e. without any economic
criteria).  This office is now charged with rural land reform and farm restructuring, but also views this
function within the old framework of "appropriate land use," rather than as the development of farm
entrepreneurship.
1.26          Regulatory functions in MAF are not well developed, and those that exist are inappropriate
for a market economy. The legislative basis for a market economy regulatory regime is inadequate, as
is MAF's technical capacity for quality control and testing to give credibility to any regulatory authority.
This will be a significant constraint to product certification requirements for exports to the EU.
1.27          The agricultural statistics system inherited from the FSU, has effectively collapsed, and
cannot provide reliable data on agricultural production, trade or other rural economic activity.
Consequently, MAF does not have the data base on which to develop agricultural sector policy and
analyses. Agricultural policy analyses of the Agricultural Economics Research Institute9 are significantly
constrained by this inadequacy of data.
1.28           The strength of the institutions in agriculture is the high level of agro-technical expertise
of the professional staff. For example, MAF's research institutes are well aware of the technologies
appropriate for competitive agriculture. Institutional strengthening is required to technically upgrade
facilities, and to introduce new approaches to research management and include considerations of
competitiveness and financial viability (e.g. farm management and agricultural economics) into previously
agro-technical decision making. This mix of technical strength and the need for a market re-orientation
is typical for all the agricultural institutions.
1.29           GOM is questioning the appropriateness of the structure and functions of MAF for a rural
sector in transition. It is also concerned with achieving further public service downsizing, and increasing
its cost-effectiveness. GOM has requested the Bank's assistance to mobilize donor assistance for a study
of the appropriate functions and structure of the overall agricultural administration, and the future role of
government in the sector. These efforts to reconsider the role of MAF and plan for its new functions and
structure were initiated in early 1996.
9      one of the few institutes providing policy analyses of the sector, nowadays based on specially mounted sample survey



II. THE AGRICULTURE INVESTMENT PROGRAM
A. GOM's Agriculture Investment Strategy
2.1           To initiate and sustain agriculture-led growth, the basis for agriculture should shift over
the medium-term to reflect Moldova's comparative advantages -- specialized high-value horticulture and
viticulture products.' Bulk commodity crops (e.g. grains, livestock products, and potatoes) would
generally be reduced to supplying only the domestic market. This strategy presumes high production
efficiency, and reliable production. It will require new high yield seeds and planting materials, irrigation
investments as safeguards against drought, and investments in research and development of other
production-intensifying technologies. Efficient production of high value crops can best be achieved by
maximizing individual incentives. This is achievable though a number of organizational means, including
smaller scale farming ventures (family and limited partnerships), various forms of cooperation in
machinery services, marketing and credit, and the application of new production technologies.
2.2           This agricultural markets-led, but technology-determined, medium-term strategy requires
development, expansion and improvements in a set of critical inputs, where the absence of any one of
them could jeopardize the entire strategy. These are:
*      the sector and general policy environment encouraging individuals' on- and off-farm and
off-farm rural entrepreneurship
*      technology development and transfer -- the agricultural knowledge system
*      land reform and farm restructuring
*      agro-enterprise development
*      rural finance
*      agricultural marketing (domestic and export) system
*      supporting rural infrastructure
*      the sector public administration and regulatory framework
Both GOM's sector policy reforms, and the planned Bank's general country assistance strategy and sector-
investment program (paras 2.4 et seq.), are based on this medium terrn strategy, with the promotion of,
and transformations in, all the above critical elements.
2.3           GOM and the Bank have agreed that the short- and medium-term focus for agricultural
development should be:
In the short term:
*      to achieve a rapid economic impact through increased export earnings and improved
production efficiency and product quality to meet target export market requirements;
*      to promote private ownership of rural land and to transform land into a "commodity"
much like any other input into agricultural production, and therefore to develop the rural
land title registration and transfer systems to promote rural land markets;
*      to provide support for key export product improvements (wine and wine-grapes, fruit and
vegetables);
*      to reduce post-harvest losses and costs through improved on-farm storage and other post-
harvest facilities to ensure quality maintenance; and
*      to deepen the market liberalization reforms (e.g. following from the de-monopolization
and privatization pursued under the Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL)) to strengthen
A recently completed (Bank commissioned) comparative advantage study of Moldovan, Ukrainian and Belarus agriculture
demonstrates Moldovan comparative advantage in these products.



The Agriculture Sector Investment Program                                                                 11
private sector agro-processing, trading and financing, to ensure increased price
competition for inputs and produce.
In the medium term:
*       to support the deepening of rural land reform  and farm restructuring;
*       to support rural enterprise development;
*       to deepen the competitive impact of the agro-processing privatization and restructuring;
*       to improve the provision of rural financial, and other farming and rural services;
*       to reduce risk in agricultural production (primarily drought) through the expansion and
modernization of the irrigation systems;2
*       to strengthen human resources skills; and
*       to strengthen existing, and develop new agricultural and rural sector institutions (both
public and private).
2.4             Sector Institutions and Services:  The agriculture sector's progress also requires a
transformation in its institutions and the establishment of new public and private sector agricultural
institutions and services attuned to the market economy. This would also require support to improve
public sector infrastructure and services:
*       physical infrastructure (e.g. improvements in irrigation, rural roads, rural electrification
telecommunications, and rural water supplies);
*       agricultural technology  (e.g prioritization  and rationalization of the public-sector
agriculture research system, the development of private sector funding and participation
in agriculture research);
*       rural financial services (e.g. rural savings mobilization, rural lending and banking
services, crop insurance, loan guarantee schemes, micro-credit, entrepreneurship financing,
etc.);
*       public  information  and  knowledge  services (e.g. agricultural extension, market
information, tertiary and technical education, agricultural research);
*       policy, regulation and public administration (e.g. overall functions and staffing of
MAF; grains' strategic stocks policy;3 the wine sector development strategy; food quality
standards and inspection; environment standards for agriculture and agro-processing
activities; land use, soil and water conservation; land ownership and long term lease laws;
collateral laws, etc.); and
*       other public services (e.g. the development of the rural land market with complementary
government rural services for rural land-title registration and transfer services; legal
reforms particularly for a variety of farming-related associations,4 the commercial code,
real estate law, and anti-trust law).
2       and with appropriate financial instruments e.g. crop insurance, loan guarantee schemes, etc.
3        lThis policy study was agreed with the Bank during the negotiations for the first SAL, as a complement to the reforns and
privatization of the state grain monopoly, "Cereale". It is now planned for 1996 with the assistance of FAO.
4       providing the legal foundations for a range of for-profit and not-for-profit associations for the purposes of mutual
assistance, entrepreneurial activities, services, etc. [e.g. a revision of the (soviet) cooperatives law to permit service cooperatives
(marketing, credit etc.), legislation to govem farming and other types of partnerships, etc.l



12                                                                                  Chapter II
2.5           Support for the transformation of the Agricultural Knowledge System: with the key
role of the research system in the technology-led strategy, there are a number of steps that would need
to be followed to ensure the transformation of the research, education and extension systems corresponds
to the needs of sector operations and opportunities in an open market economy. These four stages are:
i)    initial "fire fighting" to preserve the basic research and intellectual assets against further
deterioration (i.e. the minimal budget funding currently provided by GOM);
ii)    targeted high priority selected investments for economically critical export crops'
research, which are clearly independent of the outcome of the conclusions of the review
of the system (e.g. this first project's investments in strategic technology transfers for
wine and horticulture are a part of this strategy);
iii)   review of the system and detennination of priorities, amalgamation, integration, cost
savings and the overall future agro-technology directions, and the corresponding
development of the overall agricultural "knowledge system" (this would be supported, in
part, with technical assistance funded under this project); and
iv)    implementation of and investments in, the rationalized knowledge system.
B. Country Assistance Strategy Context
2.6           The Bank's objective in its assistance program to Moldova is focused on support for the
rapid adjustment of the economy to the severe extemal shocks recently experienced, in order to promote
recovery to sustainable growth. Given, the small size of Moldova's domestic market and Moldova's
dependency on imported energy, the strategy to achieve economic growth must focus on sustainable export
development with necessary immediate improvements in efficiency (including reductions in energy
consumption, etc.) and quality. Moldova's principal exports are agricultural, requiring that this sector will
not only have to lead the export growth strategy, but also sustain growth in export earnings in the
medium-term. To achieve this, future agricultural development will require increases in productivity and
efficiency, re-orientation of production to meet new markets' demands, and acceleration of the post-
privatization market-orientation and efficiency adjustments of the agro-enterprises, and in primary
production on the joint-stock and the privatized farms. This enterprise and farming adjustment may well
involve reductions in the labor force. New employment creation and an adequate social safety net for the
unemployed are priorities to ensure a manageable transition.
2.7           Assistance to Agriculture: The Bank proposes, because of the centrality of agriculture to
Moldova's economic progress, to support the sector with a series of three loans over the next three to four
year period (paras 2.11 et seq.). The objective of the Bank's proposed agricultural investment program
in Moldova is the strengthening of the rural economy through support for:
a major shift in sector efficiency through:
(i)    promotion of private property and related rural entrepreneurship through rural
land reform and farm restructuring;
(ii)    promotion of new on-farm production methods and systems, to complement rural
land reform and farm restructuring;
(iii)  improvement in post-privatization development of agro-enterprises, and expansion
of new entrants;
(iv)   the development and transfer of new technologies into the sector;



The Agriculture Sector Investment Program                                                     13
*      the improvement in the quality of products from farms and agro-processors;
*      promotion of non-farm rural entrepreneurship;
*      the development of effective export marketing systems for Moldova's agricultural
products;
*      the reform and strengthening of the rural finance delivery systems;
*      the strengthening of the sector's human resources and institutions, particularly the
agricultural knowledge system.
The proposed multi-loan agriculture investment program is designed to address these objectives in a
flexible manner, to enable the Bank to: (i) respond to emerging needs of the sector, consistent with the
impact of the macro-economic reform program; and (ii) provide support for systematic sector reforms and
complementary public sector investments with appropriate timing.
2.8           The first critical element is establishing the basis for rural entrepreneurship and risk taking.
This requires ownership of private property. For the agriculture sector this implies a deep rural land
reform and farm restructuring, with personal decision making and risk taking now taking the lead over
collective management of state property. The Bank has indicated to the Government that progress in rural
land reform is a critical element in any reform strategy for the macro-economy and the rural sector.
Dialogue is continuous with GOM on land reformn policy. The Bank will not proceed with the next phase
of the proposed agricultural lending program (paras 2.11 et seq.) without a substantive progress in land
reform, land ownership and farm restructuring. The Bank would utilize the proposed second Structural
Adjustment Loan, as well as policy studies financed under this project to assist GOM to advance this
reform.
2.9           The second critical element is the expansion of competitive production and processing.
This will depend on the expansion of market-based financing of rural activities, including working capital
and investment funds for both farmers (seasonal requirements for inputs and on-farm investments), and
for agri-businesses (e.g for input suppliers, product trading, storage, and processing). The rural financial
system will need to be reformed to deliver non-subsidized lending to a fast expanding client base of small
farmer production, and non-state agro-processors and traders. Financial resources will require
augmentation. This will be the focus of the proposed second loan to the Agriculture sector. This export-
market led strategy also requires attention to marketing, systems and institutions, primarily in the private
sector, as well as public sector support for effective export market expansion.
2.10          The effective roles of markets and entrepreneurs in agriculture are still limited by a
number of factors. Price liberalization has not been a sufficient policy intervention, as in itself it has not
resulted in market and competitive forces that provide efficient-pressures for sector restructuring. Residual
structural rigidities, both in the general economy and in the rural sectors, now need to be addressed. Thus,
to achieve the overall objective of agricultural exports-led economic growth requires attention to a number
of critical areas, all of which are necessary, but not sufficient on their own to achieve the broader
economic objectives. Table 2.1 sets out the critical areas and the elements of the agricultural sector
assistance strategy that would provide support to strengthening the rural economy as well as contributing



14                                                                                       Chapter II
to agriculture-led export growth. This table shows the country assistance strategy context for this first
investment project in the agricultural sector (see also Complementary Donor Assistance-- Box 2.2).
Table 2.1: Bank Assistance and Critical Elements
to Strengthen the Rural Economy
Critical Areas                     Proposed Bank Assistance*
Sector and Trade Policies          SAL 1, SAL 2
Public Expenditure Review (ESW) * *
Public Investment Plan (ESW)
Agriculture Knowledge System       First Agriculture Project
Primary Agriculture Production     Agriculture Projects 1, 2 & 3
Private Property & Rural           SAL 1, SAL 2
Entrepreneurship                   Agriculture Projects I & 2
Land Cadastre Project
Agro-processing Development        Pre-Export Guarantee Facility
Private Sector Development Project
Second Agriculture Project
Rural Finance                      Second Agriculture Project
Marketing                          Pre-Export Guarantee Facility
Export Promotion Project
the Bank's proposed future activities are in italics **) ESW = Economic and Sector Work
C. The Agriculture Investment Program Concept
2.11           This First Agricultural Project begins a proposed series of three Bank-supported
investmnents. The subsequent loans are under preparation and would commence implementation in the next
one to two years. Recognizing the agricultural sector policy reforns undertaken by GOM to date, the
proposal to fund this first project nevertheless is in advance of further policy changes and the reforms that
the Bank sees as necessary for sector progress (Box 2.1). The feasibility of implementation of the
components is neutral to land reform policy. Some components are designed to further advance general
sector policy development and reform. Initiating the Bank's agricultural sector investment program at this
stage of Moldova's sector transformation is designed to provide critical support and to encourage the
process of further sector reform.
2.12           This strategy also recognizes that in Moldova, as a democracy, the necessary public
consensus on some of the reform measures may be difficult to attain in the short run. Thus, it will be
essential to ensure that the sector economic environment becomes conducive to both the political and
economic risk-taking that some of these future reforms demand. The Bank's funding preconditions for
the proposed subsequent projects in the agriculture sector will be based on:
the evolution of GOM's sector policy reforms, in particular significaint progress on land
reform, farm  restructuring and the expansion of private rural land ownership by
cultivators;



The Agriculture Sector Investment Program                                                           15
*      the extent of implementation, and impact of sector reforms introduced under the first and
second SALs;
*      the completion of component preparation activities;
*      this first Project's implementation progress;
*      assessed GOM and sector absorptive capacity; and
*      the development of ownership by GOM, stakeholders and beneficiaries, for proposed
project components.
Box 2.1: Agricultural Sector Policy Reforms
Private Property
Modification of the Land Code to re-establish individual exit rights from the collectives, to reduce the
confiscatory features of the 1995 Land Code amendments, and a substantially increased flexibility in
farm restructuring options.
Clarification in the Land Code of agricultural land ownership, lease provisions, and establishment of
lessor and lessee rights.
New legal provisions to permit farmers a choice from a variety of legally recognized associations which
they could utilize to achieve some economies of scale in farming-related services and production, and
as alternatives to the present ex-collective structures.
Legal and regulatory clarification of the farm restructuring process to ensure equitable valuation and
distribution of land, farm assets, and debts, among the designated beneficiaries, with legal provision for
appeal and arbitration by individual beneficiaries.
Clarification of the status of the ex-kolkhozes' and ex-sovkhozes' pension obligations to working and
retired members, and former members.
Trade and Rural Entrepreneurship
Deepening of the impact of the liberalization initiated under the SAL (with the de-monopolization and
privatization of agricultural input supplies, the grain system, agricultural trade, and in agro-processing)
with policies, for example, to ensure competition, to encourage the emergence of small- and medium-
scale operators, etc.
Revisiting the export licensing and regulatory regijne to ensure full international trade liberalization.
Implemnentation of a market-oriented national grains policy.*
Deepening of the post-privatization de-monopolization of rural and agricultural services.
Policy measures to enforce agro-enterprise payment discipline, reduce inter-enterprise debt and speed-up
post-privatization financial restructuring.
The rural financing system would not be distorted though the granting of preferential credits to the large
scale processors, ex-collective farms, and ex-state trading companies, nor the provision of other
favorable positions to the agricultural sector (debt forgiveness, restrictions on the provisions of the
bankruptcy code, etc.)
*       lThis Policy framework will be developed during 1996 with the assistance of FAO.



16                                                                                  Chapter II
2.13          Macro-economic  and  sector policy  underpinning.    Under the  first SAL,
and following the policy reform recommendations of the Bank's Agriculture Sector Review,5 GOM began
the implementation of a number of agricultur,.-sector specific reforms. These reformns complement the
Agriculture Investment Program. The reforms included the de-monopolization and privatization of the
major agricultural services state-owned enterprises (the state trading houses in grains and agro-chemicals),
privatization of the agro-processing complexes, and the liberalization of the grain trade. The general
provisions of the SAL that impact on the sector are: the removal of price and margin controls and export
licensing; the reduction of the import tariffs; and the expansion of the industry privatization. The latter
activity had a direct positive impact on the farning sector through the privatization of the agro-processors,
and on the agro-marketing outlets through the small-scale privatization program, by ensuring that these
enterprises, post-privatization, and the farming enterprises, improved their management. With the SAL-
initiated sector policy reform as an underpinning, this first loan to the agriculture sector can concentrate
on priority sector investments.
2.14          Once the markets and competition begin to operate and provide the incentive signals to
producers and processors, the basis for agriculture is expected to shift to reflect Moldova's comparative
advantages in specific crops, i.e. into specialized, high-value horticulture and viticulture products as well
as of sugar.6 Bulk commodity crop volumes would generally be reduced to supplying only the domestic
market. The large livestock industry has already undergone a substantial downsizing, and in the future
will be reduced to domestic supplies with only limited regional exports.
2.15          In this context, the proposed First Agricultural Project concentrates on supporting
agricultural research for key export commodities, both established and emerging, as well as the related
research institutions' farner-outreach programs; promoting agro-enterprise restructuring and investment
planning; and assisting GOM on sectoral strategic planning, analysis of sector reforms, and the preparation
of further public investments for the sector. The choice of agricultural research as the first funding
priority for the sector reflects both the critical nature of technology transfers and development to the future
of the sector, and also the necessity to commence there activities early in the process because of the long
gestation times. Support for agro-processors post-privatization restructuring (financing as well as debt
work-out arrangements) would be available under the Private Sector Development Project (PSDP),'
complemented by technical assistance for agro-enterprise management training funded under this project.
2.16          Future Sector Policy Development: However, because of the absence of significant
progress in land reform and farm restructuring, the investment components of this first loan were limited
to activities not dependent, in the short-term, on the success of land reformn policy or other needed sector
policy reforms (Box 2. 1). Even if the land reform were not to be adequate over the next five to ten years,
the expected production and quality enhancing benefits of the first project would be realized on collective
farms, albeit not to the same extent as in private fanning. As the economic returns (Chapter 5) are high
with minimum growth assumptions, there is a high confidence factor of adequate returns to the economy
even under this "inadequate land reform" scenario.
5      Report No. 12581-MD, February, 1995
6      see footnote 1, this Chapter
7      presented to the Board on February 8, 1996 (Report #14555-MD).



The Agriculture Sector Investment Program                                                           17
2.17           Nevertheless, to proceed beyond this first Project with the proposed second and third
operations under the planned Agriculture Investment Program, requires as a pre-condition further reforms
and progress during the next twelve to eighteen month period. During the Agriculture Investment Program
preparation period, including during preparation of the second SAL, agreement would be sought on these
issues with GOM. Some components are being considered for incorporation in the reform program to be
supported under the proposed second SAL. The development of policy and operational options for these
areas of reform would be supported through technical assistance in this first loan, and possibly also
through bilateral assistance.
2.18           GOM  has requested that the proposed Second Agriculture Project focus on farm
production support, rural entrepreneurship, farming services, and agro-processing development. This the
Govemment proposes to achieve through a rural financing facility. The proposed Third Agricultural
Project would focus on selected rural water supply and irrigation schemes. The latter would reduce the
risk of drought impact (occurring in varying degrees of severity 6-7 in every 10 years in southem
Moldova), thereby stabilizing export and domestic food supplies. The preparation process for this loan
would establish a national water policy, and the related environment safeguards for the expansion of the
irrigation system.
2.19           Complementary sectoral assistance activities: The Agriculture Investment Programn is
designed to be integrated with other donor and multi-lateral institutions programs (Box 2.2), as well as
the Bank's lending progran in associated sectors (para 2.10). There is close coordination with the
EU (Tacis), IEFAD, the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) and the
bilateral donors.
Box 2.2: Complementary Assistance
The European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD) is active with complementary
investments in Moldova, including a Wine Export Promotion Project, and a credit line for industry delivered
through the banking sector. An investment in the food wholesale marketing system is under preparation.
EU (Tacis), in its agriculture sector support, has been active in the rationalization of the livestock sector;
agricultural exports promotion, with a pilot program for agricultural extension and farmers' organizations, and
will provide technical assistance in their 1996 program for rural credit systems development, the seeds system,
and domestic market information. EU (Tacis) has agreed to coordinate its agricultural technical assistance to
complement the Bank's and EBRD's proposed rural sector lending programs.
The International Fund for Agriculture Development (IFAD) and the Food and Agricultural
Organization of the United Nations (FAO): Moldova has recently applied to join IFAD and FAO. The
Bank's efforts at donor coordination have resulted in IFAD's agreement to prepare a parallel rural credit
project complementary to the first Project, and FAO's agreement to provide both preparation assistance for
the future projects, and sector policy studies (e.g grain policy).
Bilateral Donors: contributors of technical assistance in agriculture are Belgium, Canada, France,
Germany, Ireland, Israel, Japan, the Netherlands, the UK and the USA.** Much of this assistance has been
coordinated with the Bank's investment planning.
*      either directly or through the Bank-administered national Consultant Trust Fund
in particular through a US-based NGO, VOCA, whose field assistance to farming communitics, and technical assistance to
the research establishment, has provided a significant contribution to this project's preparation.



18                                                                              Chapter II
D. Rationale for Bank Involvement
2.20         This project, and the Agriculture Investment Program, are both consistent with the Bank's
overall assistance strategy for Moldova, and the sector development strategy recommended in the
Agriculture Sector Review. This strategy foresees a transformed, privatized agricultural sector leading
future economic growth. This Project's focus on technology transfer (Chapter 3) takes a short-to-medium
term view of the production transformation and the changes in competitiveness required to achieve
agricultural export growth. Immediate financing needs for agro-processing enterprises to achieve their
specific export targets would be financed under the PSDP. Farmers' on-farm investment requirements will
be funded through the IFAD-supported credit line financed in parallel to this Project, and the proposed
second Agriculture Project.
2.21         At the 1995 Consultative Group meeting, both the Bank and other donors indicated a
strong sensitivity to policy issues in the rural sector, in particular the early 1995 changes in land reform
policy. Donor support for Moldova in general, and for rural sector activities, requires that both the Bank's
and GOM's actions are recognized as furthering the sector reforms, including land reforrn and farm
restructuring, and ensuring individuals' rights to equitable access to land and other farming assets.
2.22         Reforms implemented by GOM, and supported through the SAL, require deepening, and
further support though sector-specific investments. Reform support would be provided through this
project's Technical Assistance, as well as the proposed second SAL. Complementary investments through
this first project in agriculture would be a method to bolster GOM's confidence that the agriculture sector
will be able to withstand, and rebound from, the perceived shocks of rural land reform. Complementary
future investment support would include: improvement of public sector infrastructure - physical (e.g.
irrigation); public information and services (e.g. agricultural extension, market information, land titles);
and for public domain technologies (e.g. agricultural research, education and extension). The proposed
Agriculture Investment Progran would help achieve this. GOM's complementary policy and strategy
development is strengthened through the Bank's continuing policy dialogue and through project
development, ownership and preparation of the agriculture investment program.
E. Lessons from Past Bank Experience
2.23         The Agriculture Investment Program would support project components where the Bank
has had many years of experience (e.g. research, agricultural education, agricultural extension, land reform,
irrigation and rural infrastructure, rural financial institutions, etc.), as well as components where experience
is relatively recent (e.g. management of the agriculture sector's transition to a market economy, informal
credit systems, farm restructuring). The Bank's experience in the necessity to develop ownership with
the government and administration on the one hand, and to involve the beneficiaries - in this case farmers,
and research and planning personnel -- on the other, has guided the design and the flexibility of the
proposed approach. Legitimate stakeholder and Parliamentary concerns would need to be accommodated.
Thus, the implementation program is designed to be able to respond flexibly to these realities in a
a     op. cit.



The Agriculture Sector Investment Program                                                19
democracy, and to be able to continue project implementation with flexibility under "second-best"
economic policies that accommodate political reality.
2.24          Experience from the completed Drought Emergency Loan' and the Rehabilitation Loan
shows that for clearly defined objectives, GOM can bring together the administrative forces for successful
implementation within an agreed timetable. These projects also demonstrated the importance of Technical
Assistance, especially to be able to manage procurement and disbursements in a manner satisfactory to
the Bank. This Technical Assistance has been maintained in the design of the projects, while at the same
time GOM is being urged to "institutionalize" these skills through both training of local experts, and the
establishment of a satisfactory employment structure to maintain their services post-training.
2.25          Recent experience from the first SAL and the Pre-Export Guarantee Facility, indicate that
both Government and Bank efforts will need to focus on:
(a)    ensuring in-depth implementation of reform and restructuring commitments in accordance
with agreed timetables;
(b)    inter-Ministerial coordination and adequate information flows to all stakeholders on
critical decisions;
(c)    ensuring up-front efforts to build consensus on critical issues and changes, especially those
that result in significant shifts in centers of power and influence;
(d)    ensuring timely Government decision-making on relatively minor, but nevertheless
essential, procedural and administrative matters; and
(e)    ensuring adequate local budget commitments and allocation of counterpart funds to
Project accounts.
9      Implementation Completion Report, April 10, 1995.



HI. THE FIRST AGRICULTURE PROJECT
A. Objectives
3.1           Growth and sustained recovery of Moldova's economy will greatly depend on agricultural
exports. The Government of Moldova seeks, through utilizing this Project and the planned future projects,
to strengthen the agriculture sector to promote agricultural exports, to increase agricultural incomes of the
rural population, and to strengthen sector institutions. Specifically, this first Project's objectives are to:
*      upgrade and improve the effectiveness of key agricultural research programs on priority export
crops and products;
*      strengthen institutions in priority areas: the agricultural knowledge system; product quality
regulatory functions; management in the post-privatized agro-processing sector;
*      develop capabilities to prepare sector investments and develop sector policy; and
*      develop project management and implementation capacity for the agriculture investment program.
B. Project Description and Components
3.2           The proposed Project would comprise the components noted below. The individual
component details, including the financing plan, and the implementation, monitoring and evaluation
arrangements, are provided in each of the Component Implementation Plans (CIPs).'
Agro-technology Development and Transfer (US $13.2 million)2
3.3           Viticulture Improvement (US$8.6 million): This sub-component would support the
existing research program to develop and distribute improved vine varieties in Moldova, and to improve
wine-making. The component would concentrate on:
(i)    Research and Development at the National Institute of Viticulture and Oenologv (NIVO).
Finance critical imports for NIVO's ongoing research program for: clonal material from
abroad; equipment for the research laboratories; drip irrigation for planting material
research and elite planting material production; and modemization of the experimental
wine processing plant. Technical assistance would be financed to develop and introduce
a vinestock certification program, and to establish a nation-wide experimental network to
evaluate the agronomic suitability of rootstocks and vinestocks.
wse Annexes - Volume 2.
2      Costs for each component shown in this section are Base Costs (i.e. without price and physical contingencies), and
include investnent and incremental operating costs for each component, but excludes value added taxes on civil works and
incremental operting costs.



The First Agriculture Project                                                         21
(ii)    Ouality Improvement of Vine Plants Produced in Nurseries. Financing of imports of
clonal planting materials; drip irrigation equipment for NIVO's vine nurseries on about
300 hectares; drip irrigation for I ha of glasshouse production of reproductive materials,
and on 8 production (on-farrn) nurseries.
(iii)   Protection of Vines. Technical assistance to NIVO to improve plant protection (pest risk
forecast system).
3.4          Horticulture Improvement (US$3.5 million): This component supports the Research
Institute for Fruit Production ("Codru') and the Research Institute for Maize and Sorghum ("Porumbeni'i)
for their horticulture research programs, the production of elite planting material, and the establishment
of farming technology demonstrations on selected farms.
(i)    Codru support: financing of the import of laboratory equipment and materials (for the
virology, genetics, and agronomy departments); demonstration equipment; computers and
software; publication of a Fruit Growers' Encyclopedia; and study tours.
(ii)    Demonstration of modem production technologv: Technical assistance and import of
equipment for pilot demonstrations of modem production technology. This includes
irrigation equipment for a demonstration on 200 ha; modem boom and air-blast sprayers
for fruit and horticultural production; 2000 hand-operated knapsack sprayers; and
equipment for greenhouses.
(iii)   Porumbeni support: financing of the import of equipment for modem  seed potato
technology on a pilot area; the import of seed potatoes; and demonstration of vegetable
production under plasticulture.
3.5          Animal Breeding (US$0.4 million): The proposed Project component would promote
better utilization of Artificial Insemination resources at the Veterinary and Animal Breeding Research
Institute ("Tevit') through the provision of modem laboratory, semen processing, and storage equipment.
3.6          Integrated Pest Management (IPM) (US$0.7 million): The proposed Project component
would promote sustainable agricultural production by supporting IPM applications on Moldovan farms.
(i)    Education and Extension of Sustainable Agriculture Methods. Financing for training and
the import of vehicles and equipment for a training center and pilot research farm that has
developed sustainable farming methods utilizing IPM (administered by the Crops Research
Institute, Selectsia.)
(ii)   Pest Forecasting Methods. Early Waming System, and Pesticide Residue Analysis.
Modemization of the communications equipment and introduction of modem forecasting
methods (M4IF laboratories); and re-equipping of the pesticide residue laboratories with
modem analytical equipment (Department of Sanitation and Epidemiology, Ministry of
Health).



22                                                                                  Chapter III
Box 3.1 Strengthening Rural Finance
With the transformation of the farming system, the number of borrowers for on-farm credits is
increasing from the formerly 3,600 large cooperative complexes, to a potential client base of over
one million private farmers. The banking system is not designed to service this number of new
clients, and the small-loan portfolio management this will require. With the privatization of the
banking sector, the expansion of local resource mobilization by the banks, and the expected
dominance of agriculture in the national economy, a number of banks have indicated that they wish
to develop their rural lending capacity. At the same time, the newly emerging independent farmers
will need assistance to develop their own borrowing capabilities.
Both the privatized large scale agro-processors and new smaller scale (some on-farm)
agro-processing could be financed from the credit lines financed by EBRD and under the Bank's
PSD Project. Farning investment and seasonal credit resources will be augmented by a proposed
IFAD rural credit line planned for delivery to GOM in parallel with this Project. IFAD proposes,
in parallel to this Project, to finance a rural credit line of about $4 million, delivered through an
IFAD-selected participating financial institution (PFI). IFAD has still to determine which PFI to
utilize.
In keeping with IFAD's mandate of assisting the under-privileged of its member countries, the credit
would be directed to small farmers to enhance their income potential. These farmers would have
exited from former collectives either individually or in organized groups. Currently, these farmers
are facing difficulties procuring inputs and credit, and appear relatively disadvantaged, having
limited land, mechanical resources, and services from the formal agricultural services systems.
As collateral is a major issue, IFAD's proposed credit program would extend credit to farmers on
ajoint-and-several-liability basis, provided the farmers agree to come together in informal service
organizations that would arrange input supplies, tractor services and credit. This credit line will
therefore require that legislation be passed to permit the establishment of Service Cooperatives.
EU (Tacis) plans to finance technical assistance to strengthen the rural credit system, and the
potential beneficiaries capacities to access credit. Tacis' assistance will be: (a) to the IFAD-selected
PFI for capacity improvement and staff training in rural lending operations; (b) for assistance to
farmers' organizations with rural finance mobilization; and (c) to assess the PFI's computerization
requirements for rural branches, village offices and central offices' credit control units, with possible
introduction of FAO's "Microbanker" computerized system for rural banks.
The Government has requested that the second Bank project provide support for the further
development of rural financial services; the financing of medium-term credit facilities for all rural
and agriculture-related entrepreneurship, including off-farm enterprises; and support for the
establishment of a rural loan guarantee fund.



The First Agriculture Project                                                            23
Institutional Strengthening (US$1.0 million)
3.7           Studies and Training (US$0.4 million): The project would finance study trips abroad,
and possibly visits by selected trainers as complements for the following two activities:
a)     The Agriculture Knowledge Systems Study: With the transformation of the agriculture
sector to operations under the open market, the re-orientation of research priorities has
become essential. The large multi-institute system inherited from the Soviet Union is not
suitable for the sector or the resources in Moldova. Issues of subject-matter priorities,
even the methods of priority setting, the interaction with producers and the academic
community, growers' outreach programs, rational budget allocations, etc., have now
become priorities. Similarly, the tertiary agricultural education, technical education and
the extension service, need to be re-oriented to the market economy, to commercial
production. At negotiations, Government assured the Bank that it would form a national
committee that would study similar systems in relevant countries to provide an integrated
national strategy for the agricultural knowledge system. Cost of travel and possible
external advisors would be covered under the loan. The Government during
implementation of the study may wish the assistance of external advisors which would be
selected under the Bank's Guidelines for Consulting Services (para. 6.1(a)).
b)     Agro-industries Management and Staff Training: This technical assistance complements
the investment and working capital credit line available to all of Moldova's privatized
industry from the PSDP (see also Box 3.1 -- Strengthening Rural Finance). The
technical assistance would provide management and technical training, to qualified
individual managers and staff of agro-enterprises, through study trips and work experience
overseas with companies utilizing relevant processing technologies, with similar products,
and of relevant operational size. At Negotiations, the Government presented draft
selection criteriafor training candidates (para. 6.1(b)).
3.8           Grains Regulatory Laboratories (US$0.6 million).  With the de-monopolization and
privatization of the (state-owned) cereals-sector complex, MAF's regulatory control of grain imports and
local grain processing (e.g. animal feeds, bread-flour and pastas) should be improved. This sub-
component would finance the import of equipment to modernize and increase the capacity of the grains
regulatory laboratories recently transferred to MAF.
Project Preparation and Policy Development (US$0.3 million)
3.9           This component would finance sector policy analysis, and the preparation of the next two
proposed loans in the Bank's lending program for the sector. The major elements of the second project,
from which the final selection would be made, are outlined in para. 2.18. The preparation of the
components for the second loan would be made through a consultative and participatory approach now
being instituted by GOM under the Project Preparation Committee (PPC -- Chapter 4). Each of the
project components would require both local and international technical inputs for final design, which this
would be funded under this component.



24                                                                                        Chapter III
3.10           For the third project -- the irrigation investments -- a PHRD grant application has been
approved. The engineering design capacity of AcvaProjekt, the irrigation engineering institute under Apele
Moldova,3 would be enhanced with the provision of engineering computer workstations and peripheralk,
and staff training on computer-aided design (US$0.1 million).
3.11           With the expected changes in land reform, a number of high priority policy aspects need
to be addressed, and assistance with the following tasks would be funded under this component:
*      development of the draft laws for Farm  Restructuring, Service Cooperatives, Law on
Farmland Collateral, Rural Land Policy, etc.;
*      design of rural land title registration systems, in support of the proposed Land Cadastre
Project; and
*      case studies of actual experience of privatized farms and restructured former collective
farns, to assess lessons learned and best practices to be followed.
Project Management (US$0.67 million)
3.12           In preparation for the management of the proposed three investment projects, this Project
would fund the establishment and strengthening of project management and project preparation
capabilities, and the operations of the Project Management Committee and the Project Preparation
Committee (PMC and PPC -- Chapter 4), over a period of four years, with loan financing for:
i)     local staff and technical assistance for training of PMC staff in project management,
accounting, auditing, etc.; and the PMC, PPC, MAF and implementing agencies' staff, in
monitoring and evaluation (particularly economic and development impact assessment of
the Project), and participatory approaches to project preparation;
ii)    the costs of the services of international consulting services for a Procurement Advisor
(Chapter 4), to both support the Project's and other Bank projects' procurement,4 and
provide training in procurement and disbursement; and
iii)    office equipment, suppliers and incremental operating costs for four years.
3.13           To ensure timely delivery of both policy reforms and project preparation for the overall
Bank funded Agriculture Investment Program, GOM requested to commence training activities, policy
studies, and procurement packages finalization activities ahead of project effectiveness utilizing a Project
Preparation Facility (PPF).
C. Project Costs
3.14           The total cost of the Project is US$18.5 million, of which the foreign exchange cost is
estimated at US$11.8 million, or 64% of the total costs. The Ministry of Finance will recommend to the
Cabinet at the time of loan approval, to exempt project imports from import duties and value added taxes.
3       the agency responsible for the preparation of the irrigation project -- Chapter 4
4      At Negotiations GOM agreed that this project would finance the first year costs of this Advisor to assist all Bank
projects financed from this project, while the proposed Energy project and other subsequent projects would each cover one year
of costs of this common service in future years.



The First Agriculture Project                                                          25
Local costs -- including civil works and incremental operating costs -- will not be exempt from value
added taxes. The total cost of the Project (before value added taxes)' includes: US$14.3 million (76% of
total costs) in incremental investments and US$2.6 million (14% of total costs) in incremental operating
and maintenance costs, of which US$1.8 million (10% of total costs) are price and physical contingencies.
A summary of costs by component is presented in Table 3.1 below.
Table 3.1: Estimated Project Costs Summary
Lei mil.                US$ mil        % Foreign % Base
Local Foreign Total   Local Foreign  Total  Exchange   Cost
Agro-technology Transfer
Viticulture  10.79    28.05 38.85  2.40    6.23   8.63    72%       52%
Horticulture  4.74    11.17 15.91    1.05    2.48   3.54    70%       21%
Livestock   0.02    1.73  1.76    0.00     0.39   0.39    99%       2%
Integrated Pest Management  0.79    2.31  3.10    0.18     0.51   0.69    74%       4%
Institutional Strengthening       1.28    3.18  4.46     0.28    0.71   0.99    71%       6%
Policy and Project Preparation   0.23     1.14  1.37     0.05    0.25   0.31    83%        2%
Project Management                1.05    1.97  3.02     0.23    0.44   0.67    63%        4%
Value Added Taxes                6.51           6.51     1.45           1.45    0%        9%
BASE COST              25.41    49.55 74.96    5.65    11.01  16.66    66%      100%
Physical Contingencies            1.44    2.54  3.98     0.32    0.57   0.88    64%        5%
Price Contingencies              3.09     1.18  4.28     0.69    0.26   0.95    28%        6%
TOTAL COST              29.94    53.27 83.21    6.65    11.84  18.49    64%      111%
Totals may not sum due to rounding
D. Project Financing
3.15         The proposed financing of the Project (including contingencies) is shown in Table 3.2.
The financing plan includes financing by the Government of investments (US$4.0 million) and by
Government and the Institutes for all value added taxes (about US$1.7 million). Self-financing by the
Research Institutes would total about US$3.7 million, about 20% of project costs, for incremental
operating costs and value added taxes. This would be sourced from sales of improved planting materials,
and, for NIVO, sale of wine. In addition, in the outer years, these institutes would have the ability for
firther capital and operating cost recovery through the sale of project-funded improved products. This
is estimated to recover about 30% to 40% of the capital investment costs (Table 5.1, para. 5.7). At
Negotiations, the Borrower agreed that, as a condition ofdisbursementfor the nurseries, NIVO and Codru
would have entered into cost recovery agreements with each of the wine and horticulture plant nurseries
being established under the project; and that these agreements would be satisfactory to the Bank (para.
6.3(a)).
5     which are estimated to total about $1.7 million or about 90/c of total costs



26                                                                              Chapter III
Table 3.2: Project Financing
(US$ million)
GOM   %   IBRD %   Institutes %  TOTAL   %
Goods and Materials        1.62  10   8.00 48                     9.62   57
Civil Works                2.01  12                   0.80  2     2.80   17
Technical Assistance:
Consultancies                0.80  5                    0.80    5
Studies                 0.22  1                   0.22    1
Training                 0.69  4                    0.69    4
Incremental Operating      0.38   2    0.29  2        1.99 12    2.66   16
Costs
Sub-total before VAT       4.00  24   10.00 60        2.78 17    16.78  100
Value Added Taxes*         0.83   5                   0.87  5      1.70   10
TOTAL COST             4.83  29   10.00 60        3.66 22    18.49  110
Totals may not sum due to rounding
* on Civil Works and Incremental Operating Costs
3.16         At Negotiations, GOM informed the Bank that it had selected the single currency [US
dollar] variable rate option. An advance of US$500,000 has been provided to GOM from the PPF to
cover the initial pre-effectiveness cost of technical assistance and procurement planning assistance for the
PMC, as well as technical assistance to initiate some of the higher-priority studies, (which by their nature
will take a fairly long time to complete) for the project preparation for the proposed second project.
E. Procurement
3.17         All goods, works and services to be financed from the loan proceeds would be procured
by government agencies in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans
and IDA Credits (January 1995) (the "Guidelines"), including amendments as of the loan signing date,
using the Bank standard bidding documents. Consulting Services would be procured in accordance with
the Guidelines for Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency (August 1981) (the "Consultants Guidelines"), including amendments as of the loan signing date.
This was agreed at negotiations (para. 6.1(c)). Standard bidding documents include: International
Competitive Bidding (ICB) for works, for goods, for computers6, and for textbooks.' The laws and
regulations governing local procurement procedures and practices in Moldova are being reviewed by the
Bank in order to establish whether local procedures are acceptable for Bank-financed contracts. A Country
6 to be utilized for the printing of the Horticulture Encyclopedia
7  Regional standard documents



The First Agriculture Project                                                          27
Procurement Assessment Report for Moldova will not be prepared since there is no local public
procurement framework. However, the Bank is currently preparing a Procurement Strategy Note, which
will be completed during the course of FY96. A "General Procurement Notice" containing information
about bidding opportunities (for procurement on the basis of ICB) would be published in "Development
Business" in accordance with paras. 2.7 and 2.8 of the Bank Guidelines for Procurement in about May
1996. Procurement arrangements are summarized in Table 3.3 below. Major procurement packages are
shown in Annex 5.
Table 3.3: Project Procurement
(US$ '000)
International
Competitive   Otherb     NBF  TOTAL
Bidding
Goods and Materials                 3,585       6,038b             9,623
(2,981)     (5,022)           (8,003)
Civil Works                                              2,800c     2,800
Technical Assistance:
Consultancies                  798               798
(798)             (798)
Studies                  220               220
(220)             (220)
Training                   691              691
(691)             (691)
Incremental Operating Costs                        287   2,367    2,655
(287)             (287)
Value Added Taxes                                         1,704     1,704
TOTAL                   3,585        8,035    6,872    18,491
(2,981)     (7,018)          (10,000)
Figures in parenthesis represent Bank finning
Totals may not sum due to rounding
NBF = not for Bank flnancing
a  including contingencies
b  including (in USS '000): LIB S3,393; IS S720; NS $65, and DC SI,860 (including $1,600 in genetic materials)
c filly financed by GOM and the Institutcs
3.18         Equipment and Goods (US$9.6 million). As far as practicable, these would be packaged
in such a manner that all packages would be large enough to attract international competition and at the
same time would contain packages suitable for attracting small manufacturers. An estimated US$4.29
million equivalent of goods and equipment would be procured through International Competitive
Bidding (ICB). Moldovan manufacturers competing for the contracts for the supply of goods procured
under ICB procedures would receive a preference in bid evaluation of 15 percent of the CIF price or the



28                                                                                Chapter III
prevailing custom duty applicable to non-exempt importers, whichever is less, provided they can prove
to the satisfaction of the Borrower and the Bank that the manufacturing cost of such goods includes more
than 30 percent of locally procured labor, raw materials, and components. Limited International
Bidding (LIB) (US$3.39 million) would be used for packages of specialized equipment and goods' where
there are a limited number of manufacturers that would be qualified with acceptable quality for research
purposes. International Shopping (IS) (US$0.72 million), based on comparison of price quotations
obtained from at least three suppliers from two eligible countries, will be used for procurement of
specialized equipment, with individual packages limited to a maximum of US$300,000 each. This will
be restricted to computer hardware, laboratory, and other specialized equipment. National Shopping (NS)
($65,000) based on comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three suppliers, will be used for
procurement of computer accessories, and laboratory consumables estimated to cost less than US$20,000
per package. Procurement of goods through Direct Contracting (DC) (US$1.86 million) would be
restricted to computer software of a proprietary nature (US$90,000), laboratory equipment from original
suppliers where standardization with existing equipment is essential (US$170,000), and clonal and genetic
materials, where there would be only a number of acceptable sources of supply, but each for a particular
type of material (US$1.6 million in a number of packages).
3.19          Consultancy Services, Training and Studies (US$1.7 million): for consulting services
for project and policy planning studies, training for scientists and other staff, and for services to PMC,
would be awarded in accordance with the Consultants Guidelines through short-listing procedures.
Training is required in a number of recipient institutions, and management of the agro-processors, for very
technical subjects, and thus will be mostly procured from individual specialists in their technical fields,
or through sending the trainees on study tours. Each institution will be required, as a part of the project
initiation procedures to be initiated at the project launch, to provide their training program, and thus the
training specialists procurement schedule. These training programs would be submitted to the Bank for
prior approval. Most of the training will be conducted within the first year of the project, as it is related
to the utilization of goods and materials procured under the project.
3.20          Procurement Review. All contracts awarded through ICB, LIB and DC, and the contracts
for consultancy services valued in excess of US$100,000 for firms, and US$50,000 for individuals, would
be subject to prior Bank review. This limit would result in prior review of about 80 percent of total
procurement. All other contracts would be subject to ex-post review during the supervision of the Project
in accordance with the Guidelines. Also, terms of reference for all technical assistance and consultancy
contacts would be reviewed in advance by the Bank.
3.21          Procurement Plan and Monitoring. Procurement plans for major procurement packages
are presented in Annex 5. Procurement data would be collected and recorded by the PMC. The General
Procurement Notice would be published about July 1996. The Project Launch Workshop, including
attention to procurement, would be scheduled as close as is feasible to loan effectiveness. Under the
Project Preparation Facility, preparation of final bidding documents, and the finalization of the
procurement plan would be undertaken by the Procurement Advisor, hired under the PPF to services the
project. Procurement training of the PMC staff will also be undertaken by the procurement advisor, under
the PPF funding. Agreement was reached at Negotiations that, every quarter the PMC would prepare,
' for experimental wine and horticulture production, and for experimental drip and sprinkler irrigation systems, requiring
precise, replicable, monitorable performance



The First Agriculture Project                                                           29
and submit to the Bank quarterly (or as otherwise determined) progress reports on the procurement of
goods and services under the Project (para. 6.1(d)).
F. Disbursement
3.22          The allocation of loan proceeds to various disbursements categories is shown in Table 3.4
below:
Table 3.4: Disbursement Categories
Category                      US$ mil.    Disbursement*
1.0 Goods and Materials:
1.1    - for viticulture nurseries  2.0    100% foreign cost,
1.2             - for orchards    0.7      100% ex-factory cost, and
1.3                - all others   4.45    80% for other items procured locally
2.0 Technical Assistance:
2.1               Consultants      0.4     100%
2.2                   Studies      0.2
2.3                  Training      0.5
3.0 Incremental Project            0.25     100% of local costs
Management Costs
4.0 PPF Repayment                  0.5
5.0 Unallocated                    1.0
TOTAL                10.00
(*) assumes amounts claimed are without import duties or VAT
3.23         Disbursements will be made against standard Bank documentation. The minimum size
of application for direct withdrawal from the Loan Account and for issuance of the Special Commitment
is 20% of the current amount of allocation to the Special Account. Expenditures for individual contracts
under US$150,000 for goods procured under IS, NS and DC' will be disbursed against Statements of
Expenditure certified by Ministry of Finance, on the basis of documentation provided by the PMC. The
PMC will ensure that all supporting documentation is adequately maintained and available for review at
the request of the Bank. Disbursements for all contracts over US$150,000' will be made against fully
documented withdrawal applications.
9and for consultants expenditures, USS 100,000 for firms, and USS50,000 for individuals.



30                                                                             Chapter III
3.24         At Negotiations, agreement was reached on the terms and conditions for the establishment
and operation of a Special Account for the Project (para. 6.1(e)). To facilitate project implementation,
the Borrower would establish a Special Account in one of the major foreign commercial banks on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank to cover the Bank's share of expenditures. The Authorized
Allocation would be US$ 1,000,000, representing about four months of average expenditures made through
the Special Account. During the early stages of the Project, the initial allocation to the Special Account
would be limited to US$500,000. However, when the aggregate disbursements under the Loan have
reached the level of US$4,000,000, the initial allocation may be increased up to the Authorized Allocation
of US$1,000,000 by submitting the relevant Application for withdrawal. Applications for replenishment
of the Special Account would be submitted monthly or when one-third of the amount has been withdrawn,
whichever occurs earlier. Documentation requirements for replenishment would follow the standard Bank
procedure, as described in the Disbursement Handbook (Chapter 6). Monthly bank statements of the
Special Account which have been reconciled by the Borrower would accompany all replenishment
requests.
3.25         The Project is expected to disburse over four years (Table 3.5). This disbursement does
not follow a standard disbursement profile because Project funds are primarily expended on imported
goods and equipment, most of which would be procured early in the project period. Similarly, technical
assistance is intended mostly for project preparation and policy studies, necessary to prepare the second
and third projects. The technical assistance would therefore be expended mostly within the first twelve
months of the Project. Only a small portion of the technical assistance to the agro-processors and the
PMC assistance is expected to continue to be disbursed in the latter years. The estimated date for project
completion is June 2001.
Table 3.5: Estimated Disbursements
(US$ millions)
Bank Fiscal Year: 1997  1998 1999 2000 TOTAL  %
GOM               1.45   1.91  1.11  0.36    4.83 26%
IBRD             3.00   3.95 2.30  0.75    10.00 54%
Institutes       0.50   0.60 1.00  1.56    3.66 20%
Total       4.95   6.46 4.41  2.67    18.49 100%
IBRD             3.00   3.95 2.30  0.75
Cumulative       3.00   6.95 9.25 10.00
as %        30%   70%  93%  100%



The First Agriculture Project                                                        31
G. Accounts and Audit
3.26         Agreement was reached at negotiations that the Borrower's records and accounts of the
Project, including the Special Account, for each fiscal year would be audited by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank and furnished to the Bank within six months after the end of each year
(para 6.1(f)). The audit reports would contain separate opinions on: (a) compliance by implementing
agencies with relevant covenants of the Loan Agreement with the Bank; (b) the Statements of
Expenditures; and (c) the Special Account. The Bank-required audits would not cover either IFAD's
proposed loan, or possible donor funded activities, even if supervised by the Bank.
H. Environmental Impact
3.27         No significant negative environmental impacts are anticipated from this Project. The
Project was classified as category "B" because the Integrated Pest Management (IPM) component of the
Project is potentially environmental sensitive and will require environmental review. The proposed IPM
component would improve and expand the use of biological means to control pests in agriculture. The
assistance to improve pest forecasting methods and to the planned training center for sustainable
agricultural practices would lead to a reduction of the use of pesticides in Moldova. GOM would conduct
an ongoing environmental assessment of the impact of the IPM and pest forecasting programs under the
project, with reporting to the Bank and GOM's environmental agencies every six months, within the
framework of normal periodic reporting on project implementation to be provided by the PMC to the
Bank.
1. Gender and Family Issues
3.28         The transition period has negatively affected a large part of the population. According
to a recent case study on Moldova,'" on average, female farm laborers receive lower wages than men.
Women have equal access to land shares and even outnumber men as land share holders. Men, however,
outnumber women as property share holders (e.g. they own more farm assets). This might be one of the
reasons why women make up only a small percentage of private farm owners/operators and are more
likely to remain on the cooperative farms. Recently, access to social services on cooperative farms has
declined, which negatively affects women with families more than men.
3.29        The need for a specific loan component to address gender issues was evaluated during
project preparation. It was not seen as necessary under this Project because the proposed investments
would indirectly benefit men and women to the same extent. More than in other countries, men and
women share an equal role in the rural sector in Moldova, including management responsibilities in large
farm organizations and agro-processing plants, as well as political leadership for rural municipalities.
10 Holt, Sharon: Gender and Property Rights: Women and Agrarian Reform in Russia and Moldova, (World Bank Working
Paper, 1995).



32                                                                                  Chapter I
J. Participation
3.30          The preparation of this Project involved stakeholders from beyond the staff of the research
institutes and other laboratories benefiting from the technology transfer. The implementation of the IPM
component, and the assistance to the farmers to access credit (from IFAD) would utilize local NGOs.
Assessment of the impact and progress of land reform was undertaken utilizing in-depth social assessment
surveys of farmers and rural administrators."
3.31          The preparation of the planned two future projects will be undertaken by GOM  in a
consultative manner with a range of stakeholders (Chapter 4). Donor funded technical assistance for these
activities will include the skills development for participatory planning.
K. Rural Poverty
3.32          This first Agriculture Project does not include components directly targeted at the poor.
Therefore, it has not been classified as a program of targeted intervention even though several components
of the Project would in the medium term benefit the rural poor. It supports the restructuring process of
agriculture by assisting the development of an integrated pest management strategy, and improving wine,
fruit and horticulture production. Even though this Project concentrates mainly on research, pilot
production technologies, and strengthening institutions in agriculture, it will help to reduce poverty in the
long run. Furthermore, the three planned agricultural projects should be seen as a consistent progran
aimed at promoting growth in the rural economy through the development of agriculture: this would
largely benefit the rural poor through the generation of opportunities for higher producer incomes, and
rural entrepreneurial opportunities.
3.33          The next two agricultural projects in the agricultural investment program could include
for example: support for land reform and farm restructuring; support for, and strengthening of rural
financial services; the development of small and medium scale rural entrepreneurship; the expansion and
upgrading of agro-processing and improvement of agro-export marketing services; rural water supply and
irrigation. All these components would benefit small farmers (most of whom at present are near or below
the poverty line). The proposed IFAD credit project would be specifically targeted to provide direct
access for private farmers and farmers working on their household plots to small-scale credit. These
farners currently have no access to any credit resources to purchase farm inputs, small machinery or
livestock through the original channels exclusively geared to financing the large collective farms. The
proposed irrigation and rural water supply project would also promote income generation in drought prone
rural areas, and this irrigation system is expected to benefit mostly smaller scale intensive family farming
(those presently with high poverty risk).
Through Farmers' Eyes: Study on Land Privatization in Moldova, Badina, 0. and S. Raddulescu; M. Cernea, ed.
(forthcoming World Bank Staff Working paper)



TV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Introduction
4.1           Sector policy development and investment planning, within the structure of the
Government is handled at the level of the Deputy Prime Minister responsible for that sector. This ensures
the necessary inter-ministerial coordination, consensus establishment across the government, and the
strategic dimension provided by the Cabinet of Ministers. GOM has therefore established a Project
Planning Committee (PPC -- para. 4.13) to manage the overall agriculture investment program to be
funded by the proposed series of Bank loans. The PPC is under the Chairmanship of the Deputy Prime
Minister in charge of the agriculture sector.
4.2          The project's investment implementation has been designed to fit within the regular
administrative structure of the Government and its related institutions. A centralized project unit (the
Project Management Committee -- PMC) has been established in MAF to provide administrative services,
overall financial controls over loan proceeds, and for reporting to the Bank. The authority for the
implementation of project investments would be vested with a Vice Minister of Agriculture, with the
Director of the Agricultural Research Department (ARD) in MAF as Project Manager, working through
the PMC to the implementing line agencies (para. 4.4).
B. Summary of Implementing Agencies
4.3           Table 4.1 presents a summary of major implementation responsibility, by operating units,
for each component:
Table 4.1: Project Implementation Responsibility Summary
Component                                          Implementation Responsibility
Agro-technology Development and Transfer
Integrated Pest Management                        Selecrsia
Viticulture Improvement                           National Institute for Viticulture and Oenology
Horticulture Improvement                          Codru, Porumbeni
Livestock                                         Tevit
Institutional Strengthening
Agriculture Knowledge System Study                Project Planning Committee
Agro-industry TA                                  Project Management Committee
Grains Industry Quality Control                   Ministry of Agriculture and Food's Grains
Department
Project Preparation and Policy Development        Project Planning Committee
Project Management                                Project Management Committee



34                                                                               Chapter IV
C. Project Implementation Details
Project Management
4.4           The Proiect Management Committee (PMC):' The project and its individual components
would be carried out under the overall coordination and supervision of MAF.  MAF's Agricultural
Research Department (ARD) has been designated ex-officio Project Manager, and would be responsible
on behalf of GOM for implementing the investment components of the Project. The Project Manager
would be the principal day-to-day link between GOM and the Bank's project supervision. A Project
Management Committee (PMC) has been established under the chairmanship of a Vice Minister of
Agriculture, and with members: the Project Director, the heads of the Research Institutes (NIVO, Codru,
Porumbeni, Tevit and Selectsia) and the President of Apele Moldova. Prior to Negotiations, the Borrower
appointed the members of PMC and the Director of the ARD as Project Manager.
4.5           The Project Manager would be assisted by: an agricultural economist to introduce and
implement project monitoring and evaluation (M&E) system and to provide the focus for any policy study
coordination requested by the Project Preparation Committee (PPC, para. 4.13); an accountant, a
procurement assistant; an administrative assistant, and a bilingual correspondence secretary. It is planned
that the PMC would also be responsible for the implementation of the planned second and third Bank
projects in the agriculture sector. For procurement and disbursements, advisory services would be
contracted to international consultants to provide a Procurement Advisor to the Project. The appointment
of the principle PMC staff 2 and the Procurement Advisor, with qualifications and terms of reference
agreed with the Bank would be a condition of effectiveness (para. 6.2(a)).
4.6           The PMC would also receive international technical assistance to set up the administrative
and accounting requirements within the MAF and its beneficiary agencies, to design the Project's
Monitoring & Evaluation (M&E), and to train the PMC and MAF staff in M&E. Through bilateral
assistance facilitated by the Bank, technical assistance will be provided to design and train staff in
participatory and consultative project preparation practices (paras 4.14 and 4.15).
Agro-technology Development and Transfer Component
4.7           The major items to be financed under the project -- the import of equipment for the
research institutes -- support the ongoing work programs of the beneficiary research institutes (NIVO,
Codru, Porumbeni, Tevit and Selectsia), all of which are legal sub-entities under MAF. Therefore, the
execution of these sub-components will be managed entirely by these Institutes in accordance with their
established research programs and coordinated with the Agriculture Research Department (ARD). The
PMC would provide the Institutes with procurement and disbursement services, and the PMC staff would
coordinate the Project's reporting requirements, and establish the economic impact M&E programs with
each Institute. This will be facilitated by the Institutes' membership on the PMC (para. 4.4). The
installation and operation of the pilot drip irrigation components in both NIVO and Codru, and on-farm,
would be coordinated with, and, for irrigation engineering aspects, supervised by, Apele Moldova.
see TORs -- Annex 2.
2      the Economist/Monitoring and Evaluation specialist, the procurement assistant, and the accountant.



Project Implementation                                                                   35
4.8           For the Integrated Pest Management sub-components, the PMC would: (i) coordinate,
through Selectsia, the project's support for field demonstration and training activities of the GOM's
ecologically sustainable farming program ("Moldagroeco"); and (ii) coordinate the laboratory and other
equipment supply for the benefiting laboratories in MAF and the Ministry of Health.
Institutional Strengthening Component
4.9           The Agricultural Knowledge System Study: GOM, through the PPC under the Deputy
Prime Minister of Agriculture, would appoint a commission to examine the future strategy for the
Agriculture Knowledge System, including travel to similar systems in transition, and the development of
their strategy recommendations. At Negotiations, the appointment of this study team, and the time frame
for this study was agreed (para. 6.1(a)).
4.10          Agro-industries Management and Staff Training:  this training program  would be
administered by the PMC. At Negotiations, a draft of the selection criteria for candidates was presented
to the Bank by the Borrower (para 6.1 (b)).
4.11          Equipment for the Grains Laboratory would be procured by the PMC on the basis of the
specifications provided by MAF's Grains Department, and with prior approval by the Bank. Training in
the use of the equipment would be included in the equipment supply contracts, but training for the
management and administration of laboratory testing for regulatory standards enforcement would be
funded separately by the project.
Project Preparation and Policy Development Component
4.12          Following the dialogue between GOM and the Bank, a Project Preparation Committee
(PPC) has been established to manage GOM's design input and decisions on the content of future Bank-
funded projects for the sector. The PPC is headed by the Deputy Prime Minister responsible for the
agriculture sector (para. 4.1). The PPC will be active in developing sector policy, determining project
investment requirements and recommending priorities to the Cabinet of Ministers for the agriculture sector.
The PPC includes the Project Director, senior representatives of the Ministries of Agriculture, as well as
the Ministries of Finance and Economy, and the National Bank of Moldova. The Director General of
Apele Moldova would be included for deliberations related to the proposed third project for the irrigation
and rural water supply investment.
4.13          Project Preparation Teams. Detailed component investment plans for the next projects
would be prepared during the first 18 months of Project implementation. Each of these proposed
components has an interest group to be served. The responsible technical groups within the relevant
ministries, as well as beneficiaries' representatives, will be included in the team supervising and guiding
the technical preparation effort. The participants in these supervisory teams, and other participants, will
be determined at the time each preparation topic is selected by the PPC. The technical assistance to be
provided under this project for these activities will include the skills development for participatory
planning for these teams.
4.14          The Participatory Process. Both for ongoing project implementation and for the planning
of the Agriculture Investment Program, the MAF, through the PPC, will initiate a consultative and
participatory process of project planning. The objective is to provide the PPC with a range of inputs,



36                                                                             Chapter IV
polling as wide a range of constituent's opinions as possible, and utilizing this consultative process to
build an understanding and ownership for the various progrns at field level. This group of stakeholders
would consist of representatives of the various Producers', Processors' and Agricultural Traders'
organizations, the Bankers' organization, agricultural academic and research organizations, rural and social
research organizations, and Parliamentarians active on agricultural and rural committees of Parliament.
Technical assistance, to be provided under bilateral assistance in parallel to this project, and facilitated by
the Bank's own staff, would be provided to assist the PPC to establish the participatory and consultative
norms for the effective use of such consultative groups.
D. Implementation Schedule
4.15         The time-based implementation schedules for each of the Project components are provided
in Annex 1. Project critical activities are "front-loaded" in the first year with: (a) imports of major
equipment packages for research; and (b) technical assistance for project preparation and institutional
strengthening.
E. Reporting and Evaluation
4.16         The implementing line agencies responsible for various aspects of the Project would
prepare quarterly reports covering progress in the physical implementation of the Project, the use of
Project funds and, where appropriate, the Project's impact. The format of these reports would be agreed
with the Bank's supervision missions. The reports would be consolidated by the PMC into quarterly
progress reports to be submitted through the Ministry of Finance to the Bank (and relevant co-financiers)
within two months of the end of each reporting period. These progress reports would also include an
implementation plan and work program for the six months following the reporting period. The PMC's
fourth-quarter report would serve as the annual PMC progress report summarizing the achievement of one
year.
4.17         Assurances were obtained at Negotiations that the Borrower would monitor and evaluate
(M&E) the Project on an ongoing basis using performance indicators satisfactory to the Bank/, and that
this M&E function would continue until Project disbursement completion; and that GOM would prepare
a mid-term review of the Project's performance by April 1, 1998 analyzing, among others, the results of
the M&E up to end-December 1997, and would review this report and GOM's plan for future
implementation taking into account the conclusions of the M&E analysis, with the Bank by June 30, 1998
(para. 6.1(g)). This report would also include proposals for any necessary revisions to the Project
Implementation Plans.
4.18         Upon completion of the Project, the Ministry of Finance, with the collaboration of the
PMC, would prepare an Implementation Completion Report (ICR) with a scope satisfactory to the Bank,
to be submitted to the Bank and co-financiers within six months after Project completion.
Chapter 5: Project Objectives and Development Indicators.



Project Implementation                                                                37
F. Project Supervision
4.19         While there is, as yet, no experience with implementing investment projects in Moldova,
there would not be more than the usual intensity for Bank supervision (about 18 staff weeks annually).
Under the proposed program of loans, supervision, preparation and appraisal for the continuing program
would be effectively blended together. The supervision missions would use the Project Objectives and
Development Indicators (Table 5.3) to assess the attainment of project and development objectives. It is
recommended that Bank supervision include:
a)    a Project-launch mission to establish, with the PMC, the operational, accounting and reporting
procedures for the Special Account;
b)    supervision of the PPF, including Bank staff facilitation of the donor-funded participation and
social assessment training by consultants;
c)    semi-annual supervision missions, to review the status of Project implementation and assist with
any issues that might arise. The first supervision mission would take place within three months
of effectiveness;
d)    an implementation review to be carried out within 12 months after loan effectiveness to determine
any revisions that might be needed in the implementation plans; this implementation review would
be conducted in conjunction with a supervision mission;
e)    desk reviews of the periodic environmental reviews of the IPM component;
f)    a mid-term  review, not later than end-June 1998, to be carried out in conjunction with a
supervision mission, based on GOM's own mid-term review prepared by April 1998 reviewing
inter alia M&E peTformance indicators as of end-December 1997; and
g)    a completion review of implementation to be carried out within six months of the receipt of the
ICR from the Ministry of Finance.



V. BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Benefits and Justification
5.1           The major benefits of the Project are:
(a)    Economic:
*      increased efficiency of agricultural production through the application of
agricultural research results;
*      increased export earnings by enhanced quality of the major export products;
*      improved performance of agro-processing enterprises' management cadre; and
*      reduced negative environmental impact from pest management activities
(b)    Institutional:
*      strengthened technology transfer between research and agricultural producers;
*      maintained and expanded human resources, intellectual property and capacity in
the research system;
*      plans for future rationalization of the agricultural research system;
*      plans for a national extension service; and
*      improved institutional capacity for sector policy determination, and consultation
with stakeholders.
5.2           The quantifiable benefits would become evident by: (i) increasing the efficiency of
agricultural production at the farm level; (ii) improving the quality, quantity and value of agricultural
product exports; and (iii) reducing the negative impacts of agricultural production on the environment (e.g.
water conservation, improved crop protection and other on-farm environment practices).
5.3           Given the nature of research investments, calculating specific ERR's would be misleading,
as their actual achievement demands further investments for primary production and product processing
(para 5.10). The factors impeding a quantification of the potential benefits of the Project's R&D
investments are: the lack of reliable statistical data on agriculture; the uncertainty of the evolving farming
structure; and the long-term nature of the benefits from investments in research. Official agricultural
statistics are in disarray and it is difficult to obtain reliable information even on such basic information
as the quantity and value of wine exports. In addition, the existing farm structure, still consisting of large
un-restructured cooperative farms, is likely to change in the near future. At this point in time, it is
uncertain what kind of private and cooperative farms will evolve in the future, making it difficult to select
typical farm models representative of future farm structures with which to estimate the economic impact
of new technologies at the farm level.
5.4           The economic justification of this Project is therefore based on experience with similar
projects in other regions, on a qualitative assessment of the expected outcome, and on a "reverse" analysis
(the "feasibility analysis" -- paras 5.10 et seq.) to determine the level of benefits to be achieved that
would justify the proposed level of incremental R&D investments.
5.5           Country and Agricultural Assistance Strategy. Horticulture and wine products generate
around 25% of all export earnings, and are expected to increase their share over the next decade. The
Agricultural Sector Review (1994) and the Moldova Country Report on Agricultural Trade and Trade
Policies (1995) state that these two sectors have high comparative advantage and are key to the
agricultural export-led growth strategy. Targeting project investments to key export crops fits with



Benefits and Risks                                                                        39
Moldova's demonstrated comparative advantage' and supports the country assistance strategy of promoting
export-lead growth from agriculture. The expected benefits from this project (i.e. improved product
quality and research institutional strengthening) also directly contribute to export growth and thus to
achieving the overall country and sector strategy objectives.
5.6           Public Sector. Agricultural research has been a public sector activity in the past and the
priority research to be funded in the future would remain a public good. Agricultural research in Moldova
is going through a difficult transition period as the research institutions adapt to serving a private
agricultural sector. Also in the future, the majority of the results expected from publicly funded
agricultural research can be described as a collective good because they are available to all farmers and
agro-enterprises, are generally not sold, and no interested party could be excluded from using the research
results. Consequently, individual beneficiaries would be reluctant to contribute to the costs of such
research. In addition, the benefits of the expected research results are expected to provide profitable
retums in the medium future. This reduces the incentives for agricultural farms and processing companies
in transition to invest in research because they are focussing on immediate profits. GOM would therefore
continue to finance, with budget resources, key research institutions for applied research with a direct
impact on agricultural production and general export efficiency.
5.7           Fiscal Impact and Cost Recovery. A part of the output of the research institutes -- vine,
fruit products, and improved planting material (vinestocks, rootstocks, or fruit tree seedlings) -- would be
directly sold by the institutes and the revenues would be used to recover capital and operating expenses
of the nurseries. It is estimated (Table 5.1) that NIVO and Codru would be able to fully recover the costs
for the plantation and production of the base planting material for vineyards for fruit tree nurseries
through sales of improved planting material to farmers. Similarly, the capital costs of the wine and fruit
processing experimental plants would be partially recovered through sale of product. In total, between
30% and 40% of the project's investment costs are estimated to be recovered through sales by the
institutes. The other investment sub-components do not allow for cost recovery because of the public
good nature of these investments. The Project, through the agricultural knowledge system study, will
directly contribute to GOM's analysis of future cost sharing for agriculture research with the private sector.
Table 5.1: Expected Cost Recovery
Component                         Investment Cost   Expected Cost Recovery
- Subcomponent                       (US$ mil.)                      (%)
NIVO:
- Wine processing plant                     $2.0                     50%
- Rehabilitation of nurseries               $3.0                     100%
Codru
- Experimental Production line              $1.0                     25%
- Orchards/Nursery development              $0.9                    100%
see also footnote 1, Chapter 2



40                                                                              Chapter V
5.8          The with and without Project Comparison. Without the Project, the research institutes
would continue modest research programs focussed mainly on improving available techniques and cultivars
developed in the FSU. Even though the research programs have been moderately successful in the past,
importing foreign vine and fruit tree varieties, and introducing improved production, harvesting and
processing techniques, would have a much higher pay-off than continuing to improve existing varieties
and techniques. The Project would provide these institutes with the necessary financial resources to:
import successful European vine and fruit tree cultivars, and test and distribute them to farmers in the
country; upgrade laboratory equipment; analyze westem production technologies; commence a scientific
exchange program with foreign research institutes; and improve the training program to farmers. The
Project would enable the country's exports to meet the high quality standards of these products demanded
by international markets. The project's contribution to better research facilities would have an additional
important benefit: the increased capability to retain the intellectual capital in the institutes -- reducing the
"brain drain."
(a)    Project ImRact on Farmers' Incomes. Ultimately, the benefits of the project-funded
research should be reflected in improved farmers' incomes. These benefits will not be
realized without additional on-farm investments, the public efforts to transfer these new
technologies to the farm (i.e research outreach and agricultural extension), and adequate
production financing. A projection of the changes in yield and costs of production has
been made.2 The average farm  size, if all eligible farmers were to receive their
proportionate share of the arable land in Moldova, would be 1.5 ha. A small-farm model
on this basis, with the average crop-field distributions between annual crops, perennial
crops, and pastures, shows increases in net income (Table 5.2), without assuming any
increases in the farm-gate value of product due to improved quality. These assumptions
yield an annual average real growth in family income of 11% -- significantly higher than
average GDP per capita growth expectations. However, family farm income even after
increasing production, would remain significantly below the average GDP per capita of
US $870 in 1994.
Table 5.2: Projected Farm Income
(1.5 ha family farm model)
(USS)            without    with Project   % Increase     % annual
Project                                  growth
Net Income*               $367          $586         60%            11%
Income/la*                $245          $391         60%            11%
wixhout costing family labor
2     Annex 4



Benefits and Risks                                                                        41
5.9           Benefits and Development Indicators. A large number of studies have consistently found
exceptionally high returns to publicly funded agricultural research. Despite recent increases in developing
country public expenditures on agricultural research, studies suggest that rates of return for agricultural
research and smallholder extension continue to be well above those for other investments3. The qualitative
benefits of the Project investments in Viticulture, Horticulture, and Integrated Pest Management, are
summarized in Table 5.3 This table shows the link between the planned investments, the immediate
objective of the investment, and the expected benefits, and links it to monitoring indicators. The
monitoring indicators can be used to determine the long-term impact of the Project investment on
agricultural output in key areas. Further, this table gives a qualitative estimation of the economic benefits
of the project.
(a)    Viticulture Improvement. The major benefits of the viticulture improvement component
can be grouped into yield enhancement, quality improvements, and reduction of losses, which
would increase profits from wine production. Reductions in crop losses and in the cost of pest
management will be facilitated through use of pest forecasting models. It is estimated that by
replanting existing vineyards with commonly used European vine cultivars (e.g. Chardonnay or
Merlot), yield enhancements (about I tlha) and quality improvements could be achieved which
would, in turn, lead to higher export added values and volumes. The Project would support
applied research and the establishment of a trial nursery to test internationally used vine cultivars
in order to adapt foreign grape varieties and vine clones to the regional soils and climate, and
consumer preferences in export markets. It thereby supports the development of a Moldovan
"appelation controlee" system aimed at improving the quality of Moldovan wine and developing
a distinctive taste -- important for international marketing.
(b)    Horticulture Improvement.  The major benefits of the horticulture improvement
investments are yield enhancement, quality improvements, and reduction of production costs
through improved water and energy saving technologies. Expected benefits of the demonstration
technologies in drip irrigation include yield increases, quality improvements, and considerable
water savings as compared to the presently used sprinkler irrigation. For example, yields of
irrigated apple orchards are estimated to be more than 50% higher than on non-irrigated orchards,
and yields of tomatoes on drip irrigated fields are estimated to be at least 25% higher than under
irrigation with sprinklers. Improved crop protection through the introduction of hand-carried
(ultra-light volume) sprayers is estimated to reduce both pesticide application levels, and crop
losses by up to 35% on private orchards. The use of plasticulture could increase the growing
season of fruits by one month in spring and about one month in fall, adding to the off-season
supply, increasing farmers incomes and lowering consumer food costs in this period.
(c)    Integrated Pest Management. There are three major benefits to introducing integrated pest
management technologies: (i) improved product quality (horticulture and viticulture product
quality is especially sensitive to correct pest management); (ii) reduced production costs; and (iii)
the reduction of the amount of nitrates and pesticides in agricultural run-off, and the reduction in
pesticide residues in the food.
3      compare Evenson and Westp]al, 1995; Handbook of Development Economics Vol III; and Birkhaeuser, Evenson, ad
Feder, 1991; EDCC 39 (1991), 607-650.



Table 5.3: Project Objectives, Benefits, and Development Indicators*
Component                Immediate Objectives              Beneflts                         Indicators
VWCULTURE IMPROVEMENT
* applied research       * adaptation of vine cultivars to  * improved yield and quality of    * number of new cultivars registered in Moldova each
* wine nurseries         local conditions                  wine production                  year
* expeimental wine       * development of rootstock        * improved quality and value of    * area of vineyards replanted annually with improved
bottling plant           multiplication capacity           wine products                    cultivars
* demonstration drip     * improvements in wine quality    * reduced production losses due to  * export value of quality wine
irrigation               and processing                    pests                            * yield and production of wine
* pest forecast model    * reduction in pest infestations  * retain high quality research staff  * sample farm budget-based costs of production and
at the institute                 revenues
* enterprise accounts from vine nurseries
* farmgate and ex-factory prices
HORTICULTURE
* applied research       * adaptation of fruit trees to local   * improved yield and quality of    * yield and production of fruits
* demonstration drip &   conditions                        horticulture production          * export value of fruits
sprinkler irrigation     * testing of new production       * increased water savings        * number of new fruit trees registered
* seed potato            technologies and their adaptation    * increased capacity for out-of-  * area planted with improved fruit trees.
mechanization            to the local conditions           season production                * area of adoption of drip irrigation, and plasticulture.
* plasticulture                                            * retain high quality research staff  * sample farm budget-based costs of production and
at the institute                 revenues
* areas under plasticulture and volumes of out-of-
season production
* farmgate, domestic and ex-factory prices
INTEGRATED PEST MANAGEMENT
* on-farm demonstration   * development and promotion of   * reduced production losses from    * improvement of water quality in pilot area.
of [PM                   biological pest protection methods  pests                          * numbers of farms using IPM methods.
* pest forecasting       * reduction of pests              * improved product quality       * sample farm budget-based costs of production and
* residues testing       * strengthened food quality       * reduced crop production costs    revenues
regulatory capacity              * reduced water pollution by     * quality testing results from food quality and
pesticides and nitrates          pesticide residues laboratories
* reduced levels of pesticide
residues in food
*  Component Objectives, Benfits ned Indicators do not necessaril match line-by-line 



Benefits and Risks                                                                        43
5.10          Economic Analysis.4  The quantifiable benefits directly attributable to investments in
research (i.e. improved product quality and decreased production and processing costs) could not be
isolated from benefits attributable to additional necessary investments benefits on- and off-farm. Therefore,
a "feasibility" approach for research and development (R&D) investment was undertaken to answer: To
achieve an ERR of 10%, is the level of incremental exports' added value, assignable as direct benefits
from the incremental R&D expenditures, a reasonable assumption and a feasible attainment?
5.11          Incremental exports for wine and horticulture were projected to reflect both the impact
of the Project's R&D investments as well as the overall impact of GOM's agricultural exports-led
development strategy.5 The net present value (NPV -- at 10% discount rate) for the added value of these
exports was compared with the NPV of the project's research and development (R&D) investments (Table
5.4). These results are interpreted as follows: for the project's R&D investmnents to earn the equivalent
ERR of 10%, the NPV of the incremental R&D investment should be equivalent to not more than 8.6%
of the added value of the projected increased exports over the next 15 years. The wine and horticulture
components evaluated separately require 8.9% and 6.4% of future export added value earnings
respectively.
Table 5.4: "Feasibility" Analysis of R&D Expenditures
NP Vat 10% discount rate
Added Value of
(US$ million)       Project R&D    Incremental
Expenditures*    Exports        %
(199 7-2010)
(1)           (2)   (1) (2)
Wine                                 10.0          112.0    8.9
Fruit & Vegetables                    4.9           75.7    6.4
Integrated Pest Management            1.3         -         n.a.
Total                                16.2          187.8    8.6
Table may not Pad due to rounding
including incremental capital investments and operating costs
5.12          Table 5.5 shows the range of equivalent levels of directly attributable benefits from
incremental R&D to justify the R&D expenditures of a range of desired ERR's. The Project would
achieve an ERR of 25% if the added value of the incremental export revenues from wines and horticulture
products that can be attributed to the Project activities would increase to 15%. Both as a proportion of
export revenues, and in absolute value terms, this achievability is not an unreasonable assumption, given
the projected growth rates for wine and horticulture exports.
4      Details of assumptions and the 15-year projections are provided in Annex 4
5      Amex 4



44                                                                             Chapter V
Table 5.5: Sensitivity Test of "Feasibility" Analysis
R&D expenditures as % of incremental export added
value to achieve ERR:
Economic Rate of Return:   10%       12%      15%       20%      25%
Wine R&D                     8.9%     9.6%     10.8%    12.8%    15.1%
Fruit & Vegetables R&D      6.4%      7.0%     7.0%      9.4%     11.2%
Total R&D                   8.6%      9.3%    10.4%    12.5%    14.8%
5.13         The Project is likely to produce benefits even if the planned land reform and
sector reforms are slow to emerge (pam 5.15). The estimated level of benefits are achievable
within the context of the projected necessary growth in agricultural exports required to underpin
the general economic recovery scenario. Even if the new technologies were transferred to the
relatively less efficiency collective farms, given the relatively low levels of added value from
incremental exports required to provide an adequate return, these export projections are
achievable.
B. Project Sustainability and Risk
5.14         Project support is directed to the viticulture and horticulture research institutes tasked with
improving the major agricultural export products of the country; two of the key institutes out of the about
18 existing research institutes involved in agricultural research. GOM has already demonstrated its
commitment to continue to fund the applied research program in these institutes by providing a
proportionately higher level of funding than to other research institutes and has committed itself to
continuing this level of support. GOM has ensured the continuation of funding for the small EPM
component.
5.15         Identified risks, and the mitigating factors adopted under this project, or within the context
of the Bank's country assistance program, are shown in Table 5.5.



Benefits and Risks                                                                            45
Table 5.6: Project Risks & Mitigations
Risk                                     Proposed Mitigation
Slow progress with sector reforms in land      As the Project focusses mainly on public goods, its
reform, post-privatization restructuring of    impact is not tied to speed or depth of land reform.
agro-industries,                               Implementation is neutral to land reform policy.
However, to achieve sectoral growth and maximize
and                                            the usefulness of the public goods being financed,
land and other sector reforms will be necessary.
slow emergence of rural and agricultural       These reforms and the creation of an enabling
services entrepreneurship, and especially, in  environment to spur adjustment towards
international trade in agricultural products.  entrepreneurship, export competitiveness and
growth, are supported by ongoing and planned Bank
projects,4 the IMF and other donor's programs.
Climatic risk to agricultural production       Applied research will be directed at selecting
through frequent droughts in the southern, and   drought and frost relevant varieties. In addition,
early frost in the northern, parts of the      demonstrations of new irrigation techniques are
country.                                       aimed at reducing drought risk.
Inadequate budget resources made available     Agreements, confirmed at Negotiations, ensure
from GOM budget for: (i) the research          adequate funding commitments and institutional
institutions; and (ii) Project management.     arrangements for the timely transfers of GOM
budget funds to the Project. Assistance to increase
the Research institutions' self-financing through sale
of research products (improved varieties, etc.) will
be provided through the Project.
Slow adoption of new technologies and          The Project strengthens extension activities
adapted varieties from research institutions due   organized directly through research institutes and
to the slow pace of sector reforms.            plans for the improved general extension service.
Market pressures from the open trade regime being
supported by ongoing and planned Bank operations
are expected to provide sufficient incentives to
producers to seek cost efficient production.
4      SALs I and 11, Pre-Export Guarantee Facility, Private Sector Development Loan, Land Cadastre Project, Export
Promotion Project



VI. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
A. Agreements Reached During Negotiations
6.1          At Negotiations, the following agreements were reached:
a)    that an Agriculture Knowledge System Study would be launched by the Borrower and would
commence before October 1996, under Terms of Reference agreed with the Bank, and with
possible external advisors selected in accordance with the Bank's Consultants Guidelines, to
be competed within twelve months, and that within three months after completion GOM
would present its conclusions for discussion with the Bank (paras. 3.7(a) and 4.9);
b)    on draft selection criteria for agro-enterprise managers and staff to be trained under the project
(paras. 3.7(b) and 4.10);
c)    that all procurement would be carried out in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for
Procurement wnder IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (January, 1995), and Guidelines for Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency (August,
1981) (para. 3.17);
d)    that every quarter the PMC would prepare, and submit to the Bank, quarterly (or as otherwise
deterTnined) progress reports on the procurement of goods and services under the Project
(para. 3.21);
e)    on the terms and conditions for the establishment and operation of the Special Account (para.
3.24);
f)    that the Borrower's records and accounts of the Project, including the Special Account, for
each fiscal year, would be audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank and
furnished to the Bank within six months after the end of each year. (para. 3.26); and
g)    that the Borrower would monitor and evaluate (M&E) the Project on an ongoing basis using
performance indicators satisfactory to the Bank,' and that this M&E function would continue
until Project disbursement completion; and that GOM would prepare a mid-term review of the
Project's performnance by April 1, 1998 analyzing, among others, the results of the M&E up to
end-December 1997, and would review this report and GOM's plan for future implementation
taking into account the conclusions of the M&E analysis, with the Bank, by June 30, 1998
(para. 4.17).
Chapter 5: Project Objectives and Development Indicators.



Agreements and Recommendations                                                              47
B. Condition of Effectiveness
6.2           The following would be a condition of effectiveness:
a)    the Borrower's appointment of the principle staff 2 of the PMC, and the Procurement Advisor,
with qualifications and terms of reference agreed with the Bank (para. 4.5).
C. Condition of Disbursement
6.3           The following would be a condition of disbursement:
a)    that NIVO and Codru would, respectively, have entered into cost recovery agreements with each
of the wine and horticulture plant nurseries, such nurseries being established under the project,
and that these agreements are satisfactory to the Bank. (para. 3.15)
D. Recommendation
6.4           With the above agreements and conditions, the proposed Project would be suitable for a
US$10 million, single currency IBRD loan (US dollar denominated), payable with standard amortization
terms, grace period, and interest rate for single currency loans. The Borrower would be the Republic of
Moldova.
2      the Economist/Monitoring and Evaluation specialist, the procurement assistant, and the accountant.






MOLDOVA
FIRST AGRICULTURE PROJECT
ANNEXES - VOLUME I
ANNEXES 1 - 5
April 8, 1996
Annex 1.   Implementation Schedules
Annex 2.   Terms of Reference for Project Management
Annex 3.   Envfronmental Data Sheet
Annex 4.   Economic Analysis
Annex 5.   Summary of Major Procurement Packages






MOLDOVA
FIRST AGRICULTURE PROJECT
ANNEX 1
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULES
*    Viticulture
*    Horticulture
*    Integrated Pest Management
*    Institutional Strengthening
*    Policy and Project Preparation
*    Project Management






-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                   f
iij~~~~~c
;    T                          144~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. ......I....   ...I...   ..
1|t~0
aS            I i1  tit
1:11r11.X
t}    "1I1T igf  I}lltfXXXZ  tXgo
II  2.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..LL.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..  .. 
I-u             I'~~  ...      ...      



suo!qumdo
OUIUIUJ.
904JGP88 p su±eie
,OPOO &Of*3@JOd ISd PJ&4AUIA
soueuGeju!aWP  pue suoflBedo
uoqU1I3suI 'T AiddnS
p.j9MV pus uo4snvssA= p!g
8OB"Od luwSSfnOid 5U!doIeae
u5se.a suJrsAS
...........   .......... ..........suoqw~ed(
UOADJSdSJd S.S
pjemV puB uopnflSjiA3 p1g
P84UO3 u8ise SwqGSAa
uop.Odui dUG M.u.ap.odA3
uqjssuo 'weAddn
PAMWAUI BiddoIS.X Psuo.uu :OSJlN IwoLl
..... ... ....   ... ... ....... ......     ...................           ...........................
iU.olisul  AwddnSp
.   .    .... ..........  ..... .....   ..............................   ..........    .....................   ........ .......
£ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O  ~~~~~~~~~PBVPt  04nIA     i
.Jrq ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~......I-.......    ....111.....I. ..............................   .. ...............p...... .............
I. XSUUV ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~ssqB  ieenw Biow(



__  ...... _ . _ _ , e e .r - ~~~~~~~~........... ......                                r-  5+..... . .....            ..... 
,~~~~~~~~ .    ....          . . ... .  . . . .. . . . ....        ...........      ." .  . ........    .............   ..   ... .   .............
..                I                                        e              ddnS
..5 .    '5 ...    ...    .. ...   ..... .. _., ..........   .                                                       4   ...........
i-@---r _ ---i -- @ 4---............... ..............                              .    .....    -..-4....-   .... .    ...Bt
.......-                                   -                                                                            -JM     -   --+-i- |p       ...................... uw  uolI3q@ Me  pUEU,,gq   
_ .._-.--.... _ _.-__-__ ..........                      _                                                  __,ddnS pU9  gset                                       W._._._d_._..........._._.
. ... ... ...    .   ,  -   r  I -''''''-- -''-''-'-I l ...................................'.  .    . ..   ..   ....   ............   .. .  .  .   ..    .............
__ 4 _ _ - .__ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..........                                      .  .......... ,,._.... . . ..  .......
............ ..                                                         ... . ... ....... .N                                                                                                                          d
__ i                                            ~~~~~uoada w!S
.............. 1- ........                                                                                                                  .....                                              s        u       ,    d
)u9w4'syqu&p.                           qe.~jA.w,rw
__ "__.t t_ -----                                                                                                                                                                  . |i|i!|'~~ UJSSS 5UAUH"
----4-*-- - -;--*------~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.-1-----.. _.... __:.__..
mladw Iuqw4
---  ,+- -7. ... ---...                                                                                         .  .. ..                                                                 S
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. .    . .                                                         .......   .......... .._ __._L' -  -~i'-"'""""--
e~ ~ iO  C Oi D e   1:O iO  tO5   CO | tO |O  tO  CO i t O j I
666                  ___     __     __    __    __                    L6                                  96 6                                                   A  N  A f
unpunoo uogupauqd
10£ J° 6dNe
.JnhInOq..
I XSUUV~~~~~~~~~--------- --



Annex I
Horticulture
Page 1 of I
Implementatfon Schedule
Horticulture Component
Activity                          1996                  1997               1998                1_9
01  Q2 |3   Q4   Q2 Q3 04 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 01 Q2 03 04
Demonstration of Modem                                  -- It
Production Technology
Drip Irrigation Demonstradton
Developing Procurement Packages                                                    --___
Bid Evaluation and Award                                                                                   __  . . . . ....... .... ..T
Supply                                                  . _
Site preparation
Installation .
Operations
Crop Protection Equipment                                                                                            t__ ..i_  ---   __.._.....-- ----l--  -  
Developing Procurement Packages_ .-.. .--
Bid Evaluation and Award .
Supply & Distribution                                                       --              
Operations
Seed Potato Mechanization1
Developing Procurement Packages
Srf frotato Mechanizafon~----                                             ..  _J.. ...._._ .  _......     ... ....  ...... f._   
Bid Evaluation and Award                                                                        i
Supply                                                                                --1--               t -
Operations                             .-.-,.
Piasticuiture Demonstration
Bid Evaluation and Award
Supply
Site preparation-.------                                                                 - ---          *             -
Installation * -- --1 - --- * _ | __. .......~~~~~~....                      ... .... ..... 
Installation
Operations
Support for Research Institute for
Fruit Production
Drip lrrigation - Nursery                 .-.-|-....--.--..--.1.--.-  --              -.- -                     4
...........-..I.-..                    . ...
Bid Evaluation and Award _
SUPp,AY                                                                                     . .....   . L. ...... .... . .    -; 
Site   preparation                                                                                 ..... ..... ....  .....   .........-t-- ---------     ------ 4---
Installation -__-. 1l....  -!-|1--
Operations
Virology & Genetics Training                        ....      ..    .    .                          ..    ..
Candidate Selection                                                                               .. . ..........
Training Arrangements
Study Tours
Equipment and Materills Supply                                    ......_...... . . ... ..-...,   . -    -     -    4
Bid Evaluation and Award                                                .....|    .. ....... ....... ....
Supply
Encyclopedia Sadovodstva
Bid Evaluation and Award
Printng and Distribution
Advertising and Sales



Annex I
IPM
Page I of I
Implementation Schedule
Integrated Pest Management Component
Activity                          1996                  1997                   1998                  1999
Q1 __ _Q4_ Q1 0_2_ _0_4_Ql_Q2I . 3 Q4lI Q21(  Q 4
Moldagro  *               __                                T  - t                            ..t      t          .
Developing Procurement Packages            -                                                    . -.
Bid Evalauation and Award                                            [  - _  ,4
Supply & Installation                        .... ..~.+..       .... i.-.              . . ---  3-       -E.......  ... 
-.----..~~~~~~~-.-.     -      a-~~~~.. .... .......-.......  ..... . .
....... . .....  .......1    .......
Pesticides Residues Laboratory                -        .    -  - t        -  *;.
Developing Procurement Packages                  _     _                              .  _I
Bid Evalauation and Award                                                                                    . .......
Supply & Installation                                           -
.. . ...... .       ...           ----................... ....... .....
------- ... ..    ..     .........     .... ...    ......  . . ...  ------    -------------------- --- -----------    ........
Pest Forecasting, Communications                                     i I
and Scouting                                              4       - -.                                                          .
andrScoudng ^ & _ _ _ l X j_ _ --'-t--+........-----r--i'--.I.....................
Developing Procurement Packages _
Bid Evalauation and Award -
Supply & Installation             3          _                                            - _.
(*) These are onging activities: the project provides supplementary equipment and supplies



Annex 1
Institutional Strengthening
Page 1 of 2
Impenmrnteon Schedule
Ineftifhnal Strengthning
Activity                        1996               1997            1 996                 1999
0301 02  03  04  0   02  Q30   04  01  027 03  04  01 02  Q3  Q4
Grains R.gubutoy Laboratoy                                               - 1                                      I
Design Phase
Developing Procurement Packages
Bid Evalauation and Award
Supply & Installation                                                        -   -   -   -   -                     _
Systems Training
WUln StrategyStuy                           ===
Terms of Reference and Bid Package
Consultants pre-qualification
Bid Package Issue
Bid Evaluabon and Award
Counterpart and Stakeholder Group selection
Study
GOM Consideration and Repory to Bank
Agriculure Reserch System Study                           =   = =                                     -   - ==-
Termns of Reference and Bid Package          _                -   - _   _             -   -
Consultants pre-qualificabon
Bid Package Issue
Bid Evaluation and Award
Counterpart and Stakeholder Group selecbon
Study                                                                  - -                   -  - -
GOM Consideration and Repory to Bank            -   -                            _I[Z
Natonal Extenson P_an
Termns of Reference and Bid Package        =
Consulbnts pre-qualification
Bid Package Issue
Bid Evaluabon and Award
Counterpart and Stakeholder Group selecbon    I
Study                                      _            ,
GOM Consideration and Repory to Bank                      =                                             - |



Annex I
Institutional Strengthening
Page 2 of 2
a plemeon Schedue
hisfibuoena SvsngilmMhg
Ac:t                           19K                1997              1998           1 990
_l_Q2_  03_  04  01  Q2 _03  Q4  Q    0Q2 Q3  04  QI  02  Q3  04
Terms of Referene and Bid Package
Consubtnts proqualiicabion                     _
Bid Padcage Isu=                               =     _= = = = = _ _ _ _
Bid Evaluation and AwardI                              ___
Appointrnent CordinatDr_l
Coordination and Firn Selection                                                                                   I
Advisor Servcesl
.          = =   ~-  I**-)    1   1   1    1    1    1   I   I   I   I   I   I



z                         - s X              1 1 1 1 1-] l l-l-i>4-~~~H      jl I-- 
.  ....--. -. ... -.  .. .. ......
_. ...1          i ....
.     ...  ............... ...... .... . .-' ...''1''''..-.-''..-
_... . ....''
x      .....    .........   ....   ....   ...    ...   .......  ....  ....    ....    .  .   ........   .... .
0                        it^ ^          t  | .
.... ...... ..... ... m.... . ..... .... ....
.... ... . ...     .           ...    8.....  0            Q  
CY *         e
....              ...                    ..... ....
....  .   .i                                            1
_~ ~~~~~~~~ .*0                                            CL
0    0~~~~~~
Ia.                                 -a.o.~D           a



Annex I
Proect Management
Page 1 of I
Impementaon Schedule
Project Management
Activity                   1996                1997               1998                19
11 Q21 Q3  Q4 Q1  Q2 Q3  Q4  QIl Q2  Q3  Q4  Q1  Q21 Q3  Q4
Project Management Committee
Establishment                      I
Director appointment               I
Staff Selection
Operations
Training Consultants Selection    _   _                  I   I   L.1 ..   L    -I ..I _   = =
Staff Training                    =
Annual Audit                       =                                               -    -         - _       -
Other Technical Assistance
Procurement Advisory Service_                                                           __ _                _
Contract Completion                Iz_
Operations
PMC Equipment Supply
Developing Procurement Packages
National Shopping                          I                   I
Supply                                     I                   I
Project Preparaton Committee
Establishment                      I
Training                           __
Operations






MOLDOVA
FIRST AGRICULTURE PROJECT
ANNEX 2
TERMS OF REFERENCE
for
PROJECT MANAGEMENT
*    Project Management Committee (PMC)
*    PMC Staff
*    Framework Contract: Procurement Advisory Services
*    Project Accountant
*    Economist: Monitoring and Evaluation Specialist
v    Technical Assistance: Project Management (incl. Monitoring & Evaluation)






MOLDOVA
FIRST AGRICULTURE PROJECT
Terms of Reference for Project Management
Project Management Committee (PMC)
A.    Objective
The project and its individual components would be carried out under the overall coordination
and supervision of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food (MAF). A Deputy Minister of the
MAF would be designated ex-officio Project Director, and would be responsible on behalf of
the Government of Moldova (GOM) for inplementing the project. In connection with the
overall coordination and supervision responsibilities of the MAF, a Project Management
Committee (PMC) would be established, consisting of the Project Director as Chairman, the
heads of the Research Institutes benefiting from the project (NlVO, RIFP and NPO Seleksia),
the heads of the relevant Departments of MAF, and the President of AKVAMoldova. The
PMC will meet regularly on a monthly basis to ensure that all project components and sub-
components are implemented in accordance with the overall objectives of the project. The
day-to-day tasks of the PMC will be executed by fill-time Staff of the PMC (consisting of a
Project Manager, an Economist:Monitoring and Evaluation Specialist, an accountant, an
Administrative Assistant, and a bilingual secretary) whose tasks are as described in Section
2 below.
B.    Tasks
The key tasks of the PMC would include the following:
(a)    Facilitate inter-agency national and country level coordination on project related
issues. If necessary, from time to time for a limited duration, form sub-Committees to
handle coordination and oversight, and the monitoring of the impact of specific
components of the project.
(b)    Facilitate coordination, in the context of the project, with bilateral donors, EU
(Tacis), IFAD, the World Bank and the Government, and assure that financial
resources required from these sources are made available to the implementing
agencies in a timely manner.
(c)    Specifically, assure that budgetary resources from the Government's budget (both for
investment and recurrent requirements) provide adequate levels of funding for the
various project components.
(d)    Regularly review project expenditures and costs to ensure that they are consistent with
the objectives of the project, and within justifiable limits.
(e)    Periodically review the overall status of project implementation, and provide guidance
to resolve major issues that impede the progress of the project.
(f)    Review the compliance of the project with the requirements of the Project Financiers,



ASNNEX 2
Page 3 of 16
including those of the World Bank that cover procurement, accounting and audit,
disbursement, and other covenants of the loan agreement.
(g)    Regularly review the work of the PMC Staff, and as necessary, recommend ways for
improving its efficiency and effectiveness.
(h)    Serve as a forum for cross-fertilization of innovative ideas with the aim of improving
project delivery and targeting, and on certain issues for consulting with a broader
constituency within the Government.
(i)    Ensure that all implementing agencies and key stakeholders are informned of each
other's activities and concerns, and organize follow-up discussion to focus on mnajor
issues affecting the project.
(j)    Ensure that the PMC Staff, the associated Research Institutes, and departments in the
MAF adequately meet the requirements of reporting to the World Bank.
C.    Membership
The Project Management Committee will be chaired by the Minister of Agriculture and Food:
Chairperson:        *      Deputy Minister of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food
Members:            *      Project Director, Director, Agriculture Research Department
*     Head, National Institute for Viticulture and Oenology
*     Head, Research Institute for Fruit Production
*     Head, NPO Seleksia
*     Relevant Departments of MAF (Research, Viticulture,
Horticulture and Field Crops
*     President, AKVAUoldova



ANNEX 2
Page 4 of 16
2.    PMC Staff
A.    Duties
Reporting to the Chairman of the PMC (the Project Director), and under the overall
responsibility of the Project Manager, the PMC performs the day-to-day tasks of the PMC
and these tasks include:
(a)    On behalf of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, coordinate relations with the line
iniplementing agencies, the World Bank, IFAD, EU (Tacis) and other donors, and the
Ministry of Finance (MOF).
(b)    Coordinate, delegate, monitor and supervise procurement activities of the line
implementing agencies responsible for the respective project components, and provide
administrative and operations support throughout the process as required through
a contract with a Procurement Advisory Service (PAS). On procurement issues and
processes, liaise with the Ministry of Finance, manage this contract with the PAS,
facilitate and coordinate all relevant parties in a timely fashion, and ensure that
procedural requirements and documentation are fulfilled satisfactorily. Ensure that all
clearances and approvals for procurement, including those from the World Bank, are
sought and obtained to avoid unnecessary delays.
(c)    Monitor project implementation and expenditures, and prepare and submit loan
disbursement applications to the World Bank and the Ministry of Finance in
accordance with prevailing procedures.
(d)    Coordinate the preparation of quarterly reports covering progress in the physical
implementation of the project and the use of project's funds, and submit these reports
to the Project Management Committee and the Ministry of Finance. The MOF will
then consolidate these quarterly reports into semi-annual progress reports to be
submitted to the World Bank. Every six months, these quarterly progress reports will
also include an implementation plan and work program for the next six months
following the reporting period.
(e)    Facilitate World Bank supervision missions, and follow up the implementation of
recommendations of the Bank supervision reports.
(f)    Follow up all implementation aspects of the project components, taking into
consideration various criteria and conditionalities already established in the Project
Implementation Plans, including covenants of the loan agreement. With the line
implementing agencies, prepare monitoring notes concerning problems and delays,
and provide suggestions to remedy these problems through administrative, financial,
technical, institutional or other measures.
(g)    Prepare special reports, as necessary, for submission to the Project Management
Committee.



ANNEX 2
Page 5 of 16
(h)    Perform an overall project accounting and record keeping tasks for the line
implementing agencies, and provide administrative, operations and logistical support
to these implementing agencies.
(i)    Perform or commission other tasks as stipulated in the Loan Agreement (eg. annual
audits, mid-term reviews, monitoring and evaluation, and Project Completion Report),
including the administration, accounting and other operational requirements, by taking
the following World Bank's guidelines into consideration: (i) Disbursement Handbook
Guidelines; (ii) Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (January 1995); (iii)
Guidelines: Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency (August 1981); and (iv) Guidelines: Financial Reporting and
Auditing of Projects Financed by the World Bank (March 1982).
(j)    Administer the Special Account, and ensure that reconciliations are performed
regularly on a monthly basis, and replenishment applications prepared for submission
to the World Bank on a timely basis.
B.    Staffing
The PMC Staff will comprise: a Project Manager, an Accountant, an
Economist:Monitoning and Evaluaion Specialist, an Adminisutrative Assistant and a
bilingual Secretaryfluent in Moldovan and English. The PMC Staff will work on a full-
time basis. Depending on actual requirements, based on implementation experience, the
configuration of the PMC Staff may be reviewed consequently.
The PMC would receive Technical Assistance (up to 12 person months), involving national
and international consultants, to (i) set up the administrative and accounting system
requirements of the project in the MAF and its beneficiary agencies, (ii) design a monitoring
and evaluation system, and (iii) provide project management training.
C.    Office Facilities and Requirements
The PMC Staff will be physically located in the Ministry of Agriculture and Food. The MAF
will provide adequate office space for the operational needs of the PMC Staff. The office of
the PMC Staff will be furnished with (a) adequate office furniture including desks, chairs,
filing cabinets, shelves, storage cabinets, and a set of meeting table and chairs; (b) office
equipment including 3 desktop computers and software, a network server and an internet
linkage, laser printers, a photocopier, 2 notebook computers and software, a fax machine and
adequate telephones including cellular telephones; (c) a vehicle for official use; and (d)
miscellaneous office supplies and equipment.



ANNEX 2
Page 6 of 16
3.    Framework Contract: Procurenent Advisory Services
A.    Objective
The PMC Staff will oversee the overall procurement aspects of the project, and ensure
compliance of the project with all procurement requirements and conditionalities of all project
components. In conjunction with this responsibility, the PMC Staff will seek professional
services on procurement, through a contract for procurement advisory services (PAS), with
the objectives to: (a) provide comprehensive procurement advice, services and on-the-job
assistance to the implementing agencies of the various components of the project; and (b) train
national staff, on procurement aspects covering applicable procedures, planning, scheduling,
execution, management and monitoring.
B.    Tasks of the PSU
Reporting to the Project Manager, the PAS wiU assume the day-to-day advisory responsibUity
of all procurement related matters of the project. All procurement activities would be the
responsibility of the line implementing agencies, and supervised by the PMC, with full and
direct assistance from the PSU. The PAS will work with the PMC Staff and the relevant line
implementing agencies, and will cover the following scope of work and responsibilities:
(a)    Work with the PMC Staff, advise the implementing agencies under the Ministry of
Agriculture and Food, and liaise with the Ministry of Finance.
(b)    Familiarize relevant staff of the implementing agencies with procurement requirements
of the project, including specific procurement requirements of World Bank funded
components, as provided under the Bank's Guidelines for Procuremen under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits (January, 1995), and Guidelines for Use of Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency (August,
1981), and the use of the Bank's standard bidding documents.
(c)   In accordance with the procurement requirements of project components and their
methods of procurement, work directlv with the relevant implementing agencies and
the PMC  aff to review detailed procurement plans and packages and determine
realistic schedules, taking into consideration all necessary steps.
(d)   In connection with all procurement packages of the project, provide advice and direct
assistance in organizing and managing procurement activities, which use procurement
methods including: (i) International Competitive Bidding, Limited International
Bidding, International Shopping, National Shopping, and Direct Contracting for the
procurement of goods and works; and (ii) where applicable, procurement of
Consultants for technical assistance, specific studies and supervision services.
(e)    Together with the line implementing agencies, review the appropriateness of various
procurement packages with respect to their methods of procurement, to ensure that
procurement can be undertaken in the most efficient and cost effective manner in
accordance with the relevant guidelines applicable to the project.



ANNEX 2
Page 7 of 16
(f)    Provide guidance and intensive assistance in preparing and organizing the preparation
of Bidding Documents, which may generally include: (i) invitation to bid; (ii)
instructions to bidders; (iii) form of bid; (iv) form of contract; (v) conditions of
contract including both special and general; (vi) specifications and drawings; (vii) list
of goods or bill of quantities; (viii) delivery time or schedule of completion; and all of
the necessary appendices and formats. Bidding documents for International
Competitive Bidding shall be based on Standard Bidding Documents issued by the
World Bank with minimum changes, acceptable to the Bank, as necessary to address
country and project specific issues.
(g)    Assist the implementing agencies on various aspects of procurement relating to
contracts on civil works under the national laws and regulations, and provide
comprehensive assistance in preparing and organizing the preparation of Bidding
Documents in relation to these civil works contracts.
(h)    Provide advice and guidance as necessary in connection with the application of
procedures and requirements related to bid opening, evaluation and award of
contract. Particular attention may be paid to time allowance for preparation of bids,
bid opening procedures, circumstances related to clarifications or alterations of bids,
confidentiality, examination of bids, evaluation and comparison of bids, and applicable
domestic preferences.
(i)    Establish a Procurement Monitoring system, to allow collection and recording of
procurement data for: (i) timely information flow, submissions and approval of TORs,
shortlists, and other review requirements; (ii) tracking all of the necessary and critical
procurement actions and activities; (iii) prompt reporting of contract award
information by the Borrower to the Bank; (iv) comprehensive quarterly reports to the
Bank; and (v) revision of timing of procurement actions and critical paths, including
advertising, bidding, contract award, and completion time for individual contracts.
This Procurement Monitoring System will be maintained and kept up-to-date by the
PSU. The PMC Staff and the implementing agencies will be trained by the PSU to use
this system.
(j)    Specifically, develop contracting capacity at the Ministry of Agriculture and Food,
paying particular attention to on-the-job transfer of knowledge, organizational and
management considerations, as well as the need to prepare for subsequent World Bank
funded projects.
(k)   In relation to contracts, develop administrative and technical procedures for review of
contract performance as an integral part of the approval process for justifying contract
payments.
(1)    Together with the PMC Staff and the implementing agencies, develop a contract
management system to ensure that records and data are stored systematically, and
cross-referenced with the accounts of the project. The system must allow safe-
keeping of procurement documentation for easy retrieval and referencing, with
adequate paper trails in accordance with generally accepted standards. The contract



ANNEX2
Page 8 of 16
management system must also be designed to support disbursement, reporting, and
accounting requirements of the project.
(m)   Assist the line implementing agencies and the PMC Staff in drawing up individual
and specific job descriptions for administrative staff assigned for handling
procurement related matters. Identify training requirements for the staff, and
perform the necessary training through workshops and on-the-job applications. As
appropriate, provide relevant recommendations to the MAF in order to ensure that
project procurement activities and their management are undertaken in an efficient,
cost effective and timely manner.
(o)    Train the PMC Staff on various aspects of World Bank procedures on disbursement,
and familiarize them with all of the requirements on documentation for submission
with disbursement applications, as well as the necessary records that must be kept by
the project to support these loan disbursement applications.
C.    Timing
The PMC will arrange to have PAS services for 3 years to perform the above stated tasks,
intially for the First Agriculture Project and subsequently also to include the Second and
Third Agriculture Projects during the period of this framework contract. Depending on the
readiness of the PMC Staff, the PAS may be mobilized by as early as May 1996, to speed up
procurement preparation for the First Agriculture Project, with funding from the Project
Preparation Facility (PPF) advances out of the Bank loan for this project.



ANNE£X 2
Page 9 of 16
4.    Project Accountant
A.    Duties
Reporting to the PMC Project Manager, the primary responsibility of the Project
Accountant will include the following:
(a)    Perform day-to-day accounting tasks related to all aspects of the project accounts.
(b)    Ensure that all line implementing agencies under the project conform with the
accounting and financial reporting requirements of the project.
(c)    Work with the PSU to harmonize accounting requirements with both procurement and
loan disbursement requirements.
(d)    Prepare (a) loan disbursement applications; (b) monthly reconciliation of accounts of
all project components and their expenditures; (c) replenishment application for the
Special Account; and (d) other financial documentation as necessary.
(e)    Maintain all records and the necessary documentation related to and in support of loan
disbursement applications, in the manner prescribed by the Bank and in compliance
with relevant covenants of the loan agreement.
(f)    Prepare and manage Statements of Expenditures (SOEs), as required under the rules
of disbursement of the loan, in the manner acceptable to the Bank.
(g)    Assist and work with the line implementing agencies in the preparation of project
component budgets. Perform financial monitoring of project activities, and present
financial analysis as required.
(h)    Cooperate with the external auditors on the annual audit of the project accounts.
B.    Timing
The Project Accountant's position is for a minimum of 3 years or the duration of the project.
C.    Technical Assistance
Technical Assistance from international and local consultants will be required for a period of
up to 6 person-months spread over the first 18 months of the project. It is expected that the
Project Accountant of the PMC Staff and the line implementing agencies will be able to
handle the operations of the project accounts without further assistance. This technical
assistance will be primarily used by the project to: (a) set up the project accounts and their



ANNEY 2
Page 10 of 16
procedures in accordance with the requirements of the project; and (b) work with the Project
Accountant and the implementing agencies on the project accounts, including procedures for
internal auditing.
The scope of the technical assistance include:
(a)    Based on the requirements of the project, including those outlined in the Bank's
Guidelines for Financial Reporting and Auditing of Projects Financed by the World
Bank (March. 1982), work with the Project Accountant and establish a system for
project accounts to cover the accounting needs of all Bank-financed project
components.
(b)    The project accounting system will take the following into consideration:
(1)    Development of a chart of accounts, general ledgers and sub-ledgers, as
appropriate and consistent with project budgetary and expenditure accounts.
(2)    Documentation and requirements related to World Bank loan disbursements,
and establishment of a system for preparing Statements of Expenditures
(SOEs), taking into account the necessary records of transactions to be kept in
support of disbursement applications made on the basis of Statement of
Expenditures and other disbursement procedures.
(3)    Cross-references and harmonization with contract management, files/records
under project administration.
(4)    Reconciliation of accounts and supporting documentation related to eligible
expenditures with respect to the Special Account of the project, and the
necessary requirements to support replenishment applications.
(5)    Progress and financial reporting requirements as agreed between the
Government of Moldova and the World Bank.
(6)    Relevant covenants of the loan agreement, particularly those relating to
procurement, disbursement, accounts and audit.
(c)    Based on the project accounting system, training sessions will be designed and
delivered to familiarize the accounting and administration staff of the project with the
system. On-the-job training and assistance continue until such time that the
accounting operations of the project run satisfactorily. Interna audiag mechanlaw
wiU be incorporated into the training sessions.
(d)   Integration of project accounts and budget accounting within each of the implementing
agencies responsible for project components.
(e)    Design of an audit trail, in accordance with generally accepted standards, in order to
facilitate internal and external audits.



ANNEX 2
Page 11 of 16
(f)    As appropriate, integration with national accounting requirements, provided all
requirements of the loan agreement are met.



ANNEX 2
Page 12 of 16
5.    Economist:Monitoring and Evaluation Specialist
A.    Tasks
As part of the PMC Staff and reporting to the Project Manager, the Economist: Monitoring
and Evaluation (M&E) Specialist is required to:
(a)    Work with the Research Institutes and the relevant departments of MAF, and
undertake various economic and financial analyses and evaluation relating to project
funded activities including: (i) applied research and demonstration trials aimed at
viticulture improvement; (ii) fruit production technology (including drip irrigation,
crop protection, seed potato mechanization and plasticulture) and other potential areas
for improving horticulture production; and (iii) Integrated Pest Management
initiatives.
(b)    Liaise with appropriate ministries and departments, and develop environmental
economic impact assessment indicators in relation to: (i) various initiatives to control
and reduce contamination of water resources; (ii) crop rotation and various weed
control methods; and (iii) various pest control and forecasting methods.
(c)    Together with the respective implementing agencies, and based on the Project
implementation Plans, develop a monitoring and evaluation (M&E) system for each
project component, incorporating indicators for measuring project inputs, outputs,
results and impacts (micro and macro) and the means for verifying and measuring
these indicators.
(d)    Periodically, monitor and evaluate implementation progress of all project components,
provide concise notes on possible measures for overcoming major issues that constrain
project implementation, for the attention of the Project Manager, PMC and the
respective implementing agencies.
(e)    Identify bottlenecks and systemic problems in implementation, and review these
conditions jointly with the relevant agencies to come up with measures and options for
solving these problems. Alert the Project Manager of major problems that require the
attention of the Project Director and the Project Management Committee.
(f)    Assist all implementing agencies, on financial, cost and economic analyses related to
their project components; and when appropriate also liaise with the Procurement
Specialist of the PSU and the Project Accountant in the context of these analyses.
(g)    Carry out field monitoring trips on a regular basis, in association with the
implementing agencies, and test out these M&E systems for further refinement as
necessary. Ensure that the M&E systems provide immediate feedback to allow
corrective measures to be introduced as early as possible.
(h)    Perform other tasks on monitoring and evaluation as assigned by the Project Manager.



ANNEX 2
Page 13 of 16
B.    Timing and Qualiflcation
The position is for a minimum of 3 years or the duration of the project. The selected person
must possess a university degree in economics with special emphasis in either natural
resources, agriculture, environment or related fields, with at least 5 years of relevant
experience.



ANNEX 2
Page 14 of 16
6.    Technical Assistance: Project Management (including Monitoring & Evaluation)
A.    Objectives
The objective of this consultancy is to train national project staff assigned by the Ministry of
Agriculture and its project beneficiary agencies, on relevant aspects of project management
and admninistration, including monitoring and evaluation.
B.    Tasks
The tasks of the Project Management consultant include the following:
(a)    Conduct a rapid training needs assessment, based on the management and
administration requirements of the project and its components.
(b)    Design an appropriate training package, incorporating fundamental principles of (i)
project management and (ii) monitoring and evaluation, including topics to cover the
following:
Project Managent
(i)    applications of management principles to plan, organize, staff, control and
direct resources (including budgeting);
(ii)   techniques commonly used in operational planning, including the application
of critical path analysis and resource driven scheduling;
(iii)  the use of computer software applications for project planning, management,
and administration, including spreadsheet applications;
(iv)   planning of actions and tasks for achieving project objectives, effecting results
and organizing the necessary resources for carrying out the plan;
(v)    communications, including techniques for effective presentations, meetings
and negotiations;
(vi)  task management, including: division of tasks, organization of work
arrangements, roles and functions of work-groups, special task forces,
responsibility matrix, reporting channels, work delegation, and other
management functions and tools; various aspects of results-based management
should be included.
(vii)  project administration requirements, including: files and records management,
contract management (procurement aspects covered under a separate terms of
reference), project accounts (a separate terms of reference to set up and
maintain these accounts), logistical and secretarial tasks;



ANNEX 2
Page 15 of 16
(viii)  other topics, as assessed to be necessary during training needs assessment, to
ensure the delivery of a comprehensive project management training.
Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E)
(i)    The rationale, objectives, and principles of monitoring and evaluation, clearly
defining the differences between monitoring and evaluation.
(ii)    Procedures, techniques and their applications, including project design and
management requirements that would facilitate these applications.
(iii)   Data collection techniques, and project database requirements for M&E,
covering conceptual aspects, actual and specific requirements for the project.
(iv)   M&E system design, paying particular attention to:
(a)    the linkages between the goal, purpose, outputs and inputs of the
project components;
(b)    recognized problems and conditions, and analysis of capabilities and
vulnerabilities, which lead to a set of project inputs;
(c)    project activities leading to a set of outputs;
(d)    expected results, and anticipated enabling changes that would achieve
these results;
(e)    critical assumptions and necessary conditions for achieving expected
results, paying particular attention to possible reexamination of these
assumptions and conditions;
(f)    qualitative and quantitative indicators and milestones for measuring
delivered inputs; outputs; enabling changes to produce results and
impacts as compared to the purposes of the project components; and
the means for verifying all of these indicators;
(v)    M&E system design that includes actual application and on-the-job training on
the project, a series of field trials for refinement of the system, and sufficient
intermittent technical assistance inputs to regularize M&E activities, with the
aim of preparing the PMC Staff and the implementing agencies to fulfill the
project reporting requirements, including the Project Completion Report PCR,
under the loan agreement.
(c)    Train PMC Staff and project staff of the implementing agencies, through workshops
and on-the-job applications.
(d)    Work specifically with the Economist: Monitoring and Evaluation Specialist, and
assist in setting up an M&E system for the project, particularly in relation to
monitoring and evaluation of physical progress of project implementation, including
the use of indicators for measuring inputs, outputs, results and impacts, progress
milestones, and means for verifying these indicators.
C. Timing



ANNEX 2
Page 16 of 16
Consultant's services will be required for a period up to 6 person-months, and the training
program is to be conducted in three stages: (a) training needs assessment; (b) design of
training sessions; and (c) delivery of training. A combination of international and local
consultants are required for the delivery of the training program. This training program will
be delivered as soon as possible after (a) all PMC staff have been hired; and (b) accounts and
procurement systems are in place.






MOLDOVA
FIRST AGRICULTURAL PROJECT
ANNEX 3
ENVIRONMENTAL DATA SHEET



ENVIRONMENTAL DATA SHEET FOR PROJECTS
in the LBRD/IDA Lending Program
Country:                              MOLDOVA                       Project ID No:                         MD-PA-8556
Project Name:                         Agriculture Project           Total Project Cost:                   US $18.5m
Appraisal Date:                       April, 1995
Board Date:                           April, 1996                   Task Manager:                          Brian Berman
Managing Division:                    EC4NR                         Sector:                                Agriculture
Lending Instruments:                  SIL                           Status:                                Lending
Date (est) for receipt of EA by Bank:  N/A
EA Category (A/BIC):                  B                             Date Assigned:
Date Sheet Prepared/Updated: January 25, 1996
(Please do sot reave any items blank: use 'N/A or 'To be developed' when appropriate)
Mfajor Project Components: (presents description of project components)
(i) Agro-technology development and transfer (support to research institutes for wine and fruit production, and integrated
pest management; (ii) Institutional Strengthening (Grain regulatory laboratories, agro-industry restructuring advisory
services, research system rationalization, wine sector strategy, and national extension plan); (v) Project Preparation and
Policy Development; and (vi) Project Management.
Major Environmentel Issues: (describes major environmental issues identified or suspected in project)
No significant negative environrmental impacts are anticipated from the Project. The proposed project would strongly
benefit the environment by introducing and supporting integrated pest management and sustainable agricultural
practices. The assistance to improve pest forecasting methods and to a projected training center for sustainable
agricultural practices would lead to a reduction of the use of pesticides in Moldova.
Other Environmnenal Issues: (describes environmental issues of lesser scope associated with project)
N/A
Proposed Achons: (describes actions proposed to mitigate environmental issues described in project)
i)     The project implementing agency will be asked to provide systematic monitoring and reporting on the
environmental impact of the Integrated Pest Management program and the Pest Forecasting System.
ii) Together with EMTEN, with funding under the Danube River Basin initiative, the project is initiating a study on the
possibilities of using biological pest control techniques in agriculture, to assess the current state of water quality and any
remedial action to reduce agricultural run-off, and the possibility of protecting valuable ecosystems from  agricultural use.
Justification/Radenale for Environmenta Category: (reasons for environrmental category selected & explanation of any chanrges from initil clasification)
Category B status was chosen because of the overall beneficial impact of the project on the environment.
Status of Category A Environmental Assessment: (presents EA start-up date, EA first draft, and current status)
N/A
Remarks: (gives status of any olher environmentalstudies, lists local groupsaand local NGOs consulted, tells whether borrower has given pemrnissionto releue EA. ea)
During preparation and implementation, the Project has and will cooperate with Moldagroeco, an NGO promoting
integrated pest management in Moldovan agriculture.
Signed by:                                                          Signed by:
Gel hy Fox. Ch   EC4NR                                              Arand Seth, thief, Er    r
mAc amienv3atakriigric.ea



Annex 4
Page 1 of 8
Moldova
First Agriculture Project
Economic Analysis
Viticulture and Horticulture Research and Development
and
Integrated Pest Management
Viticulture Improvement
The following model has been developed to provide reasonable projections over a period of 15 years
(from 1996 to year 2010) of production, domestic consumption and exports of wine. Key variables
and assumptions of the model are as follows:
*     The total area of vineyards in the country is estimated to be in the order of 160,000
hectares. Ninety percent of this area produce grapes for wine production, and the
remaining 10% of the area are cultivated for the production of table grapes.
Replanting of vineyards is assumed to be conducted in the future at a rate of 6.7% per
annum of the vineyards for wine grapes, based on a life cycle of 15 years. It is
estimated that replanting of vines for wine grapes would cover 9,600 ha/year
(calculated at 6.7% x 90% x 160,000 ha).
*     Adovtion Rate. It is expected improved varieties and cultivars adapted to the local
agronomic conditions would be made available through the Project activities to NIVO
NIVO would then distribute these varieties to the farming sector. It is assumed that
20% of the area replanted annually would be replanted with the improved varieties in
1998, increasing to 35% in 1999, 50% in year 2000, 70% in year 200, levelling off at
80% from year 2002 onwards.
-     Yields of wine grapes per hectare are assumed to be 4.8 tons/ha on average for
existing vineyards. Improved varieties are expected to yield 2 tons/ha in the third year
years after planting, 4.5 tons after 4 years, and 7 tons/ha after 5 years. Newly
replanted areas with existing varieties are projected to yield 1.5 tons/ha after 3 years,
3.2 tons/ha after 4 years, peaking at 5.5 tons/ha after 5 years. It is assumed that the
grape production of the first two years after planting would not be processed.
*     Present extraction rates of wine from grapes are low, and estimated at 65%. It is
expected that with the introduction of improved equipment at the wineries, the average
extraction rate would improve to 67% in 1997, 70% in 1998, 73% in 1998, 75% in
1999, levelling off at 80% from year 2000 onwards.
Domestic consumption of wine in Moldova is estimated to be at 30 liters per capita in
1996, comparable to wine consumption in Rumania in the early 1980's. Domestic
consumption of wine is projected to grow reasonably at 1.5% per annum over the



Annex 4
Page 2 of 8
period from 1996 to year 2010.
Wine exports to western markets. Wine production in excess of domestic consumption
is assumed to be exported to FSU countries and Western markets. Exports for western
markets are projected to amount to 150,000 hi in 1996; 250,000 hi in 1997; 300,000 hl
in 1998 and 400,000 hl in year 2000. Bulk wine exports to Western markets will be
completely substituted with bottled wine from 1998. Export volumes to Western
markets are projected to grow at 10% per annum from year 2001 onwards. This rate
of growth is considered conservative, given the potential for marketing Moldovan wine
in North America and some parts of Western Europe (United Kingdom, Germany and
Holland).
*     Wine Exports to FSU markets the remaining amount for exports (after exports to
Western markets), are projected to consist of bulk wine (42%), bottled wine (27%),
and wine equivalents in the form of brandy and fortified spirits (31%).
*      Export prices (FOB, Moldova) in constant 1995 terms are US $0.40/liter of bulk wine
for Western markets, US $1.20/liter for bottled wine for Western markets. These
prices for Western markets are based on market studies undertaken for the EBRD
Wine Export Promotion Project. Prices for FSU markets are considerably lower
because of different wine qualities and standards for bottling and packaging. For the
FSU markets, bulk wine is priced at US $0.15/liter, bottled wine at US $0.55/liter,
brandy and fortified spirits at US $0.19/liter of wine equivalent.
With progressive adoption of improved varieties in replanting, and gradual improvement in extraction
rtes, wine production is expected to increase to 4.5 million hi in year 2001, 5.0 million hi in 2005
and 5.8 million hi in 2010, after an initial decrease from about 4.2 million hi in 1996 to 4.0 million in
1998. Using the level of exports in 1996 as a benchmark (total wine export in 1996 is projected at
US $83 million), the present value of the expected added values' of incremental wine exports for the
period 1997 to 2010 discounted at 10% per year (including its equivalents in brandy and fortified
spirits) is projected to reach US $112 million. In comparison, the present value of the incremental
research and development costs, as provided under the project for viticulture improvement, would
amount to only US $4.2 million. This amount of incremental R&D costs represents no more than
3.7% of the present value of the expected added values from increases in wine exports (Table 3).
1.    Incremenal added value is calculated by applying a gradually improving added value from 25% in 1996 to about 43%
in 2010, with a weighted average of 33%/, based on the projected sntm of incremental values of exports.



Annex 4
Page 3 of 8
Table 1: Projected Exports and Domestic Consumption of Wine (million liters)
year 2000    year 2005     year 2010
Bottled wine (Western markets)         40            64           104
Bulk wine (FSU markets)                100           122          131
Bottled wine (FSU markets)              65           78            84
Brandy & fortified wine equivalents     74           90            97
(FSU markets)
Domestic consumption                   140           151          163
Horticulture Improvement
A similar model is developed for estimating future production and exports of fruit and berries, and
vegetables. Key variables and assumptions of the model are as follows:
Fruit and Berries
Planted area of all types of fruit and berries is estimated at 229,000 ha, and projected
to be stable over the next 15 years. The average immature period of plantations is
estimated at 4.5 years, and the overall average life cycle assumed to be 15 years. The
effective productive area is therefore assumed to be around 160,000 ha in any given
year, provided replanting is conducted regularly and on schedule.
For projection purposes no distinction is made on types of fruit and berries. Yields,
production and export volumes are expressed as averages of all types combined.
Yields. The average yield/ha, in the case without incremental research and
development activities (without Project), is projected at 5.5 tons/ha in 1996, and
increasing annually at a growth rate of 2% to reach 7.3 tons/ha by year 2010. With
incremental research and development (with Project), yields are expected to be higher
than the without Project yield by 2% in 1998, 5% in year 2000, 12% in year 2005,
reaching 8.3 tons/ha in year 2010 or 15% higher than the without Project yield. This
is a conservative yield assumption.
The projected incremental production. as a result of incremental research and
development, is assumed to be available for exports. The quantities available for
exports are categorized into fresh (25%) and canned/preserved (75%).
The average gross mgin of fruit production are calculated at US $50/ton for fresh
fiuit and berries and US $100/ton for canned products.



Annex 4
Page 4 of 8
Vegetables
*     Planted area of all types of vegetables, including area planted with tomato, is estimated
at 74,000 ha and assumed to be stable over the next 15 years.
*     For projection purposes no distinction is made on types of vegetables. Yields,
production and export volumes are expressed as averages of all types combined.
*     The average yield/ha, in the case without incremental research and development
activities, is projected at 12 tons/ha in 1996, and increasing annually at a growth rate
of 2% to reach 15.8 tons/ha by year 2010. With incremental research and
development, yield is expected to be higher than that of the without-case by 2% in
1998, 5% in year 2000, 12% in year 2005, reaching 18.2 tons/ha in year 2010 or 15%
higher than that under the without-case.
*     The projected incremental production. as a result of incremental research and
development, is assumed to be available for exports. The quantities available for
exports are categorized into fresh (40%) and canned (60%).
*     The average gross marg2ins are calculated at US $40/ton for fresh vegetables and US
$75/ton for canned products.
With incremental research and development, the incremental amounts of exports of fruits and berries,
and vegetables are projected as follows:
Table 2: Incremental Production ('000 tons)
year 2000    year 2005     year 2010
Fresh fruit and berries                12            32           44
Canned/preserved fruit                 36            95           131
Fresh vegetables                        19           51           70
Canned/preserved vegetables            29            76           105
Added values on the projected increases in exports of fruit, berries and vegetables are calculated on
the basis of gross margins per ton of products. The net present value of these added values, over a
period of 15 years from 1996 to 2010 and discounted at 10% per annum, amounts to US $76 million.
In comparison, the present value of the incremental costs of research and development for horticultural
improvement, as provided under the project, amounts to US $2 million. This incremental research and
development cost represents only 2.7% of the expected added values gained from projected increases
in export earnings (Table 3).



xnn 4
Page 5 of 8
Viticulture and Horticulture Improvement
with Integrated Pest Management
The projected added values of incremental exports of wine, fruit and vegetables are estimated to
amount to US $188 million in present value terms at an annual discount rate of 10% over 15 years
(1996 to 2010) (Table 3). In comparison, the present value of the overall incremental costs of
research and development, as provided under the project and including the costs of the IPM
development, amounts to US $6.8 million. This incremental spending in research and development is
modest, representing only 3.6% of the present value of the expected added values from increases in
exports. This means that the benefits that must be directly attributed to the R&D investments would
only need to amount to 3.6% of the added values of the expected increases in exports, in order for the
R&D investments to yield an economic rate of return of 10%. For the ERR of the R&D investments
to reach 15%, the associated benefits must amount to only 5% of the added values of the expected
increases in exports. In the case when the ERR is 20%, the required benefits should be not more than
6.7% of the added values on incremental exports (Table 4).
The introduction of integrated pest management through better forecasting and control of pest
problems, improved control on the use of pesticides, and the establishment of an early warning system
for pest management, would reduce production losses through pests. The costs of these initiatives, as
provided under the project, are small compared to the benefits potentially gained from improved pest
management and control. The IPM initiatives under the project will not only benefit horticulture and
viticulture, but also food crops and grain production. The additional costs for IPM development
would reduce risks of crop failures due to pest problems. For illustration purposes, a reduction in
added values of only 0.5% (a highly possible case for localized pest problems) would mean a loss in
present value of benefits of US $1 million. Such a small loss in benefits has outweighed the costs of
IPM development by twofold.
Table 3: Affordability Analysis of R&D Expenditures
NPV at 10% discount rate
Added Value of
(US$ million)       project R&D   Incremental
Expenditures    Exports       %
Expeditres (1997-2010)
(1)           (2)  (1)%(2)
Wine                               $4.2        $112.0     3.7%
Fruit & Vegetables                 $2.0         $75.7     2.7%
Integrated Pest Management         $0.6                     n.a.
Total                              $6.8        $187.8     3.6%
Table may not add due to rounding



Annex 4
Page 6 of 8
Table 4: Sensitivity Test of "Affordability" Analysis
Discount Rate:      10%       12%        15%       20%        25%
Wine R&D                        3.7%      4.3%       5.1%      6.8%       8.60%
Fruit & Vegetables R&D          2.7%      3.1%       3.7%      5.0%       6.40%
Total R&D                       3.60%     4.2%       5.0%      6.7%       8.5%



Annex 4
Page 7 of 8
Farm Budget Models
Project Impact on Farmers' Incomes. Ultimately, the benefits of the project-funded research
should be reflected in improved farmers' incomes. These benefits will not be realized
without additional on-farm investments, the public efforts to transfer these new technologies
to the farm (i.e research outreach and agricultural extension), and adequate production
financing. A projection of the changes in yield and costs of production has been made. The
average farm size, if all eligible farmers were to receive their proportionate share of the
arable land in Moldova, would be 1.5 ha. A small-farm model on this basis, with the
average crop-field distributions between annual crops, perennial crops, and pastures, shows
increases in net income (Table 5.2), without assuming any increases in the farm-gate value of
product due to improved quality. These assumptions yield an annual average real growth in
family income of 11 % -- significantly higher than average GDP per capita growth
expectations. However, family farm income even after increasing production, would remain
significantly below the average GDP per capita of US $870 in 1994.
Assumptions:
- The cropping structure of the farm model was established by prorating an average year's
national cropping areas. The cropping might undergo some changes as time goes, because
farmers will be guided by prevailing market opportunities.
- The farm model size of 1.5 ha consists of 1.0 ha annual crops on arable land, 0.3 ha fruits
and grapes, and 0.2 ha of meadows and pastures. The size corresponds approximately the
typical land allocation of a smallholder farm.
- The exchange rate of $ 1 to Lei 4.5 was used.
- All production cost and producer prices are based on the mid-95 data collected by MAF
staff.
- The fertilizer calculations are based on an average whole crop offtake of pure nutrients,
discounted for the fertility of chernozems, replenished by remaining crop residues.
- The fertilizer and pesticide prices are at, or close to, world market prices; the
mechanization prices are somewhat lower, accounting for the still relatively cheap energy and
labor cost.
- Other technical data, like seed rates, mechanization hours, labor etc. are based on
information from Moldova technicians, contained in my mission blocks, and on international
literaure data.



MOLDOVA
FIRST AGRICULTURE PROJECT
PRIVATE SMALLHOLDER FARM MODEL
Without Project                            With Project at Full Development
ha     Net Inem.                  Labor                   Net Incm.                  Labor
Lei     PD/ha  PD/farm   TH/ha    TH/farm          Lei     PD/ha  PD/farm   TH/ha    TH/farm
Wheat                      0.5        86        14         7        13          7        86        15         8        13          7
Maize                     0.25      158         18         5        15         4        158        20         5        15         4
Sunflower                 0.13       26         12         2        12          2        26        13         2        12         2
Potatoes                 0.08       566         54         4        35          3      992         70         6        46         4
Vegetables                0.04       389        51         2        30          1       576        85         3        70          3
Apples                    0.15      255         52         8        20          3       429        68        10        28          4
Grapes                    0.15       172        50         8        19          3       369        75        11        28          4
Pastures (p.m.)            0.2_
Total                      1.5     1652                   35                   22      2635                  45                   27
Footnote:
All prices are estimated and 1995
PD means family labor in days
TH means machine operating hours



MOLDOVA
FIRST AGRICULTURAL PROJECT
ANNEX 5
SUMMARY OF MAJOR PROCUREMENT PACKAGES



I



Procurement Major Package
Preparation of   Tender
Amount    Procurement         Tender      Documenb       Bids    Contract   Contract
Description               (USS '000)      Method        Documents      Issued     Submitted   Signed    Compleltd
E nstd Goods
Farm Machinery I                              $550        [CB          April-June 96      Jul-96     Sep-96    Oct-96        Jan-97
Farm Machinery 2                              $550        ICB          April-June 96      Jul-96     Sep-96    Oct-96        Jan-97
Farm MachInery 3                              $500        [CB          April-June 96      Jul-96     Sep-96    Oct-96        Jan-97
Laboratory Equipment I                        $400        ICB          April-June 96      Jul-96     Sep-96    Oct-96        Jan-97
Laboratory Equipment 2                        $400        [CB          April-June 96      Jul-96     Sep-96    Oct-96        Jan-97
Laboratory Equipment3                         $150         IS          April-June 96      Jul-96     Sep-96    Oct-96       Nov-96
Laboratory Equipment 4                        S180         IS          April-June 96      Jul-96     Sep-96    Oct-96       Nov-96
Laboratory Equipment - Artifical Inseminati   $345        LIB          April-June 96      Jul-96     Sep-96    Oct-96       Nov-96
Laboratory Equipment MIs.                     $170        DC           April-June 96      Jul-96     Aug-96    Sep-96       Oct-96
Computers
Hardware        S145        IS          April-June 96      Jul-96     Sep-96    Oct-96       Nov-96
Software        $90        DC          April-June 96      Jul-96     Aug-96    Sep-96        Oct-96
Supplies        $5        NS           April-June 96      Jul-96    Aug-96    Sep-96        Oct-96
Networks       S155        ICB          April-June 96      Jul-96     Sep-96    Oct-96       Jan-97
Irrigadton Equipment
Pipes I      $150        ICB         April-June 96      Jul-96      Sep-96    Oct-96       Jan-97
Pipes 2      $150        ICB               Jan-97       Feb-97      Apr-97    Jun-97       Aug-97
Drip & Sprinkler Systems      S330        LIB         April-June 96      Jul-96      Sep-96    Oct-96      Aug-97
Laboratory Chemicals 1                        $400        ICB          April-June 96      Jul-96     Sep-96    Oct-96        Jan-97
Laboratory Chemicals 2                         $20         NS          April-June 96      Jul-96     Aug-96    Sep-96        Oct-96
Laboratory Chemkals 3                          $20         NS                Jan-97       Feb-97     Feb-97    Feb-97       Mar-97
Laboratory Chemkals 4                          $20         NS                Jan-98      Feb-98      Feb-98    Feb-98       Mar-98
Vehicles (Vans and cars)                       $82        LIB          April-June 96      Jul-96     Aug-96    Sep-96        Oct-96
Vehicles (misibikes)                           $45         IS          April-June 96      Jul-96     Aug-96    Sep-96        Oct-96
Oenology Equipment I                          $600        LIB          April-June 96      Jul-96     Sep-96    Oct-96        Jan-97
Oenology Equlpment 2                          $600        LIB          April-June 96      Jul-96     Sep-96    Oct-96        Jan-97
Oenology Equipment 3                          $600        LIB          April-June 96      Jul-96     Sep-96    Oct-96        Jan-97
Fruit Procesing Line                          $836        LIB          April-June 96      Jul-96     Sep-96    Oct-96        Jan-97
Specialized EquIpment                         $200         IS          April-June 96      Jul-96     Sep-96    Oct-96       Nov-96
Genetic mterials                             S1,600       DC           April-June 96      Jul-96     Aug-96    Sep-96        Oct-98
Horticulture Encyclopedia                     $330        [CB          April-June 96      Jul-96     Sep-96    Oct-96        Jan-97
Sub-Total: Equipment and Goods               $9623
TIaEAam
Cosslatl
Project Preparation sad Policy Studies   $220        (')
PIU Staffing (Local consultants)   $215    Individuals
P11: ProcuremetuServkes        S220    Short-listing        May-96       May-96       Jun-96    Jul-96       Jun-97
Peat Risk Forecast Model      S99    Short-listing    April-June 96      Jul-96     Sep-96    Oct-96        Jul-97
PIU: Audit        $44    Short-listing         Oct-96      Nov-96       Dec-96    annual       annual
Sub-total                     $798
StBak.:
Agricultral Kawiledge System Study       $220        na.
Tlaw
Agro-Industrkes mangement study tours      $220        na.
Grain Laboratory Study Tour        $20        n.a.
PIU Training      $143    Individuals
ComputerTraining        $12    Individuals
Viticulture & Horticulture Training   $297    Individuals
$691
Sub-total - Technical Ausstance        S1 709
lcremental PlU Operating Costs               $287        n.a
TOTAL Bonk-financed Procurement             $11,620
me) ai hp
( ) *  -X _,i peSs eans smrm *sn. uidwth psrddpatsr  iuu  on. psu-lEagis eaib pskp re ernedds 



I



MOLDOVA
FIRST AGRICULTURE PROJECT
ANNEXES - VOLUME II
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
April 8, 1996
*    CIP 1. The Viticulture Component
*    CIP 2. The Horticulture Component
i    CIP 3. The Integrated Pest Management Component
*    Attachment 1. Detailed Cost Tables



I



CIP 1
Page 1 of 5
COMPONENT IMPLEMENTATION PLAN
IMPROVING MOLDOVAN WINE PRODUCTION
I. THE VITICULTURE COMPONENT
A. COMPONENT OBJECTIVES
1.    The broad objective of the wine production component of the Project is to improve the quality
of Moldovan wine in order to generate additional foreign exchange revenues from exports and increase
the profitability of the wine sector. The development of new export markets has become a major pre-
condition to restoring economic growth and stability in Moldova. The component would in particular (a)
support research and development of suitable grape varieties and vine clones adapted to the regional soil
and climate and to consumer preferences in export markets; (b) improve the production of quality planting
materials in modernized nurseries and with improvements in plant protection; and (c) provide facilities
to test new production methods and systems.
B. COMPONENT SCOPE
2.    Wine and sparkling wine production plays an important role in Moldovan agriculture with around
160,000 ha under vineyards. This accounts for 8% of agricultural land. Wine production represents one
of the major comparative advantages of the country and it has good medium-term export market prospects.
However, a large part of the wine products are of relatively low quality for EU markets, and need to be
improved in order to produce wines of competitive quality, both in the EU and in the FSU, where in the
latter market, both EU and Eastern European wines (e.g Hungarian and Bulgarian) are now making
inroads into Moldova's traditional markets. As identified in the Moldova Agricultural Sector Review, the
wine industry can be improved through increasing grape yields and improving the quality of wine
products, improved processing, adoption of standardized packaging and improved marketing.
3.    Most of the wineries have been privatized in the 1993-94 program. However, a number of wineries
producing brandy and sparkling wines have not been privatized and the Government is still in the process
of working out the details of an eventual privatization. A number of international wine companies have
already expressed interest in entering into joint-venture agreements with local wineries at a later stage.
4.    This proposed component would concentrate on assisting the research efforts on improving wine
quality at both field the processing levels. Project interventions would support research and development
of vine varieties adapted to the local climatic conditions, improvements with new vine nursery stocks, and
with experimental wine processing equipment. The Project could be complementary to an already existing
project, funded by EBRD, which focusing specifically on 4 commercial wineries, to promote those
wineries' exports, and on the provision of a new wine bottle production plant.
5.     Wine varieties. Production of wine-based products in Moldova is equally divided between
sparkling wines, brandy, and still wines. Due to the changing market environment, new and improved
vine varieties will have to replace a large part of the varieties that have been introduced to the country
according to policies defined 30 years ago. Over the last years some wine producers have started to
introduce and plant more aromatic varieties in Moldova, such as Chardonnay and Cabernet Sauvignon.
However, varieties of lesser wine quality still cover a large part of the area under vines. Developing



CIP I
Page 2 of 5
quality dry wine (white and red) with individual character and adaption to the international market depends
on the selection and planting of the right vine varieties. Efforts are already underway to introduce an
"appellation controlee" system in Moldova. The legal framework for this system was established in 1992
and a law governing viticulture practices was passed in 1994. Even though growing widely known and
prestigious varieties is a good short-term strategy to increase profitability of wine production, it is
nevertheless recommended to widen the varieties grown in and adapted to Moldova.
6.    New and improved vine varieties are best introduced through the natural replacement of old vines.
The average life cycle of vines in Moldova is 15 years, and approximately 6-7% of the country's
vineyards should be replanted every year to maintain the present area under wine production. Some 9,000
hectares of the total area under vines, of 143,000 ha, have to be replanted annually. Total current demand
for planting material is 22 million plants per year, at current plant density and mortality rates.
7.    The quality of the vine planting stock from specialized nurseries has an overriding influence on
the success of planting to new vine varieties. Improving the production of the vine planting stock will
enable the nurseries to produce higher quality plants that can be sold at lower costs than presently
possible. Commercial success will crucially depend on selection of suitable and marketable varieties,
optimal growing conditions in the vine nurseries, improved grafting of the vines and a wider variety of
rootstocks.
8.    Rootstocks. Moldova is in the process of building up a certified rootstock production. Currently
only three rootstocks are commonly used in the country (101-14, 5BB, S04) and they are not best adapted
to the low rainfall areas in Moldova. Other rootstocks have been successfully used in other countries
under similar climatic conditions. It is anticipated that they could be used with great success in Moldova
as well.
9.    Production of grafted vines. Presently thirty farms operate workshops devoted to multiplying and
producing vine plants in nurseries in the field. All of these do not have their own rootstock mother vines,
which are trained in the same way as normal grape vines. Methods of grafting vary from one workshop
to the other and the grafting success rate is often as low as only 10%. The success of grafting could be
increased to 45% if grating techniques were improved in conjunction with the introduction of irrigation
in the nursery fields.
10.   Research and development of vine varieties. The National Institute of Viticulture and Oenology
(NIVO) has in the past been responsible for adapted research to improve Moldovan wine production. In
the future, NIVO will continue to be the major research agency but would need external support to
develop cloned and certified vine plants with excellent agronomic characteristics and healthiness. The new
vine varieties, developed and adapted to the country's soils and climate, would then gradually replace all
the currently used plants. Under the existing circumstances it would be advisable to continue the clonal
development at NIVO, and complement this with imported vegetative material. Improved clonal parent
material would have to be imported through a contract signed with a western wine research institute.



CIP I
Page 3 of 5
C. COMPONENT DESCRIPTION
11.   The component would support the development, production and distribution of improved vine
varieties in Moldova. It would provide the framework to coordinate and respond to the common interests
of the wine industry, including the wine research facilities, vine plant producers, winegrower and
processors. The component would concentrate on (a) supporting research and development at the National
Institute of Viticulture and Oenology; (b) improving the quality of vine plants produced in nurseries; and
(d) improving the experimental wine production facilities at NIVO.
12.   With this component, the Project would support the development of a national wine development
and improvement program which includes a vinestock certification program. The vinestock certification
program would consist of the following steps:
-     Selection and development of initial material at NIVO based on the clones selected at the
Institute,
-     Distribution of the base material from NIVO to approved nurseries,
-     Production of certified material in approved nurseries. The certified material would then
be sold to winegrower.
(a)    Research and Development. Support to the National Institute of Viticulture and Oenology with
financial and technical assistance to become the center of a national wine development and improvement
network.  In particular the Bank would finance the import of clonal material from abroad, the re-
equipment of the research laboratories; the development and introduction of a vinestock certification
program; the improvement of experimental wine production facilities; and the establishment of a nation-
wide experimental network to evaluate the agronomic suitability of rootstocks and vinestocks.
(b)    Vine plant production. The project component would support the improvement of the vine
nurseries and grafting workshops. The component would finance modem irrigation equipment for the vine
nurseries to be established on about 300 hectares, the modernization of equipment used in the 25 existing
grafting workshops, and foreign training for a grating and nursery specialist.
(c)    Protection of vines. The project component would finance the purchase of pest risk forecast
models and training for two specialists. The risk model would have environmental benefits as it reduces
the number of pesticide applications in vineyards and helps to reduce the costs of plant protection.
D. COMPONENT COSTS
13.   The base cost of the viticulture research and development component is estimated at US $8.6
million. Detailed cost descriptions can be found in Attachment I to this volume of the Annexes.



CIP I
Page 4 of 5
II. IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS
A. ORGANIZATIONS RESPONSIBLE FOR PROJECT COORDINATION
14.    The Ministry of Agriculture and Food (MAF) will be responsible for overseeing the activities of
the National Institute for Oenology and Viticulture. NIVO will coordinate and oversee the activities of
its own research and clonal selection program and the activities of the vine nurseries. An advisory
committee, consisting of representatives of NIVO, nursery owners, wine producers and wine processors
will have advisory functions during development and implementation of the research activities.
B. ROLE OF THE WORLD BANK DURING SUPERVISION
15.    The wine production component of the project would be supervised by Bank personnel in
conjunction with consultants, as and when necessary. It is planned that about 10 staff-weeks of effort
would be needed for supervision, four weeks during start up year and three weeks in year two to year
three.
III. IMPLEMENTATION PLAN
A. TIME-BOUND SCHEDULE
16.    Detailed schedules for the implementation of this component are provided in Annex 1.
B. PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS AND SCHEDULE
17.    See Annex 5 of the main report.
IV. MONITORING AND EVALUATION
A. ACTIONS TO MONITOR DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVES
18.    Project monitoring indicators will be used to track progress on Moldovan wine production
throughout the project cycle. These indicators will produce the necessary information for the Project
Completion Report.



CIEP1
Page 5 of 5
B. PROJECT INDICATORS
19.   The following indicators are used to monitor and evaluate progress during the implementation of
the viticulture improvement component of the project.
(a)   Institutional Indicators
(i)    Advisory Committee for the vinestock certification program will be established before
effectiveness.
(ii)   Coordination meetings are held on a regular basis among the members of the wine
advisory committee.
(b)   Operational Indicators
(i)    x number vinestock nurseries are operating and producing 100% certified vinestocks.
(ii)   By mid-term review, 6% of all operating vineyards are replaced annually with certified
vinestocks from approved nurseries.
(iii)   After completion of Project implementation, GOM would develop a cost-recovery
mechanism to finance part of the research expenses through a tax on wine exports.






CIP 2
Page 1 of 5
COMONENT IMPLEMENTATION PLAN
IMPROVING PRIMARY HORTICULTURE PRODUCTION
l: THE HORTICULTURE COMPONENT
A. COMPONENT OBJECTIVES
1.    The foremost component objective would be to improve the primary fruit and vegetable production
through: (a) improving the genetic resource base of fruit crops; (b) demonstrating new technology to
increase efficiency of production and quality of horticulture produce; and (c) preparing studies, for future
investment, in areas where there appears to be promising and justifiable potential.
B. COMPONENT SCOPE
2.     The horticultural subsector in Moldova has a number of comparative advantages such as excellent
soils, favorable temperature and sunshine conditions, low labor cost, an agricultural tradition, and also well
trained, dedicated horticultural specialists and an experienced work force. There are 23 suitably located
major fruit and vegetable canneries in the country, and a number of smaller processing plants on farms.
In the past, the country was capable of successfully supplying a large part of the FSU with fresh and
processed horticultural commodities, produced in excess of domestic requirements.
3.    Horticultural crops occupy a prominent place in Moldova's land use, representing in 1994 about
13% of the agricultural land, of which fruit crops about 10% (229,000 ha), and vegetables over 3%
(74,000 ha). Together with the 164,000 ha of vineyards, these high value crops occupy over 20% of
agricultural land. Support to this important subsector has a potentially high pay-off and is expected to
make a significant contribution to the country's economy.
C. COMPONENT DESCRIPTION
4.    The component would concentrate on: (a) support to the Research Institute for Fruit Production
("Codru"); (b) demonstrations of modem production technology in Codru for fruit, and in the Research
Institute for Maize and Sorghum ("Porumbeni") for potato; and (c) preparation of studies of future project
fundings (possibly including irrigation, glasshouse rehabilitation, and vegetable seed processing).
Strengthening Primary Production
5.    Following extensive field visits to fruit and vegetable producing farms, Codruand Porunbeni, and
extensive discussions with professionals in the Ministry of Agriculture and Food (MAF) and rayon
horticulture specialists, the mission identified several major constraints to improved horticultural
production in Moldova. In close cooperation with Moldovan professionals the mission developed
proposals for project components that would assist in making a start to removing some of the most
pressing constraints, and in demonstrating some of the best technical and farm management approaches
utilized on advanced farms in other countries.



2                                        CIP 2
Page 2 of 5
6.     Financing proposals include a set of support actions to Codru, demonstrations on modern
technology in water-use efficient irrigation techniques, advanced technology in crop protection fitting into
the IPM system, modern techniques used in potato seed production for Porumbeni, and efficient and cost-
effective technology of plasticulture.
7.     The mission further identified the need for studies in areas where insufficient information is
available for formulating discrete project components, but where there appears to be promising and
justifiable potential for investments. The studies, if considered to be priorities for the second project
financing, could include the horticulture aspects for inclusion in the National Irrigation Project Feasibility
Study, a Review for Rehabilitation of the Glasshouse Production Subsector, and a Review for
Rehabilitation of the Vegetable Seed Processing Industry. All these interventions are aimed at arresting
the recent decline and/or variability in production of fruits and vegetables, the decline in vegetable area,
and at improving quality of the produce.
Support to the Research Institute for Fruit Production
8.     Codru in Chisinau, with its main orientation on breeding, technology of seedling production and
technology of fruit production, plays a crucial role in supporting the more than 200,000 ha of orchards
in the country. The institute is working with outdated equipment and the current financial situation does
not even permit procurement of essential reagents urgently needed in the laboratory work. The project
would support the institute in several ways in order to allow sustainability and small improvements of its
operations, and publication of the wealth of scientific and applied work developed in recent years:
(i)    financing of instrumentation and chemicals for the virology, genetics and agronomy departnents;
(ii)   procurement of five computers with corresponding software;
(iii)  financing of printing of the long completed, excellent, Fruit Growers Encyclopedia (Encyclopedia
Sadovodstva), in 3 volumes at 30,000 copies each;
(iv)   Study visits of Moldovan scientists of 3 months each to reputable foreign institutes in virology,
fruit tree genetics, and fruit production economics and farm management; and
(v)    demonstration equipment for "Codru", in its own fields and on farmers' fields, in modern
irrigation and crop protection technology, as further elaborated on below.
Demonstrations of Modem Production TechnoloRy
9.     The component would finance the following crucial elements of modern technology for
demonstration and production purposes:
a)    Irrigation: water use efficient irrigation equipment for about 200 ha in the form of drip and mini-
sprinkler irrigation for vegetables, fruits and berries. The equipment would be placed on
privatized farms in two drought-prone districts (tentatively have selected the districts of Orhei and
Aneni-Noi) and in "Codru". It is proposed to place about 20 ha in "Codru" and some 90 ha each
in the two districts. The component would include technical assistance for installation, training



3                                      CIP 
Page 3 of 5
and commissioning of the equipment by the supplier. Additionally, 40 sets of tensiometers would
be procured (one set for 5 ha, and consisting of 3 tensiometers measuring soil moisture content
at about 20, 50 and 100 cm) to assist in introduction of proper irrigation agronomy, including
more accurate timetables of water scheduling. Locally, the responsibility for placement, training
and demonstrations of the equipment would rest with the MAF (the Principal Department of Fruit
and Vegetable Production and Processing) and the irrigation water management organization Apele
Moldova;
b)    Plant Protection:
i)    modem boom and air-blast sprayers for protection of vegetables and fruits from insects
and diseases. These sprayers would be placed in "Codru" and in privatized farms of the above
two districts not only for commercial crop protection, but also for demonstrations, training of
operators and field days. The organization of demonstrations and training sessions would be the
responsibility of the Principal Department of Fruit and Vegetable Production and Processing, and
the Crop Protection Department of MAF, and the Rayon Crop Protection Stations (formers of
Fertilitatea, now of MAF). The project would provide 10 boom sprayers with pressure stabilizers
and exchangeable nozzles and 10 air-blast sprayers, including spare parts and training of operators
by the supplier; and
ii)   the crop protection problem for small farmers with their plots of limited size, where
tractors are uneconomic or cannot operate, is a particular issue since there are actually no hand
operated sprayers available in Moldova. The mission proposes to finance under the project some
2,000 modern hand-operated knapsack sprayers with sturdy containers, high quality pumps,
adjustable booms and pressure stabilizers. The MAF, in cooperation with the Rayon Crop
Protection Stations, would arrange for field days and demonstrations of the imported sprayers in
all 40 rayons.
SuDDort for Porumbeni
10.   Potato Production Technoloev: potatoes are sometimes on the borderline between vegetables and
foodcrops. In Moldova, they are within the responsibility of the Principal Department of Fruit
and Vegetable Production in MAF, although they are often referred to as the "second bread."
Potato area declined from some 10,000 ha in the mid-80s to about 6,000 ha in 1993, mainly due
to difficulties in providing high quality seed, which is the single major constraint to higher
production. In general, interest in growing and consuming potatoes is great. Although favorable
conditions exist in the north of the country for local seed potato production, suitable technology
for producing the seed is not available, and also a suitable germplasm base is missing. The
proposed project would assist in introducing modem seed potato technology on a pilot area of
about 50 ha. The technology would be placed on a privatized farm and would consist of a chisel
cultivator, a trailed 4-row potato planter with about a 2 ton container, a 4-row ridger, a 2-row
potato combine harvester with 2-3 ton container, and a potato sorting line (3-4 sizes, approx. 6
mt/ha). To provide a base for further multiplication, an initial 150 tons of foundation seed
potatoes of several varieties would be provided as well; and



4                                          CIP 2
Page 4 of 5
1H.    Vegetable Production Plasticulture Technology: the component would finance, on a demonstration
basis, about 60 ha of equipment for low and walk-in plastic tunnels. The equipment would be
distributed to privatized farms in the northern, central and southern production zone at about 20
ha in each zone. It would consists of plastic sheets and the necessary arches.
Potential Proiect Preparation Studies
12.    A number of studies for horticulture could be included in the future project preparation. The
following are the subjects that could be considered and their estimated costs.'
a)     Irrigation. The Agricultural Sector Review carried out by the Bank in spring 1993 identified as
one of the priority areas for investment a project for rehabilitation and extension of irrigated areas.
A reconnaissance mission carried out in December 1994 established that priority investments are
required for drought protection through completion of developments in nine irrigated perimeters.
Substantial developments in these nine areas already started under FSU financing and in most of
the areas construction has been completed to about 50-70%. Draft Terms of Reference for a
feasibility study for a first phase project have been drawn up. The application of the proposed
modernized irrigation system to be designed under this feasibility study will need to take into
consideration the special requirements of intensive fruit and vegetable cultivation, the use of water
saving technologies in orchards, and in-field, including irrigation in conjunction with vegetable
cultivation under palatci tunnels and in greenhouses. Also of critical importance to the feasibility
study is the economics of production of fruit and vegetables under irrigation. The estimated costs
of the fruit and vegetables cultivation study as input into the national irrigation plan is about
$150,000.
b)     Glasshouse Rehabilitation: Moldova disposes of about 88 ha of glasshouses which are believed
to be highly energy-inefficient and are often in a dilapidated state. In order to regain its position
as off-season vegetable producer, the country needs to review the situation in glasshouses, prepare
proposals for rehabilitation, and secure funds for implementation of the rehabilitation of, and
possibly expansion of, areas. A review of five personmonths by international experts is proposed,
which is estimated to cost about US$75,000.
c)     Vegetable Seed Processing. The Bank has been presented by the joint stock company Semintse
(formnerly Sortsemovoshch) with a request for financing machinery for vegetable seed production
and processing which could well be in the area of US$6 to 8 million. The request was presented
without any justification, more detailed technical specifications, and without cost estimates. Since
there is inadequate information about the company, its organization, management and financial
position, it is difficult under the given circumstances to respond to the request. It is proposed,
therefore, to review the vegetable seed production in the country by international experts in the
field. The cost of the review is estimated at five personmonths and US$75,000.
1.     The costs of the individual studies are not included in the overall cost table, or the cost table for this
component: instead a lump-sum allocation for future project preparation costs has bene made in the overall project
cost estimate, to reflect the fact that the Government will make the final decision on which studies will be prioritized
for the second project.



5                                      CIP 2
Page 5 of 5
D. PROJECT COSTS
13.   Detailed cost descriptions can be found in Attachment I to this volume of the Annexes.
E. FINANCING PLAN
14.   The foreign exchange costs of this component excluding project preparation studies would be
financed 100% from the Bank loan, while import duties and VAT would be covered by GOM, and local
cost (installation, local works and operating costs) would be born fully from the budgets of "Codru,"
"Porumbeni" and the private farms on which the demonstration plots will be installed. "Codru" and the
farms will achieve costs recovery of the investment and installation local costs from the increased
production of planting materials for sales, where these new nursery investments have been placed.
II. IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS
MONITORING AND EVALUATION
15.   The project implementation schedule is shown in Annex I of the main report.
16.   The project components would be implemented primarily by Codru and Porumbeni, in close
coordination, by the PMC, with the Department of Fruit and Vegetable Production and Processing, and
the Agricultural Research Department of MAF.2 The design, installation and operation of the drip
irrigation component would be supervised from the technical point of view by Apele Moldova. At field
level, the components would be implemented and managed by the respective beneficiaries, i.e. Codru,
Porumbeni and the privatized farms on whose lands the nurseries would be located.
17.   The departments of MAF under whose technical responsibility the allocation and supervision of
these production oriented components and demonstrations would fall, would be required to monitor,
evaluate and report on the technical and economic experience and results of the new technologies for at
least three years. The Project Management Committee will have on-staff a full time economist/specialist
in M&E to assist these departments, Codru and Porumbeni to include the assessment of the economic
impact of these sub-components alongside the technical performance evaluation. MAF is perfectly
competent to organize such technical performance monitoring and evaluations; it has demonstrated its
ability in this respect with excellent results in the case of monitoring and evaluating the modern sugarbeet
technology imported under the Drought Emergency Recovery Project. The project's technical assistance
and staff will now add the economic impact dimension to the M&E.
18.   Detailed performance indicators will be developed by the PMC's M&E specialist, and the initial
outline is shown in SAR Table 5.3.
2.    "Codru" and the Departments of MAF are all members of the Project Management Committee (see SAR,
Chapter 4).



j



CIP 3
Page I of 5
COMPONENT IMPLEMENTATION PLAN
INTEGRATED PEST MANAGEMENT
I. THE INTEGRATED PEST MANAGEMENT COMPONENT
A. COMPONENT OBJECTIVES
1.    The broad objective of the Integrated Pest Management (IPM) component of the project is to
place crop production on a more economically and environmentally sound basis and support the
development of a sustainable agriculture in Moldova. IPM is part of an Integrated Crop Management
approach aimed at reducing the use of agrochemicals. The objective of an ideal IPM system is to use
all biological and mechanical methods of pest control and to only use chemical pesticides as a last
resort.
2.    Moldova already has developed a large number of biological pest control methods that allow
the reduction of the use of agrochemicals in farming. However, important Moldovan initiatives to
further promote Integrated Pest Management need external financial and technical support to
reorganize their research, development and marketing facilities during the transition to a market-based
agricultural economy. The component would support the development of Integrated Pest Management
methods, educational programs and the dissemination of the technologies to the farmers, as well as the
necessary environmental control laboratories.
B. COMPONENT SCOPE
3.    The introduction of better and more sustainable agricultural farming methods is a long-term
process which crucially depends on the cooperation of different agents of change in order to have a
wide impact on agriculture and to be actually used on the farms. The project component would
therefore strengthen a number of already existing initiatives in research, education, extension and
pesticide residue analysis, in order to jump-start the development of sustainable farming in Moldova.
4.      Existing situation andfuture potential. At present, IPM activities are limited in Moldova.
Most farms rely almost exclusively on broad spectrum pesticides, which are mainly insecticides and
fungicides. Herbicide use is limited, because the large farms use farm workers to mechanically and
manually control weeds. In general, broad-spectrum pesticides are preferred by farmers, because
farmers feel it is less costly to make one application that kills several pests at the same time, even if
these pests are not threatening the crop. However, Moldova has a favorable environment to switch to
Integrated Pest Management, because of the pmsence of organizations already developing and testing
IPM. For instance, several large farms are already using elements of IPM, but have not yet endorsed
the full concept.
5.    Research and development of biocontrol methods. When the FSU dissolved, Moldova was left
with several high-level agricultural research institutes, formerly responsible for agricultural research in
the whole FSU. Some of these institutes worked on plant protection and the Institute of Biological
Plant Protection (IBPP) specifically concentrated research efforts on biological plant protection in the



CIP 3
Page 2 of 5
FSU. The IBPP has developed a number of biological control methods that have been successfully
applied in the FSU. These include the use of entomophages, parasite trichogramma, and sex
pheromone to protect agricultural crops against certain pests. Five years ago, the IBPP was arguably
one of the world's largest producers of biological plant protection agents. Currently, the activities of
the Institute have come to a near standstill because it lacks the funds to pay the recurrent expenditures.
The changing economy forces IBPP' to reorganize and actively market their products in order to
obtain the necessary funds to cover their operating expenditures. Moldova is fortunate to have
inherited this legacy, for these institutes can offer the technical expertise, biological supplies and
leadership for establishing a national IPM network.
6.    Extension and Training. GOM has established a nation wide program, MOLDAGROECO, to
develop and organize sustainable agriculture in Moldova. Participants includes a wide array of
scientists, govemment personnel, farm managers, and plant protection offtcers dedicated to supporting
ecologically sound, organic, biological, and other altemative cropping systems to minimize agricultural
chemical inputs. Under the MOLDAGROECO program, a pilot demonstration farm and a technical
training program on sustainable agriculture, targeted at young agriculturalists, have been established.
The program organizes meetings between the various groups to coordinate activities on sustainable
agriculture between different Moldovan institutions.
7.    Pest Forecasting. Moldova has already established a country-wide pest forecasting system
which is managed by FERTILITATEA. It consists of 40 District Pest Control Stations across the
country which report information to a forecasting center in Chisinau. The present forecasting system
is out-dated and relies on teletypes and clerks to process the data. This leads to delays of three to four
days before the pest information is actually available on the farms. After privatization of
FERTILITATEA, the pest forecasting system is now be operated by the Ministry of Agriculture and
Food (MAF).
o.    Residue Control. At the moment, five laboratories under the management of the State
Department of Sanitation and Epidemiology are capable of analyzing pesticide residues in water, air,
soils, and plant residues. The ability to analyze pesticide residues is paramount to any pest
management system in order to certify that foodstuff do not exceed the maximum residue limits in
Moldova or any importing country. The laboratory equipment, though functional, is outdated and
needs to be modernized.
C. COMPONENT DESCRIPTION
9.    The Integrated Pest Management component of the project comprises several elements,
including: 1) education and extension of sustainable agriculture; and 2) pest forecasting methods, an
early warning system, and pesticide residue analysis.
[I    It was planned to support IBPP through this loan after implementing the necessary management changes at
IBPP. However, these changes have not been undertaken so far. Future projects might therefore support IBPP.



CIP 3
Page 3 of 5
10.   Extension and training center for sustainable agriculture: The Project would equip the pilot
research farm in Beltsi and the agricultural training center, supporting the MOLDAGROECO
program, in Tsaul, with farm, office, and laboratory equipment to initiate a training program for
farmers on methods of sustainable agriculture. The research farm currently uses large tractors and
machinery which are not suitable for demonstrations of sustainable farming methods in smaller, private
farms. Minibikes would be used by the extension specialists to scout fields and visit farms. The
laboratory equipment would be used for demonstration purposes.
11.   Early warning systems and pesticide residue analysis laboratories: The Project would
improve the work of the pest forecasting unit by modernizing the communications equipment at the 40
District Crop Protection Stations in order to ensure timely and accurate warnings of developing pests.
The stations would be equipped with dataloggers to record, store and transmit a number of parameters
for risk assessments of developing pests to the central forecasting unit in Chisinau. The unit would
receive technical assistance to process the information and prepare the warnings of developing pests to
farmers. The project would further re-equip two pesticide residue laboratories with modern analytical
equipment to improve the capacity and accuracy of testing for contaminations with pesticides. These
pesticide residue laboratories, located in Dondusheni and in Cagul, are managed by the Ministry of
Health's State Department of Sanitation and Epidemiology. The pesticide residue labs would routinely
perform about 5000 analysis annually per year to test for all kinds of environmental contaminants,
especially pesticides.
D. COMPONENT COSTS
12.   The base cost of the Integrated Pest Management component is estimated at $0.7 million.
Detailed cost descriptions can be found in Tables 1-4 of Attachment I to this volume of the Annexes.
E. FINANCING PLAN
13.   The foreign exchange costs of this component would be financed 100% from the Bank loan,
while local costs, e.g. operation and maintenance of the equipment and facilities would be covered
through MAF.
II. IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS
A. ORGANIZATIONS RESPONSIBLE FOR COMPONENT COORDINATION
14.   The Project Management Committee, through the Department for Crop Protection and
Selectsia would coordinate the activities of the implementing agencies: (a) Selectsia for the
Moldagroeco program; (b) the State Department of Sanitation and Epidemiology of the Ministry of
Health; and (c) the Ministry of Agriculture and Food's pest forecasting unit. The PMC staff would
coordinate procurement of the laboratory and other equipment for this component on the behalf of the
benefitting laboratories in MAF and the Ministry of Health.



CIP 3
Page 4 of 5
B. RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE IMPLEMENTING AGENCY
15.    The MAF will be responsible for coordinating the Integrated Pest Management activities of the
Moldagroeco program through: (i) "Selectsia"; and (ii) the MAF Department of Crop Protection, the
pesticide residue laboratories, and the pest forecasting unit.
D. ROLE OF THE WORLD BANK DURING SUPERVISION
16.    The Integrated Pest Management component of the project would be supervised by Bank
personnel. It is planned that about 10 staff-weeks of effort would be needed for supervision, four
weeks during start up year and three weeks each in year two and year three.
m. IMPLEMENTATION PLAN
A. TIME-BOUND SCHEDULE
17.    Detailed schedules for the three year implementation period of this component are provided in
Annex 1 to the main report.
B. PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS AND SCHEDULE
18.    Equipment for this component has been packaged with equipment requirements for other
components - See Annex 5.
IV. MONITORING AND EVALUATION
A. ACTIONS TO MONITOR DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVES
19.    Project monitoring indicators will be used to track progress on Integrated Pest Management
throughout the project cycle . These indicators will produce the necessary information for the project
evaluation.



Page 5 of 5
B. COMPONENT INDICATORS
20.   The following indicators are proposed to be used to monitor and evaluate progress during the
implementation of the Integrated Pest Management component of the project they are also described in
the SAR in Table 5.3:
(a)   Institutional Indicators:
(i)    Coordination meetings are held on a regular basis among the members of the
Integrated Pest Management committee.
(b)    Operational Indicators:
(i)    x number of farms agree to introduce IPM on their farms and cooperate with the
Moldagroeco programn; and
(ii)   pesticide residue laboratories undertake routine random sampling of Moldovan
agricultural products on pesticide residues and publish results.






MOLDOVA
FIRST AGRICULTURAL PROJECT
ATTACHMENT 1
DETAILED COST TABLES






Moldova
Agriculture Development I Project
Table 101. Education & Extension of Sustainable Agriculture - Selectsia
Detailed Coats
(US$)
Oanstitips              Unit               Base Cost
rnit  1997           1999 i   2000  Total COAt  1997  1ilt 1999  2000fl  TZtal
X. Investnt Costs
A. Macbinary and Equipmat
Tractor, 4WD, Skw, front loader   Unit             1      -      -      -      1    52  52.0        -      -      -  52.0
Forage harvester w/ maize head    Unit             1      -      -      -      1  11.5  11.5        -     -      -  11.5
Ray mower/windrower                    Unit        1      -      -      -      1      7   7.0       -      -      -   7.0
Dump wagon hydraulic, 30 cu a          Unit        1      -      -      -      1   4.1   4.1        -      -      -   4.1
Hay baler, round, 700 kg               Unit        1      -      -      -      1    22  22.0        -      -      -  22.0
Disc, tandem, 3.2.                     Unit        I      -      -      -      1   3.4   3.4        -      -      -   3.4
Spader/digger, 1.9m                    Unit        1      -      -      -      1   6.6   6.6        -      -     -   6.6
Scraper blade, 2.1 m                   Unit        1      -      -      -      1   0.6   0.6        -      -      -   0.6
Tooth harrow, 0 m                       Set        1      -      -      -      1   6.5   6.5        -      -      -   6.5
Rotary hoe, 8 m                         Set        1      -      -      -      1      8   8.0       -      -      -   8.0
Sprayer, 600 1 /a                      Unit        1      -      -      -      1   2.4   2.4        -      -      -   2.4
Aerway machine, 3 m                    Unit        1      -      -      -      1   4.7   4.7        -      -      -   4.7
Minimum tillage grain drill, 3 m  Unit             1      -      -      -      1   8.5   8.5        -      -      -   8.5
Back hoe, rubber tires, 41WD, 45kw Unit            1      -      -      -      1    39  39.0        -      -      -  39.0
Spare parts                             Set                                              360 _             -         360 
Total Investnt Costs                                                                            212.3       -      -      - 212.3
I. Recurrent Costs
A. Operations & Maintenance                 Ls                                               12.0  12.0  12.0  12.0  4a.0
Total Recurrent Costs                                                                            120  12A0 12L0 12 L0 4S.0
Total                                                                                            224.3  12.0  12.0  12.0 260.3
\a 9m boom, diaphr. pump, spray monitor, auto boom control.
Wed Apr 03 14:01:57 1996
1-1 Edt' -ation & Extension of Sustainable Agriculture - Selectsia



Moldova
Agriculture Development I Project
Table 102. Pesticide Residue analysis, State Dept. of Sanitation & Epidemiology. MOM
Detailed Costs
(US$)
Quantities             Unit              Base Cost
Unit   '997  1998  1999  2000  Total Cost  1997  199   1999  2000  Total
I. Investet Costs
A. Equipment and Supplies
1. Laboratory gquipent
Pesticide standards                Standard       8      8      8     -    24       1   8.0   8.0   8.0        -  24.0
Chemical Reagents                     Set         1      1      1     -      3      9   9.0   9.0   9.0        -  27.0
Personal computers and supplies    Ls             4      -      -     -      4      4  160.0     -      -      -16.0
Subtotal Laboratory Equipment                                                             33.0  17.0  17.0        -  67.0
B. Vehicles
Automobiles /a                           Unit         3     -      -      -      3    10 .J          -      -     -  30.0
Total Investmnt Costs                                                                             63.0  17.0  17.0        -  97.0
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Operations & Maintenance                   Ls                                               4.5   4.5  4.5.S   4.5  18. 0
Total Recurrent Costs                                                                             4.5 _._5_  4.5   4.5  18.0
Total                                                                                               67.5  21.5  21.5   4.5 115.0
\a Minivans for sample collection.
Wed Apr 03 14:02:00 1996
2-1 Pesticide Residue analysis, State Dept. of Sanitation & Epidemiology, MOM



Moldova
Agriculture Development I Project
Table 103. Early Warning System NPO Codru, Porumbeni, Selectsia
Detailed Coats
(US$)
Onuantities           Unit              Base Cost
Unit  1997  1998  1999  2000  Total Cost  19l7  199A  1999  2000  Total
I. Investment Costs
A. Rquipmnt end Supplies
Dataloggers /a             Unit      30     -      -     -    30   0.6  18.0       -      -     -  18.0
Computers /b               Unit      10     -      -     -    10      4  40.0      -      -     -  40.0
Supplies /c                Month    12    12    12       -    36   0.4 _4 8J  4.8 4. 8          -  14A4
Total Investent Costa                                                            62.8   4.8   4.8       -  72.4
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Operations & Maintenance  Ls                                             6.3   6.3 __6.J 3.63  25.1
Total Recurrent Costs                                                           __6i 3   6.3  _6_3  6L3  25L1
Total                                                                             69.1  11.1  11.1   6.3  97.5
\a with leaf wetness, hi/lo temps, rainfall, etc. battery operated.
\b PCs for dataloggers, modem, standard software, printers
\c Supplies, parts, local travel, field demonstrations & foreign meetings.
Wed Apr 03 14:02:04 1996
3-1 Sarly Warning System NPO Codru, Porumbeni, Selectsia



Moldova
Agriculture Development I Project
Table 104. Communications and Peat Scouting Items
Detailed Costs
(US$)
Quantities             Unit              Base Cost
0niL  1997  1211  1999   2000   Total Cost  1997  l99   199  2000  Total
I  Invest t Cost.
A. Equipment and Supplies
Microscope /a               Unit      10    10       -           20   1.3  13.0  13.0        -      -  26.0
Minibikes                   Unit      10    10       -     -    20   2.2  22.0  22.0         -      -  44.0
Technical Supplies /b    Month    10    10    10    10    40             3  30.0  30.0  30.0  30.0 120.0
Total Inyastunt Coats                                                               65.0  65.0  30.0  30.0 190.0
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Operations & Maintenance  La                                                 6.S  6. 5   65   6 5.26&0
Total Recurrent Costs                                                               6.5   6.5   6.5   6.5  2610
Total                                                                                71.5  71.5  36.5  36.5 216.0
\a Zoom, stereoscopic, built-in illulminator for incident light.
\b Supplies, parts, local travel, field demonstrations and foreign meetings.
Wed Apr 03 14:02:07 1996
4-1 Communications and Pest scouting Items



Moldova
Agriculture Development I Project
Table 105. Research and Dent. at Nat'l Institute of Viticulture & Oenology
Detailed Costs
(US$)
Onanrit,isig            Unit                  Base Cost
VUni    1997   A2I8  ASfl - 2000  Tctal  Cogst  AL2           &1L9   1°°°    2000    Tct-l
I. Inv-es - t Costs
A. Plantation of 100 ha of high quality, virus-free clones of vineyards
Land Preparation                                                                   Ha         50     50       -      -    100  0.42    21.0    21.0          -            42.0
Imported genetic material                                                          Ha         50     50       -      -    100      5   250.0   250.0         -       -   500.0
Planting and inputs                                                                Ha         50     50       -      -    100  0.32    16.0    16.0          -       -    32.0
Care for seedlings                                                                 Ha         50    100    100       -    250  0.21    10.5    21.0    21.0          -    52.5
Trellising                                                                         Ha         75     75       -      -    150      2   150.0   150.0         -       -   300.0
Trellising                                                                         Ha         25     25      25     25    100      2          __Q_          Q 50.0 5.0 5.  5.0 20.0Q
Subtotal Plantation of 100 ha of high quality, virus-free clones of vineyards                                                             497.5   508.0    71.0    50.0 1,126.5
B. Experisantal wine Bottling and Conditioning Plant
1. Autq tic Bottling Line for Still Wines /a
Bottle washing line                                                            Unit      0.5    0.5        -      -      1    45    22.5    22.5         -        -    45.0
Bottle filling line (sterile bottling)                                         Unit      0.5    0.5        -      -      1    67    33.5    33.5         -        -    67.0
Bottle corking machine                                                         Unit      0.5    0.5        -      -      1    18      9.0      9.0       -        -    18.0
Complete labelling equipment                                                  Unit       0.5    0.5       -       -      1    95    47.5    47.5         -        -    95.0
Bottle wrapping equipment                                                      Unit      0.5    0.5        -      -      1    20    10.0    10.0         -        -    20.0
Thermoplastic capping equipment                                                Unit      0.5    0.5        -              1    30    15.0    15.0         -            30.0
Equipment for automatic placing bottles in crates                              Unit      0.5    0.5        -      -      1    66    33.0    33.0         -        -    66.0
Electric forklifts                                                             Unit         1      1       -      -      2    10    10.0    10.0         -        -    20.0
Ancillary equipment                                                            Set       0.5    0.5        -      -       1    66    -3.0    33.0        -    _        66.0
Subtotal Automatic Bottling Line for Still Wines                                                                                       213.5   213.5         -       -   427.0
2. Complete Bottlins Line for Sparkling Wines lb
Bottle washing line                                                            Unit      0.5    0.5        -      -      1    45    22.5    22.5         -        -    45.0
Bottle filling line (sterile bottling)                                         Unit      0.5    0.5        -      -       1   165    82.5    82.5        -        -   165.0
Bottle foiling equipment                                                       Unit       0.5    0.5       -      -       1    40    20.0    20.0         -       -    40.0
Complete labelling                                                             Unit      0.5    0.5        -      -       1    96    48.0    48.0         -       -    96.0
Bottle wrapping equipment                                                      Unit       0.5    0.5       -      -       1    31    15.5    15.5         -       -    31.0
Equipment for automatic filling of bottles into crates                         Unit      0.5    0.5        -      -       1    50    25.0    25.0         -       -    50.0
Ancillary equipment /c                                                         Unit       0.5    0.5       -      -       1    73  ..        3..I.5       -            73.0
Subtotal Complete Bottline Line for Sparkling Wines                                                                                    250.0   250.0         -       -   500.0
3. Ancillary Equipymnt
Grape presses (3 t/hr)                                                         Unit         1      1       -      -      2    65    65.0    65.0          -       -   130.0
Pasteurizer (500 dal/hr)                                                       Unit         1      1       -      -      2    20    20.0    20.0         -        -    40.0
Cooler                                                                         Unit         1      1       -      -      2    20    20.0    20.0         -        -    40.0
Crusher wl pumps, raw juice                                                    Unit         1      1       -      -      2    28    28.0    28.0          -       -    56.0
Lamelle filters (40x40 cm)                                                     Unit         1      1       -      -      2    11    11.0    11.0          -       -    22.0
Piston pumps (5 t/hr)                                                          Unit      2.5    2.5        -      -      5      5    12.5    12.5         -       -    25.0
Centrifugal pumps (5 t/hr)                                                     Unit      2.5    2.5        -      -      5      5    12.5    12.5         -       -    25.0
Rotary pumps for raw juice, w/ hopper (5 s/hr)                                 Unit         1      1       -      -      2    28    28.0    28.0          -       -    56.0
Spare parts                                                                     La                                                   65.0    65.0         -       -   130.0
Site preparation and installation costs                                         Ls                                                  1.0L  .175.0    _             -   350O0
Subtotal Ancillary Equipment                                                                                                            .0 437. 0    - -A3_               874.0
Subtotal Experimental Wine Bottling and Conditioning Plant                                                                                 900.5   900.5        -       - 1,801.0
C. Training
Genetics /d                                                                     Manmonth      15     15      15      -      45     3    45.0    45.0    45.0         -   135.0
D. Scientific Laboratory Equipment
Atomic absorption spectrometer                                                    Unit         1      -       -      -       1   100   100.0        -        -       -   100.0
Liquid chromatograph                                                              Unit         1      -       -      -       1    60    60.0        -        -       -    60.0
Gas chromatograph /e                                                              Unit         1      -       -      -       1    30    30.0        -        -       -    30.0
Spectrophotometer                                                                 Unit         1      -       -      -       1    50    50.0        -        -       -    50.0
Automatic titrator                                                                Unit         2      -       -      -       2    10    20.0        -        -       -    20.0
lonometer                                                                         Unit         2      -       -      -       2     4      8.0       -        -       -      8.0
Aminoacid analyzer                                                                Unit         1      -       -       -      1    40    40.0         -       -        -    40.0
Flane photometer                                                                  Unit         1      -       -      -       1     8      8.0       -        -       -      8.0
Refractometer                                                                     Unit         1       -      _              1    15    15.0        -                      15.0
Fluorescent Spectrometer                                                          Unit         1      -       -      -       1    40    40.0        -        -        -    40.0
Microscope                                                                        Unit         2      -       -              2     8    16.0         -                     16.0
Balances                                                                          Unit         2      -       -              2     4      8.0       -        _        _     8.0
Balances                                                                          Unit         2      -       -              2     8    16.0         -       -        -    16.0
Imidometer                                                                        Unit         1      -       -              1     8      8.0       -        -              8.0
Bioreactor                                                                        Unit         I      -       -              1    30    30.0         -       -             30.0
Thermostate (automatic)                                                           Unit         2       -              -      2     1      2.0        -       -              2.0
Drying oven                                                                       Unit         1       -      -      _       1     2      2.0        -       -              2.0
Spectrophotometer (Russian)                                                       Unit         1      -       _              1     1      1.0        -                _     1.0
Field refractometer                                                               Unit         1       -      -      -       1     1      1.0        -       -              1.0
Cold chamber +10 to -40 dgr. C                                                    Unit         1       -      -       -      1    10    10.0         -       -        -    10.0
Centrifuge with cooling                                                           Unit         1       -      -       -      1     1      1.0        -       -        -     1.0
Portable instruments for field evaluation of leaves                               Unit         1       -      -       -      1    1S    15.0         -       -             15.0
5-1 Research  nd Devt. at Nat'l Institute of Viticulture   O Oenology



Portable instruments for field evaluation photosynthesis                        Unit         1       -             _       1    1S    15.0        -                     15.0
Luxometer (Russian)                                                             Unit         1       -      -      -       1     1     1.0        -       -        -     1.0
Meteostation                                                                    Unit         1       -      -      -       1    35    35.0        -       -        -    35.0
Chemicals and disposables /f                                                      Ls                                                  50.0    50.0    50.0         -   150.0
Site preparation and installation                                                Ls                                                   35 O        -       -        -    35 
Subtotal Scientific Laboratory Equipm-nt                                                                                                617.0    50.0    50.0         -   717.0
N. Completion of Institute's Genetic Bank ig
1. Imported genetic materials                                                    Ha          8       8      -      -     16  6.25    50.0    50.0         -       -   100.0
2. Chemicals and disposables                                                      Ha         5       5      S             15     3    15.0    lS O    15           -   A
Subtotal Completion of Institute's Genetic Bank                                                                                          65.0    65.0    15.0         -   145.0
F. Trial Nurseries and Experimental Vineyard Plots
Complete equipment for trial nursery workshop                                   Unit         I       -      -      -       1    20    20.0        -       -       -    20.0
Grape seedling planter                                                           Unit        1       -      -      -       1    20    20.0        -       -        -    20.0
Vineyard tractor & full set of equipment                                         Unit        4       -      -      -       4    25   100.0        -       -        -   100.0
Vineyard sprayers                                                               Unit         S       -      -      -       5    12    60.0        -       -        -    60.0
Grape harvester (trailed)                                                       Unit         1          -          -       1    20    20.0        -       -       -    20.0
Fertilizer spreader                                                             Unit         2       -      -      -      2      5    10.0        -       -        -    10.0
Chemicals and disposables                                                        TH      2,000  4,000  4,000       - 10,000  0.01    20.0    40A 0    40L0 --------   100 0
Subtotal Trial Nurseries and Experimental Vineyard Plots                                                                                250.0    40.0    40.0         -   330.0
G. REstablishment of Drip Irrigation /h
Drip irrigation in nursery                                                        Ha         5       5      -             10   6.5    32.5    32.5        -             65.0
Full drip irrigation upgrade greenhouse                                          Ha          -       1      -              1    42       -    420  .... -             __420
Subtotal Establishment of Drip Irrigation                                                                                                32.5    74.5        -        -   107.0
N. Computerization of Research Network
1. Computer Systems
Lan server /i                                                                Set          1       -      -      -      1    25    25.0         -       -       -    25.0
Lan workstation /j                                                           Unit         I       -      -      -      1    53    53.0         -       -       -    53.0
Site preparation and installation costs                                      Set                                                   2.5L0       -       -       -    25 0
Subtotal Computer Systems                                                                                                            103 .0       -       -        -   103. 0
2. Supplemental technology equipment/supplies
Zoom FaxModem VFPV32bis, MNP-S, 4-42bis, internal                            Unit         1       -      -      -       1   0.9     0.9        -       -       -      0.9
FaxModem Hayes-compatible external 14.4K/MNP-5                               Unit         1         -                   1   0.4     0.4        -       -        -     0.4
FX-1OOOR dot matrix printer (Latin/Cryllic)                                  Unit         1         -                  1   7.5      7.5        -       -       -      7.5
Smart-UPS 600 va (5sOWt)                                                     Unit         1         -                   1   0.7     0.7        -       -        -     0.7
LaserJet 4L, 600 dpi + RET, A4, lMB t MET                                    Unit         1       -                     1   3.2    3.2         -                      3 2
Subtotal Supplemental technology equipment/supplies                                                                                   12.7        -                     12.7
3. Supplemental LAN components /k                                               Unit        25       -      -            25   0.5    12.5         -                     12.5
4. Accessories
250 MB casette for type backup                                               Set          1      1       1      1      4      1     1.0      1.0     1.0     1.0      4.0
Diskettes 1.44 MB/3.5' HD                                                    Set          1       1      1      1      4   0.8      0.8      0 .8    0.8     0 .8     3. 2
Diskettes 1.2MB/5.25  HD                                                     Set          1       1      1      1      4   0.8      0.8      0.8     0.8     0.8      3.2
Ribbons for dot matrix printer                                               Set          1       1      1      1      4   0.3      0.3      0.3     0.3     0.3      1.2
Cleaning diskettes 3.5"                                                      Set          1       1      1      1      4   0.1      0.1      0.1     0.1     0.1      0.4
Cleaning diskettes 5.25"                                                     Set          1       1      1      1      4   0.1      0.1      0.1     0.1     0.1      0.4
Monitor filters                                                              Set          1       1      1      1       4   0.2     0.2      0.2     0.2     0.2      0.8
Toner cartridge for LaserJet printer                                         Set          1       1      1      1       4   0.4     0.4      0.4     0.4     0.4      1.6
Mouse pad                                                                    Set          3       -      -      -       3 0.002     0.0        -       -        -     0.0
Disk box 3.5" (40 diskettes)                                                 Set          1       1      1      1       4   0.5     0.5      0.5     0.5     0.5      2.0
Disk box 5.25" (100 diskettes)                                               Set          1       1      1      1       4   0.5    .S 05     OS      O S     .05S  2.0
Subtotal Accessories                                                                                                                   4.7      4.7     4.7     4.7    18.8
5. Software
MS DOS 6.2                                                                   Unit         1       -      -      -       1   0.1     0.1        -       -        -     0.1
MS Windows, latest version (Russian)                                         Unit         1                             1   0.1     0.1                         -     0.1
Novell NetWare version 3.11, 10 users (Russian)                              Unit         1       -                     1   1.4     1.4                        -      1.4
Lotus 123, version 4.0 for Windows (Russian)                                 Unit         1       -                     1   0.1     0.1        -                -     0.1
Lotus cetMail Platf. Pack (Russian)                                          Unit         1       -      -      -       1   0.4     0.4        -       -        -     0.4
Lotus 123 Freelance 2.0 for Windows                                          Unit         1       -      -      -       1   0.4     0.4        -       -        -     0.4
Corel DRAW v. 4.0                                                            Unit         1       -                     1   0.6     0.6        -       -        -     0.6
Corel ArtShow 4 (or latest)                                                  Unit         I       -      -      -      1   0.1      0.1        -       -        -     0.1
Corel Ventura publisher v. 4.2                                               Unit         1       -      -      -       1   0.3     0.3        -       -        -     0.3
SU Fontpack Lite (Russian True-Type fonts) 1 of 5)                           Unit         1       -      -      -       1   0.1     0.1        -       -        -     0.1
Type fonts 1 of S                                                             Unit        1                             1   0.1     0.1        -                -     0.1
Tiger vs. 1.5 (for ScanJet)                                                   Unit        1       -                     1   0.1     0.1        -                -     0.1
Corel DRAW v. 4.0 (Russific.kit)                                              Unit        1       -                     1   0.1     0.1        -                -     0.1
Corel Vent. Publ. v. 4.2 (Russific.kit)                                       Unit        1                        -    1   0.1     0.1        -                      0.1
FontLab v. 2.5 for Windows                                                   Unit         1       -      -      -       1   0.4     0.4        -            -         0.4
Applied software                                                              Set         1       -      -      -       1    29    29.0        -       -        -    29.0
Training of scientist users                                                    Ls                                                  10.0        -       -        -    10 0
Subtotal Software                                                                                                                     4 3 . 4 .                         43 4
Subtotal Computerization of Research Network                                                                                            176.3      4.7     4.7      4.7   190.4
I. Vineyard Pest Forecasting
Risk model                                                                       Unit        1       -      -       -      1    84    84.0        -        -       -    84.0
Training                                                                       Manmonth      2       -      -       -      2     3      6 -i0 _.0 -
Subtotal Vineyard Poet Forecasting                                                                                                        90.0       -        -       -    90.0
J. Rebahilitation of Viticulture Nurseries /1
1. Nursery 1
Reconstruction of workshop                                                     Ls                                                      -    50.0       -        -    50.0
5-2 Reser-h  nd Devt. at Nat'l Institute of Viticulture & Oenology



Reconstruction of heating system                                             Set                                                      -    30.0        -       -    30.0
Drilling artesian well                                                       Set                                                      -    20.0        -       -    20.0
Construction seedling storage                                                Set                                                      -    20.0        -       -    20.0
Rehabilitation of transformation system                                      Set          -      1       -      -      1    20        -    20.0        -       -    20.0
Modernization technology for graft program.                                   La -s..2                                                           ------        -
Subtotal Nursery 1                                                                                                                       -   170.0        -       -   170.0
2. Nursery 2
Reconstruction of workshop                                                    Ls                                                      -    20.0        -       -    20.0
Rehabilitation of irrigation system                                           Ls                                                           40.0                     40.0
Modernization technology for graft program                                    Ls                                                      -    25.0        -       -    25.0
Establishment of rootstock nursery                                            Ls                                                      -    60.0        -       -    60.0
Establishment of graft nursery                                                Ls                                                   _-    6g ------ -                60-0
Subtotal Nursery 2                                                                                                                       -   205 0        -       -   205 0
3. Nursery 3
Reconstruction of workshop                                                    Ls                                                   50s0        -       -       -    50.0
Rehabilitation of irrigation system                                           Ls                                                   70.0                             70.0
Modernization technology for graft program                                    Ls                                                   20.0       -        -       -    20.0
Establishment rootstock nursery                                               Ls                                                   60.0       -        -       -    60. 0
Establishment of graft nursery                                                Ls                                                   60.0        -                     60.0
Vineyard tractors                                                            Unit         2      -       -      -      2    25    50.0         -       -       -    50.0
Vineyard cultivation equipment                                                Ls                                                   15 I0      -    _                    15 0
Subtotal Nursery 3                                                                                                                   325.0        -       -       -   325.0
4. Nursery 4
Reconstruction of workshop                                                    Ls                                                      -    30.0        -       -    30.0
Rehabilitation of irrigation system                                           Ls                                                      -    70.0        -       -    70.0
Modernization technology for graft program                                    Ls                                                           20.0        -       -    20.0
Establishment rootstock nursery                                               Ls                                                      -    30.0        -       -    30.0
Establishment of graft nursery                                                Ls                                                      -    30.0        -            30.0
Vineyard tractors                                                            Unit         -      1       -      -      1    25        -    25.0        -       -    25.0
Vineyard cultivation equipment                                                Ls                                                           1 0 0                     100
Subtotal Nursery 4                                                                                                                           215.0                     215.0
5. Nursery 5
Reconstruction of workshop                                                    Ls                                                      -    25.0                      25.0
Reconstruction of heating system                                              Ls                                                      -    35.0        -       -    35.0
Rehabilitation of irrigation system                                           Ls                                                           35.0                      35.0
Modern, tech. for graft program                                               Ls                                                           15.0        -             15.0
Establishment rootstock nursery                                               Ls                                                      -    45.0        -       -    45.0
Establishment of graft nursery                                                Ls                                                      -    9     --2--- 0-     -     7s.
Subtotal Nursery 5                                                                                                                       -   180.0        -        -   180.0
6. Nursery 6
Reconstruction of workshop                                                    Ls                                                      -        -    10.0        -    10.0
Rehabilitation of irrigation system                                           Ls                                                      -        -    60.0       -    60.0
Reconstruction of pond                                                        Ls                                                      -        -    10.0       -    10.0
Modern. tech. for graft program                                                Ls                                                                   20.0        -    20.0
Establishment rootstock nursery                                               Ls                                                                    60.0       -    60.0
Establishment of graft nursery                                                Ls                                                      -        -    45.0       -    45.0
Vineyard tractors                                                            Unit         -       -      1              1    25       -        -    25.0        -    25.0
Vineyard cultivation equipment                                                 Ls                                               _    _         -    10-         -    1010
Subtotal Nursery 6                                                                                                                        -       -   240.0        -   240.0
7. Nursery 7
Reconstruction of workshop                                                    Ls                                                      -        -    50.0        -    50.0
Rehabilitation of irrigation system                                            Ls                                                     -        -    40.0        -    40.0
Reconstruction of pond                                                         Ls                                                     -        -    20.0        -    20.0
Modernization technology for graft program                                     Ls                                                                   20.0        -    20.0
Establishment rootstock nursery                                               La                                                      -        -    30.0        -    30.0
Establishment of graft nursery                                                Ls                                                      -        -    300        -    300
Subtotal Nursery 7                                                                                                                        -       -   190.0        -   190.0
8. Nursery 8
Reconstruction of workshop                                                    Ls                                                                    35.0             35.0
Rehabilitation of irrigation system                                           Ls                                                                    40.0             40.0
Reconstruction of pond                                                        Ls                                                      -        -    20.0        -    20.0
Modern. tech. for graft program                                                Ls                                                                   20.0        -    20.0
Establishment rootstock nursery                                               Ls                                                      -        -    60.0        -    60.0
Establishment of graft nursery                                                Ls                                                   _           -    15.0   _15 
Subtotal Nursery 8                                                                                                                        -       -   190.0        -   190.0
9. Genetic Materials for Nurseries                                                Ls                                                     - ---  330.0  3J30 IL0  310.0&  990 O
Subtotal ehabilitation of Viticulture Nurseries                                                                                       i325 .0 1100J 0   950 30         2 02 705LZ  0
Total Investment Costs                                                                                                                     2,998 .8 2,787.7 1,175.7   384 .7 7,346.9
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Operations & Maintenance
Scientific Laboratory Equipment                                                   Ls                                                  61.7    61.7    61.7    61.7   246.8
Trial Nurseries & Vineyard Plots                                                  Ls                                                  25.0    25.0    25.0    25.0   100.0
Vineyard Pest Forecasting                                                         Ls                                                    9.0     9.0     9.0      9.0    36.0
Viticulture nurseries operations /m                                               Ls                                                  _        0A p 30  0    300 0   300fl 0   900 20.
Total Recurrent Costs                                                                                                                         95t7   395a7   395.7   395.7 1 2828
Total                                                                                                                                       3,094 5 3,183 4 1,571 4   780 4 8,629 7
5-3 Research a-d Devt. at Nat'l Institute of Viticulture & oenology



\a 3,000 bottles/hr.
\b 3,000 bottles/hr.
\c Pumps, transporters, cooling, pasteurizing, filters, etc.
\d Growing and processing, technology, biometrics, agric. economics, market research, viticulture farm management.
\e With flame ionization selection detector.
\f Reagents, spares.
\g On about 16 ha. Based on 1,000 Th/tractor/yr and $10/th.
\h On 10 ha of viticulture nursery of 1 ha of viticulture greenhouse. Costs include design, all equiment, freight and insurance, on-site installation supervision, and periodic
on-site technical and agronomic support during the first season.
\i Intel Pentium 486 DX/100 Mhz, Cache 256 KB external, 32 bit interface, 32 MB RAM, HDD STI2400N, 2100MB, 10ma, SVGA card, SVGA 14" monitor (1024 KB video RAM, .39), CD-ROM, 600
MB, SCSI, internal, Dual floppy, 3.55,5.25, Jumbo 3.5", 250 MB drive.
\j Intel 486DX/66, Cache 256 KB external, 32 bit interface, 32 MB RAM, 70ns, 210 MB IDE disk driver, 3.5" 1.44 MB 5.25" 1.2 MB hi.d. FDD, XVGA card, SVGA monitor (1024 kb RAM) 14",
2 serial/l parallel interface board, standard 101 keyboard Cyrillic.
\k Intelligent bhub (about 25 connections)
\l Location of Nurseries: l-JSC Velen, rayon Vulcanesti; 2-Agric. cooperative Peresecina, rayon Orhei; 3-Agrofirma Vornitsheni, rayon Strasheni; 4-Agric. Enterprise Butucel, rayon
Strasheni; 5-JSC Mugurel, village Kozhushna, rayon Strasheni; 6-Agrofirm Gura.
\m Operating costs only for first year as remaining years are covered by sales revenues.
Wed Apr 03 14:02:32 1996
-4 Rs-arch Pa d D-lvt  At Katl Tnhtiit:te of VitiulMture & Oenoloov



Moldova
Agriculture Development I Project
Table 106. Demonstrations of Modern Production Technology
Detailed Costs
(US$)
Duantities            Unit            Base Cost
Unit  1997  1998  1999  2000      AX Ttta   C 997  1998  1999  2000  Total
I. Investment Costs
A. Demonstration of Modern Production Technology
1. Drip Irrig Demonstration - JSC Nistru. rayon Orhei
Drip irrigation in fruit orchard                                    Ha      45    46      -      -    91   4.1 184.5 188.6      -     - 373.1
External delivery pipe                                             Pipe       1     -     -     -      1    39  39.0      -     -     -39.0
Subtotal Drip Irrig Demonstration - JSC Nistru, rayon Orhei                                                       223.5 188.6      -      - 412.1
2. Drip Irrig Demonstration - JSC Besarabia distr. Aneni-Noi
Drip irrigation in fruit orchard                                    Ha      45    45      -      -    90   3.3 148.5 148.5      -     - 297.0
External delivery pipe                                             Pipe       1     -     -     -      1    48  48.0      -           -  48.0
Subtotal Drip Irrig Demonstration - JSC Besarabia distr. Aneni-Noi                                                196.5 148.5      -      - 345.0
3. Crop Protection Equipment
Air blast sprayer for orchards                                     Unit      10     -            _    10    20 200.0      -     -     -200.0
Total Investment Costs                                                                                                    620.0 337.1      -     - 957.1
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Operations & Maintenance /a                                            Ls                                                    -     -            -
Total Recurrent Costs                                                                                                               -      -           -
Total                                                                                                                      620.0 337.1      -     - 957.1
\a Covered by revenues from nurseries
Wed Apr 03 14:02:34 1996
6-1 fl-onstrations of Modern Production Technology



Moldova
Agriculture Development I Project
Table 107. Support to Research Institute for Fruit Production
Detailed Costs
(US$)
Ouantities            Unit                   Base Cost
Unit   1997  1998  1999  200n Total Cost   1997    1998    1999    2000    Total
I. Investment Costs
A. Support to Research Institute
1. Drip Irrigation in Nursery (Equipment)             Ha        17     -      -     _    17      3    51.0        -        _        _    51.0
2. Delivery, site preparation and installation    Ha            17     -      -     -    17   0.6    10.2         -        -        -    10.2
3. Training
Virology, genetics, etc.                       Manmonth    15    15    15        -    45      3    45.0    45.0    45.0          -   135.0
4. Equipment, Materials and Supplies
Imported genetic materials                       Set         1      -     -      -     1   100   100.0         -        -       -   100.0
Chemical reagents                                 Ls                                                5.0      5.0      5.0       -    15.0
Spare parts                                       Ls                                               10.0    10.0       5.0        -    25.0
Computers and software                           Set                                                4.0        -        -        -     4.0
Publications                                     Set                                              100.0   100.0   100.0         -   300.0
Delivery, site preparation and installation    Ls                                                  24 0             -        _       24-0
Subtotal Equipment. Materials and Supplies                                                           243.0   115.0   110.0          -   468.0
5. Laboratory Equipment                               Ls                                             196.0         -       -        -   196.0
6. Chemicals                                          Ls                                              80.0    50.0    45.0          -   175.0
7. Delivery, site preparation and installation    Ls                                                  35.0        -        -        -    35.0
8. Experimental Production Line
Experimental production line                      Ls                                              500.0   280.0         -        -   780.0
Site preparation and installation                  Ls                                            _145_.0       -        -        - 14.
Subtotal Experimental Production Line                                                                6450Ai    280.0       -        -   92.0
Total Investment Costs                                                                                     1,305.2   490.0   200.0          - 1,995.2
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Operations & Maintenance                              Ls                                               25.0        25.0    .2L...2.0   100Q0
Total Recurrent Costs                                                                                        .25 0      25.0 25.0    25.0   100.0
Total                                                                                                       1,330 .2   515.0   225 .0    25.0 2,095.2
Wed Apr 03 14:02:39 1996
7-1 Sunr rt to Research Institute for Fruit Production



Moldova
Agriculture Development I Project
Table 108. Vegetable Propogation - Porumbeni
Detailed Costs
(USS)
Duantities            Unit            Baae Cost
Unit  19       i  19999  2000  Toal CCot  1997  1998  1999  2000  Total
I. Inves-tment Costs
A. Seed Potato Mechanization
Mounted reversable plough (3 furr., 90 cm)         Unit       1     -                  1    10  10.0      -     -     - 10.0
Mounted heavy cultivator, 3-4m                     Unit       1     -     -      -     1    10  10.0      -     -     -  10.0
Mounted offset disc, 3m                            Unit       1     -     -      -     1     8   8.0      -     -     -   8.0
Mounted ridger, 4 rows                             Unit       1     -     -      -     1     6   6.0      -     -     - 6.0
Mounted fertilizer spreader, 1500 1                Unit       1     -                  1     5   5.0      -     -     -   5.0
Fully automatic planter, 4r., 3 pt. hitch          Unit      1      -     -      -     1    14  14.0                  -    .0
Harvester, 2 rows                                  Unit      1I                        1    85  85.0      -     -     - 85.0
Sorting line, 4 sizes, 6 t/h                       Unit      1      -     -      -     1    15  15.0            -     -  15.0
Spare parts                                         Set      1      -     -      -     1    30  30.0                     30 - 30.0
Certified seed                                       T     150      -     -      - 150   0.7 2&L.Q              - .... -20.
Subtotal Seed Potato Mechanization                                                                288.0      -     -       288.0
B. Plasticulture
Plastic mulches, low tunnels, walk-in tunnels /a  Ha        60      -     -     -    60   2.5 150.0       -  _        - 15.Q
Total Investment Costa                                                                                 438.0                    438.0
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Operations and maintenance                          LS                                              -  .0.~s  1.0n nss   5.
Total Recurrent Cost                                                                                  4       15.0   15.0  15.0 483.0
Total                                                                                                   436.0  15.0  15.0  15.0 483.0
\a About 20 ha each for North, Central and south Moldova.
Wed Apr 03 14:02:43 1996
8-1 Vegetable Propogation - Porumbeni



Moldova
Agriculture Development I Project
Table 109. Livestock Breeding - Tevit
Detailed Costs
(US$)
Ouantities            Unit              Race Cost
Unit  1997  1998  1999  2000  Total rost  1997  1998  1999  2000  Total
I. Investment Costs
A. Artificial Insemination Equipment  ls                                             3 0        -      -     - 3D0
Total Investment Costs                                                                    300.0      -     -      - 300.0
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Operation and Maintenance             Ls                                             -    30.0  30.0  30-0  90.0
Total Recurrent Costs                                                                         -  30.0  30.0  30 .    90.0
Total                                                                                      300.0  30.0  30.0  30.0 390.0
Wed Apr 03 14:02:47 1996
9-1 Livestock Breeding - Tevit



Moldova
Agriculture Development I Project
Table 201. Institutional Strengthening
Detailed Costs
(US$)
Ouantities             Unit             Base Cost
Unit  1997  19H  1               Total Cost  199   fl8  1otal
I. Invest-ent Costs
A. TA And Studies
1. Training and Technical Assistance /a                       Ls                                           200.0 200.0       -      - 400.0
B. MA Grains Regulatory Labs
1. Office Equipment
Photocopier                                               Unit       1      -     -      -     1      2   2.0      -      -      -   2.0
Telephone Answering system with fax                       Unit       1      -     -      -      1     1   1.0      -      -      -   1.0
Personal Computer (pentium)                               Unit       1      -                  1      2   2.0      _      _          2.0
Printer                                                   Unit       1      -     -      -     1      1   1.0      -      -      -   1.0
LIMS software                                              La                                            30.0      -      -      -30-0
Subtotal Office Equipment                                                                                    36.0      -     -      -  36.0
2. Laboratory Equipment
Kjeldahl nitrogen, protein analyzer /b                    Unit       1      -     -      -     1    30  30.0       -      -      -  30.0
Grinding Mill: Cyclotec, Cemotec Quick                    Unit       2      -     -             2    10  20.0       -     -      -  20.0
Multi-sample Digestion System /c                          Unit       1         -      -         1    10  10.0       -     -      -  10.0
Solvent Extraction System for fat Soxtec System HT 6 Unit            1      -     -      -     1    20  20.0       -      -      -  20.0
Near Infrared Transmittance /d                            Unit       1      -     -             1    40  40.0      -      -      -  40.0
Electronic Analytical Balance /e                          Unit       2      -     _            2      5  10.0      -      -      -  10.0
Analyzer falling number /f                                Unit       2      -     -      -      2    20  40.0       -     -      -  40.0
Instant measurement moisture /g                           Unit       1      -                   1    10  10.0          -         -  10.0
Fiber analyzing system                                    Unit                                           25.0      -      -      -  25.0
Amino acid analyzer                                       Unit       1      -     -      -      1    85  85.0       -     -      -  85.0
Atomic absorption spectrometer                            Unit       1      -      -            1    30  30.0       -               30.
Subtotal Laboratory Equipment                                                                               320.0      -      -     - 320.0
3. Study Tour
Airline tickets                                            Ls                                              8.0      -     -      -   8.0
Subsistence expenses /h                                    Ls                                             6.0      -      -      -   6.0
Tour organization                                          La                                              4.0      -     -      - 40
Subtotal Study Tour                                                                                            .O      -           _  -     .0
Subtotal MAP Grains Regulatory Labs                                                                            374.0      -      -     -374.0
Total Investment Costs                                                                                              574.0 200.0      -      - 774.0
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Operations & Maintenance                                       Ls                                            31.0  62.0  62.0  62.0 217.O
Total Recurrent Costs                                                                                                31.0  62.0  62.0  62.0 217.0
Total                                                                                                                605.0 262.0  62.0  62.0 991.0
\a For agricultural research, extension and education study tours and agro-enterprise management training.
\b Kjeltec Auto 1030, combined with digestion system 20 forming the Kjeltec Auto System II
\c for semi-micro Kjeldahl or for wet descructions
\d Infratec whole grain analyzer infratec-1226
\e 0-50g, readability 0.01S
\f Falling number 1500
\g In whole grains, feed... Moisture systems.
\h Including local transport
Wed Apr 03 14:02:51 1996
10-1 Institutional Strengthening



Moldova
Agriculture Development I Project
Table 301. Policy Planning & Project Preparation
Detailed Costs
(US$)
Ouantities            Unit              Base Cost
unit  1997  1998  1999  2000  Ttal Cost  1997  199AliS_ 2000  Total
I. Investment Costs
A. Project Preparation                 Months    13      -      -     -    13    15 195.0       -      -     - 195.0
B. Acva Projekt
Personal computers                  Unit       8      -                  8      4  32.0      -     -      -  32.0
Jet plotters                        Unit       2      -      -     -     2      6  12.0      -      -     -  12.0
Digitizer                           Unit       2      -                  2      3   6.0      -      -     -   6.0
Novel network                       Unit       2      -     -      -     2      3   6.0      -      -     -   6.0
Software                            Set        2      -      -     -     2    22A l          -      -     -  44.0
Subtotal Acva Projekt                                                                1000       -      -     -100 0
Total Investment Costs                                                                    295.0      -     -      - 295.0
11. Recurrent Costs
A. Operating Costs for Akva Projekt   Ls                                              1.0   3.0   310   3.0  10A 0
Total Recurrent Costs                                                                      1..W    3Li0   3.  _3-   1
Total                                                                                      296.0   3.0   3.0   3.0 305.0
Wed Apr 03 14:02:56 1996
11-l Policy Planning & Project Preparation



Moldova
Agriculture Development I Project
Table 401. Project Management
Detailed Cost.
(US$)
ouantities            Unit              Base Cost
Unit     1997  1998  1999  2000  Total Cogt  1997  1998  19_ 2000  Total
I. Invest mnt Costs
A. Technical Assistance
Procurement Services /a    Contract        1      -     -      -     1   200 200.0       -     -      - 200.0
Training                      Months       6   2.7      -      -   8.7    15  90.0  40.5        -     - 130.5
Annual Audit, other TA          Ls                                             10.0  10.0  10.0  10.0  40.0
Subtotal Technical Assistance                                                    300.0  50.5  10.0  10.0 370.5
B. affice Equipment
Photocopier                    Unit        1      -     -      -     1      6   6.0      -     -      -   6.0
Fax                            Unit        1      -     -      -     1      3   3.0      -     -      -   3.0
LaserJet printer               Unit        2      -     -      -     2      4   8.0      -     -      -   8.0
Computer and software          Unit        5      -     -      -     5      3  15.0      -     -      -  15.0
Portable computers             Unit        2      -     -      -     2      6  12.0      -     -      -  12.0
Misc. small equipment           Ls                                              3.0   3.0       -     -   6.0
Furniture /b                   Unit
Automobiles                    Unit        2      -     -      -     2    15  30.0       -      -        30.0
Subtotal Office Equipment                                                         77.0   30              -8.0
Total Investment Costs                                                                377.0  53.5  10.0  10.0 450.5
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Local Staff /c                Months      60    60    60    60   240   0.5  30.0  30.0  30.0  30.0 120.0
B. Office O&M /d                   Ls                                             20.0  20.0  20.0  20.0  80.0
C. Computer supplies               Ls                                             5.0..    s.0._    5.0   5.0  20.0
Total Recurrent Costs                                                                  55.o  55.0  55.o  55.0 220kO
Total                                                                                  432.0 108.5  65.0  65.0 670.5
\a Second and third years of this contract will be funded from the Energy and other Bank loans. This TA will service all Bank projects in Moldova.
\b Supplied from MAF's surplus stocks.
\c Manager, Economist/M&E Specialist, Accountant, Administrative Assistance, Bilingual Secretary.
\d Telecommunications, Paper, Local Transport, Energy, etc.
Wed Apr 03 14:03:00 1996
12-1 Project Management






28'
T. N--  t  ,rO o                                              M O  L D O  V A
9#x _f  f<Mogilev-              ~~~~~~U K R A I N E
*-"x        '                                        lo Vitinitta 0skiy  r                                        SELECTED CITIES
B _  asrichani  f    r    \   .
- *; X*  NATIONAL CAPITAL
RIVERS
48shkorti X   $ J                                  t,,48'                             -     -t   RAILROADS
g   \ ats  F l o  _                     V ;IIR  ROADS
Ribni'ia                  ~~~INTERNATIONAL
b -7Bohi  ginifa W                    BOUNDARIES
R;                    __ __ _ __                  __Yezina__   _
tN                                 Th  hoandarieT.  o-o-s-
denination  and  -nY
olthis  no   do, no.t
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ini, .T l on totus of 
Orhei                             ~~~~~~~~The World Bank Gr-p
un.y tdgn-n on the 1legalp
iI*                 Status~w  of  -ny trritorY,
Kolorash                                                          o  asnri  e     f ndor-e
8 r  70 4t,1 ngheni                                   Gri \  > <D orio   jo
<_  0      9_C~~~~~~~                  ~~HISINAU                          T. r Ky.,
0 g ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ? 0~~~~~~~~~~~chesh,Bend                                                        r spo
-                         70 Husj 5       |      V        %x    <s~~~~~~~~~~~~~'Kcushenil/t
E                       )       /         X       t              _/< ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Dnestrovsk 
i         ,1CiishliyaC
R O M ANIA                           (ovo                                                                       Od
Ta Birld J         Comral                -
o   I r X   2   |   '  n T .A r l s1 -  T o. T e e rb u n - y
46                      1                                 -l t               {  Lunga/J    j         UU K  R  A    I N    E                                  46°
r                     tCagulN           /, jog
Vulkan       eh
J  (    4\   170 Ba olgiad                                , 
Jurdjul. sli;   li                                                                      2 L A 
:Galati   ,-                                      Do, t  ~"e                              F.
KILOMETERS
0!25               50           7,5         ,'  T. B-ch.resv  .. .. ......
and Cons-f-nta      ,        (
0                   25                   50
MILES
28'                                                                             30'
NOVEMBER 1995









IMAGING
Report No:      15120 MD
Type: SAR



