Page  1
                                                          CONFORMED COPY
                                                      LOAN NUMBER 4011 MD
                              Loan Agreement
                       (First Agriculture Project)
                                  between
                            REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA
                                    and
                  INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                              AND DEVELOPMENT
                             Dated July 3, 1996
                                                      LOAN NUMBER 4011 MD
                              LOAN AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated July 3, 1996, between REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA (the
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
(the Bank).
     WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility
and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement,
has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; and
     WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and condi-
tions set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                               ARTICLE I
                   General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Single Currency
Loan and Guarantee Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the Bank,
dated May 30, 1995, (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part
of this Agreement.
     Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several
terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the
following additional terms have the following meanings:
     (a)  "Acvaprojekt" means the Institute of Water Management,
established pursuant to Council of Ministers' Decision No. 28, dated
January 22, 1965 and registered with the State Register Office on
September 10, 1992 under registration No. 10300708;
Page  2
     (b)  "Grains Regulatory Laboratory" means the grains regulatory
laboratory established by the Borrower pursuant to Government Decision
No. 59, dated January 26, 1995 and registered with the State Register
Office on August 25, 1995 under registration No. 10603216;
     (c)  "MAF" means the Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture and Food
or any successor thereto;
     (d)  "NIVO" means the National Institute of Viticulture and Oenology
established by the Borrower pursuant to Government Decision No. 383,
dated October 9, 1990 and registered with the State Register Office on
October 27, 1992 under registration No. 10201434;
     (e)  "NIVO Agreement" means the agreement entered into by NIVO with
each Participating Vine Nursery as specified in paragraph 3 of Schedule
5 to this Agreement for the purposes of carrying out Part A.1(iii) of the
Project;
     (f)  "NPO Tevit" means the Research Institute for Veterinary and
Livestock established by the Borrower pursuant to Government Decision
No. 108, dated March 30, 1995 and registered with the State Register
Office on March 11, 1996 under registration No. 124015951;
     (g)  "Participating Vine Nurseries" means the vine nurseries
selected by NIVO, in consultation with the Bank, to participate in Part
A.1(iii) of the Project;
     (h)  "Pest Forecasting Laboratory" means the pest forecasting
laboratory of the MAF re-established by the Borrower pursuant to a
Government Decision in April 1995 and registered with the State
Register Office on August 4, 1992 under registration No. 10500369;
     (i)  "PMC" means the Project Management Committee, established
pursuant to Government Decision No. 70, dated March 4, 1996, and
referred to in paragraph 2 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
     (j)  "Porumbeni" means the scientific-industrial association of
the MAF, registered in the Borrower's State Register office on October
6, 1992 under registration No. 13800057;
     (k)  "PPC" means the inter-ministerial Project Planning Committee,
established pursuant to Government Decision No. 69, dated March 4,
1996, and referred to in paragraph 1 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
     (l)  "Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation
advance granted by the Bank to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange of
letters, dated March 12, 1996 and March 15, 1996, between the Borrower
and the Bank;
     (m)  "RIFP" means the Research Institute for Horticultural
Selection and Technologies, established by the Borrower pursuant to
Government Decision No. 383, dated October 9, 1990 and registered with
the State Register Office on November 18, 1992 under registration
No. 10201651;
     (n)  "RIFP Agreement" means the agreement entered into by RIFP
with each Selected Farm as specified in paragraph 3 of Schedule 5 to
this Agreement for the purposes of carrying out Part A.2(i) of the
Project;
     (o)  "Selected Farms" means the farms selected by the Borrower,
in consultation with the Bank, to participate in Part A.2(i) of the
Project;
     (p)  "Sanitation and Epidemiology Laboratory" means the
epidemiology laboratory of the Borrower's Ministry of Health
established by the Borrower pursuant to Government Decision No. 29,
dated July 28, 1995;
     (q)  "Selectsia" means the Field Crops Research Institute, re-
established by the Borrower pursuant to Government Decision No. 108,
Page  3
dated March 30, 1995, amending the October 20, 1994 Decision of the
Ministry of Agriculture, and registered with the State Register
Office on June 26, 1993 under registration No. 12101640; and
     (r)  "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section
2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
                              ARTICLE II
                               The Loan
     Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount
equal to ten million Dollars ($10,000,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
     (b)  The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and
maintain in Dollars a separate special deposit account in a commercial
bank acceptable to the Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or
attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of the Special Account shall
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
     (c)  Promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the
amount required to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation
Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid
charges thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the
Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2001, or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify
the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
     Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a
rate for each Interest Period equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total
Spread.
     (b)  For the purposes of this Section:
          (i)  "Interest Period" means the initial period from and
               including the date of this Agreement to, but excluding,
               the first Interest Payment Date occurring thereafter,
               and after the initial period, each period from and
               including an Interest Payment Date to, but excluding
               the next following Interest Payment Date.
         (ii)  "Interest Payment Date" means any date specified in
               Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
        (iii)  "LIBOR Base Rate" means, for each Interest Period, the
               London interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in
               Dollars for value the first day of such Interest Period
               (or, in the case of the initial Interest Period, for
               value the Interest Payment Date occurring on or next
               preceding the first day of such Interest Period), as
               reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a
               percentage per annum.
         (iv)  "LIBOR Total Spread" means, for each Interest Period:
               (A) one half of one percent (1/2 of 1%); (B) minus (or
Page  4
               plus) the weighted average margin, for such Interest
               Period, below (or above) the London interbank offered
               rates, or other reference rates, for six-month deposits,
               in respect of the Bank's outstanding borrowings or
               portions thereof allocated by the Bank to fund single
               currency loans or portions thereof made by it that
               include the Loan; as reasonably determined by the Bank
               and expressed as a percentage per annum.
     (c)  The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and
LIBOR Total Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the
determination thereof.
     (d)  Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.05,
the Bank determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as
a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for determining the interest
rates applicable to the Loan other than as provided in said Section,
the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest rates
applicable to the Loan other than as provided in said Section, the
Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest rates applicable
to amounts of the Loan not yet withdrawn upon not less than six (6)
months' notice to the Borrower of the new basis.  The basis shall become
effective on the expiry of the notice period unless the Borrower notifies
the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in which case said
modification shall not apply to the Loan.
     Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable on
February 15 and August 15 in each year.
     Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the
Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule
3 to this Agreement.
                                ARTICLE III
                           Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01.(a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement,
and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate financial, administrative,
agricultural, engineering and environmental practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the Project.
     (b)  Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of
this Section and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
     Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement
of the goods and consultants' services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the
provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
     Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General
Conditions and without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
     (a)  prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank,
and furnish to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing
Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the
Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the future operation of the Project;
and
     (b)  afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views
with the Borrower on said plan.
                              ARTICLE IV
                         Financial Covenants
Page  5
     Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with
sound accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures
in respect of the Project of the departments or agencies of the Borrower
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph
               (a) of this Section including those for the Special
               Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
               with appropriate auditing principles consistently
               applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case
               not later than six (6) months after the end of each such
               year, the report of such audit by said auditors, of such
               scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reason-
               ably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
               said records and accounts and the audit thereof as the
               Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from
the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure,
the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with
               paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts
               reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, until at least one year after the Bank has
               received the audit report for the fiscal year in which
               the last withdrawal from the Loan Account was made,
               all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills,
               receipts and other documents) evidencing such expen-
               ditures;
        (iii)  enable the Bank's representatives to examine such
               records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are included in
               the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this
               Section and that the report of such audit contains a
               separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the
               statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal
               year, together with the procedures and internal controls
               involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to
               support the related withdrawals.
                                 ARTICLE V
                         Effective Date; Termination
     Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an additional
condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning
of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions, namely, that the
principal staff to PMC and the procurement consultant, as set forth in
paragraph 2 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement, have been appointed.
     Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the
General Conditions.
                               ARTICLE VI
                 Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of
the General Conditions.
Page  6
     Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes
of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Ministry of Finance
          277005 Chisinau
          Cosmonaut Street, 7
          Republic of Moldova
                                       Telex:
                                       (3732)228610
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                Telex:
               INTBAFRAD                197688 (TRT),
               Washington, D.C.         248423 (RCA),
                                         64145 (WUI) or
                                         82987 (FTCC)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.
                           REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA
                           By /s/ Nicolae Tau
                                                Authorized Representative
                           INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                             RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                           By /s/ Basil Kavalsky
                                           Acting Regional Vice President
                                                  Europe and Central Asia
                                  SCHEDULE 1
                   Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to
each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be
financed in each Category:
                              Amount of the
                             Loan Allocated          % of
                             (Expressed in       Expenditures
     Category                   Dollars)        to be Financed
 (1) Goods                                      100% of foreign
                                                expenditures,
     (a)  Goods under           2,000,000       100% of local
          Part A.1(iii)                         expenditures
Page  7
          of the Project                        (ex-factory
                                                cost) and 80%
     (b)  Goods under             700,000       of local ex-
          Part A.2(i)                           penditures for
          of the Project                        other items pro-
                                                cured locally
     (c)  Goods under           4,450,000
          other parts
          of the Project
(2)  Consultants' Services                      100%
     and Training
     (a)  Consultants' Services   400,000
     (b)  Studies                 200,000
     (c)  Training                500,000
(3)  Incremental Operating        250,000       100%
     Costs under Part D(iii) of
     the Project
(4)  Refunding of Project         500,000      Amount due pursuant
     Preparation Advance                       to Section 2.02 (c)
                                               of this Agreement
(5)  Unallocated                1,000,000
                                _________
          TOTAL                10,000,000
                               ==========
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that
of the Borrower;
     (b)  the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower; and
     (c)  the term "incremental operating costs" means operation and
maintenance costs which would not have been incurred absent the Project
and includes, inter alia, costs with respect to: (i) office equipment
supplies and vehicles procured for the PPC and PMC; and (ii) fees to
the consultants hired by the PMU and other administrative and operating
expenses incurred for the purposes of Project management and implemen-
tation.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals
shall be made in respect of:
     (a)       payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement;
     (b)  payments made for expenditures under Category 1 (a) on account
of expenditures for any Participating Vine Nursery until the Borrower
shall have furnished to the Bank evidence acceptable to the Bank that
NIVO Agreement with the said Participating Vine Nursery, satisfactory to
the Bank, has been duly signed and authorized by the parties thereto and
is legally binding upon the parties thereto in accordance with its terms;
and
     (c)  payments made for expenditures under Category 1 (b) for any
Selected Farm until the Borrower shall have furnished to the Bank
evidence acceptable to the Bank that the RIFP Agreement with the said
Selected Farm, satisfactory to the Bank, has been duly signed and
authorized by the parties thereto and is legally binding upon the parties
thereto in accordance with its terms.
Page  8
4.   The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made
on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for goods
under contracts costing less than $150,000 equivalent and for services
under contracts costing less than (i) $100,000 equivalent for consulting
firms and (ii) $50,000 for individual consultants, under such terms and
conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
                              SCHEDULE 2
                      Description of the Project
     The objectives of the Project are to: (i) upgrade and improve the
effectiveness of the Borrower's agricultural research programs on
priority export crops and products; (ii) provide institutional
strengthening in key areas affecting the agricultural sector including
the development of sector policy and the preparation of sector invest-
ments; and (iii) support the development of project management and
implementation capacity of the Borrower for agricultural sector
investments.
     The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from
time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Agro-Technology Development and Transfer
1.   Viticulture Improvement: Support to the existing research programs
to improve wine production and processing through: (i) provision of
planting material and equipment for ongoing research programs at NIVO;
(ii) modernization of the NIVO experimental wine processing plant; (iii)
rehabilitation of at least eight Participating Vine Nurseries; and (iv)
provision of technical assistance to NIVO in the areas of improved plant
protection, vinestock certification and rootstocks and vinestocks
evaluation.
2.   Horticulture Improvement: Support to the existing horticulture
research program at RIFP through: (i) carrying out of pilot demonstra-
tions of modern production technology including mechanization and
irrigation on Selected Farms; (ii) provision of planting material and
equipment, including irrigation, to RIFP nurseries; (iii) provision of
technical assistance and laboratory equipment to RIFP in the area of
horticulture research; (iv) preparation and publication of the horti-
culture encyclopedia; and (v) provision of an experimentation processing
technology equipment to RIFP.
3.   Vegetable Improvement: Support improvements in vegetable growing
sector through provision to Porumbeni of: (i) equipment needed for
research program on the modernization of seed potato production and
imported seeds; and (ii) equipment for development of research programs
in plasticulture.
4.   Livestock Improvement: Support to the existing long-term genetic
improvement program for livestock through provision to NPO Tevit of
equipment and chemicals to upgrade the artificial insemination program.
5.   Integrated Pest Management: Provision of equipment and technical
assistance for selected entities (Selectsia, the Sanitation and
Epidemiology Laboratory and Pest Forecasting Laboratory) in order to
demonstrate, promote and support sustainable farming methods utilizing
Integrated Pest Management.
Part B:   Institutional Strengthening
1.   Carrying out of a study to develop the future stages for agricul-
tural research, extension and education.
2.   Provision of training programs for qualifying managers and staff
of agro-enterprises.
3.   Provision of equipment needed to modernize and increase the capa-
city of the Grains Regulatory Laboratory.
Page  9
Part C:   Policy Development and Sector Investments Preparation
     Provision of technical assistance and equipment to aid the Borrower
in sector policy analysis and in preparation of investments in the
agriculture sector and irrigation, including provision of: (i) technical
assistance to PPC in preparing feasibility studies for future invest-
ments in the agriculture sector; (ii) equipment and training to
Acvaprojekt; (iii) technical assistance in the area of land reform and
farm privatization; and (iv) technical assistance to PPC to develop a
participatory approach to project planning.
Part D:  Project Management
     Developing and strengthening project preparation and management
capabilities of the Borrower through the provision of: (i) training for
the staff of PMC, PPC, MAF and other agricultural sector institutions
in areas that include project management, economic monitoring, account-
ing, project preparation, procurement and disbursement procedures; (ii)
consultants' services for PMC and PPC during Project implementation;
and (iii) support of the PMC and PPC during Project implementation.
                                  * * *
      The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2001.
                                SCHEDULE 3
                            Amortization Schedule
                                              Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                             (expressed in Dollars)*
August 15, 2001                                       210,000
February 15, 2002                                     220,000
August 15, 2002                                       225,000
February 15, 2003                                     230,000
August 15, 2003                                       240,000
February 15, 2004                                     245,000
August 15, 2004                                       255,000
February 15, 2005                                     260,000
August 15, 2005                                       270,000
February 15, 2006                                     275,000
August 15, 2006                                       285,000
February 15, 2007                                     290,000
August 15, 2007                                       300,000
February 15, 2008                                     310,000
August 15, 2008                                       320,000
February 15, 2009                                     330,000
August 15, 2009                                       335,000
February 15, 2010                                     345,000
August 15, 2010                                       360,000
February 15, 2011                                     370,000
August 15, 2011                                       380,000
February 15, 2012                                     390,000
August 15, 2012                                       400,000
February 15, 2013                                     415,000
August 15, 2013                                       425,000
February 15, 2014                                     440,000
August 15, 2014                                       450,000
February 15, 2015                                     465,000
August 15, 2015                                       475,000
February 15, 2016                                     485,000
__________________
*    The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be
     repaid, except as provided in Section 4.04 (d) of the General
     Conditions.
                               SCHEDULE 4
Page  10
                   Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.     Procurement of Goods
Part A:   General
     Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section
I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January 1996 (the
Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of
Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.   The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of
this Part B.
     (a)  Two-stage bidding procedure
     The bidding procedure for wine processing equipment under Part A.1
(ii) of the Project and fruit processing equipment under Part A.2(v) of
the Project may be carried out in two stages in accordance with the
provisions of paragraph 2.6 of the Guidelines.
     (b)  Preference for domestically manufactured goods
     The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and
Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory
of the Borrower.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Limited International Bidding
     Goods up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $3,500,000 equivalent,
and oneology equipment, which the Bank agrees can only be purchased from
a limited number of suppliers, regardless of the cost thereof, may be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of
paragraph 3.2 of the Guidelines.
2.   International Shopping
     Goods estimated to cost less than $300,000 equivalent per contract,
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $750,000 equivalent, may be
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of international shopping
procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6
of the Guidelines.
3.   National Shopping
     Goods estimated to cost less than $20,000 equivalent per contract,
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $65,000 equivalent, may be
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping
procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6
of the Guidelines.
4.   Direct Contracting
     Goods which must be purchased from the original supplier to be
compatible with existing equipment or are of a proprietary nature may,
with the Bank's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the
provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.
Part D:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.   Procurement Planning
     Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding
Page  11
or to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project
shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods shall be undertaken in accordance
with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and
with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.   Prior Review
     With respect to each contract for goods procured in accordance with
procedures set forth in Parts B.1, C.1 and C.4 of this Schedule, the
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guide-
lines shall apply.
3.   Post Review
     With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.    Employment of Consultants
1.   Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in
accordance with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines).
For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts shall be based on
the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by the
Bank, with such modifications thereto as shall have been agreed by the
Bank. Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by
the Bank, other standard forms acceptable to the Bank shall be used.
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the
provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or
approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures, letters of
invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts, shall not
apply to: (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated
to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each; or (b) contracts for the
employment of individual consultants estimated to cost less than $50,000
equivalent each. However, said exceptions to prior Bank review shall not
apply to: (a) the terms of reference for such contracts; (b) single-
source selection of consulting firms; (c) assignments of a critical
nature, as reasonably determined by the Bank; (d) amendments to contracts
for the employment of consulting firms raising the contract value to
$100,000 equivalent or above; or (e) amendments to contracts for the
employment of individual consultants raising the contract value to
$50,000 equivalent or above.
                                SCHEDULE 5
                          Implementation Program
1.   During the execution of the Project, the Borrower shall maintain the
PPC with functions, powers and composition agreed with the Bank, which
shall include the responsibility for assessing: (i) the development and
coordination of agricultural sector policy; (ii) determination of
priority investment requirements of the agricultural sector; and (iii)
development of a participatory approach to project planning.
2.   For the purposes of carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall
maintain until the completion of the Project, the Project Management
Committee (PMC) with:
     (a)  functions and responsibilities agreed with the Bank, which
shall include: (i) overseeing and coordinating procurement and disburse-
ment actions under the Project; (ii) preparing and submitting to the
Bank on a quarterly basis a progress report on the procurement
activities under the Project; (iii) maintaining all Project accounts,
including the Special Account; (iv) overseeing and coordinating the
overall execution of the Project; and (v) monitoring and evaluation of
the implementation of the carrying out of Parts A, B and C of the
Project by the implementing entities referred to in Schedule 2 to this
Page  12
Agreement.
     (b)  Director acceptable to the Bank, a Project Manager, an
agricultural economist, an accountant and a procurement specialist as
principal staff, and other staff in adequate numbers, including a
procurement consultant, as necessary, whose qualifications, experience
and terms of reference shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
3.   For the purposes of carrying out Parts A.1(iii) and A.2(i) of the
Project, the Borrower shall:
     (a)  (i)  cause NIVO to extend to each Participating Vine Nursery,
               the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to
               Category 1 (a) of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of
               Schedule 1 to this Agreement under the NIVO Agreement to
               be entered into between NIVO and each such Participating
               Vine Nursery, under terms and conditions satisfactory to
               the Bank; and
         (ii)  cause RIFP to extend to each Selected Farm the proceeds
               of the Loan allocated from time to time to Category 1(b)
               of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
               this Agreement under the RIFP Agreement to be entered
               into between RIFP and each such Selected Farm, under
               terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank;
     (b)  exercise its rights under each of the said Agreements in such
manner as to protect the interests of the Bank and the Borrower and to
achieve the purposes of the Project, and, except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, not assign, amend, abrogate or waive any of the said
agreements or any respective provision thereof; and
     (c)  take or cause to be taken all action, including the provision
of funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or
appropriate, to enable NIVO and each Participating Vine Nursery, RIFP
and each Selected Farm to perform their respective obligations under
their respective agreements and not take or permit to be taken any
action which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
4.   For the purposes of carrying out Part B.2 of the Project, the
Borrower shall select qualifying managers and staff of agro-enterprises
in accordance with criteria agreed with the Bank.
5.   With respect to the study to be carried out under Part B.1 of the
Project, the Borrower shall:
     (a)  by October 31, 1996 commence the carrying out of the said
study;
     (b)  by October 31, 1997 complete the said study;
     (c)  within ninety (90%) days of completion of the study, furnish
to the Bank a copy of its findings and recommendations; and
     (d)  afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to comment on such
findings and recommendations.
6.   The Borrower shall:
     (a)  maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to
monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators
satisfactory to the Bank, the carrying out of the Project and the
achievement of the objectives thereof;
     (b)  prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank,
and furnish to the Bank, on or about April 1, 1998, a report integrating
the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed
pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in
the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date
of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the
efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the
objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
Page  13
     (c)  review with the Bank, by June 30, 1998, or such later date as
the Bank shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this
Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the
efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives
thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report
and the Bank views on the matter.
                                SCHEDULE 6
                              Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "eligible Categories" means Categories 1, 2 and 3 set
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect
of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time
to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to
$1,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided,
however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized
Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to $500,000 until
the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the total
amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or
exceed the equivalent of $4,000,000.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account
shall be made as follows:
     (a)  For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the
Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such
request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount
or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
     (b)  (i)  For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower
               shall furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into
               the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall
               specify.
         (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
               Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents and
               other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of
               this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect
               of which replenishment is requested. On the basis of
               each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
               Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit
               into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
               shall have requested and as shall have been shown by
               said documents and other evidence to have been paid
               out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures.
               All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from
               the Loan Account under the respective eligible
               Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts,
               as shall have been justified by said documents and
               other evidence.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account,
Page  14
the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request,
furnish to the Bank such documents and other evidence showing such
payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the
Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special
Account:
     (a)  if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
     (b)  if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank,
within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this
Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished to the
Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the records
and accounts for the Special Account;
     (c)  if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of
its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower
to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
     (d)  once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the
eligible Categories minus the total amount of all outstanding special
commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the
General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equi-
valent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn
amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such
procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the
Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit
in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment
out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an
amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii)
was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such additional
evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special
Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount
equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further
deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as
the case may be.
     (b)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further
payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon
notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
     (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank
all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
     (d)  Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and
(c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for sub-
sequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant
provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
