                                         Document of
                                      The World Bank

                                                               Report No: ICR00003252



                 IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                              (IDA-H3520, TF-93854)

                                           ON A

                                          GRANT

                          IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 12.60 MILLION
                             (US$20.00 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                            AND

                 AFGHANISTAN RECONSTRUCTION TRUST FUND GRANT

                            IN THE AMOUNT OF US$18 MILLION

                                          TO THE

                          ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF AFGHANISTAN

                                          FOR THE

                     AFGHANISTAN SKILLS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT


                                      December 30, 2014




Education Global Practice
Afghanistan Country Management Unit
South Asia Region
                          CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                      (Exchange Rate Effective June 30, 2014)
                          Currency Unit = Afghani (AFN)
                             AFN 1.00 = US$ 0.0175
                              US$ 1.00 = AFN 57.15
                                 FISCAL YEAR
                            21 December - 20 December


                     ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AFN       Afghani
AIT       Afghanistan Institute of Technology
AMI       Auto-mechanical Institute
ANDS      Afghanistan National Development Strategy
ANIM      Afghanistan National Institute of Music
ANQA      Afghanistan National Qualifications Authority
ARTF      Afghanistan Reconstruction Trust Fund
ASDP      Afghanistan Skills Development Project
ASDP II   Afghanistan Second Skills Development Project
ATTs      Afghan Teacher Trainees
BS        Blind School
BDS       Business Development Services
CESP      Committee on Education and Skills Policy
CTI       Computer Technology Institute
CD        Country Director
DMTVET    Deputy Ministry of Technical and Vocational Education and Training
DTVET     Department of Technical and Vocational Education and Training
DPs       Development Partners
ESMF      Environmental and Social Management Framework
FVP       First Vice President
GC        Governing Council
GMU       Grant Management Unit
GoA       Government of Islamic Republic of Afghanistan
ICR       Implementation Completion and Results Report
ICT       Information and Communications Technology
IDA       International Development Association
IDU       Rehabilitated Injectable Drug Users
IP        Implementing Partner
IRR       Internal Rate of Return
ISN       Interim Strategy Note
ISR       Implementation Status and Results Report
KPI       Key Performance Indicators
LMO       Labor Market Officers
MIS       Management Information System
MOP       Memorandum and Recommendation of the President
MTR       Mid-term Review
MoE       Ministry of Education
MoF       Ministry of Finance
MoHE      Ministry of Higher Education
MoLSAMD   Ministry of Labor and Social Affairs, Martyrs and Disabled
M&E       Monitoring and Evaluation
NATEJA    Non-formal Approach to Training Education and Jobs in Afghanistan Project
NIMA      National Institute of Management and Administration
NOSS      National Occupational Skills Standards
NPP       National Priority Program
NRVA      National Risk and Vulnerability Assessment
NPV       Net Present Value
NQF       National Qualifications Framework
NSDP      National Skills Development Program
NTVETB    National Technical and Vocational Education and Training Board
PwD       People with Disability
PSOs      Productive Skills Officers
PDO       Project Development Objective
PMIS      Project Management Information System
QA        Quality Assurance
RF        Results Framework
RMF       Results Monitoring Framework
TMIS      TVET Management Information System
TTL       Task Team Leader
TVET      Technical and Vocational Education and Training




                         Vice President:   Annette Dixon
                      Country Director:    Robert J. Saum
                Global Practice Director   Amit Dar
               Acting Practice Manager:    Halil Dundar
                   Project Team Leader:    Leopold Remi Sarr
                    ICR Team Leaders:      Surendra Agarwal and Roshini Ebenezer
                                                      AFGHANISTAN

                                      Afghanistan Skills Development Project



                                                           CONTENTS
DATA SHEET

   A. Basic Information……………………………………………………………………………..…….i
   B. Key Dates………………………………………………………………………………………...….i
   C. Ratings Summary……………………………………………………………………………..….….i
   D. Sector and Theme Codes……………………………………………………………………..….…ii
   E. Bank Staff…………………………………………………………………………………….….…ii
   F. Results Framework Analysis………………………………………………………………..……...ii
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs……………………………………………………...…...vii
   H. Restructuring…………………………………………………………………………….…….....viii
   I. Disbursement Graph…………………………………………………………………………….….ix

 1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design……………….................................................1
 2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ......... ……………………………...................5
 3. Assessment of Outcomes     …………………………………………………….……………….12
 4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome .................................................................................. 19
 5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance .............................................................................. .19
 6. Lessons Learned…………………………….. ................................................................................... 22
 7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .................................... 22

 ANNEXES

 Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.................................................................................................. ..24
 Annex 2. Outputs by Component ........................................................................................................... 25
 Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ........................................................................................... 30
 Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ...................................... 33
 Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ..................................................................................................... 36
 Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results ............................................................................ 37
 Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ............................................... 38
 Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ................................................. 49
 Annex 9. Additional Information on Results Indicators………………………………………………..50
 Annex 10: Achievement against Original Indicators and Targets………………………………….......51
 Annex 11. List of Supporting Documents .................................................................................. ………57

MAP
A. Basic Information
                                                                            Afghanistan Skills
Country:                Afghanistan               Project Name:
                                                                            Development Project
Project ID:             P102573                   L/C/TF Number(s):         IDA-H3520,TF-93854
ICR Date:               12/30/2014                ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                            GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     ERL                       Borrower:
                                                                            AFGHANISTAN
Original Total
                        USD 38.00M                Disbursed Amount:         USD 34.01M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 38.00M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies: Ministry of Education (MoE), Deputy Ministry of Technical and Vocational
Education and Training (DMTVET), National Skills Development Program (NSDP), Ministry of Labor
and Social Affairs, Martyrs and Disabled (MoLSAMD), and the Committee on Education and Skills
Policy (CESP)
Co-financiers and Other External Partners: Afghanistan Reconstruction Trust Fund (ARTF)

B. Key Dates
                                                                                  Revised / Actual
      Process             Date               Process            Original Date
                                                                                      Date(s)
Concept Review:         05/08/2007     Effectiveness:             03/20/2008           03/20/2008
Appraisal:              11/16/2007     Restructuring(s):                               07/23/2012
Approval:               01/31/2008     Mid-term Review:           04/20/2011           05/22/2011
                                       Closing:                   02/28/2013           06/30/2014

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                         Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                      Significant
Bank Performance:                                 Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                             Moderately Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
           Bank                  Ratings               Borrower                     Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:                 Moderately Satisfactory
                        Moderately              Implementing
Quality of Supervision:                                                     Moderately Satisfactory
                        Unsatisfactory          Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
                        Moderately Satisfactory                             Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                                    Performance:


                                                  i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
     Implementation                            QAG Assessments (if
                               Indicators                                                    Rating
      Performance                                      any)
 Potential Problem Project                             Quality at Entry
                                       Yes                                                   None
at any time (Yes/No):                                  (QEA):
 Problem Project at any time                           Quality of Supervision
                                       Yes                                                   None
(Yes/No):                                              (QSA):
DO rating before
                                   Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                          Original              Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                17%                     17%
Vocational training                                              83%                     83%



Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Education for the knowledge economy                                         67%                  67%
Improving labor markets                                                     33%                  33%

E. Bank Staff
         Positions                             At ICR                                At Approval
Vice President:                Annette Dixon                               Praful C. Pate1
Country Director:              Robert Saum                                 Alastair J. McKechnie
Practice Manager/Manager Halil Dundar                                      Michelle Riboud
Project Team Leader:           Leopold Remi Sarr                           Venkatesh Sundararaman
ICR Team Leaders:              Surendra Agarwal and Roshini Ebenezer
ICR Primary Authors:           Surendra Agarwal and Roshini Ebenezer
ICR Team Member                Margherita Calderone

F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (PDO) (from Financing Agreement)
To increase the number of immediately-employable graduates by supporting the establishment of a high
quality technical vocational education and training (TVET) system that is equitable, market responsive,
and cost-effective.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
The PDO was not revised.



                                                      ii
(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                              Original Target                      Actual Value
                                                                     Formally
                                               Values (from                         Achieved at
   Indicator        Baseline Value                                    Revised
                                                 approval                          Completion or
                                                                  Target Values
                                                documents)                         Target Years
Indicator 1 :   Number of graduates from all project financed institutions in DMTVET*
Value:
                           398**                                        5,380             7,720***
Quantitative
Date achieved            01/31/2008                                    06/30/2014        06/30/2014
                ACHIEVED and SURPASSED TARGET by 43%.
                *This indicator is a revised version of an original indicator.
                ** This baseline value refers to graduates from all project-supported institutes. For
Comments        NIMA, the ICR team assigned a baseline value of zero because it was a new institute to
(incl. %        be established under the project. (Table 2.2 in Annex 2 of the Technical Annex,
achievement)    however, provides a baseline value of 718 for NIMA but it is unclear what that number
                refers to.)
                *** Actual value refers to graduates from the five project-supported institutes as well as
                from NIMA.
Indicator 2 :   Share of NIMA graduates employed six months after completing training*
Value:
                          N/A **                                         75%              75%***
Quantitative
Date achieved            01/31/2008                                    06/30/2014          06/30/2014
                ACHIEVED.
                 *This indicator was introduced at the time of restructuring.
                **NIMA was not established in January 2008.
                ***This number is based on the results of an independent tracer study conducted 9
                months after the first cohort graduated. 16 percent of the graduates surveyed were
Comments
                employed following graduation but were unemployed at the time of the survey; the
(incl. %
                reasons for this situation were not captured in the survey but may include
achievement)
                discontinuation of employment in order to pursue further education. Since the definition
                of the indicator would not allow for the exclusion of these students, the lower and upper
                bounds of the estimate were calculated – 67 percent and 83 percent, respectively. The
                average of these two estimates is 75 percent. This number also includes self-employed
                graduates.
                Number of vulnerable youth, poor women, marginalized farmers and rehabilitated
Indicator 3 :
                injectable drug users (IDUs) trained under NSDP*
Value:
                              0                                         9,000               9,676
Quantitative
Date achieved            01/31/2008                                    06/30/2014        06/30/2014
                ACHIEVED and SURPASSED TARGET BY 8%.
                *A similar indicator (increase in the number of graduates from project-financed training
                programs under NSDP) was listed in the original Supplemental Letter to the Financing
Comments
                Agreement, with a target of 15,000. The indicator listed here is a revised version of the
(incl. %
                original indicator, introduced during the project restructuring.
achievement)
                Disaggregated data: 3,526 youth; 3,150 poor women; 2,500 marginalized or landless
                farmers; 300 people with disability (PwD); and 200 IDUs.
                Approximately 40 percent of all these beneficiaries were women.

                                                   iii
                Increase in average earnings of project graduates within 6 months of completing training
Indicator 4 :
                (NSDP)
                Women: AFN 0                                                         Women: AFN 2,766
Value
                Youth: AFN 998                                                       Youth: AFN 8,475
Quantitative
                Marginalized Farmers:                                                Marginalized
                AFN3,076                                                             Farmers: AFN 7,780
Date achieved             12/30/2010                                                       06/30/2014
                ACHIEVED
                In the original Results Framework (RF), this was an intermediate outcome indicator and
                no baseline or target value was provided. The baseline and target values for this
                indicator in the revised RF (in the restructuring package [Supplemental Letter –
Comments
                Performance Indicators] submitted to the Country Director for approval on July 20,
(incl. %
                2012) are inconsistent with its intent to measure the difference in earnings as a result of
achievement)
                the vocational training. The ICR team chose to report the pre-training and post-training
                earnings of the vocational training beneficiaries under ASDP, which provide a more
                accurate assessment of this indicator. Data for both the baseline and current values are
                from the tracer studies carried out on these groups.
                New Institutional Framework for TVET developed and submitted to Parliament for
Indicator 5 :
                legislative enactment.
                                                                     Submission for
                                                                     Legislative
                                                                     approval
                                                                                     TVET framework has
                                                                     (TVET
                                                                                     been developed;
                                                                     framework has
                                                                                     enabling legislation
Value:                                                               been developed
                No framework                                                         drafted and approved
Qualitative                                                          and enabling
                                                                                     by the CESP (chaired
                                                                     legislation
                                                                                     by the First Vice
                                                                     drafted and
                                                                                     President, FVP).
                                                                     submitted for
                                                                     legislative
                                                                     enactment)*.
Date achieved             01/31/2008                                    06/30/2014         08/30/2014
                PARTIALLY ACHIEVED. This indicator is a modified version of an original
                outcome indicator. It was revised in the project restructuring package, including
                supplemental letter (performance indicators), submitted to the Country Director for
                approval on July 20, 2012, to reflect the revised assessment of the feasibility of
Comments        achieving the implementation of a new institutional framework for TVET. The draft
(incl. %        legislation for the institutional framework is yet to be submitted to Parliament for
achievement)    ratification.
                *The target for this indicator (“Act passed by Parliament”) in the Supplemental Letter
                (Performance Indicators) included in the project restructuring package appears to be
                mistakenly worded. The target listed here is taken from the post-restructuring ISRs
                (Sequence ISR #11, dated 06/18/2013, onwards).




                                                   iv
(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target                            Actual Value
                                                              Formally
                                            Values (from                               Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value                        Revised Target
                                               approval                               Completion or
                                                               Values
                                             documents)                               Target Years
Indicator 1 :   The NQF developed and approval of the DMTVET Plan.
                                                                                NQF has been
                                                                                developed and
                                                                                approved by the
Value:                                                                          CESP. A TVET
                No NQF for TVET              NQF developed        NQF developed
Qualitative                                                                     strategy for 2013-
                                                                                2018 was prepared
                                                                                and was launched on
                                                                                January 19, 2014.
Date achieved           01/31/2008               02/28/2013        06/30/2014         08/30/2014
Comments
(incl. %        ACHIEVED
achievement)
Indicator 2 :   Number of diplomas awarded by NIMA*.
Value:
                          N/A**                                        1,150               1,714
Quantitative

Date achieved            01/31/2008                                  06/30/2014          06/30/2014
                ACHIEVED and TARGET SURPASSED BY 49%.
                1,111 of the graduates received international diplomas/certificates; 603 received
                diplomas from the MoE.
Comments        *In the project restructuring package, including supplemental letter (performance
(incl. %        indicators), submitted to the Country Director for approval on July 20, 2012, this
achievement)    indicator was stated as the “number of graduates from all project-funded institutes.” The
                baseline and target values (and the ISRs post-restructuring) suggest that this indicator
                was only intended to refer to NIMA.
                ** NIMA was not established in January 2008.
Indicator 3 :   Number of TVET Institutes operating under the agreed governance framework
Value
Quantitative               0                                             6                   2

Date achieved             01/31/2008                                06/30/2014        06/30/2014
                PARTIALLY ACHIEVED
                The key element of the agreed governance framework is defined, in the Technical
                Annex and also by the Mid-term Review, as operational (academic and administrative)
Comments        and financial autonomy. Although 5 institutes (NIMA, ANIM, AIT, Blind School and
(incl. %        AMI) have recently established Governing Councils, only two of these (ANIM and
achievement)    NIMA) have obtained the right to start running their own academic programs and only
                three of them have been able to open bank accounts in their own names (ANIM, NIMA
                and AIT). As such, only NIMA and ANIM have obtained some degree of
                administrative, academic, and financial autonomy. See paragraphs 21(b) and 24(d).

                                                  v
Indicator 4 :   Number of Voucher Beneficiaries (including females)*
Value
Quantitative               0                                             200                 221

Date achieved           07/20/2012                                    06/30/2014           06/30/2014
Comments        ACHIEVED and TARGET SURPASSED BY 11%.
(incl. %        *This indicator was added at project restructuring. It refers to students who received
achievement)    vouchers.
                Number of Project Staff and Officers trained in different functional areas (including
Indicator 5 :
                NSDP and DMTVET*)
Value
Quantitative                N/A                                          300                 325

Date achieved            01/31/2008                                   06/30/2014          06/30/2014
                ACHIEVED and TARGET SURPASSED BY 8%.
                *This indicator was introduced in the Table 2.1 but was not included in Table 2.2,
Comments
                Annex 2 of the Technical Annex. It was reintroduced in the restructuring paper (with a
(incl. %
                target of 300). It was also mentioned in the Supplemental Letter (performance
achievement)
                indicators) included in the restructuring package, submitted to the Country Director for
                approval on July 20, 2012, but no target value was provided.
Indicator 6 :   Number of BDS trainers trained*
Value:                                        No target was
Quantitative                 N/A              included in the            1,633               1,652
                                              Results Framework
Date achieved            01/31/2008                                   02/28/2013          06/30/2014
                ACHIEVED
Comments        *The original indicator referred to the training of Business Development Services
(incl. %        (BDS) trainers and of Productive Skills Officers (PSOs) but was later revised to refer to
achievement)    BDS trainers only because PSO training was taken over by another donor during the
                project (see Project Restructuring Paper, paragraph 14, July 20, 2012).
Indicator 7 :   MIS is in place and MIS reports produced
                                                                                    Management
                                                                                    Information System
                                                                                    (MIS) is in place in
                                                                    MIS in place both the NSDP and
Value:
                                                                    with 7 MIS      DMTVET. 12
Quantitative                 N/A                      N/A
                                                                    reports         reports produced
                                                                    produced        which indicate
                                                                                    progress in the
                                                                                    development of the
                                                                                    system.
Date achieved                                                         06/30/2014          06/30/2014
                ACHIEVED
Comments        Although the MIS has been designed and put in place, it is in its early stages of
(incl. %        implementation.
achievement)



                                                  vi
Indicator 8 :    Number of tracer studies of TVET graduates completed
Value:
                                0                                          8                   14
Quantitative

Date achieved             01/31/2008                                   06/30/2014          06/30/2014
Comments         ACHIEVED and TARGET SURPASSED BY 75%.
(incl. %         Includes 11 tracer studies of training of vulnerable people (by NSDP) and 3 tracer
achievement)     studies of NIMA graduates (by DMTVET).
Indicator 9 :    Increase in the number of operational buildings and facilities for TVET*
                                                                                     All five project
                                                                                     supported institutes
                                                                    At least one
                                                                                     had at least one more
                                                                    building/
                 Functional physical                                                 operational
                                                                    facility
Value:           infrastructure at the project                                       building/facility as a
                                                                    rehabilitated at
                 supported institutes was                                            result of ASDP.
                                                                    each of the five
Qualitative      very limited and in very                                            Several of these had
                                                                    project
                 poor condition.                                                     more than one
                                                                    supported
                                                                                     facility constructed/
                                                                    institutes.
                                                                                     rehabilitated under
                                                                                     ASDP
Date achieved             01/31/2008                                   06/30/2014          06/30/2014
                 ACHIEVED
Comments
                 In addition, ASDP renovated and constructed all physical infrastructures for NIMA.
(incl. %
                 * This indicator was added at the ICR stage to more accurately assess achievements of
achievement)
                 the project.
Indicator 10 :   Percentage of women enrolled in NIMA
Value:
Quantitative                                                              33%                 32%

Date achieved                                                          02/28/2013         06/30/2014
Comments
                 ACHIEVED
(incl. %
                 The target of 33% is from the ARTF Grant Agreement.
achievement)

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                    Actual Disbursements
          Date ISR
 No.                                DO                            IP                      IDA Only
          Archived
                                                                                        (USD millions)
  1      06/27/2008           Satisfactory                  Satisfactory            1.50
  2      12/29/2008       Moderately Satisfactory      Moderately Satisfactory      1.81
  3      06/29/2009       Moderately Satisfactory      Moderately Satisfactory      2.53
  4      07/25/2009       Moderately Satisfactory      Moderately Satisfactory      2.53
  5      01/29/2010       Moderately Satisfactory     Moderately Unsatisfactory     5.45
  6      09/23/2010       Moderately Satisfactory      Moderately Satisfactory      8.40
  7      06/22/2011       Moderately Satisfactory     Moderately Unsatisfactory     11.22

                                                    vii
  8      12/27/2011         Moderately Satisfactory          Moderately Satisfactory   12.58
  9      06/30/2012         Moderately Satisfactory          Moderately Satisfactory   14.02
 10      12/26/2012         Moderately Satisfactory          Moderately Satisfactory   16.01
 11      06/18/2013         Moderately Satisfactory          Moderately Satisfactory   17.11
 12      12/31/2013             Satisfactory                     Satisfactory          17.85
 13      06/22/2014             Satisfactory                     Satisfactory          19.13

H. Restructuring (if any)

                            ISR Ratings      Amount
                  Board         at
Restructuring                             Disbursed at                  Reason for Restructuring & Key
                 Approved
   Date(s)                 Restructuring Restructuring in                       Changes Made
                PDO Change
                             DO     IP    USD millions
                                                                     A Supplemental Letter (Performance
                                                                     Indicators) was included in the
                                                                     restructuring package. See, Office
                                                                     Memorandum from TTL to the CD –
                                                                     Restructuring Paper for ASDP, dated
                                                                     07/20/2012.
                                                                     - The date of July 23, 2012 is the date of
                                                                     an Amendment to the Financing
                                                                     Agreement.

                                                                     Reasons: (a) Limited progress on
                                                                     developing a regulatory and quality
                                                                     assurance framework for TVET; (b)
                                                                     some indicators and targets were either
                                                                     too ambitious or could not be measured;
                                                                     (c) need for strengthening the governance
                                                14.65 (IDA)          framework for project supported TVET
07/23/2012
                                 MS      MS          and             institutes; and (d) need for extension of
                                                8.65 (ARTF)          the closing date to allow more time for
                                                                     completion of ongoing works contracts
                                                                     and for the second implementing partner
                                                                     of NIMA (under recruitment) to provide
                                                                     support to NIMA for a longer period and
                                                                     to supervise the graduation of additional
                                                                     cohorts of students at NIMA.
                                                                     Key changes made: (i) scope of
                                                                     Component 1 was revised to make it
                                                                     achievable; (ii) results indicators and
                                                                     targets were revised to make them
                                                                     realistic and measurable; (iii) covenants
                                                                     were added to improve the
                                                                     implementation of a governance
                                                                     framework for the TVET institutes; (iv)
                                                                     covenants were added to strengthen
                                                                     actions to ensure compliance with the

                                                      viii
                           ISR Ratings      Amount
                  Board
Restructuring                  at        Disbursed at         Reason for Restructuring & Key
                 Approved Restructuring
   Date(s)                              Restructuring in              Changes Made
                PDO Change
                            DO     IP    USD millions
                                                           ESMF; (v) closing date was extended by
                                                           16 months; (vi) a pilot voucher program
                                                           was added; and (vii) training of
                                                           additional vulnerable persons and new
                                                           training of rehabilitated injectable drug
                                                           users (IDUs) were added under
                                                           Component 3.

I. Disbursement Profile
   (The original amount reflects IDA grant only; and the actual amount reflects both IDA and ARTF
financing).




                                               ix
1.      PROJECT/PROGRAM CONTEXT, DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVES, AND DESIGN

1.1 Context at Appraisal

1. In 2002, Afghanistan began a process of reconstruction and recovery following the overthrow of the
Taliban. In the years that followed, the country made remarkable progress on several fronts, including the
establishment of a democratic government, increased access to health care, and a six-fold increase in
school enrollment from about one million in 2002 to nearly six million by 2006.

2. In spite of these achievements, in 2007, Afghanistan remained at a critical stage in its recovery
process, with concerns over security and the rule of law, persistent poverty, and weak institutional
capacity. The country’s labor force lacked the requisite skills to sustain the recovery and a skills shortage
spanned all sectors. Over 80 percent of Afghan workers were employed in the non-formal economy and
the vast majority lacked the basic technical competencies and literacy to take advantage of opportunities
through self-employment or small enterprise development. The country was also facing an increasing
demand for skilled labor to meet the immediate needs of the reconstruction process. While an influx of
foreign workers satisfied this demand in the short term, pressure was mounting on the Government of
Afghanistan (GoA) to ensure that there would be sufficient numbers of skilled Afghans available to take
advantage of these opportunities as they emerged.

3. To address the job-specific skills shortage, GoA began to rebuild the country’s Technical and
Vocational Education and Training (TVET) system. This system, like others, had been neglected during
the conflict. In 2004, GoA launched the National Skills Development Program (NSDP), aimed at
improving the skills of the rural, largely uneducated, labor force. While the NSDP addressed one
important element of the skills shortage, this did not constitute a strategic effort to address key challenges
facing the country’s TVET system, which included:

     a) Weak institutional arrangements for planning, managing, regulating and financing of the
        TVET system. While there were several institutions involved in TVET, the roles and
        responsibilities of each institution were not clearly defined, and the system was highly
        centralized.
     b) Low number of training opportunities for formal TVET. Training was dominated by informal
        apprenticeships offered by small and micro-enterprises.
     c) Inadequate quality of existing training programs. This was characterized by a high trainee-to-
        trainer ratio, time-based rather than competency-based programs, weak infrastructure with
        obsolete or non-functioning training equipment and a lack of regulatory mechanisms.
     d) TVET programs lacked relevance to the needs of the labor market. The curriculum in many
        trades was outdated with few links to workplace realities. Industry (both private and public) had
        little input in the formation of curricula or courses.

4. GoA requested World Bank technical and financial assistance to address these challenges and develop
a high-quality TVET system. It was clear that this was a long-term effort which would have to be
implemented in stages. The Afghanistan Skills Development Project (ASDP) was proposed as the first
stage of this process, aimed at improving the skill level and educational profile of the country’s labor
force while simultaneously laying the foundation for a modern TVET system.

5. The project was approved on January 31, 2008 with a grant of US$20 million equivalent from the
International Development Association (IDA). The Afghanistan Reconstruction Trust Fund (ARTF) also
approved a grant to finance the establishment of a new National Institute of Management and
Administration (NIMA) under Component 2 of the project (paragraph 10(a)) – a grant of US$9 million

                                                      1
was approved in April 2009, and this first grant was subsequently increased by an additional amount of
US$9 million in May 2012.

6. Rationale for the Bank's Involvement. There were three compelling reasons for the World Bank’s
support to the Skills Development Sector. First, the Bank and other development partners (DPs) were
already supporting the achievement of access to quality elementary education. This put pressure on the
Government to increase access to quality post-secondary education and skills training. Second, the Bank
was uniquely positioned to bring comparable global experience and technical assistance to support the
TVET sector. Third, the project was clearly aligned with the World Bank’s country support strategy ,
which explicitly recognized the skills shortage in the country and acknowledged the impact of this on the
country’s recovery process. The project was designed to fit under all three pillars of the Bank’s Interim
Strategy Note (ISN) 2007-2009: (i) Building the capacity of the state and its accountability to its citizens
to ensure the provision of services that are affordable, accessible and of adequate quality; (ii) Promoting
growth of the rural economy and improving rural livelihoods; and (iii) Supporting growth of a formal,
modern and competitive private sector.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

7. The PDO (Financing Agreement) was “to increase the number of immediately-employable graduates
by supporting the establishment of a high quality technical vocational education and training (TVET)
system that is equitable, market responsive and cost-effective”. The PDO in the 2008 Technical Annex
(page 10) to the Memorandum and Recommendation of the President (MOP) was "to increase the number
of immediately-employable graduates by building, in stages, a high-quality TVET system that is
equitable, market responsive and cost-effective”. (A Technical Annex was prepared in lieu of a Project
Appraisal Document per OP/BP 8.50, as the project was developed in line with OP 8.50). The PDO in the
MOP (page 5) was listed as “increased number of immediately-employable skilled persons is produced by
building in stages a high-quality TVET system that is equitable, market responsive and cost-effective”. In
the ICR team’s view, the statements of objectives in the three documents are almost identical but, in
keeping with ICR guidelines, this ICR has henceforth referenced the PDO stated in the Financing
Agreement. The four Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) (outcome indicators), associated with this PDO
at the time of approval were as listed below (Technical Annex, Annex 2, Table 2.2, pages 25-27;
additional information on results indicators, including intermediate outcome indicators, is in Annex 9)..

    1. Increase in the number of graduates from project-financed institutions and training centers as
       compared to baseline of non-reformed institutions.
    2. New institutional framework for TVET is realized and functioning, including the establishment of
       the Afghanistan National Qualifications Authority (ANQA), independent training boards (e.g.,
       National Technical and Vocational Education and Training Board (NTVETB)) and the National
       Qualifications Framework (NQF).
    3. Labor market outcomes, measured by employment status of trainees, are superior to the outcomes
       of comparable control groups.
    4. Percent of employers of trainees graduated from reformed institutions agree that employees have
       improved their productivity through training relative to a baseline..

1.3 Revised PDO and Key Indicators, and Reasons/Justifications (as approved)
8. While the PDO remained the same throughout the project, the project restructuring package,
including supplemental letter (performance indicators), submitted to the Country Director for approval
on July 20, 2012, proposed a revision of the KPIs. The main reasons for revising the Results Framework
(RF) were as follows: (a) some indicators were too ambitious and not necessarily aligned with the PDO;
and (b) some other indicators could not be measured due to data collection constraints (See Section 2.3).

                                                     2
The revised KPIs reflect these changes and are listed below..(Information on revised intermediate
outcome indicators is in Annex 9).

    1. Number of graduates from all (six) project-financed institutions in the Deputy Ministry of
       Technical and Vocational Education and Training (DMTVET).
    2. Number of vulnerable youth, poor women, marginalized farmers and rehabilitated injectable drug
       users (IDUs) trained under the National Skills Development Program (NSDP).
    3. Increase in average earnings of project graduates within six months of completing training
       (NSDP).
    4. Share of National Institute of Management and Administration (NIMA) graduates employed six
       months after completing training.
    5. New Institutional Framework for TVET developed and submitted to Parliament for legislative
       enactment.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries: (i) NIMA and five other TVET institutes under DMTVET1; (ii) Students,
    faculty and staff of NIMA; (iii) Students, faculty and staff of the other 5 TVET institutes supported
    under ASDP; (iv) Staff and project officers of the NSDP; (v) Project officers, staff and trainers
    trained under DMTVET; (vi) Poor women, marginalized and landless farmers, youth, IDUs and
    disabled people trained under the NSDP program; (vii) BDS trainers trained; (viii) Beneficiaries of
    the Voucher Program; and (ix) Teachers trained for NIMA.

1.5 Original Components at Appraisal Stage

9. Component 1: Develop Regulatory and Quality Assurance Framework for TVET (US$1.5
million). This component was designed to create the institutional conditions for a high quality, demand
driven TVET system through:

    a) The Establishment of an Afghanistan National Qualifications Authority (ANQA) (US$0.3
       million) through an act of Parliament, as the highest regulatory and standards-setting body in the
       country for education and training. An interim body, the Committee on Education and Skills
       Policy (CESP), was to be established to initiate the establishment of the ANQA. Upon the
       establishment of the ANQA, all policy and other functions performed by the CESP would be
       transferred to the ANQA, including the development and institutionalization of the National
       Qualifications Framework (NQF) (see paragraph 9(b) below). All new regulatory bodies
       (including the Awarding Boards, see paragraph 9(c) below) were to be statutory bodies,
       independent of all ministerial linkages (See Component 1.1, Technical Annex to MOP).
    b) The Establishment of an Afghanistan National Qualifications Framework (US$0.8 million)
       was intended to facilitate the design, development and institutionalization of the NQF to provide
       a levels-based structure to map all education and training provision in the country and meaningful
       certification and accreditation processes.
    c) The Establishment of Awarding Boards (US$0.4 million), in particular the NTVETB2, that
       will regulate and quality assure programs within specific levels of the NQF.




1
  The five other institutions were: Afghanistan Institute of Technology (AIT); the Auto-mechanical Institute (AMI);
the Blind School (BS); the Afghanistan National Institute of Music (ANIM); and the Computer Technology Institute
(CTI).
2
  GoA had also expressed an interest in establishing a Board for Secondary Education, an Islamic Education Board,
a Primary Education Board and a Higher Education Board.

                                                        3
10. Component 2: Improve Relevance, Quality and Efficiency of TVET (US$18.5 million)3. The
objective of this component was to improve the relevance, quality and efficiency of TVET programs and
increase the number of graduates from these programs through:

    a) The Establishment of the new National Institute of Management and Administration
       (NIMA) (US$11.0 million) to offer post-secondary programs in three areas: (i) Management and
       Administration, (ii) Accounting, and (iii) Information and Communications Technology (ICT).
    b) An Institution-Based Reform Package (US$7.0 million) aimed at supporting reforms and
       rehabilitation in selected institutes within the Department of Technical and Vocational Education
       and Training (DTVET)4 mandate.
    c) Management Reforms in DMTVET (US$0.5 million) through training of its staff on the
       structure and functions of a modern TVET system to enable the DMTVET to become more
       responsive to market needs and accountable for effective vocational training delivery.

11. Component 3: Skills Development Program and Market Linkages with a Rural Focus (US$5.0
    million), aimed at supporting on-going activities by the NSDP and capacity building within the
    NSDP and the Ministry of Labor and Social Affairs, Martyrs and Disabled (MoLSAMD) to undertake
    reforms in technical and vocational training through:

    a) Contracted Vocational Training Packages (US$3.0 million) to provide market responsive
       training for: (i) youth; (ii) ‘Chronically Poor Women’; and (iii) marginal farmers and landless
       farm laborers, through contracting local training providers.
    b) A Training of Trainers Program (US$1.5 million) to create a cadre of Productive Skills
       Officers (PSOs) and Business Development Services (BDS) trainers.
    c) Capacity Building for NSDP/MoLSAMD (US$0.5 million) to build capacity in
       NSDP/MoLSAMD in curriculum and materials development; and collection, collation, analysis
       and interpretation of labor market information.

12. Component 4: Research, Monitoring & Evaluation (US$1 million) to develop a project
monitoring and information system to provide routine, timely, and accurate information, to measure
project progress, and to conduct impact evaluations of specific sub-components.

1.6 Revised Components
13. The components remained the same throughout the project, but the activities were revised in July
2012 (see the project restructuring package, including supplemental letter (performance indicators)
submitted to the Country Director for approval on July 20, 2012), as follows:

14. Component 1: The enactment of legislation for setting up the Regulatory and Quality Assurance
Framework required a level of political consensus (among key stakeholder ministries) that was difficult to
secure in the prevailing political climate. As a result, the project dropped its target of establishing the
ANQA as part of the regulatory and quality assurance framework. The scope of Component 1 was revised
to focus only on: (a) the development and approval of a legal, policy, regulatory, and administrative
framework for TVET; and (b) the design, development, and institutionalizing of the NQF.

15. Component 2: A pilot voucher program (US$1 million) was added to enable deserving students
(selected on the basis of merit) who had graduated from TVET institutes to pursue higher professional
certificate programs in country or abroad.

3
 This includes US$12.5 million from IDA and US$6 million expected from Norway through the ARTF.
4
 Soon after the project was approved, the DTVET under the Ministry of Education (MoE) was upgraded and thus
became the Deputy Ministry of Technical and Vocational Education and Training (DMTVET).

                                                    4
16. Component 3: Training activities under this component were expanded to include training of
additional vulnerable persons and rehabilitated injectable drug users (IDUs)5. The training of trainers in
productive skills was dropped because this training had already been supported from other sources6.
1.7 Other significant changes
17. At project restructuring in July 2012, several other significant changes were made, including:

    (i) Extension of the Closing Date of the project from February 28, 2013 to June 30, 2014 to
        accommodate GoA’s request for additional time to complete ongoing civil works contracts and
        also to allow the new Implementing Partner (which was being recruited at the time of
        restructuring) to further develop NIMA and supervise the graduation of two more cohorts of
        students.
    (ii) Addition of Covenants for the development and implementation of a governance framework to
        ensure TVET institutes operate autonomously in academic and administrative matters and manage
        bank accounts in their own name.
    (iii) Addition of Covenants to ensure compliance with environmental and social safeguards.

2.      KEY FACTORS AFFECTING IMPLEMENTATION AND OUTCOMES
2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
18. The preparation, design and quality at entry of ASDP were shaped by:
       Analytical underpinning: Project preparation was grounded in the findings of a 2006 policy note,
        “Skills Development in Afghanistan”, which was developed in response to GoA’s request for
        TVET sector support. In addition, project preparation drew on: (a) the experience of GoA’s
        NSDP; (b) the Afghanistan National Development Strategy (ANDS) which included the
        country’s strategy for TVET; and (c) and lessons from the Bank’s experience in TVET in other
        fragile states as well as its experience in past projects in Afghanistan. A key lesson was that,
        while leadership in post-conflict countries is a major driving force in the successful
        implementation of projects, it also has unpredictable tenure. The project’s design aimed to
        mitigate the risk of changes in leadership by ‘ring-fencing’ Components 2 and 3 from each other
        so that a delay in one component would not slow down progress in the other. The project design
        (see Section 1.5), and implementation arrangements (paragraph 20) were appropriate for the
        needs of the TVET sector (see Annexes 5-7 in Technical Annex, and paragraphs 31-36 in MOP).
       Government commitment: GoA had made skills development a clear priority in the
        reconstruction process. To this end, in 2004, it launched the NSDP which was focused on
        providing skills training to the most vulnerable groups in the country. Its commitment was clearly
        expressed in the Afghan National Compact and the ANDS. This commitment was largely
        motivated by two factors: (a) recognition that a low skilled labor force would retard the pace of
        development; and (b) the perception that the skills shortage could create a vicious cycle whereby
        foreign labor would become so entrenched that local labor and skills, even when available, would
        be overlooked. GoA clearly recognized the need for a strong institutional and regulatory
        framework to support TVET provision. Key ministries and agencies (Ministry of Education
        (MoE), MoLSAMD, Ministry of Higher Education (MoHE), Ministry of Finance (MoF) and

5
  GoA in its comments on the ICR observed that revised Component 3 also included training of people with
disability (PwDs). The ICR team acknowledges that while the Bank did finance training of PwDs, the amended
project description dated July 23, 2012 (see the Amendment to Financing Agreement) did not include training of
PwDs under Component 3.
6
  See paragraph 14 of the Project Restructuring Paper submitted to the CD for approval on July 20, 2012, and
Amended Schedule 1, Part 3(b) attached to the Amendment to Financing Agreement, dated July 23, 2012.

                                                      5
    NSDP) were actively engaged during project preparation and were enthusiastic about developing
    new institutional structures to oversee and regulate the development of the education and training
    sectors. Ministers in key ministries even signed a Memorandum of Understanding to formalize
    their cooperation, particularly for the development of a regulatory and quality assurance
    framework for TVET (Component 1, paragraph 9). GoA officials and the Bank team also held
    consultative sessions with national and international non-governmental organizations and
    representatives of the development partners such as USAID and ILO on the project design. These
    factors set the tone for project preparation and guided the project design.
   An appropriate PDO and components: The post-conflict reconstruction context in which ASDP
    was prepared created a particular challenge for the project. It was evident that the country needed
    to address the acute skills shortage to facilitate recovery, but there was also a need for long-term
    reform and capacity building in order to establish a high-quality TVET sector. The Technical
    Annex clearly and realistically noted that this overarching objective was not expected to be
    achieved in the lifetime of the project (see paragraphs 39-42 on page 9 of the Technical Annex
    for the strategy for development of the TVET system). Rather, the project was to be designed as
    the first stage of a long-term strategy aimed at addressing the acute training needs of the country,
    while laying the foundations for long-term development of a high-quality TVET system. The four
    components attempted to balance the immediate and overarching objectives.
   Attention to capacity building: The project opted to use existing GoA arrangements for project
    implementation to build capacity within the implementing agencies. Staff in the implementing
    agencies was supplemented by a financial management specialist, a finance officer and an
    internal auditor in DMTVET and the Grants Management Unit in the MoE and by a procurement
    specialist in NSDP to ensure compliance with the Bank’s fiduciary requirements. The capacity of
    DMTVET and NSDP staff to undertake technical aspects of the project was supplemented by
    consultants recruited under the project and intensive implementation support from Bank staff.
   Targeting criteria: The project made equity an explicit goal in its support for both the formal and
    non-formal training programs. While focusing on market relevance of institutions to improve the
    quality and efficiency of TVET, the project also made sure to support institutions that targeted the
    most disadvantaged populations in the country. Equity was a particular focus of the non-formal
    training programs, which were mainly aimed at poor women, marginalized farmers, and
    disadvantaged youth in rural areas.
   Risk assessment and mitigation measures: The overall risk rating was ‘Substantial’, reflecting a
    realistic assessment of project risks, including: (a) low capacity to meet the PDO due to a lack of
    qualified teachers and managers experienced in modern TVET delivery methods; (b) weak
    implementation capacity and ambitious project design; (c) limited progress in achieving
    geographic diversity and female enrollment and participation due to security, social, and cultural
    constraints; and (d) volatility in the political and security situation. The project identified
    appropriate mitigation measures, including: (i) a focus on the training of trainers, upgrading of
    faculty and administrators and hands-on support through technical assistance and specialized
    TVET management and related courses; (ii) the provision of technical assistance for change
    management and capacity building in implementing agencies; and (iii) stipulating the need for
    equity (i.e., gender, social and geographic) in enrollment and outcomes. On security risks, the
    project design was kept flexible enough to be able to react and adjust to realities. Although
    political risks were substantial, there was tremendous enthusiasm among the Ministers of the key
    ministries at project preparation over the establishment of new institutional structures for
    development of the TVET sector. The design also relied on the establishment of the CESP
    chaired by the First Vice President (FVP) of Afghanistan for coordination among the key
    ministries at the political level. (See Table 2 on page 15, Technical Annex, and Proposal to the


                                                 6
        ARTF Management Committee, August 26, 2008, for more detail on risks and mitigation
        measures.)

19. While many aspects of the project design were appropriate, particularly for the country context, it
could have benefitted from a stronger Results Monitoring Framework (RMF). The project design could
have given more attention to the realism of performance indicators and targets, and their measurement in
the fragile context of Afghanistan. The design of the project’s implementation arrangements could have
also benefitted from more explicit attention to monitoring and evaluation mechanisms for the project (See
paragraphs 25-27, Section 2.3).
2.2 Implementation
20. Responsibility for project management and implementation was placed in DMTVET (in MoE) and
NSDP (in MoLSAMD) for Components 2 and 3, respectively. Component 4 was under the joint
responsibility of the DMTVET and NSDP. For Component 1, a new high-level independent policy body,
CESP, was established. It was chaired by the FVP and comprised Ministers of Finance, Economy,
Education, Higher Education, and Labor and Social Affairs, Martyrs and Disabled. The NSDP was
assigned to act as Secretariat to the CESP.

21. Factors outside the control of the implementing agencies: The post-conflict environment, elections in
2009 and a tenuous security situation presented significant challenges for implementation. There were
also entrenched bureaucratic structures in place and the public TVET sector was highly centralized, as
was the case in many sectors in Afghanistan. Challenges beyond the control of the project are discussed
below:

     (a) High turnover in the leadership of the implementing ministries and agencies: In the political
     environment of Afghanistan, there were frequent changes in leadership of the implementing
     agencies. The MoE had two Ministers, the DMTVET (under the MoE) had four Deputy Ministers
     (the first one being a General Director when DMTVET was a Directorate of TVET), and
     MoLSAMD had three Ministers and four Deputy Ministers. Three FVPs chaired the CESP over the
     life of the project. The MoHE also went through similar changes. These frequent changes in
     leadership had a direct impact on project implementation because each change meant that the project
     team had to spend considerable time and effort to ensure that new leadership supported the
     commitments made under the project or by their predecessors. Leadership changes particularly
     affected the implementation progress of Component 1 to develop the TVET regulatory and quality
     assurance framework, including the location of the CESP Secretariat, moving back and forth
     between the Office of the FVP and MoLSAMD; at the end of the project, the CESP’s Secretariat was
     located in the Office of the FVP and was functioning well.
     (b) Lack of Government action on granting financial autonomy to public, project-supported
     TVET institutes: All public TVET schools and institutes in Afghanistan lack financial autonomy
     and nearly all financial matters are channeled to the DMTVET for endorsement and final approval.
     NIMA and TVET institutes supported under the project required operational and financial autonomy
     for improving their performance. However, DMTVET’s request to the MoF for granting financial
     autonomy to four project supported TVET institutes (ANIM, NIMA, Blind School and AIT) has
     been pending for a long period, without action. The Government has so far taken some limited
     action. For example, although three TVET institutes (ANIM, NIMA and AIT) have been allowed
     recently to establish bank accounts in the name of the institute, invoices of expenditures still require
     approval of the ASDP Office in DMTVET.
     (c) A challenging security situation made it difficult to attract and retain good international
     consultants and international academic staff.


                                                     7
22. Project implementation was rated ‘Satisfactory’ or ‘Moderately Satisfactory’ throughout the course of
implementation, except in two ISRs (out of 13) in early 2010 and mid-2011when it was rated ‘Moderately
Unsatisfactory’ because of weak fiduciary, safeguards and project management aspects of the project.

23. Factors which contributed positively to implementation performance: Progress towards achievement
of PDO was rated ‘Satisfactory’ or ‘Moderately Satisfactory’ throughout the project’s implementation.
The following factors contributed positively to implementation performance:
    (a) The decision by the DMTVET to recruit an international partner and faculty for NIMA
        contributed to the establishment of a new TVET institute in Afghanistan with an academic
        curriculum, improved teaching methods and examination systems of international standards.
    (b) A regular and sustained dialogue between the Bank and implementing agencies facilitated
        joint resolution of implementation challenges. Two examples are:
        (i) When implementation of Component 1 suffered because of the CESP Secretariat’s failure to
        communicate technical work to political leadership, resulting in a lack of ownership by the key
        stakeholder ministries, urgent actions brought resolution. This included the appointment of a
        capable Coordinator of the CESP Secretariat and relocation of the CESP Secretariat from
        MoLSAMD to the Office of FVP. Since the second half of 2013, the CESP has met twice, and
        has approved the NQF and establishment of the TVET Board.
        (ii) When it became clear that (a) DMTVET’s weak contract management capacity was affecting
        oversight of consultants’ implementation performance; (b) weak internal controls at DMTVET
        needed to be strengthened; and (c) there were safeguards issues, including inadequate sanitation,
        health and hygiene facilities in DMTVET institutes’ dormitories; GoA, supported by the Bank,
        effectively intervened, including through the recruitment of a contract management specialist and
        an internal auditor and the appointment of environmental and social safeguards focal persons in
        DMTVET’s ASDP Unit. The Bank team also strengthened covenants for effective
        implementation of the ESMF.
    (c) The April 2011 Mid-Term Review (MTR) included a candid assessment of the project’s
        performance with a focus on actions to facilitate the achievement of its development objectives.
        When it became clear that progress on some indicators was modest and could not be measured in
        the country and sector context, the MTR proposed to restructure the project to revise the results
        framework, including indicators and targets to reflect realities on the ground, and adjust the scope
        of the project and implementation arrangements (paragraphs 8 and 13-17). The project
        restructuring package, including the proposed supplemental letter (performance indicators),
        was submitted to the Country Director for approval on July 20, 2012. Based on satisfactory
        implementation of short-term training of vulnerable people and promising results from tracer
        studies, the MTR proposed to support further training of vulnerable people, including IDUs. To
        strengthen the management of project-supported TVET institutes and promote reform, the MTR
        also recommended the recruitment of coordinators for TVET institutes on a competitive basis.
    (d) Capacity building activities under the project helped build capacity of the DMTVET, NSDP and
        CESP teams in project management and enhanced their understanding of the structure and
        functioning of modern TVET systems. This was in addition to basic training in English and
        computer skills.
24. Factors which slowed implementation progress: ASDP was the first major development project in
TVET in Afghanistan. Implementing agencies lacked the capacity and experience necessary to address
implementation challenges. The project design was ambitious and although it included measures to
mitigate risks, the challenges of the implementing environment were evident, particularly in the early



                                                     8
stages of the project. The main factors which slowed implementation and hindered progress included the
following:
     (a) Infrequent meetings of the CESP initially slowed the resolution of coordination problems and
         differences of opinion among ministries at the political level, and by limiting oversight of the
         work of its Secretariat. The technical work of consultants of the CESP Secretariat is yet to be
         reviewed by independent consultants.
     (b) DMTVET’s weak contract management capacity led to tensions in the relationship between
         DMTVET and NIMA consultants, and it affected progress in the early stages of implementation.
     (c) A long gap of nearly two years between two implementing partners for NIMA disrupted
         continuity in support for NIMA’s development.
     (d) Delays in MoE’s granting of academic and administrative autonomy to TVET institutes supported
         under ASDP slowed reform in the TVET sector. Though five TVET institutes (ANIM, NIMA,
         AMI, Blind School and AIT) have recently established governing councils (GCs) with private
         sector representation, except in ANIM7, they started to function only very recently. Only ANIM
         and NIMA have started running their own programs using a new curriculum, and only three
         institutes have been able to hire teachers independently while in other institutes, teachers are
         appointed by DMTVET.
     (e) Inadequate selection of the initial batch of Afghan teacher trainees (ATTs) for NIMA at the start
         of the project, combined with a lack of a clear plan for their development and low salaries, led to
         a large attrition of ATTs. DMTVET has recently started to address this problem by ensuring that
         only those ATTs are selected who are qualified and show promise to join NIMA as faculty
         members after structured training.
     (f) A delay of fifteen months, following the MTR, to revise the problematic results framework
         (indicators and targets) and make other adjustments in the project scope and implementation
         arrangements for the project through project restructuring is likely to have delayed the turn-
         around of project implementation performance (paragraph 23(c), Table 2 in paragraphs 60 and
         69).
2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization
25. M&E was challenging because the TVET sector, in 2008, lacked the basic infrastructure for data
collection and information management. This meant that the project had the responsibility of developing
basic capacity in this area as well as utilizing M&E processes to monitor the progress of its development
objectives. This affected the design and implementation of M&E arrangements under the project. The
limitations of the original Results Framework and monitoring arrangements served as a major impetus for
the proposed project restructuring in July 2012 (see paragraph 23(c)). The M&E design, implementation
and utilization for ASDP are most meaningfully discussed in two stages, before and after project
restructuring.

26. M&E Design, Implementation and Utilization before Restructuring: The quality of the original M&E
design was mixed. The project was successful in establishing clear project objectives. This is often a
challenge in post-conflict and fragile contexts, where there are tensions between short-term recovery
needs and long-term reform priorities. However, the project’s objectives were not accurately reflected in
all its original outcome indicators and targets. Although some indicators and targets were appropriate,
others were overreaching or too ambitious. There was also some inconsistency between indicators laid out
in the Technical Annex and those monitored during project implementation, which may have been a result
of data constraints at the time. In the early stages of project implementation, there were no systematic
mechanisms for collecting data within the sector and the project was constrained by both a scarcity of

7
 The GC in ANIM however was established earlier, thanks to the efforts of its Director, and has been functioning
well.

                                                       9
data and constraints on data collection due to security issues and a lack of technical capacity, particularly
in the DMTVET, to implement the results framework. On the other hand, NSDP demonstrated
satisfactory capacity to monitor implementation of Component 3, even in early stages of the project.

27. M&E Design, Implementation and Utilization after Restructuring: The MTR in April 2011 flagged
some of the weaknesses in the original Results Framework (noted above) and recommended a revision of
this framework. In mid-2012 (about fifteen months after the MTR), in response to these
recommendations, the implementing agencies and the Bank proposed a revision of the original results
framework. The design of the revised results framework was stronger, with indicators and targets more
closely aligned to the project development objectives, and more reflective of ground reality (see
Supplemental Letter (Performance Indicators) included in the restructuring package submitted to the
Country Director for approval on July 20, 2012). The five outcome indicators, together with intermediate
outcomes, more clearly captured the PDO. However, the revised results framework would still have
benefitted from greater specification on the intermediate outcomes, and consistency in reporting baseline
and target values and in comments on the status of indicators in the Implementation Status and Results
reports (ISRs) during implementation.

28. Project monitoring improved significantly over the course of the project as the Bank team and GoA
counterparts ensured more systematic and reliable information management. The project management
team in the DMTVET also developed a Project Management Information System (PMIS) as part of its
effort to develop an MIS. The PMIS has several data collection tools to collect and process data from
different sections of the project and it can also generate regular reports for project management and
monitoring. The Bank team also initiated measures to verify data, particularly monitoring data, to ensure
more accurate assessment of the project’s progress. The ASDP Unit in DMTVET instituted a system of
reporting to capture both semi-annual and monthly project progress in its reports. Monitoring
arrangements included tracer studies, and by the end of the project, both the DMTVET and the NSDP had
conducted a series of tracer studies on graduates to assess the impact of the formal and non-formal
training programs. As before project restructuring, monitoring of performance of Component 3 activities
and additional tracer studies by NSDP remained satisfactory. In light of security constraints, particularly
in provinces such as Kandahar and Khost, the inaccessibility of rural Afghanistan and a general lack of
M&E capacity, the completion of tracer studies by NSDP was a significant achievement.

2.4 Safeguards
29. The project was appropriately classified as Category B and triggered OP/BP 4.01. There was no land
acquisition. An Environmental and Social Management Framework (ESMF) was prepared and
environmental guidelines for contractors were included in the contractual agreements. During project
implementation, there were occasional delays in compliance due to low institutional capacity and weak
cooperation among different DMTVET departments and units. This was reflected by downgrading the
safeguards rating to ‘Moderately Unsatisfactory’ in the ISR in June 2011. Environmental issues related
primarily to construction and inadequate water, sanitation and health hygiene facilities in dormitories.
Close supervision through Bank missions ensured steady improvement, with a ‘Moderately Satisfactory’
rating, starting in the ISR of December 2011 and a ‘Satisfactory’ rating as of June 2013. These ratings
continued through the rest of the project’s implementation period. To further strengthen the project’s
safeguards aspects and implementation capacity, DMTVET: (i) appointed an environmental and social
safeguard focal person from within its engineering team; (ii) translated safeguard documents into local
languages for wider use; (iii) conducted staff training; (iv) instituted screening of civil works and the
preparation of site-specific environmental and social management plans; (v) required contractors to
implement site-specific environmental management plans; (vi) introduced regular reporting to the Bank
on the status of ESMF compliance and site-specific plans; and (vii) provided an annual budget for
maintenance and repairs to ensure compliance with health and sanitation standards. Grievance Redress

                                                     10
Committees were established at DMTVET and at the sub-project level whose functionality improved over
time.

30. Proactive efforts by the DMTVET and the NSDP Unit in MoLSAMD to improve gender equality and
sensitivity to the needs of women in their TVET programs contributed to high shares of women in both
formal and non-formal training programs (see paragraph 61).
2.5 Financial Management
31. Financial management of the project was in accordance with Afghanistan’s established system using
the MOF’s Special Disbursement Unit. The ASDP unit in DMTVET was responsible for all project
financial management functions. NSDP in MoLSAMD maintained separate financial records for project
activities under NSDP. These were integrated into the project financial management records kept by the
ASDP unit. DMTVET and NSDP recruited and retained adequate numbers of well qualified staff familiar
with the MoF and World Bank procedures for financial management. ASDP’s finance team, given its
technical expertise, was involved in financial management of the development budget of DMTVET.

32. Coordination and information sharing among the ASDP unit and NSDP was initially weak. This was
flagged during Bank implementation support missions. Later, project units met regularly to share project
information and reconcile financial data. Financial management was well implemented at the start, but
gradually deteriorated. In the ISR of January 2010 and again in the ISR of June 2011, the Bank team rated
it ‘Moderately Unsatisfactory’, mainly due to inadequate procedures for annual budgets and work
programs and excess payments to consulting firms due to poor control over invoice processing. Vigorous
intervention of the Bank team and effective implementation of the Bank’s recommendations by
DMTVET and NSDP, including measures to strengthen financial management capacity and the
recruitment of an internal auditor, addressed these weaknesses. Excess payments to consultants were
recovered and adjusted in subsequent payments and budgeting processes improved. The internal audit
report for the period December 21, 2012 to December 20, 2013 highlighted control issues concerning
documentation and compliance with procurement guidelines for which immediate management action
was taken. Annual audited statements were submitted on time, except for the first-year audit which was
submitted four months after the due date. Audit observations up to 2013 were promptly resolved.
Financial management capacity improved following the Mid-Term Review, starting with a rating of
‘Moderately Satisfactory’ in December 2011 and rising to ‘Satisfactory’ in December 2012, which
continued through the rest of the project’s life.

2.6 Procurement
33. Capacity assessments during design pointed to the inexperience of procurement staff in the Grant
Management Unit (GMU) of the MoE and the NSDP in MoLSAMD. The design envisaged that along
with GMU procurement officers, two international procurement specialists who were being hired under
the Education Quality Improvement Program II would also provide cross-support to ASDP, and that a
procurement specialist would be hired to carry out procurement under Component 3 and to train NSDP
procurement staff. Initial weakness in the supervision of civil works contracts due to inadequate resources
allocated for it was resolved through restructuring the design team in DMTVET. Only a small essential
team was retained in the design team to complete the design of the remaining construction activities. Most
engineers and architects were assigned to provide construction supervision support. By the time of the
MTR, the ASDP Unit in DMTVET had strengthened its procurement capacity with one senior
procurement officer and two assistant procurement officers. This was considered adequate for carrying
out remaining procurement activities. For NSDP’s procurement activities, initial work on contracted-out
training became systematized and was managed well by the NSDP’s procurement staff with support from
procurement specialists in the ASDP Unit.


                                                    11
34. At the time of the MTR, contract management and oversight were still weak for the supervision of
both works and services contracts. The Bank maintained a ‘Moderately Unsatisfactory’ rating from June
2009 to June 2011. Implementation by DMTVET of recommended actions, including adequate
management of procurement information, led to steady improvement in procurement management. The
rating was upgraded to ‘Moderately Satisfactory’ in December 2011 and to ’Satisfactory’ in June 2013.
Out of a total of 21 civil works contracts, all were completed except the auditorium for ANIM, which will
now be completed under ASDP II (paragraph 36). DMTVET and NSDP procurement staff received
training in contract management and procurement processes both in-country and abroad.
2.7 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
35. GoA remains strongly committed to TVET. About two years before the project closed, GoA asked for
Bank/ARTF support to continue development of the TVET sector. The Afghanistan Second Skills
Development Project (ASDP II) for US$55 million was approved in March 2013 in support of formal
TVET, and the Non-Formal Approach to Training, Education and Jobs in Afghanistan (NATEJA) project
for US$15 million was approved in March 2014. Both projects built on the experience and lessons of
ASDP and also introduced new features to: (i) sharpen the focus on market-driven TVET programs;(ii)
grant autonomy to TVET institutes under DMTVET in a phased manner; (iii) improve teacher
competencies through technical and pedagogical training; (iv) ensure that the private sector is represented
on TVET institutes’ governing councils and schools’ management committees;(v) help prepare practical
curricula and teaching materials; and (vi) improve the quality of non-formal training and labor market
outcomes for trainees.

36. Implementation of the new projects has started well. The new projects have benefitted from the
systems put in place and increased human resource capacity built under ASDP. The consulting contract
for the implementing partner for NIMA is continuing under ASDP II. The adequacy of budget provision
for operations and maintenance costs of public TVET institutes and schools is uncertain due to GoA’s
overall fiscal situation that has become challenging and forecasts for economic growth in the near- to
mid-term are lower than before because of the tenuous security situation, political uncertainty and the
overall fragile context of the country.
3.     ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOMES
3.1    Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
Relevance: High
37. Objectives: The project objective was and remains highly relevant to the development needs and
priorities of Afghanistan and is closely aligned to the Bank’s current country support strategy (ISN 2012-
2014). The country’s commitment to TVET remains strong, as evidenced in its policy priorities and
programs such as NSDP. The World Bank’s ISN 2012-2014 identifies three pillars, which form the core
of the Bank’s support to Afghanistan: (1) building the legitimacy and capacity of institutions; (2)
equitable service delivery; and (3) inclusive jobs and growth. It is clear from the PDO and project
activities in each component that ASDP is aligned with these strategic pillars.

38. Design and Implementation: The project design also remains highly relevant to Afghanistan’s
development needs. As is the case in most post-conflict and fragile contexts, this project was confronted
with the task of balancing the country’s immediate priorities for recovery, such as addressing a skills
shortage, with the overarching objective of building a high-quality TVET sector. The project’s design was
responsive to both and reflects an appropriate balance between addressing short- and long-term priorities.
Taking this into account, the project was appropriately designed as the first stage of a long-term plan to
develop the TVET sector, and the priorities in this first stage were clearly identified as two-fold: meeting
short-term training needs and laying the foundation for long-term development of a modern, demand-
driven TVET sector (Technical Annex, paragraphs 39-40, page 9).


                                                    12
3.2       Achievement of Project Development Objectives
           Rating against revised project indicators/targets: Substantial
           Rating against original project indicators/targets (Annex 9): Modest

39. The project’s development objective was “to increase the number of immediately-employable
graduates by supporting the establishment of a high-quality TVET system that is equitable, market-
responsive, and cost-effective”. In accordance with the ICR guidelines, Annex 10 presents a detailed
assessment of the achievement of the project objective against original indicators and targets (this
analysis has been factored into the assessment of the overall project outcome which is discussed in
Section 3.4). A detailed assessment of project outcomes against its revised indicators and targets is
discussed below.
Outcome 1: Increased number of immediately-employable TVET graduates -
Substantial Achievement
Indicators (outcome and intermediate outcome):
       Number of graduates from all (six) project financed institutions in DMTVET- Fully Achieved
       Share of NIMA graduates employed six months after completing training - Substantially Achieved
       The number of diplomas awarded by NIMA - Highly Achieved
       Increase in the number of operational buildings and facilities for TVET- Substantially Achieved
       The number of voucher beneficiaries (including female) – Highly Achieved
       Number of TVET Institutes operating under the agreed governance framework -
         Modestly Achieved
       Percentage of women enrolled at NIMA - Substantially Achieved

40. The two associated KPIs clearly indicate that the project has substantially achieved its first objective.
The total number of graduates from the six project-supported TVET institutes increased sharply from 398
in 2008 to 7,720 by the end of the project, significantly exceeding the project’s target of producing 5,380
graduates. Ninety-nine percent of these graduates had degrees in focus-sectors.8 Also, 75 percent of
NIMA’s first cohort was employed within six months of graduation; this was an achievement of one of
the project’s key indicators. The discussion below highlights the project outputs and inputs that
contributed to this outcome, and to the long-term objective of establishing a high-quality TVET system.

41. Project Outputs and Inputs: The project aimed to achieve its first objective by improving the
quality, relevance and equity of TVET provision.

42.      Quality: NIMA was established in 2008 to provide high-quality, market-relevant training. To
achieve this, NIMA’s academic program was designed and implemented in line wit h international
standards (i.e., up-to-date curricula, teaching methodology, learning resources, and well-qualified staff).
The institute also introduced measures aimed at improving its links to the job-market - among these, a
visiting lecture series that introduces business leaders and topics in the market and an internship and job
placement program. To give its graduates another competitive edge, NIMA was designed as an English
medium institute and a special English language program was implemented to help students improve their
English language proficiency. Today, NIMA is considered a first choice among Afghan students who
want to fast-track their careers in management and business administration, accounting or ICT. Since its
establishment, the institute has produced 1,714 graduates with internationally and nationally recognized
diplomas, exceeding the project’s target of producing 1,150 diploma holders.


8
 The Technical Annex identifies a set of “focus-sectors” that address the perceived needs of the Afghanistan’s
market place. They include: accounting; ICT; basic engineering skills (such as construction related trades, metal
work, and mechanical repairs); management and administration; and agriculture and related sub-sectors.

                                                       13
43.      The project also supported basic quality improvement in five existing TVET institutes. The
project made a substantial contribution to the quality of infrastructure and teaching and learning facilities
(see Annex 2 for details). In addition, a few of the institutes had their curriculum upgraded, and a
significant number of their teachers trained in modern teaching methods. ASDP also provided technical
assistance to help develop management capacity at each of the institutes.

44.      Relevance and Efficiency: Institutional (i.e., operational and financial) autonomy is an essential
precondition for market relevant and cost-effective TVET provision. In the highly-centralized
administrative governance context of Afghanistan, public TVET institutes had neither. The project’s goal
was to improve operational autonomy, such that the day-to-day operations would be managed solely by
the institution, without Government interference. The project’s achievements in this area were mixed. By
the end of the project, five of the six institutes had established Governing Councils (GCs). The GC
mechanism was designed to facilitate the operational autonomy of the institute and promote private sector
participation in the governance of TVET institutes. Although GCs have been established with private
sector representation, the role of these representatives remains limited. Overall, the operational autonomy
of the five institutes also remains limited9. Only two institutes have been granted the right to manage their
own academic programs (ANIM and NIMA) and three have been allowed to open individual bank
accounts (ANIM, NIMA and AIT). Any movement towards private sector engagement and increased
operational autonomy in Afghanistan’s public TVET provision is significant because it represents a
movement away from a supply-driven system towards a demand-driven system.

45.     In another effort to improve market-responsiveness and ultimately increase the employability of
graduates, ASDP also introduced a merit-based voucher system for TVET graduates to enable them to
pursue further professional training. A total of 221 students were supported through the voucher
program, surpassing the project’s target of providing 200 vouchers to support skills-training.

46.       Equity: Equity was a priority in the project’s strategy to improve the quality of TVET provision
and this was one important criterion for choosing which institutes to support. As a result, the Blind School
and ANIM were chosen to improve equitable access to TVET for the disabled and for vulnerable youth.
ASDP also made special efforts to increase women’s participation in NIMA, including on-site residential
facilities for women. As a result of such efforts 32 percent of those who enrolled at NIMA in 2014 were
women. Although this fell just short of the project’s target of 33 percent, it is still an important
achievement in Afghanistan, where rates of women’s participation in higher education and formal TVET
are much lower (approximately 19 percent in each sector).
Outcome 2: Increased number of immediately employable non-formal training beneficiaries -
Substantial Achievement
Indicators (outcome and intermediate outcome):
       Increase in average earnings of project graduates within 6 months of completing training (NSDP)
        - Substantially Achieved.
       Number of vulnerable youth, poor women, marginalized farmers, and IDUs trained under NSDP -
        Highly Achieved
       Number of BDS trainers trained - Substantially Achieved

47.    The project substantially achieved its second objective of increasing the number of immediately-
employable non-formal training beneficiaries. Over the course of the project, 9,676 vulnerable youth,

9
  The Borrower’s views on the current status of the role played by governing councils (GCs) in project-supported
institutes in paragraph 17, Annex 7 (Summary of Borrower’s ICR) differ from the assessment of the ICR. The ICR
describes the Bank’s assessment of the status of operational and financial autonomy at project closing ( paragraphs
21(b), 24(d), 44, 72 and 73).

                                                        14
poor women, marginalized or landless farmers, people with disability (PwDs), and IDUs were trained,
surpassing the project’s target of 9,000. It is important to note that in Afghanistan, as in many places,
most people in the informal sector claim some sort of employment, regardless of whether it provides a
sustainable living. As such, in the case of non-formal training, which was targeted at people in the
informal sector, earnings provide a better indicator of employability than employment rates. As a result of
the training, the average earnings of each of the target groups increased significantly: chronically poor
women’s earnings increased from AFN 0 to AFN 2,766 per month, and youth’s average earnings
increased from AFN 998 to AFN 8,475 per month following their training. The average earnings of
marginalized or landless farmers increased from AFN 3,076 to AFN 7,779 per month10. The project
achieved this objective by improving the market-relevance and quality of non-formal TVET. The specific
outputs and inputs, which contributed to the outcome and to the overarching objective, are discussed
below.

48.      Project Outputs and Inputs: ASDP’s efforts to provide non-formal training were meant to
complement the Government’s ongoing NSDP, but with a particular focus on equity, quality and the
market-responsiveness of non-formal training. Market-responsiveness was the guiding principle in
designing the training programs. To achieve this: (a) each training program was designed for the needs of
the local target population; and (b) a rapid assessment of local market needs and consultations with
village leaders formed the basis for the design. Most of the training programs were evaluated by a tracer
study. This allowed for a simple, but effective means of evaluating the impact and as such, the efficacy of
these training programs. Over the course of the project, 11 tracer studies were conducted to assess the
impact of the non-formal training programs. Building evaluation capacity in the non-formal training
program will clearly be a legacy of the project. As another capacity building measure, the project trained
a total of 1,652 business development service trainers, which was an important contribution to the non-
formal training program in the country as a whole. In response to the cultural constraints for women in the
Afghan labor force, the skills training for women focused on activities that would enable them to work
from home (e.g., carpet weaving, embroidery, horticulture, and food-processing). Equity was also an
underlying principle of ASDP’s support for the non-formal training program. The training beneficiaries
included: 3,150 chronically poor women, 2,500 marginalized or landless farmers, 3,526 youth, 200
rehabilitated injectable drug users (IDUs) and 300 people with disability (PwDs).

Outcome 3: Improved institutional and regulatory framework for TVET - Modest Achievement
Indicators (outcome and intermediate outcome):

        New Institutional Framework for TVET developed and submitted to Parliament for legislative
         enactment - Modestly Achieved
        The NQF developed and approval of the DMTVET Plan - Substantially Achieved

49.      To support the establishment of a high-quality TVET system, the project aimed to develop both
the institutional and regulatory frameworks for TVET. The targets were ambitious: (a) design and
establish an institutional framework (i.e., ANQA and independent awarding boards [e.g., NTVETB]); and
(b) develop and implement a NQF (a levels-based structure to map all education and training
competencies). These targets were revised in July 2012 when it became clear that the political realities on
the ground were not conducive to achieving these targets. The project’s revised target was to develop th e


10
   The baseline and target values for this indicator in project documents are inconsistent with the revised indicator of
market responsiveness, the intent of which was to measure the difference in earnings as a result of the vocational
training. As such, the ICR team chose to report the pre-training and post-training earnings of the vocational training
beneficiaries under ASDP, which provide a more accurate assessment of this indicator.


                                                          15
institutional framework and the NQF, along with draft legislation, and to submit these draft frameworks
for legislative enactment.

50.      Despite early challenges, significant progress was made towards this objective in 2013 and 2014.
By the end of the project, a basic design for a new institutional framework and the NQF had been
developed. These were approved by the CESP, signifying the endorsement of all relevant stakeholders.
Draft legislation for enacting this framework (including the establishment of the NTVETB) and
establishing the NQF was also developed. Although the legislation is yet to be submitted for
Parliamentary approval, the Government is considering interim provisions to establish the NQF and the
institutional framework by Cabinet authority. This is not a fully satisfactory outcome, since the legislation
for establishment of the NTVETB, as an independent entity with its own budget code, has yet to be tabled
before Parliament. Nevertheless, it is clear that there has been significant progress towards achieving this
objective, particularly in light of the political turbulent climate of Afghanistan in the last year.
Achievement of this outcome is rated as Modest.

51.      Project Outputs and Inputs: The CESP was established in 2008 to oversee the development and
implementation of the institutional framework and the NQF. This Committee, chaired by FVP, has been
responsible for overseeing the process of drafting the institutional framework and the NQF. A key
element of the new institutional framework is the establishment of the NTVETB to facilitate and apply
TVET regulatory policy. It was originally intended to function as an independent entity with its own
staffing, budget and functions. It is, however, unclear whether it will be granted this status in the current
political environment.

52.      An important output was the development of the NQF to help in recognizing prior learning,
bringing much needed standardization, providing a clear signal to employers on the abilities and skills
available, and allowing trainees to develop a commitment to life-long learning. Developing this
framework was in itself an achievement. The process was complicated. It called for extensive
consultations with all stakeholders to define relevant levels in the framework, and the generic learning
outcomes associated with each level. The NQF has now been developed and approved by the CESP.
Since the establishment of the ANQA was dropped at restructuring, the CESP is expected to function as
an interim body to oversee the implementation of the NQF as well as the establishment of the NTVETB.
Another important contribution to the regulatory framework was the development of the National
Occupational Skills Standards (NOSS). The NOSS describes the minimum standards to which an
individual is expected to work in a given occupation. Under ASDP, 170 NOSSs have been developed.
Benchmarking of NOSSs to international standards is now being developed under ASDP II (paragraph
35).

Outcome 4: Strengthened M&E and program management capacity - Substantial Achievement
Indicators (outcome and intermediate outcome):

       MIS is in place and MIS reports produced - Substantially Achieved.
       Number of Project Staff and Officers trained in different functional areas (for both DMTVET and
        NSDP) - Highly Achieved.
       Number of tracer studies of TVET graduates completed – Highly Achieved.

53.    A high-quality TVET system is one that is capable of recognizing and responding to market
demands. This, in turn, requires: (a) strong mechanisms for monitoring and evaluating information on
market needs and program effectiveness; and (b) sufficient human resource capacity to utilize this
information for strategic planning, management, and decision making. Like all other elements of the
system, the mechanisms for information management were almost non-existent, and program
management capacity was very weak. The project substantially achieved its objective by strengthening

                                                     16
both M&E and program management capacity. These achievements, expressed in terms of outputs and
outcomes, are noted below.

54.      Projects M&E Outputs: The project designed and implemented a Management Information
System (MIS), with two main components: the first component (the Project Management Information
System (PMIS)) is designed to capture project management related data. The other component (the TVET
Management Information System [TMIS]) is designed to capture information on TVET institutes under
the DMTVET (See Annex 2 for details). Currently, the PMIS has been implemented well enough to
generate on-demand reports on most aspects of the project management. Capturing data on formal TVET
provision in the country is a much more complicated and challenging task and as such, the
implementation of the TMIS is at a more nascent stage. At this stage, the TMIS is able to collect data
from four of the six project supported TVET institutes (NIMA, ANIM, AIT and the Blind School). The
establishment of the MIS is an important achievement because it lays the groundwork for future planning
and strategic management of the TVET sector.

55.      The project also succeeded in building capacity for program evaluation. Under the project, 14
tracer studies were conducted through both the NSDP and the DMTVET. This was an ambitious
undertaking, not only because of the low capacity, resource-constrained environment, but also because
several of these studies were conducted in remote and insecure areas. The impact of the training programs
was assessed on the basis of the pre- and post-training earnings of the treatment groups. Tracer studies
were new tools for the sector and therefore it is not surprising that the NSDP and the DMTVET
experienced a few challenges in carrying them out. Nevertheless, introducing this methodology in a
fragile context was in itself an achievement which has ultimately served to build evaluation capacity in
MoLSAMD.

56.      Finally, the project also took steps to improve management capacity of the implementing
agencies (DMTVET and MoLSAMD/NSDP) by training 325 management staff, surpassing its target of
training 300 management staff. Apart from training ministry staff for managing the country’s TVET
program, the project also built capacity in the project-supported institutes by providing dedicated
technical assistance to train management and administrative staff and technical teachers in TVET
institutes.

3.3     Efficiency
        Rating: Substantial
57.     Efficiency in achieving the project objective in terms of Net Present Value (NPV) and Internal
Rate of Return (IRR) is substantial. A cost-benefit analysis has been implemented to calculate the NPV
and IRR of the project, and assumptions are given in Annex 3. Data collected from tracer surveys
provided the basis for some of these assumptions.

58.     According to the analysis, the NPV under the base case is US$20.8 million at a discount rate of
10 percent, and the IRR is 22 percent. Since this IRR is substantially larger than the cost of capital (10
percent), the analysis suggests that ASDP was a project worthy of investment. There was no economic
analysis at the appraisal stage and therefore it is not possible to compare the estimated IRR with the
expected one to evaluate whether the project exceeded previous expectations.

59.     Key improvements included increased internal efficiency, as the total number of beneficiaries
increased from 398 to 17,617 by the end of the project11, and also increased external efficiency due to a

11
   As articulated in Annex 3, beneficiaries include 7,720 students that graduated from the selected six TVET
institutes and 221 students that received vouchers to pursue further professional technical education (under
Component 2), and 9,676 marginalized workers who were trained under Component 3.

                                                    17
greater presence of skilled labor force in the economy. Benefits from Component 2 were derived from the
number of students who graduated from the project-supported six institutes, including NIMA, and the
introduction of the Voucher Program. Component 3 yielded high socio-economic benefits because most
of the targeted marginalized workers started from a baseline of negligible earnings and substantially
increased their income.

3.4    Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

60.       The project outcome rating against its revised indicators and targets is assessed as Satisfactory
because: (a) the PDO and design remained Highly Relevant throughout project implementation and
continue to remain Highly Relevant today; and (b) its efficiency and efficacy were both Substantial. The
project outcome rating against original indicators and targets is assessed as Moderately Unsatisfactory
(See Annex 10 for details). In line with the ICR guidelines, the project’s final outcome rating is based on
a weighted assessment of the two outcome ratings in proportion to the share of actual grant disbursements
made in the periods before and after approval of the revision. Table 1 below reflects this analysis. As a
result, the overall outcome is rated as Moderately Satisfactory.

     Table 1: Analysis of Project Performance against Original and Revised Indicators and Targets
                         Performance           Performance
                       weighted against      weighted against         Overall                      Comments
                      original indicators    revised indicators
                              and               and targets
                            targets
 Project Outcome
 Rating                   Moderately                                      -         Substantial Improvement after indicators
                         Unsatisfactory          Satisfactory                       and targets were revised.

 Rating Value                  3                      5                   -
 Weight (%
 disbursed                    69%                   31%                100%
 before/after
 restructuring)
 Weighted Value               2.1                    1.6                3.7
                                                                                     Restructuring12 was undertaken 15
 Final Project                                                                       months after the Mid-term Review. Had
 Outcome Rating                                                      Moderately      this restructuring taken place earlier or
 (rounded)                                                           Satisfactory    even well before the MTR, the project’s
                                                                                     performance may have been assessed as
                                                                                     more satisfactory.
 Note: Following values were assigned to outcome ratings for the purpose of this analysis: 6 = Highly Satisfactory; 5 =
 Satisfactory; 4 = Moderately Satisfactory; 3 = Moderately Unsatisfactory; 2 = Unsatisfactory; and 1 = Highly Unsatisfactory.


3.5     Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
61. The objectives of increased female enrollment in project-supported TVET institutes of DMTVET and
in non-formal training programs by NSDP were achieved: the share of female students enrolled in NIMA
was 32 percent in 2014; and 40 percent of vulnerable people trained in rural areas under the NSDP
programs were women. Twenty nine percent of students at ANIM are female. Students at NIMA
represent nearly all provinces in the country, including insecure areas. ANIM also made special efforts to
attract orphans and children from very poor backgrounds, including street children, to its student body

12
  See the restructuring package (including Supplemental Letter – Performance Indicators) submitted to the Country
Director for approval on July 20, 2012. The MTR was in April 2011.

                                                                18
and transform them through quality training in both music and general education. Some provinces
covered under the NSDP training programs such as Kandahar and Khost were highly insecure.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
62.      Institutional strengthening was significant. GoA decided to place responsibility for project
implementation and management within the existing arrangements in the implementing ministries,
supplemented by consultants as needed for the project. This design supported a learning-by-doing
process. Facilitated by persistent dialogue, despite Afghanistan’s highly centralized structure, GoA
initiated, with support from the Bank, actions to grant autonomy to project-supported TVET institutes. A
new institute, NIMA, based on international standards, has also been established.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)
Not applicable.
4.      Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
        Rating: Significant

63.      Sustaining and further improving the project’s development outcome will depend on a number of
factors. Technically, although changes in the approach to TVET were new, they are being further
supported and pursued under the new projects, ASDP II and NATEJA (paragraphs 35-36). There is,
however, a risk that further progress could be slow due to centralized structures and political uncertainty.
Financially, a sharp slowdown in Afghanistan’s economic growth in 2013 and 2014, increased security
related expenditures and reduced revenues created a large unfinanced fiscal gap, which is likely to persist
well into the future. This could undermine implementation of essential TVET activities because of
reduced support for operating costs for the TVET sector. Socially, the project has been supported and
appreciated by beneficiaries and there has been no significant negative impact on stakeholders. Continued
stakeholder support is likely. Politically, there is strong support at the highest levels of government for
TVET efforts. Institutionally, awareness has been raised at various levels of government about the key
elements of a modern TVET system and ownership has taken root.

5.     Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in ensuring Quality at entry
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

64.      As discussed in Section 2.1, the strategic relevance and approach of the project were strong.
Technical aspects of the project were grounded in the Bank’s analytical work, the experience of GoA’s
NSDP and ANDS, lessons learned from the Bank’s experience in Afghanistan drawn from its entire
portfolio and TVET operations in fragile states. Bank inputs and processes drew on the expertise of a
multi-disciplinary team and benefitted from collaboration with other DPs. Fiduciary and safeguards
aspects were properly assessed and addressed in the project’s design. On institutional aspects and
implementation arrangements, the project relied on existing government capacity, supplemented by
fiduciary staff and consultants. For implementation of Component 1, responsibility was placed in the new
CESP chaired by the FVP. This was done to build consensus and coordinate across several ministries,
including MoE, MoHE, MoLSAMD, MoF and the Ministry of Economy, as well as other Government
agencies. The risk assessment was realistic and proposed appropriate mitigation measures.

65.    At the project preparation and design stage, there were, however, some limitations that could
have been more effectively addressed. There was slight variation in the PDO statements in the MOP,
Technical Annex and Financing Agreement (paragraph 7). In the ICR team’s judgment, these
formulations were almost identical. As noted earlier, on M&E, the project design could have benefitted

                                                    19
from a stronger results monitoring framework. More attention could also have been given to the realism
of the indicators and targets themselves and of the feasibility of their measurement in the fragile situation
of the country. Project implementation arrangements could have benefitted from more explicit attention to
monitoring and evaluation mechanisms.

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

66.     Considering the fragile country situation and a demanding project design, Bank supervision
following the MTR was regular and intense, with short missions in between semi-annual missions.
Following the MTR, the Bank recruited an Operations Officer to work on the project in the Country
Office. During six and one-half years of project implementation, though there were four Task Team
Leaders, continuity was maintained in the teams, particularly including staff in the Country Office. As of
late 2013 and until recently when security did not allow mission travel to Kabul, the Bank team conducted
a supervision mission in Dubai. In early 2011 during the MTR, it became clear that the NIMA sub-
component needed to be strengthened, including its management team, and urgent action was required to
move forward. Corrective actions were taken by the Government with support from the Bank team,
including the appointment of a capable management team for NIMA on an acting basis.

67.      Based on implementation experience, the Bank was responsive to the need to assist deserving
students (who had graduated from project-supported TVET institutes) in pursuing further professional
training in market-relevant areas. To this end, the Bank agreed to GoA’s proposal to add a Pilot Vouchers
Program for students selected on the basis of merit. The Bank team also worked with GoA to strengthen
actions under the project to support enhancement of the autonomy of TVET institutes, strengthen the
application of the ESMF, increase attention to water, sanitation and health hygiene facilities in
dormitories, and increase the frequency of project progress reporting.

68.      Supervision of fiduciary and safeguards aspects of the project was appropriate. At the
recommendation of the Bank, DMTVET recruited a contract management specialist and implemented
other mitigation measures, including training. Supervision of financial management issues was thorough
and focused on improving financial management capacity and performance. The Bank also closely
supervised environmental safeguards aspects of the project and provided recommendations to correct any
shortfalls. Fiduciary and safeguards ratings in ISRs were adjusted to reflect compliance performance.

69.      On M&E, however, the systematic collection of baseline and other data to track progress, and
quality of monitoring and reporting should have received more attention starting from the time of project
approval (see Section 2.3). An overall lack of capacity to undertake such activities, the country’s fragile
situation and the tenuous security environment in which the project was implemented, which culminated
in a ‘fire-fighting’ modus operandi, may have contributed, in part, to this oversight. However, more
careful attention to the progress and challenges in monitoring the project’s progress in achieving KPIs and
to clearly document the M&E issues in the ISRs throughout the life of the project could have helped focus
the Bank’s attention to the issues to trigger remedial actions, and to help enhance the project’s
developmental impact in a timely manner. Following the MTR, which, among other findings, focused on
how to address weaknesses in the original results framework, 15 months elapsed before a revised results
framework was proposed as part of the project restructuring (see Supplemental Letter (Performance
Indicators) included in the restructuring package submitted to the Country Director for approval on July
20, 2012, and paragraph 8). In a fragile country like Afghanistan, the results framework should have
been revised as soon as it had become clear that some indicators and targets were too ambitious, no longer
relevant or meaningful or could not be measured. Timely course corrections by processing adjustments to
the project’s indicators and targets through project restructuring immediately following the MTR or

                                                     20
preferably even well before the planned MTR could have helped the project get back on track more
quickly. Despite adequacy of supervision inputs and processes, supervision of fiduciary and safeguard
aspects, and the role in ensuring adequate transition arrangements (see Section 2.7), quality of Bank
supervision is rated Moderately Unsatisfactory because of weaknesses in following up on the M&E
system and in the M&E ratings.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

70.     The Bank’s performance in ensuring quality at entry is rated Moderately Satisfactory and the
quality of supervision is rated Moderately Unsatisfactory. Since the overall project outcome is rated
Moderately Satisfactory, the overall Bank performance has been rated Moderately Satisfactory in line
with the ICR guidelines.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

71.     Government ownership and commitment to this project were strong given that: (i) social and
economic costs to the country from a poorly skilled labor force were well known; and (ii) GoA launched
the NSDP in 2004 to provide targeted social protection for vulnerable groups and training to build
capacity in the labor force. GoA actively collaborated with the Bank team to prepare the policy note for
TVET in 2006 and the project was grounded in its findings. When the project was designed, additional
evidence of GoA’s commitment to it included its decision to establish the CESP to be chaired by the FVP.
72.      The CESP was established soon after project effectiveness. After elections in 2009, the CESP
however did not meet as regularly as expected. This delayed the resolution of policy issues pertaining to
coordination among interest groups and thus progress on the development of a regulatory and quality
assurance framework for TVET (i.e., the establishment of ANQA, NQF and awarding boards starting
with the NTVETB). Toward the end of the project, however, the Office of the FVP agreed to relocate the
CESP Secretariat to the Office of the FVP and held two meetings of the Committee. The Committee
approved the establishment of NQF and an awarding board for TVET. The establishment of the TVET
Board as an independent board with its own budget, however, requires Parliamentary ratification. In
addition, progress has been slow in the granting of financial autonomy to the project supported TVET
institutes by the MoF. Although three TVET institutes (ANIM, NIMA and AIT) have been allowed to
open bank accounts in their own names, invoices of expenditures still continue to require approval of the
DMTVET.
(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

73.      Implementing agencies were committed to achieving the PDO and worked hard and efficiently,
despite numerous challenges in the enabling environment given the country’s fragile situation and GoA’s
bureaucratic procedures. The capacity for overall project management, procurement, financial
management and adherence to environmental and social safeguards showed significant and steady
improvement in the latter stages of project implementation. Compliance with covenants was generally
satisfactory. Fiduciary performance was adequate and improved over time with close Bank
implementation support and guidance. There were, however, some challenges in the early stages of
implementation due to: (a) weak performance of the CESP Secretariat in communicating its technical
work at political level in the relevant ministries so as to receive feedback and help build consensus on
policy actions; (b) delays in granting operational and financial autonomy to TVET institutes; (c)

                                                   21
inadequate selection of the initial batch of ATTs for NIMA at the start of the project; and (d) weak
capacity for M&E in DMTVET. Though some progress was made, more efforts will be needed under the
follow-on ASDP II project for further progress.

(c) Justification of Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

6.       LESSONS LEARNED
        Strong commitment and leadership are critical for successfully steering reforms in a TVET
         institute. Thanks to its dynamic and reform oriented director, ANIM was the first TVET institute
         under DMTVET to establish a satisfactory governing council and open a bank account in the
         name of the institute. This continues to serve as a model for similar reforms in other project-
         supported TVET institutes.
        Sustained implementation support and supervision by the Bank in a fragile situation is
         likely to lead to improved project implementation. Starting with the MTR in April 2011, the
         Bank carried out nearly one supervision mission every six weeks. This resulted in tracking
         implementation progress in real time and in helping to resolve implementation problems.
        Even in a challenging fragile situation, institutional capacity can be enhanced. At the design
         stage, the Bank team decided to work within existing institutional arrangements with the support
         of consultants as needed. The Bank team provided implementation support throughout the project
         life. These efforts contributed to building capacity in DMTVET and NSDP to implement project
         activities and assume responsibility for the management of the two new projects, ASDP II and
         NATEJA.
        Progress on improving gender equity is feasible even in situations with substantial cultural
         constraints. Recognizing the severe restrictions on females until 2001, one of GoA’s and the
         project’s main objectives was to provide females with economic and social opportunities. With
         targeted efforts, NIMA was able to increase the proportion of females to 32 percent of enrollment
         in 2014, and 40 percent of beneficiaries of non-formal training, through NSDP, were poor
         women.
        Timely project restructuring can play a pivotal role in improving project implementation.
         Adjustments to the project’s activities, indicators and targets were proposed to the Country
         Director for approval in July 2012, fifteen months after the MTR. In fragile situations, since
         development progress is rarely predictable or linear and cannot be fully mitigated through design,
         frequent and timely course corrections through project restructuring even well before the planned
         MTR can help a project stay on course.
        Projects can achieve good results even in remote and insecure areas in a fragile context.
         Through its model of contracting out the delivery of skills training and strong engagement, NSDP
         provided non-formal skills training for vulnerable people in several insecure provinces, such as
         Kandahar and Khost, to achieve the project’s objectives. This project confirms that good results
         can be achieved despite remoteness and insecurity.


7.      Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies.

74.    The Borrower’s Completion Report is included in Annex 7. GoA reviewed the ICR and
concurred with the assessment. No substantive issues were raised (see Annex 7 for GoA’s comments that


                                                    22
were received). The ICR team has taken into account GoA’s observations in the ICR. The ICR team’s
comments on main observations of GoA are given at the end of Annex 7.
(b) Co-financiers
Not applicable.
(c) Other partners and stakeholders
Not applicable.




                                               23
                                        Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing


                           Project Cost by Component (in USD million equivalent)
       Components             Appraisal         Appraisal            Total         Actual
                               Estimate        Estimates for       Estimated       /Latest
                             for Original         ARTF                Cost        Estimate      Percentage of
                                  IDA           Financing            (USD           (USD       Total Estimate
                              Financing            (USD            millions)      millions)
                                 (USD            millions)
                               millions)
1. Develop Regulatory
   and Quality
   Assurance                    1.5                                   1.5           1.45              97%
   Framework for
   TVET
2. Improve Relevance,
   Quality and               12.5
                                                   18.0              30.5           26.91             88%
   Efficiency of
   TVET13
3. Skills Development
   Program and Market
                                    5.0                               5.0           4.95              99%
   Linkages with a
   Rural Focus
4. Research,
   Monitoring &                   1.0                                 1.0           0.70              70%
   Evaluation
Total Baseline Cost               20.0             18.0              38.0
Total Project Costs               20.0             18.0              38.0           34.01
Total Financing
                                                                     38.0           34.01            90%
Required


Financing by Source (in USD million equivalent)
                Source of Funds                      Appraisal              Actual/Latest Estimate    Percentage
                                                     Estimate                  (USD millions)             of
                                                   (USD millions)                                     Appraisal
                                                          20.014                    18.76                   94%
IDA
                                                          18.0                      15.25                   85%
Afghanistan Reconstruction Trust Fund

Total                                                     38.0                      34.01                   90%



13
     Component 2 includes the voucher program (US$1 million) that was added during project restructuring.
14
     This amount is based on the exchange rate between SDR and USD at the time of approval.

                                                          24
                                    Annex 2: Outputs by Component

Component 1: Develop Regulatory and Quality Assurance Framework for TVET

Achievement: This component was designed to lay the foundations of a Quality Assurance system for
TVET in Afghanistan by establishing an institutional framework to regulate the provision of TVET and a
National Qualifications Framework (NQF) (a framework for the development and classification of
qualifications according to a set of criteria applicable to specified levels of learning outcomes). The
original goal was to institutionalize the regulatory framework (i.e., the regulatory bodies) and the quality
assurance framework (i.e., the NQF). During implementation, it became increasingly apparent that the
target of “institutionalizing” these mechanisms (an inherently political process) was too ambitious in light
of the complex political environment of Afghanistan. In July 2012, this component was modified to
reflect a more realistic assessment of the timeline for institutionalizing the regulatory bodies and the NQF.
The two sub-components listed below reflect the changes made. The project’s revised target was to ensure
that the institutional regulatory framework would be developed, along with draft legislation, and
submitted for legislative enactment. Despite significant political challenges, progress was made on this
component in 2013 and 2014. The CESP has now approved the NQF and the establishment of the
NTVETB; however, the draft legislation has not yet been submitted for Parliamentary ratification. The
key outputs listed below reflect the project’s achievements in this component.

Subcomponent 1.1: Development of the institutional framework for TVET

Key Outputs:
    The Committee on Education and Skills Policy (CESP) (chaired by the First Vice President with
      representation from the MoE, MoLSAMD, MoHE, MoF and the Ministry of Economy) was
      established to oversee the development of the institutional framework (ANQA and NTVETB) and
      the NQF. The CESP is an apex body for TVET, pending the establishment of the ANQA.
    A document has been drafted to clarify the roles and responsibilities of every government entity
      that works in the area of TVET. This document aims to strengthen coordination among all
      stakeholders in order to support the establishment of the TVET Board and institutionalization of
      the NQF
    An Action Plan and Rules of Business for the CESP Secretariat have been developed.
    Legislation for establishing a National TVET Board has been developed.
    Documents for establishing the ANQA have been drafted and approved by the CESP.
    A National TVET strategy was developed and launched in January 2014.

Sub-Component 1.2: Development of the Afghan National Qualifications Framework

Key Outputs:
    An Afghanistan National Qualifications Framework has been developed and approved by the
      CESP.
    Levels of the NQF pertaining to TVET have informally been adopted by MoE and MoLSAMD.
    170 National Occupational Skills Standards have been developed.

Component 2: Improve Relevance, Quality and Efficiency of TVET

Achievement: The aim was to improve the relevance, quality and efficiency of TVET in order to produce
more immediately employable graduates. The project achieved its objective by establishing a new
institute: the National Institute of Management and Administration (NIMA). NIMA alone made a

                                                     25
substantial contribution to the relevance, quality and efficiency of TVET provision. In addition to this, the
project provided support to improve the physical infrastructure, teaching and learning facilities, teaching
methods, and governance processes in five existing institutions. In July 2012, the project added a Voucher
Program (a merit based system) to enable deserving students to pursue more specialized TVET in priority
areas. These actions contributed to the goal of increasing the number of immediately employable
graduates. The outputs listed below are a direct result of investments under the project and demonstrate
that ASDP increased the number of immediately employable graduates by improving the quality and
relevance of formal TVET.

Sub-component 2.1 Establish the National Institute of Management and Administration (NIMA)

Development of Institutional Infrastructure, Teaching and Learning Facilities
    Reconstruction/Rehabilitation of an existing campus to house NIMA.
    Construction of a new library and computer center.
    Rehabilitation of a student cafeteria and a staff dining hall.
    Construction of several toilet facilities for NIMA.
    Construction of class rooms.
    Construction of a power station, storage facilities, parking facilities and a boundary wall.
    Renovation of a dormitory.
    Installation of video-conferencing equipment.
    An electronic Course Management System (CMS) is being developed.
    The campus is equipped with internet facilities.

Academic Program, Curriculum Development and Teaching Materials
    NIMA is the only English-language medium public TVET institute in Afghanistan.
    It is a two-year post-secondary training institute (Grades 13 and 14) with programs in three areas:
      Management and Administration, Accounting, and Information and Communications
      Technology. Curriculum has been developed for all three programs.
    There is a heavy emphasis on English language proficiency (both for teachers and students) to
      ensure that students are competitive in the market place.
    To build English language skills, the international Implementing Partner has designed and
      implemented a special English language program.
    Currently, there are 34 International faculty on staff at NIMA
    26 Afghan teachers are being trained by the new Implementing Partner to take over teaching - the
      training program covers technical subjects and also English language skills to ensure that Afghan
      teachers are sufficiently qualified in English.

Quality Assurance (including regulatory framework, standards and student assessments)
    Methodology developed for assessing students by International Standards.
    Entrance and exit exams developed and implemented.
    A teacher evaluation system developed.

NIMA applied for accreditation through the Accreditation Council for Business Schools and Programs
(ACBSP), which is an international accrediting body headquartered in the United States. The process was
initiated in November of 2013 and is currently underway for completion by end-2016. NIMA has already
achieved the Candidacy status.



                                                     26
Graduates
    3,167 students enrolled in 5 cohorts between 2009 and 2014.
    1,714 students have completed their two year course of study (graduated).
    1,060 received International diplomas; 51 received international certificates; and 603 students
      received certificates from MoE-DMTVET.

Other Activities
    An internship and job placement program.
    A visiting lecture series to introduce students to market-relevant topics and persons.


Sub-component 2.2 Institution-Based Reform Package
Rehabilitation of Institutional Infrastructure, Teaching and Learning Facilities
    Afghan Institute of Music (ANIM) - Construction of an auditorium for the music school
       (partially completed; it is now being completed under ASDP II).
    ANIM - Renovation of existing buildings.
    Auto Mechanical Institute (AMI) - Construction of classrooms, rehabilitation of Technical
       Training Workshops, boundary wall and renovation of hostel.
    AMI - Rehabilitation of a boundary wall.
    Blind School - Renovation of physical infrastructure.
    Afghanistan Institute of Technology (AIT) - Renovation of the Practical Training Workshop
       and construction of learning spaces.
    Computer Technology Institute (CTI) - Construction of classrooms.

Operational Autonomy
    Governing Councils have been established at NIMA, ANIM, Auto Mechanical Institute, AIT and
       the Blind School.
    Strategic Business Plans have also been developed by NIMA, ANIM, Auto Mechanical Institute,
       AIT and the Blind School.
    Bank accounts have been set up by NIMA, ANIM, and AIT.

Faculty and Staff Development
    802 technical teachers were trained in pedagogical skills, including teachers from all five of the
       institutes targeted for reform under ASDP.
    In addition, to improve the capacity of teachers in specific subject areas, technical training was
       also provided through the Technical Teacher Training Institute (TTTI). 25 Teachers from CTI,
       AIT, and the Kabul-Auto Mechanical Institute were among those that received training.

Curriculum Development
    Under ASDP, a new curriculum was developed for several institutes.
    NIMA and ANIM have developed and implemented new curricula, which is aligned with
       international standards

Sub-component 2.3 Management Reforms in DMTVET
    233 administrative staff trained in various areas of management (e.g., i.e., procurement, finance,
      etc.)



                                                   27
Sub-component 2.4: Voucher Program

       221 students received vouchers for further professional training trainer in-country and abroad
        (through distance learning)
       47 (22%) of the total number of vouchers were granted to female students

Component 3: Skills Development Program and Market Linkages with a Rural Focus

Achievement: This component aimed to support the Government’s existing NSDP program by: (a)
expanding access to non-formal training; and (b) improving the quality of the training programs. ASDP
achieved its objective by increasing the number of vulnerable people trained, substantially increasing the
earnings of the training beneficiaries, and building capacity of the NSDP by training BDS trainers and
MoLSAMD staff. The following outputs are a result of ASDP’s investment.

Sub-component 3.1: Contracted Vocational Training Packages for youth, marginalized farmers
and chronically poor women

       3,526 vulnerable youth trained (405 female and 3,121 male).
       2,500 marginalized farmers trained (120 female and 2,380 male).
       3,150 chronically poor women trained.
       200 IDUs trained (60 female and 140 male).
       300 disabled people trained (120 female and 180 male).


Sub-component 3.2:Training of Trainers program and Materials Development

       1,652 BDS officers trained (848 female and 804 male).


Sub-component 3.3: Capacity Building for NSDP/MoLSAMD

       2 NSDP staff participated in a Skills Summit in India in 2008.
       7 members of the Technical Advisory Group (TAG) under CESP were given an exposure visit to
        Malaysia -- 3 in 2011 and 4 in 2012.
       In addition, 83 other NSDP staff and project officers were trained in various areas of
        administration and project management. The main areas of training included: procurement and
        financial management; ICT and data management; project management; and training in TVET.

Component 4: Research, Monitoring & Evaluation

Achievement: This component aimed to improve the information management and evaluation system for
TVET. The project achieved its objective by designing and launching a Management Information System
(MIS) to monitor the progress of as well as management of TVET institutes under the DMTVET. The
project also contributed to the development of evaluation capacity at the DMTVET and the NSDP by
introducing impact evaluation methodology to assess the impact of both formal and non-formal training
programs. The main outputs in this area are listed below.



                                                   28
Key Outputs:

MIS:
      A Management Information System (MIS) has been developed for ASDP.
      The MIS has several data collection tools. Some of these are used to collect and process data from
       different sections of the project and produce regular reports for project management. The offline
       system contains: (a) budgetary information, including the total budget, commitments,
       disbursements, budget balances, etc.; (b) information on works and goods, including contract
       details, specifications, physical progress, etc.; and (c) consultancy services, including contracts,
       consultancies, salaries, contract amendments, etc.
      The ASDP MIS team has produced quarterly and on demand reports for the HR, Procurement and
       Finance since March 2013.
      An MIS is also designed to house data on DMTVET students, teachers and academic records -
       currently, the MIS contains information on 4 institutes (NIMA, ANIM, AIT, and the Blind
       School).
      A website has been developed for ASDP (http://www.asdp.af) to disseminate information on
       ASDP.
      A report on the baseline data of quality of TVET provision in Afghanistan was published by
       NSDP.
      A report on labor market supply and demand in media, tourism and hospitality sectors was
       published by NSDP.

Project Impact Evaluation:
    Database for Tracer Studies established.
    11 tracer studies conducted by NSDP (including one by a third party) of the training programs for
        vulnerable youth, poor women and marginalized farmers.
    3 tracer studies conducted on NIMA graduates (first cohort).




                                                   29
                               Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
A. Introduction

1.      Afghanistan has undergone significant political instability and sustained insecurity, which have
adversely affected its business climate. In such a fragile situation, jobs are among the most pressing issues
for growth. They are the key to restore the livelihoods of families affected by the war, jump-start
economic activity, and reconstruct social networks. They are also crucial in breaking cycles of violence
by increasing the opportunity costs of illegal or insurgent activities. In a country like Afghanistan
emerging from conflict, a major obstacle for job-led development is represented by the loss of skills due
to poor access to education facilities or disruptions in schooling. As a result, most of the workers lack
basic technical and literacy competences to remain productive in the labor market. Many of them remain
unemployed or underemployed and are caught in poverty traps.

2.       The ASDP was designed to tackle this issue and help poor young adults become more productive
workers. The project offered skills training to both students and the rural population through TVET
institutes and non-formal training. The assumption is that technical vocational education and training can
be a powerful tool for improving labor market outcomes and help prospective workers acquire the skills
needed to take advantage of employment and/or self-employment opportunities.

3.      ASDP focused not only on the formal TVET sector by enhancing the quality and management of
selected TVET institutes and by providing financing for meritorious students who wanted to pursue
further professional training, but it also covered the rural population. This characteristic of the project is
particularly important since, in Afghanistan, the non-formal economy employs the majority of the
workers (over 80 percent). More specifically, ASDP focused its training activities on vulnerable groups
from rural areas, including unemployed youth, poor women, marginalized or land-less farmers, disabled
people, and IDUs.

B. Methodology

4.      Applying the Bank’s standard approach to economic evaluation, a cost -benefit methodology is
employed to estimate the Net Present Value (NPV) of the project and the Internal Rate of Return (IRR).
The cost-benefit analysis calculates the net benefits generated by each project activity on an incremental
basis. These net benefits are equal to the difference between the incremental benefits and the project
costs, where the incremental benefits are defined as the positive effects induced by the project. They are
therefore identified comparing two scenarios, the “with project” scenario vs. the hypothetical “without
project” scenario.

C. Costs and Benefits

5.      The cost of all the activities under the project was US$34 million disbursed over 6.5 years
beginning in 2008. The activities under ASDP yielded benefits, first of all, by increasing the number of
graduates and of marginalized workers from rural areas who can be productive in the labor market.
Beneficiaries of ASDP included: (1) graduates of the project supported TVET institutes under DMTVET;
(2) voucher beneficiaries; and (3) trained marginalized workers. In total, during ASDP activities, 7,720
students graduated from the selected TVET institutes, 221 students received vouchers to pursue further
technical education, and 9,676 marginalized workers were trained. Figure 1 illustrates the number of
students (graduates from the formal sector) and of marginalized workers (trainees from the non-formal
training programs) that benefitted from ASDP activities (the numbers per year have been approximated
and 2008 is considered as the first year of activities).

                                                     30
Figure 1. Number of students and individuals from vulnerable groups trained under ASDP


                                          ASDP Beneficiaries
            20000
            18000
            16000
            14000
            12000
            10000
             8000
             6000
             4000
             2000
                0
                      2008       2009       2010       2011        2012      2013       2014

                                        Students    Marginalized workers



6.       The increased productivity of the beneficiaries is measured by the compensation after training
relative to what they could have earned without the additional education, in case of the students, or
relative to the compensation before training, in case of the marginalized workers. The benefits are
calculated under the standard assumptions: (1) the productivity of the beneficiaries remains higher over
their active life time (40 years for the graduates and a standard 25 years for marginalized workers), (2) the
deflation rate for the period under consideration is, on average, four percent, (3) the discount rate for the
future benefits is 10 percent, and (4) exchange rates from AFN to US$ are calculated based on the
historical rate on the date the AFN values were measured.

7.      For the graduates of the selected DMTVET institutes, the benefits of the program are estimated
based on the results of a tracer survey of NIMA graduates by an independent firm in September 2013.
The survey shows that graduates have an estimated 75 percent probability of being employed six to nine
months after graduation and that, if employed in the formal economy, they earned about AFN 24,259 or
US$466 a month (US$5,592 a year). According to the National Risk and Vulnerability Assessment
(NRVA) survey conducted in 2007/2008, this corresponds to an increase in earnings of roughly AFN
14,000 with respect to students that only completed high school. Under the base case scenario, it is
assumed that the improvements in training quality and market relevance induced by the project were
responsible for five percent of such an increase in earnings.


8.       For the voucher beneficiaries, in the absence of a tracer survey, the incremental benefits of the
project are estimated using the NRVA survey as a secondary source. These benefits are discounted by the
income that graduates of grade XIV could have earned on the market during the two years of their studies.
Given the high market relevance of the technical skills acquired by voucher beneficiaries, it is assumed
that voucher graduates have a 90 percent employment rate for the first year after graduation and a full
employment rate after that.


                                                     31
9.      For the trained marginalized workers, the benefits of the program are estimated based on the
NRVA survey and the results of a tracer survey collected among a sample of them in September 2010.
The tracer study shows that the training increased the earnings of the beneficiaries on average by AFN
5,104, suggesting that the outcomes on the labor market for these marginalized workers substantially
improved as a result of the training. The incremental benefits are estimated using the values of the NRVA
survey for employed workers with no education.

D. Results and Sensitivity Analysis

10.     Under the above-described base case scenario, the project yields an IRR of 22 percent and a NPV
of US$20.8 million. Under the more positive assumption of an earnings’ increase of seven percent, the
project would yield an IRR of 23 percent. Similarly, under the assumption of a three percent increase in
earnings, the IRR would be equal to 21 percent. Overall, the results indicate that ASDP was a project
worth investing since the IRR is substantially larger than the cost of capital (10 percent).


                           Earnings increased by    Earnings increased by     Earnings increased by
                               3% per year              5% per year               7% per year
                                (Low Case)              (Base Case)               (High Case)
Internal rate of return,            21                       22                        23
IRR (%)
Net present value, NPV                20.2                    20.8                      21.6
(US$ million)




                                                   32
           Annex 4: Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

                                  (a) Task Team Members
Name                          Title                                          Unit
Lending
Alexandria Valerio            Senior Education Specialist                    HDNED
Amit Dar                      Lead Education Economist                       SASHD
Bappaditya Chakravarty        Consultant                                     SASHD
Cynthia Deane                 Consultant                                     SASHD
David C. Freese               Senior Finance Officer                         LOAFC
Deepal Fernando               Senior Procurement Specialist                  SASPR
Hasib Karimzada               Team Assistant                                 SASHD
Hiroshi Saeki                 Operations Analyst                             SASHD
Hong W. Tan                   Consultant                                     SASHD
James A. Stevens              Senior Economist                               HDNED
Jean Fares                    Senior Economist                               HDNED
Julie-Anne Graitge            Program Assistant                              SASHD
Kenneth Okpara                Sr. Financial Management Specialist            SARFM
Melinda Good                  Senior Counsel                                 LEGES
Michel Welmond                Lead Education Specialist                      AFTHR
Mohammad Arif Rasuli          Senior Environmental Specialist                SASES
Nazir Ahmad                   Extended Term Consultant                       SASHD
Pema Lhazom                   Operations Officer                             SASHD
Rahimullah Wardak             Procurement Specialist                         SASPR
Sardar Roshan                 President, Afghan Technical Vocational         Kabul
                              Training Institute
Scherezad Joya Monami Latif   Senior Education Specialist                    SASHD
Shahrnaz Rafi                 Consultant                                     SASHD
Sheila Braka Musiime          Counsel                                        LEGES
Venkatesh Sundararaman        Economist/Task Team Leader                     SASHD
Supervision/ICR
Ahmad Rafi Hotofat            Program Assistant                              SACKB
Aimal Sherzad                 Procurement Specialist                         SASPR
Amit Dar                      Director                                       SASHD
Arun Kumar Kolsur             Procurement Specialist                         SARFR
Asha Narayan                  Senior Financial Management Specialist         SARFM
Asif Ali                      Senior Procurement Specialist                  SASPR
Asif Qurishi                  Program Assistant                              SASHD
Bappaditya Chakravarty        Senior Institutional Development Specialist/   SASHD
                              Task Team Leader
Chau-Ching Shen               Senior Finance Officer                         CTRLN
Deepal Fernando               Senior Procurement Specialist                  SASPR
Dilip Kumar Prusty Chinari    Finance Analyst                                CTRLN

                                             33
Name                                    Title                                           Unit
Hasib Karimzada                         Program Assistant                               SASHD
Hiroshi Saeki                           Economist                                       SASHD
Joel E Reyes                            Sr. Institutional development Specialist        SASHD
John D Blomquist                        Lead Economist                                  SASHD
Juan Carlos Alvarez                     Senior Counsel                                  LEGES
Julie-Anne Graitge                      Senior Program Assistant                        SASHD
Kenneth Okpara                          Sr. Financial Management Specialist             SARFM
Leopold Remi Sarr                       Senior Economist/Task Team Leader               SASHD
Margherita Calderone                    Consultant/ICR15                                SASHD
Mariam Haidary                          Program Assistant                               SASHD
Marjorie Mpundu                         Senior Counsel                                  LEGES
Martin Serrano                          Senior Counsel                                  LEGES
Mohammad Arif Rasuli                    Senior Environmental Specialist                 SASES
Mohammad Yasin Noori                    Social Development Specialist                   SASES
Mostaeen Jouya                          Education Specialist/ Task Team Leader          SASHD
Muhammad Wali Ahmadzadi                 Financial Management Analyst                    SARFM
Najla Sabri                             Operations Analyst                              SASAG
Obaidullah Hidayat                      Environmental Specialist                        SASES
Palwasha Andisha                        Team Assistant
Palwasha Mirbacha                       Education Specialist                            SASHD
Rahimullah Wardak                       Senior Procurement Specialist                   SASPR
Rajiv Aggarwal                          Architect, Consultant                           SASHD
Ranendra Nath Sengupta                  Consultant                                      SASHD
Roshini Mary Ebenezer                   Consultant                                      SASHD
Scherezad Joya Monami Latif             Senior Education Specialist                     SASHD
Sheila Braka Musiime                    Senior Counsel                                  LEGES
Venkatesh Sundararaman                  Senior Economist/Task Team Leader               SASHD
Zohra Farooq                            Financial Management Specialist                 SARFM




15
     Prepared Annex 3: Economic and Financial Analysis and Section 3.3 on Efficiency.

                                                         34
                         (b) Staff Time and Cost (BB & BBTF only)
Stage of Project Cycle     No. of Staff Weeks      USD Thousands (including travel and
                                                           consultant costs)
Lending
FY07                             32.24                              163,961
FY08                             35.52                              135,945
Total                            67.76                              299,906
Supervision/ICR
FY08                               0.35                              13,620
FY09                              21.80                              67,450
FY10                              33.99                              98,918
FY11                              35.76                             129,568
FY12                              54.33                             277,299
FY13                              53.30                             137,822
FY14                              48.30                             242,555
FY15                               3.34                               8,955
Total                            251.17                             976,187




                                           35
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
Not applicable.




                                      36
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
Not applicable.




                                            37
                               Annex 7: Summary of Borrower’s ICR


A.      Project Description

1.      The Afghanistan Skills Development Project (ASDP) is funded to GoA by the World Bank
through IDA and ARTF. The said project was aimed to establish a high quality, equitable, market-
responsive and cost-effective technical and vocational education and training system in order to increase
the number of immediately employable Afghan graduates. The ASDP is a multi-functional project
managed through four components, and executed by different government agencies i.e. CESP chaired by
the Vice President; Deputy Ministry of TVET at the Ministry of Education and NSDP at the MoLSAMD.
The DMTVET implements Component 2 of the ASDP project, which is comprised of: (a) establishment
of the NIMA; (b) institution-based reform packages; and (c) management reforms in DMTVET. NIMA
aims to be a model TVET institute for management and administration, accounting, and information
technology.

2.      The ASDP has been implemented by Skills Team Unit operating under the leadership of
DMTVET, Ministry of Education. They have been profoundly supported by DMTVET to work smoothly
with target TVET institutes and other partners such as CESP and MoLSAMD.

3.       The project development objective (PDO) of the project was to increase the number of
immediately-employable graduates by building, in stages, a high quality Technical Vocation and
Education Training (TVET) system that is equitable, market responsive, and cost-effective. This above
project development objective was intended to be achieved through the project components described:
Component 1: Develop Regulatory and Quality Assurance Framework for TVET which will create the
necessary institutional conditions for a quality TVET system that is demand driven and oriented towards
labor market needs; Component 2: Improve Relevance, Quality and Efficiency of TVET which will
improve the relevance, quality and efficiency of TVET programs, and to increase the number of graduates
from these programs, through the establishment of a new institute, and by undertaking rehabilitation and
reforms of a select number of other institutions. Initially, training programs will be contracted out to
experienced, national and international training institutions through partnership arrangements; Component
3: Skills Development Program and Market Linkages with a Rural Focus which aims to support a slice of
the on-going activities by the NSDP, and build the capacity within National Skill Development Program
and MOLSAMD to undertake reforms in technical and vocational training, labor market assessments, and
to strengthen industrial and market linkages; and Component 4: Research, Monitoring & Evaluation
which will provide routine, timely, and accurate information on program implementation and allow for
the measurement of longer term impacts and independent research.
B.      Key Achievements

Component 1: Develop Regulatory and Quality Assurance Framework for TVET
4.      The CESP board has been established and several productive meetings have been held of which
recently a meeting chaired by the First Vice President of Afghanistan took place, as a result of
presentation given by CESP Secretariat, the ANQF was approved, while a very strong political support
and willingness has been gained for the approval of TVET Legislative framework. The five member
ministries that are MoE, MoHE, MoLSAMD, MoF and MoEc agreed to work jointly under the umbrella
of CESP for the establishment of TVET and other awarding boards. As per the meeting decision, shortly
TVET legislative document for the ANQF formalization and TVET board establishment would be
processed through issuance of a letter by H.E First Vice President of Afghanistan in order to submit it

                                                   38
directly for cabinet approval skipping the lengthy processing of TAQNIN department in the Ministry of
Justice.

5.       The establishment of NVETB has been transferred to ASDP-II which is supposed to be
recognized as an independent budget entity as decided by CESP. The approval of legislative document for
ANQF formalization will pave the way to accelerate the establishment of NVETB. Since, the NVETB is
mandated to institutionalize and implement the ANQF throughout the entire TVET institutions across the
country. It will be the first of education awarding boards which is placed to be established. Following the
establishment of NVETB, the other four awarding boards that are higher education, intermediate
education, literacy and religious education would be established.

6.       The priority has been given to the establishment of NVETB due to ASDP efforts for gaining
political support in CESP. As per the CESP decision NVETB will be established prior to ANQA.
However, the ANQF covers the entire five Awarding Boards. Similarly, the ANQA which will be
established shortly after initiating work on the NVETB which would work as a steering committee for the
entire Awarding Boards. Thus, by ANQF and establishment of ANQA the fundamental documentation
and institutional structure would be already completed for other four awarding boards, so it will take
comparatively less effort and time to be established. According to the financial sustainability strategy
projected by CESP, the NVETB will achieve financial self-reliance within a time period of 10 years.

7.       Meanwhile, the secretariat of TVET affairs has been transferred to CESP in order to become an
independent entity. Till the establishment of NVETB and ANQA, the CESP secretariat will function as
the interim entity to pilot the ANQF. Eventually, the lessons learned would be incorporated into ANQF
for enhancing its effectiveness.

Component#2: Improve Relevance, Quality and Efficiency of TVET

Sub-component 2.1: National Institute of Management and Administration (NIMA)

8.        NIMA was founded in 2008 through ASDP support which is currently the most professional
TVET institute for Management Studies. It has been continuously supported in terms of academic
development, civil works, staffing, international certification and employment oriented modern education.
It is a two-year (Grade-14) diploma offering-institution, designed to offer students a quick pathway to the
job market. Due to highly qualified faculty and comparatively short course duration, it has become the
first choice of students interested in Management, Accounting and ICT —the disciplines the institution
offers. With high quality courses taught in English, its graduates carry proper market-driven skills and
knowledge that increase their capability to secure desired positions in the tough market competition
particularly for fresh graduates and leave them in a stronger position relative to other graduates from other
disciplines.

9.      In total, 1,714 students have graduated from NIMA in two batches. The graduates include 84%
males and 14% females. The students graduated from the fields of Accounting, Management and ICT.
Besides this, the number of students currently enrolled on courses reaches 729, with 233 to 496 female to
male proportions. The next batch will graduate in October 2014, with around 193 graduates.

10.     In the recent tracer study of NIMA 1st batch graduates conducted in May 2014, 950 students were
reached out of 1,460 students who graduated in 2011. The tracer study shows that 712 out of 950
graduates are currently employed by different organizations. The employed graduates are 124 females and
588 males. The students employed from management faculty are 288 which include 144 males and 14
females of which 33% are working in private sectors, 12% in international organizations, 35% in

                                                     39
governmental organizations and 10% in NGOs, 349 students are employed from Accounting Faculty
which includes 296 males and 53 females, of which 52% are working in Private sector, 30% in
Governmental organizations, 12 % in International Organizations and 6% in NGOs, 75 students are
employed from ICT faculty which includes 72 males and 3 females, of which 49% are working in Private
sector, 49% in governmental organizations and 2% in international organizations. The employment rate of
the graduated students is (75 %) and the earning rate is (AFN 21,000 per year).

11.     The NIMA Governing Council was formed in December 2013 through the ASDP support. It is
chaired by Mr. Sajidullah Sherzai consists of 11 members representing the government, NGOs and
private sector organizations. The GC is responsible to provide consultation to improve the quality of
education and administrative procedures. Alongside, GC is mandated to struggle for mobilizing various
donors for fund raising to allocate NIMA with additional fund other than ASDP.
The project had been strongly committed to fulfill the entire infrastructure, capacity building, equipment
and staffing needs of NIMA.

NIMA International Partner (Ball States University)
12.      ASDP has contracted the Ball States University as a NIMA International Partner to accredit it
through reviewing its curriculum, academic instruments/facilities, faculty structure and qualification,
regulations and training the Afghan Technical Teachers as well as issue internationally recognized
certificates to graduates after passing a standard exit examination. The NIMA graduates undergo the
examination of Ball States University to meet their standards in order to obtain their internationally
recognized certification.

13.     Ball States University is a United States Institution of Higher Learning located in Muncie
Indiana, USA established in 1918 which offers degrees in more than 180 majors, including Bachelors,
Masters and PhD degrees. It has been working with NIMA to make it Afghanistan’s first internationally
accredited public education institute.

14.      Up to until now, the Jyvaskyla University, Finland and Ball States University, United States have
certified 1060 and 51 NIMA graduates respectively. Thus, 1,111 out of 1,714 NIMA graduates have been
internationally certified in two batches that overall constitute 63% of the institution’s graduate students.

15.      The BSU has been working with NIMA on updating curricula, award of accreditation and
certification, enhancement of library and E-Library, teaching methods, increasing enrollment of new
students, establishment of Institutional Research Office, private sector involvement, refresher course on
mathematics and English, installation of SIS and MOODLE, recruitment of international faculty, award of
Int’l Diploma/Certificate to NIMA graduates, examination and evaluation in entrance and exit
examinations, academic management support, improvement of academic and administrative management
practices and strengthening of NIMA administration and placement cell.

Afghan Technical Teachers (ATT)
16.     The 27 ATTs transferred to NIMA by DMTVET have been in English language training since
May 2014, conducted by IP's Teacher Training Expert. They began additional English language training
at AUAF on 25 August. Two of the ATTs are also enrolled in training at TTTI. Some of them will be
ready to begin their Master's program in October 2014. Three universities in Kabul offer the MBA
degree, which the ATTs can complete within 18 months. NIMA IP has requested permission from
DMTVET to recruit 40 more ATTs with English proficiency. Similarly prior to this, 100 ATTs were sent
abroad for technical training in their respective fields of study.


                                                    40
Sub-component 2.2: Improving Quality and Relevance in other schools of DMTVET
17.      The Skills Team is working with DMTVET to grant institutional autonomy to aided institutes.
For doing so, Governing councils (GCs) were established within NIMA, ANIM, Auto-Mechanical
Institute, Blind School and AIT. The GCs comprise private sector representatives from relevant
industries, civil society organizations, students’ representative and potential donors functioning in the
respective fields. GC engages in making decisions on improving the institutes performance, transparency,
financial management, and compliance to academic standards, publicity to attract students’ enrollment,
financial sustainability and assist/consult Institutes in developing and updating curricula based on the
market needs. In addition, GCs are playing vital role to promote relations with potential donors for fund
raising and placement of the institute graduates in relevant industries. In this way, they have been taking
strategic decisions independently at institute level, but within the scope of national TVET policy and
regulations imposed by DMTVET.

18.    Similarly, separate joint bank accounts have been opened for NIMA, ANIM and AIT, while
under process for the other aided institutes. The operational budget is transferred to institutes bank
account which is directly processed by institutes for operational expenditures. The money is withdrawn
upon the approval of ASDP Institutes Coordinator along with administrative personnel authorized by GC.
Eventually, the invoices of made expenditures are submitted to ASDP office for clearance and record.

19.      Five years Business Plan has been formulated for NIMA, ANIM, AIT, Blind School and Auto-
Mechanical Institute. It is aimed to direct institutes to channelize their budget expenditure in specific
priority areas which includes bringing institutional reform, institutionalize market driven skills, increase
number of enrollment and women participation, improve learning equipment/workshops, achieve
institutional autonomy and financial sustainability. In addition, Business Plan has been almost developed
for 15 other TVET Schools/Institutes awarded with Recognition Grant under ASDP II.

20.     ANIM was founded in 2008. Currently, there are 191 students enrolled at ANIM including 55
females and 136 male students. More than 50% of them are from financially weak background. The
school was not properly equipped and structured according to the modern music needs. It was lacking
essential music instruments and infrastructure capacity. The extended support of ASDP enabled ANIM to
upgrade ANIM from school to institute level and institutionalize both eastern and western music
education in a modern way. The project has provided the institute with workshop for repairing music
instruments, music library, sound recording studio, multi-media room, computer lab, instrument storage,
rehearsal spaces for large ensembles, sound-proofed practice rooms, rehearsal building boasting 20
practice rooms, community center and a residence hall for 200 girls, high speed internet and Distance
Learning Center for virtual meetings with its partners including the Espoo Music Institute and long-
distance lessons with music instructors. Supported through ASDP II, construction work of a 300-seat
Concert Hall (auditorium) and an Orphan hostel is underway. ANIM has been provided with required
human resources, 11 personnel including Coordinator, Admin Assistant, Program Assistant and 8
Faculties have been recruited for ANIM.

21.     Through its partnership with a local orphanage ANIM has enrolled students from a wide range of
provinces including Nuristan, Bamyan, Farah, Kunar, Faryab, and Jalalabad. Students are taught in 17
specialized fields including Jazz instruments, Aoba, Piano, Trompt, Chillo, Dilruba, Rubab, Recorder,
Saxphone, Sitar, Sarod, Ghichak, Flot, Klarent, Korno, Guitar and Violin.
Similarly AIT, Blind School, Auto-Mechanics and CTI have been profoundly supported through
providing management/technical personnel, fundamental documentation, equipment and civil works.



                                                    41
Safeguards & Environment:
22.     ESMF monitoring across all stages of sub-project implementation was conducted regularly in
order to ensure proper safety measures and protection in civil works. Routine monitoring guarantees the
proper observation and obedience of required rules and regulations. Regular monitoring has enabled the
engineering team and contractors to minimize and prevent casualties during the civil works through
following the imparted to the site engineers. In strict adherence to the regulation on following the
measures aimed at expediting environmental clearances and in case of new construction—if l started—it
has been ensured that the required land is free of any squatters, encroachers other claims and
encumbrances. Based on daily basis of face to face discussion with contractors and engineering sites
assistance and guidance, instructions have been provided to the contractors to understand and implement
the concept of Occupational Health and Safety issues at their working environment and site. It must be
added that alongside the guidance to the engineering sites a fair amount of—in deed—enough amount of
information and hand-outs has also been shared and sent to various institutes; to make sure that how to
keep environment neat and clean. Site Incident Reporting form has been distributed to all site engineers
so they can report on any incident or case that might crop up at the projects. In addition, these forms will
enable us to track and address the confronting issues related to safety and environment that would be
checked and signed daily by the responsible site engineers assigned by ASDP.

Sub-component 2.3: Management Reforms in DMTVET

23.      In line of structural reform, the TVET Directorate got promoted to Deputy Ministry TVET.
Initially, it was composed of four directorates. A firm was hired to assess both departmental and
personnel structures. Based on the recommended reforms, the six new directorates were institutionalized
including Donor Coordination & Relations, Policy and Program Design, Curriculum, School Affairs,
Teacher Training, National Center for Educational & Vocational Research, Hostels Affairs, M&E, Non-
formal TVET, and Market Analysis. Similarly the number of DMTVET staff has been expanded from
150 to around 600 personnel.

24.      The draft of TVET Plan & Strategy is almost prepared mapping the DMTVET activity and
coordination mechanism for five years. For the sake of comprehension and practicality, it has been
intended to conduct workshop sessions in six provinces to present the draft before stakeholders which will
be contributing to its implementation. As a result of workshop sessions, the inputs and consultation of
stakeholders will be collected in the specific areas. Subsequently, the draft will be reviewed to incorporate
the valid inputs from provincial stakeholders. Meanwhile, the draft M&E framework for the TVET Plan
& Strategy has been prepared by UNESCO. The ASDP Advisor for TVET Plan & Strategy has been a
member of the technical committee for its formulation; therefore he has been attending regular
consultation meetings. An international consultant will be hired for this purpose to finalize these
documents and to review the current document on Strategic Plan. The Terms of Reference for the
international consultant have been developed and the position has been advertised. The final selection and
negotiation is under process.

25.      The establishment of M&E system for DMTVET/Monitoring & Inspection department The TMIS
is completely developed and formally launched yesterday Dec 10, 2014 by HE Asif Nang, Acting
Minister of Education. In addition MIS is fully developed and currently functional in all ASDP aided
institutions, the ASDP project and ASDPII project also having PMIS. Beside other technical and
financial assistance, the project facilitated essential short term capacity building programs in order to
enhance the capacity of DMTVET, Institutes, ASDP, NSDP and CESP staff. The capacity building
training programs were organized both outside and inside Afghanistan. The selection of training

                                                     42
participants was based on staff capacity need assessment and recommendation of their supervisors.
According to the post training evaluation and comments most of the trainees were well satisfied of the
facilitated sessions. Besides learning the multiple topics they shared lessons learned and experiences with
the international participants from various countries. As a result of post training assessment, a noticeable
improvement has been noticed while undertaking the assigned functions at their respective institutions.
Upon the training completion, participants used to prepare a presentation and deliver it to rest of relevant
staff.

26.     The DMTVET ASDP, NSDP and CESP staffs have been supported for a number of trainings
abroad and inside Afghanistan. In total, 325 project staff has been supported for short term certification,
capacity building and exposure programs. These trainings covered areas like Procurement Process,
Management & Administration, Advance Financial Management, Selection Recruitment process,
Strategic HR Management, Contract Management, Civil Engineering, Electrical Engineering, Civil
Technology, Receiving Grant & Operational Autonomy, Impact Evaluation, Effective Teaching Skills,
Quality Assurance, Need Assessment and Project Management in Emergency

Component#3: Skills Development Program and Market Linkages with a Rural Focus
27.      The project targeted poor and vulnerable groups of people to educate them on employable
vocational skills in 18 provinces across the country. The training beneficiaries are selected based on
poverty, unemployment, under-employment, interest and capability for the relevant vocational training.
The priority is given to the provinces with high unemployment and under-employment rate. The process
of registration took place for each group of beneficiaries to register interested applicants for the relevant
vocational trainings. A selection committee was formed of representatives from provincial directorates of
MoLSAMD, MoWA, DM of Youth Affairs and local leaders in order to screen the applicants and select
the most eligible individuals considering the set ceiling for number of training beneficiaries. The
committee was also engaged in community mobilization and monitoring of the training delivery. The
following group of people has been benefited from market oriented skills and business development
trainings delivered in different provinces throughout the project:
     a) 3150 chronically women trained in Ghazni, Bamyan, Jawzjan, Badakhshan and Paktika
         provinces.
     b) 2500 marginalized and land less farmers trained in Helmand, Faryab, Kundoz and Baghlan
         provinces.
     c) 3526 youth trained in Khost, Zabul, Kandahar, Urozgan, Laghman, Kundoz, Ghor, Takhar and
         Paktya provinces.
     d) 200 rehabilitated IDUs in Kabul. Vocational training package for people with Disabilities (PwD)
         is delivered to 300 persons with disabilities.
     e) ToT on Business Development Services to 1652 community mobilizers in 20 provinces.

28.     The outcomes of vocational trainings is determined through random sampling tracer study of 25%
of the total graduates considering all aspects i.e. location, trade, gender and training delivery approach.
The tracer study was conducted by third party through a comprehensive questionnaire covering general
and technical employment related information of vocational training graduates. The tracer study result
shows that: The tracer study conducted on vocational training graduates shows that:
    1. 87.8% of 3,150of chronically women trained in Ghazni, Bamyan, Jawzjan, Badakhshan and
        Paktia provinces are employed with AFN 2,766 increase in their average monthly earnings.
    2. 100% increases in seasonal income of 2500 marginalized and land less farmers trained in
        Helmand, Faryab, Kundoz and Baghlan provinces with a 4,704 increase in their average monthly
        earnings.


                                                     43
     3. 70% of 3526 youth trained in Khost, Zabul, Kandahar, Urozgan, Laghman, Kundoz, Ghor,
        Takhar and Paktya are employed with a 7,477 increase in their average monthly earnings.

Component 4: Research, Monitoring & Evaluation
29.      The ASDP progress has been regularly monitored and evaluated to support decision making
process. The M&E is conducted both internally and through third party. The periodical, special and need-
based reports such as RF, Report Card, Progress Report, IP Review Report, Tracer Study Report, Success
Stories and Training Reports have been produced to reflect the program achievements.

30.     The tracer study of NIMA first and second batch as well AIT graduates has been conducted
through designed questionnaire and the reports are produced. In this way, the status of graduates was
tracked in terms of employment status, nature of employment/employer and higher education progress
etc. The tracer study of previous and upcoming graduates will be performed periodically after every six
month or annually. The progress of aided institutes’ on Governing Councils, Business Plan development
and obtaining institutional autonomy has been also monitored and supervised on continuous basis.
Similarly, the tracer study on income generation status of informal vocational training graduates including
vulnerable women, youth, disables, marginalized farmers and ToT on Business Development Services to
Community Mobilizers and rehabilitated IDUs was conducted through third party. The tracer study
covered 25% of the beneficiaries in Ghazni, Bamyan, Jawzjan, Badakhshan, Paktia, Helmand, Faryab,
Kundoz, Baghlan, Khost, Zabul, Kandahar and Urozgan provinces.

31.      The performance of NIMA IP has been tracked on a periodic against their contract obligations as
well as pledges made in their inception report. Similarly, the entrance and exit examinations taken by
NIMA IP have been closely monitored to ensure compliance to the agreed standards. The IP audit and
activity review matrix had been prepared and shared for their response on found deviations. Similarly the
progress of Voucher program has been regularly monitored. Monthly or quarterly reports are regularly
received from the contracted international institutes that cover students’ attendance, grading progr ess and
changes.

32.      The PMIS for ASDP has been designed and developed in 2 shapes (web-based and SQL),
currently it is operational and could generate various report accordingly. Till date, 11 institutes including
NIMA, ANIM, AIT, BS, Auto-mechanical, Kabul Agriculture and Veterinary, Administration &
Economic School of Jamhoriat, Institute of water and energy, Kabul Mechanical Institute, Vocational
Institute of Commerce and ATVI have been entering their performance data on students status, budget
expenditure, tracer studies, voucher program, inventory and other assistance through online access to
PMIS.

C.      Challenges:
     1. The project and NIMA faced several problems with NIMA Ex-IP (Maxwell Stamp) performance
        and responsiveness due to repetition of examinations several times, students’ complaints about
        the IP’s behavior, late distribution of chapters, incomplete curriculum, inadequate number of
        teachers, lack of Internet connection, library and computers, lack of coordination between the IP
        and Client, limited action has been taken by IP for building administrative capacity of NIMA.
     2. Voucher program was initiative of ASDP project; the process was very new to DMTVET and
        control department of Ministry of Finance. Therefore, project faced lots of problems due to
        conflict with DMTVET policy and scope of Ministry of Higher Education.
     3. CESP secretariat was not very independent due to its existence at the MoLSAMD, because it was
        influenced by one of Ministry while the MoE and MoHE was not taking interest to work under
        the CESP umbrella.

                                                     44
   4. Coordinators for some supported institutes were not considered at the start of project which
       caused difficulty in effective utilization of investment.
   5. Government centralized, bureaucratic system and lengthy procurement process had affected the
       operational autonomy of ASDP supported institutes.
   6. Problematic and workload on procurement, HR and finance team due to other project’s work
       assigned by DMTVET.
   7. The procurement process was slow and unprofessional due to assigned, and recommendation of,
       unqualified members in procurement committees (Purchasing and Evaluation) by Govt.
   8. Lack of proper financial management information system caused difficulty in systematic record
       of expenditure threshold according to the MoF budget coding system.
   9. Lack of proper space for project departments caused inadequate space for hard documentation
       and placement of required staff.
   10. Lack of standard construction companies and construction materials caused slow progress and
       low quality of civil works.
   11. Unprofessional intervention of government officials in construction works caused disruption in
       the intended sketch.
   12. Slow procurement process due to lack of coordination between project and government
       procurement staff caused delay in awarding and implementation of construction projects.
   13. Lack of sufficient vehicles caused delay in routine tasks of departments and supported institutes
       such as meetings, procurement, payment processing and activity monitoring etc.
D.     Lessons Learnt:

   1. Implementing Partners should be closely monitored against contractual obligations. Compromise
      and flexibility makes the partners feel irresponsible against the expected outputs. It was clearly
      found that even well-reputed partners feel relax while working in Afghanistan believing that
      international standards is not supposed to be met perfectly due to challenging situation. The
      contract payment should be based on deliverable or milestone bases rather than advance which
      can result into weak responsiveness.
   2. The DMTVET leadership and Ministry of Finance responsible staff is clearly briefed on the scope
      and purpose of voucher program to ease the process of payment. Eventually the voucher program
      is running smoothly.
   3. CESP secretariat has been transferred to the office of First Vice President to make it an
      independent entity for working towards qualification system for education awarding boards.
   4. Coordinators should be hired for each supported institute to increase effectiveness of investment
      and efficient utilization of provided resources.
   5. DMTVET was convinced on rapid capacity building of ASDP supported institutes as model
      TVET institutions by providing operation autonomy. For doing so, separate bank accounts are
      opened for NIMA, ANIM and AIT to achieve the operational autonomy and skip government
      bureaucratic system.
   6. Additional staff should be recruited for procurement and finance departments to speed up the
      process and cope with other projects work assigned by DMTVET.
   7. The DMTVET is should introduce qualified persons to participate in procurement committees to
      enhance efficiency of procurement process.
   8. Systematic Financial Management Software (FMIS) is required to record allocation and
      disbursement of fund according to the MoF budget coding system.
   9. Building of second floor over ASDP building would resolve the office space problem up to some
      extent. Enough and noiseless space for office improve work efficiency.



                                                  45
    10. Evaluation of contractor’s capacity, investigation of contractor’s past performance and
        mentioning of quality standards for imported construction materials in contract is required to
        ensure efficiency and quality of civil works.
    11. Agreement of high level officials should be obtained to restrict non-technical government
        officials from intervention in civil works in order to complete the construction projects according
        to the planned design and features.
    12. Considerable review of procurement process is the most important element required to speed-up
        awarding of construction and other projects.
    13. Availability of sufficient vehicles is very essential to avoid delay and difficulty in routine
        activities of the project, since vehicle shortage can cause postponement or even cancellation of
        urgent tasks.

____________________________________________________________________________________
Borrower’s Comments on Draft ICR:
I. From DMTVET, Ministry of Education

I went through the ICR document. There are few minor things such as No. of graduates are reported 7,322
instead of 7,720 (actual figure) that will rise our percentage achievement from 73% to 77%. Similarly
institutions reform is 5 out of 5, but rating is given "Modest Achievement" instead of "Substantial", but
they have justified this rating but i did not get it. According to my overall analysis the correction of very
minor things will not take our rating to the next level, therefore ICR will not favor it.

Actually, the overall rating is affected by the following three things:

1. Original indicators and targets has caused the whole problem. It was set unrealistic with a very rough
estimation. The RF that we have been working upon was the revised one. Our achievement according to
the revised RF comes "Satisfactory". However, our achievements against the original one that was
designed at the beginning is "Moderately Unsatisfactory". Thus, the average rating is MS.

2. Secondly, the delay in establishment of ANQA and approval of legislative framework due to slow
progress by CESP and legal objections by MoJ has hugely affected the rating. Still it is a political issue
rather than technical.

3. Not issuing the financial autonomy to aided institutes which means no involvement of DMTVET in its
process has also greatly affect the rating. In my view, it might be in conflict with MoF and DMTVET
rules and procedures, therefore it is not related to the project.

To sum up, looking to the original indicators and targets, the ICR rating is valid. However, looking to the
revised indicators and targets both mentioned points# 2&3 are political issues. However, still there is no
justifiable comments if we stick to the results based rating approach which means if something is planned
and not achieved; it is not achieved and carries low rating regardless of justifications.

II. From the Ministry of Labor and Social Affairs, Martyrs and Disabled (MoLSAMD)
    1. The pre-restructuring target for outcome 2 was 7,500, whereas, after restructuring the target
       reached to 9,600, so the original target was not 15,000 as it is mentioned the report above.
    2. The number of people with disability who received skills training is 300 not 228. (Of the 300
       persons, 120 were female and 180 were male).


                                                      46
   3. The below 3 studies conducted by NSDP have not reflected under key output of component 4.2,
      i.e. (i) A third party tracer study conducted for non-formal vocational training graduates, (ii) A
      report published on Baseline Data of Quality of TVET provision in Afghanistan, and (iii) A
      report published on labor market supply and demand in media, tourism and hospitality sectors.
   4. In Section 1.6 of the ICR, sentence “The training of trainers in productive skills was dropped
      because it was being undertaken by another development partner” should be replaced by “The
      materials/manuals development for productive skills was dropped because it was being
      undertaken by another development partner.”
   5. Revise the Borrower’s ICR, paragraph 27(d) to state that 300 persons with disability were trained
      (in place of 228 persons), and paragraph 27(e) to add “in 20 provinces” at the end of the sentence.
      ______________________________________________________________________________

Bank’s comments on the comments received from the Borrower:
    GoA observed that the increase in the number of graduates from project-financed institutes
       should be 7,720 and not 7,322 as indicated in Table 3, Annex 10. The ICR team arrived at the
       increase in the number of graduates by deducting the baseline value of 398 from the total number
       of graduates of 7,720, resulting in an actual increase of 7,322.
      GoA noted that the achievement of the indicator, “number of DMTVET institutes awarded reform
       package upon meeting reform conditions,” should be “Substantial” and not “Modest” because
       actual number of the project supported institutes was five which is equal to the target. The ICR
       team maintains the assessment of this indicator at “Modest Achievement” because the Bank
       financing (except for ANIM) is very likely to have been extended well before the TVET institutes
       met the reform conditions. Some of the project-supported institutes are yet to undertake
       meaningful reform actions. (See definition of the indicator in Table 2.2 in Annex 2 of the
       Technical Annex, and design parameters in paragraphs 54 and 55 (on page 12) of the Technical
       Annex, Report No. T7709-AF, dated January 4, 2008.)
      GoA observed that the original target of vulnerable youth, poor women, marginalized farmers and
       IDUs trained under NSDP was not 15,000 but a lower figure of 7,500. The ICR team has
       maintained the original target at 15,000 which is included in the Supplemental Letter,
       Performance Monitoring Indicators, dated March 10, 2008, in reference to the Financing
       Agreement for the project. The original target value of 15,000 is also consistent with Table 2.2
       (Arrangements for Results Monitoring) in Annex 2 of the Technical Annex.
      GoA observed that the sentence in Section 1.6 of the ICR, “Training of trainers in p roductive
       skills was dropped because it was being undertaken by another development partner,” should be
       replaced by “The materials/manuals development for productive skills was dropped because it
       was being undertaken by another development partner.” The ICR team’s statement in Section
       1.6, paragraph 16 is based on paragraph 14 of the Project Restructuring Paper submitted to the
       CD, for approval on July 20, 2012, and Amended Schedule 1, Part 3(b) attached to the
       Amendment to Financing Agreement, dated July 23, 2012.
      GoA observed in paragraph 17 of its ICR (Annex 7) that the Skills Team (or the ASDP Team) has
       been working with the DMTVET to grant institutional autonomy to project-supported institutes.
       To this end, GCs in five of the six project-supported TVET institutes have been established and
       they are already playing a vital role in improving nearly all aspects of the institutes’ academic,
       administrative and financial affairs and are making strategic decisions at the institute level, but
       within the scope of the national TVET policy and regulations imposed by DMTVET. As noted in
       the ICR, analysis of the operational (academic and administrative) and financial autonomy to the

                                                  47
project-supported institutes in the ICR (in paragraphs 21(b), 24(d), 44, 72 and 73) reflects the ICR
team’s assessment of the progress during the project life (6.5 years) and the status at project
completion. The ICR team is aware that significant work is still needed in this important area and
the Bank is continuing to support DMTVET under the new follow-on project (ASDP II),
approved on March 19, 2013.




                                            48
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders


Not applicable.




                                             49
                       Annex 9: Additional Information on Results Indicators

A.      Intermediate Outcome Indicators associated with the PDO at approval were the following:
(1) Regulations and legislation for the formation of an independent Afghanistan National Qualification
Authority (ANQA);
(2) Establish the ANQA through an Act of Parliament;
(3) The framework and the generic learning outcomes (knowledge, skills, and competences) associated
with each level developed;
(4) Boards administer/tests, publish results, and award certificates;
(5) Number of graduates from the National Institute of Management and Administration (NIMA);
(6) Number of Department of Technical and Vocational Education and Training (DTVET) institutions
awarded reform package upon meeting reform conditions;
(7) Percent of girls enrolled in post-basic programs under DTVET;
(8) Average earnings of trainees self-employed or wage employed 9 months after completion of training
compared to control groups (for contracted vocational training packages, Component 3);
(9) Number of BDS trainers trained;
(10) Number of PSOs trained;
(11) MIS in place and regularly updated; and
(12) Follow-up surveys and evaluations undertaken in Year 3 and Year 5.

B.       The Supplemental Letter to the Financing Agreement, dated March 10, 2008, listed six
performance monitoring indicators, four of which were essentially the same as the outcome indicators
listed in paragraph 7 of the ICR and two of which were listed as intermediate outcome indicators in the
Results Framework (in Table 2.2, Annex 2, Technical Annex). The targets were consistent with those
listed in Table 2.2 of Annex 2, Technical Annex, with the exception of the target for “increase in the
number of graduates from project-financed training programs under DTVET. This target was listed as
10,000 in the Supplemental Letter to the 2008 Financing Agreement and listed as 10,468 in the Technical
Annex (Annex 2, Table 2.2). In keeping with evaluation guidelines, the target in the Supplemental Letter
was used to assess the project’s achievements against original outcome targets.

C.      The revised intermediate outcome indicators were follows (see proposed Supplemental Letter
        (performance indicators), included in the restructuring package, that was submitted to the
        Country Director for approval on July 20, 2012):

(1) The National Qualifications Framework developed and approval of the DMTVET plan;
(2) Number of diplomas awarded by project funded institutes (NIMA). See Data Sheet in the ICR,
Intermediate Outcome Indicator 2;
(3) Number of TVET institutes operating under the agreed governance framework;
(4) Number of BDS trainers and PSO trained;
(5) MIS in place;
(6) Number of MIS reports produced;
(7) Number of tracer studies of TVET graduates completed;
(8) The summary of the revised Results Framework in the project restructuring package also include one
more indicator: Number of Project Staff and Officers trained in different functional areas (including
NSDP and DMTVET). The ICR team has also included this in the revised list; and
(9) The ICR team also added the following intermediate indicator in order to more fully assess the
outcome of the project: Increase in the number of operational buildings and facilities for TVET.


                                                   50
                      Annex 10. Achievement against Original Indicators and Targets
             Table 2: Results Framework Analysis against Original Indicators and Targets
    Indicators (from                    Original Target    Actual Value at
 Table 2.2 in Annex 2,   Baseline      Value (February        Completion                                      Efficacy
   Technical Annex)16     Value             28, 2013)         (June 2014)
 Outcome 1: Increased number of immediately-employable formal TVET graduates
 1. Increase in the
 number of graduates
 from project-financed
 institutions and
                          39817             10,00018             7,322                              Modest Achievement
 training centers as
                                                                                                    (73% of target)19
 compared to baseline
 of unreformed
 institutions
 (DMTVET).
 2. Labor market                      No target in the
 outcomes, measured                   Technical Annex
 by employment status                 ISR #1 target:
                                                                 75%20                              Substantial Achievement
 are superior to the    No baseline   Superior to the
 outcomes of                          outcomes of
 comparable control                   comparable control
 groups.                              groups
 3. Percent of
                                      No target in
 employers of trainees
                                      Technical Annex.
 graduated from
                                      ISR #1: Improved
 reformed institutions
                                      employees'
 agree that employees   No baseline
                                      productivity        No data available                         Cannot be assessed.
 have improved their
                                      through training
 productivity through
                                      relative to a
 training relative to
                                      baseline
 baseline.
 4. Number of
                                                                                                    Modest Achievement
 graduates from NIMA.     None21             5,21822             1,714
                                                                                                    (33% of target)
 5. Number of                        0                      5                        5              Modest Achievement.

16
   The Results Framework in Table 2.2 of Annex 2 in the Technical Annex provides a total of 16 indicators (4 PDO indicators
and 12 intermediate outcome indicators). Two of the PDO indicators are used to assess both Outcome 1 and Outcome 2 and as
such, they are listed twice in this table.
17
   The baseline value refers to graduates from all project-supported institutes. For NIMA, the ICR team assigned a baseline value
of zero because it was a new institute, yet to be established under the project. (The Results Framework in Table 2.2, Annex 2,
Technical Annex, however, provides a baseline value of 718 for NIMA but it is unclear what that number refers to).
18 See Supplemental Letter to the original Financing Agreement (dated March 10, 2008). Target increase in Table 2.2 in Annex 2,

Technical Annex is 10,468.
19
   Data for baseline for non-reformed TVET institutes is neither available nor applicable.
20 This number is for NIMA graduates only. No control group data was available.
21
   Based on the Supplemental Letter (Performance Indicators) in the Restructuring Package, submitted to the Country Director
for approval on July 20, 2012. NIMA was a new institute to be established under the project.
22 Not clear from the Results Framework (see Table 2.2 in Annex 2, Technical Annex). This target is based on the ICR team’s

judgment and is derived from data in Table 2.2, page 26 of the Technical Annex. At appraisal, it was planned that NIMA would
offer (a) one-year Certificate Programs, (b) two-year Diploma Programs, and (c) short-term courses for those who are unable to
participate in longer-term programs due to work commitments. In the end, based on student demand, NIMA offered only a two-
year diploma program. The target of graduating 5,218 was too high for this two- year Diploma program (paragraph 40, pages 34-
35, Annex 3, Technical Annex).

                                                                51
    Indicators (from                                  Original Target           Actual Value at
 Table 2.2 in Annex 2,              Baseline          Value (February            Completion                Efficacy
  Technical Annex)16                 Value               28, 2013)               (June 2014)
 DMTVET institutions                                                                              (Bank financing is likely
 awarded reform                                                                                   to have started before
 package upon meeting                                                                             TVET institutes (except
 reform conditions.                                                                               ANIM) met reform
                                                                                                  conditions.)

 6. Percent of girls                                                            Modest Achievement
 enrolled in post-basic                                                         (However, 32% of
                           8%                 30%                  19%
 programs under                                                                 students enrolled at NIMA
 DMTVET.                                                                        are women )
 Outcome 2: Increased number of immediately-employable non-formal training beneficiaries
 7. Increase in the
 number of graduates
 from project-financed
 institutions and         2,435              15,000               9,676
                                                                                Modest Achievement
 training centers as
                                                                                (65% of target)23
 compared to baseline
 non-reformed
 institutions.
 (NSDP)
 8. Labor market        No baseline   No target in the    This indicator, in    Substantial Achievement
 outcomes, measured                   Technical Annex.    reference to the
 by employment status                 ISR #1 target:      non-formal training
 are superior to the                  Superior to the     program, is
 outcomes of                          outcomes of         essentially the same
 comparable control                   comparable control as the one below.
 groups.                              groups              (See paragraph 47
                                                          in Section 3.2 of the
                                                          ICR for further
                                                          explanation.)
 9. Average earnings                                      Average monthly
 of trainees self-                                        earning of women
 employed or wage-                                        rose from 0 (pre-
 employed 9 months                                        training) to AFN
 after completion of                                      2,766; of youth rose
 training compared to                                     from AFN 998
 control group.            N/A                N/A         (pre-training) to     Substantial Achievement
                                                          AFN 8,475; and of
                                                          marginalized
                                                          farmers rose from
                                                          AFN 3,076 (pre-
                                                          training) to AFN
                                                          7,780.
 10. Number of BDS                    No target in the
 trainers trained.         N/A        Technical Annex.            1,652
                                      ISR #1: The                               Substantial Achievement
                                      training of BDS
                                      trainers is


23
     Data for baseline for non-reformed TVET institutes is neither available nor applicable.

                                                                  52
       Indicators (from                   Original Target     Actual Value at
     Table 2.2 in Annex 2,               Value (February
                                      Baseline                  Completion                                                    Efficacy
      Technical Annex)16               Value 28, 2013)          (June 2014)
                                        determined on the
                                        basis of
                                        consultation with
                                        local communities
                                        and upon the
                                        determination of
                                        economic growth
                                        sectors.
 11. Number of PSOs                     The training of    No PSO’s trained
 trained.                               PSOs is determined (PSO training was
                                        on the basis of    taken over by
                                        consultation with  another donor
                            N/A         local communities  during the project)                                     N/A
                                        and upon the
                                        determination of
                                        economic growth
                                        sectors
 Outcome 3: Improved institutional and regulatory framework for TVET
 12. New institutional                  ANQA and NQF       ANQA and NQF
 framework for TVET                     have been          are yet to be
 is realized and                        established        established.
 functioning, including                 (in year 3)        (Work has been
 the establishment of                                      completed for the
 the independent                                           establishment of
 Afghanistan National                                      ANQA and NQF
 Qualifications                                            and approved by
 Authority (ANQA),          N/A                            CESP but is yet to
                                                                                                                   Modest Achievement
 independent training                                      be submitted for
 boards (e.g. National                                     enactment of
 Technical and                                             legislation.24)25
 Vocational Education
 and Training Board)
 and the National
 Qualifications
 Framework (NQF).
 13. Regulations and                                       Regulations and
 legislation developed      N/A                            legislation
                                                                                                                   Substantial Achievement
 for the formation of an                                   developed
 independent ANQA.
 14. Establish the                      Enact legislation  Legislation is yet to
 ANQA through an act                    and establish the  be submitted to
 of Parliament.                         ANQA               Parliament for
                                                           ratification. GoA is                                    Negligible Achievement
                                                           considering the
                                                           possibility of having
                                                           the CESP

24
   Until the legislation is submitted to Parliament for ratification, the Government is considering the possibility of allowing the CESP Secretariat
to function as an interim entity to pilot the ANQA.
25
   Establishment of Awarding Boards is covered in Indicator number 16 below. As per the Supplemental Letter dated March 10, 2008, there were
to be four Awarding Boards (for Secondary Education, TVET, Islamic Education and Higher Education).

                                                                        53
   Indicators (from                        Original Target       Actual Value at
 Table 2.2 in Annex 2,      Baseline       Value (February         Completion                 Efficacy
  Technical Annex)16         Value            28, 2013)            (June 2014)
                                                               Secretariat function
                                                               as an interim entity
                                                               to pilot the ANQA.
 15. The framework and
 generic learning
 outcomes (knowledge,
 skills and                 N/A      NQF developed   NQF has been                     Substantial Achievement
 competencies)                                       developed
 associated with each
 level developed.
 16. Boards administer               Awarding Boards Boards are not yet
 tests, publish results     N/A      are operational established and                  Negligible Achievement
 and award certificates.                             operational
 Outcome 4: Improved M&E and program management capacity
 17. MIS in place and                                Project MIS is in
 regularly updated                                   place in both the
                                                     NSDP and
                                                     DMTVET. Twelve
                                                     (12) reports have
                                                     been produced
                                                                                      Substantial Achievement
                         No baseline      No Target  which indicate
                                                     progress in the
                                                     development of the
                                                     system. The MIS is
                                                     being enhanced
                                                     under ASDP II.
 18. Follow-up surveys                               11 tracer studies of
 and evaluations                                     training of
 undertaken in Year 3                                vulnerable people
 and Year 5                 N/A           Evaluation (by NSDP) and 3
                                                                                      Substantial Achievement
                                                     tracer studies of
                                                     NIMA graduates
                                                     (by DMTVET) have
                                                     been undertaken.


1.       The four project outcomes have been assessed according to both original and revised outcome
indicators and targets separately for the entire duration of the project – not just the period for which each
set of indicators and targets was in effect. The assessment of outcomes against the revised indicators
and targets is presented in Section 3.2 of the ICR and in the data sheet (pages ii-vii). A brief discussion
of the assessment of outcomes against original outcome indicators and targets is given below.

Outcome 1: Increased number of immediately-employable formal TVET graduates -
Modest Achievement

2.       The total number of graduates from project-financed institutes increased by 7,322 (73% of the
project’s original target of 10,000). Though no data for comparable non-reformed institutes is available,
the restructuring paper submitted for approval to the Country Director on July 20, 2012, stated that this
would not have been a meaningful comparison because the size and capacity of each institute is unique.

                                                     54
The labor market outcomes were strong for NIMA graduates as indicated by their employment rates (75%
of the first cohort of NIMA graduates secured employment within six months of graduation). Again, there
is no control group data, but the employment rate of NIMA graduates confirms the immediate-
employability of project graduates. Although the project did not assess labor market outcomes for
graduates of the other five TVET institutes, 96 percent of those graduates had degrees in highly-market
relevant areas (focus sectors) and so they too may be considered immediately-employable.

3.       The project’s achievements on the intermediate outcome indicators were mixed. Though five
TVET institutes received support from the project, it is not clear whether the support was given after the
institutes had met reform conditions or that the support was given on the basis of their ability to meet
reform conditions. Therefore, this indicator may only be considered a partial achievement. The number
of graduates from NIMA was 1,714 (33% of the project’s original target of producing 5,218 NIMA
graduates). The target was set in light of NIMA’s original plans to offer (a) one-year Certificate
Programs, (b) two-year Diploma Programs, and (c) short-term courses for those who are unable to
participate in longer-term programs due to work commitments. Hence the target of 5,218 was high for
only a 2 year Diploma program that NIMA finally offered based on the demand of students (paragraph
40, pages 34-35, Annex 3 of the Technical Annex). Therefore, this indicator may be considered a partial
achievement. The percentage of girls in post-basic TVET programs rose from 8% at baseline to 19% by
the end of the project. This was short of the project’s target of 30% but is still a substantial increase in
women’s enrollment in TVET; in particular because the target of 30% was a sector target applying to over
210 TVET institutes under DMTVET in early 2013 and the project supported only six institutes,
including NIMA. Moreover, the percentage of girls in project-supported institutes was much higher --
32% of students enrolled in 2014 at NIMA are female, a particularly significant achievement in the
Afghan context. In light of the project’s achievements on each of the outcome and intermediate outcome
indicators, the overall achievement of this objective is considered Modest.

Outcome 2: Increased number of immediately-employable non-formal training beneficiaries -
Substantial Achievement

4.      A total of 9,676 vulnerable people (poor women, youth, marginalized or landless farmers, persons
with disability, and rehabilitated IDUs) were trained under the project. This was a substantial
achievement, but fell short of the target of training 15,000 people by 35 percent. The labor market
outcomes of the non-formal training beneficiaries, measured in terms of earnings, were very strong. Each
of the beneficiary groups substantially increased their earnings compared to pre-training earnings (see
ICR paragraph 47). The project also made a substantial contribution to capacity building in the non-
formal training program by training 1,652 BDS trainers. On balance, the project substantially achieved its
objective of increasing the number of immediately-employable non-formal training beneficiaries because
although it fell short of the target, it still succeeded in training a substantial number of vulnerable people;
and the training was clearly very effective as evident in the strong increase in earnings of the training
beneficiaries following training. As noted earlier in the ICR (paragraphs 47-48), the project also
contributed to the establishment of high-quality non-formal training programs by: (a) integrating solid
monitoring and evaluation mechanisms into the non-formal training programs; (b) ensuring a strong
equity focus in all programs; (c) adopting a market-responsive approach to non-formal training which
resulted in improved earnings of the training beneficiaries; and (d) building overall capacity in the non-
formal training program by training 1,652 BDS trainers.




                                                      55
Outcome 3: Improved institutional and regulatory framework for TVET - Modest Achievement

5.       The original target was to ensure that a new institutional framework is realized and functioning,
including the establishment of the independent ANQA, independent training boards26 (e.g., National
Technical Vocational Education Training Board) and the National Qualifications Framework (NQF). The
project was unable to achieve this original target, which was dependent on the political environment and
as such, was beyond the control of the project. Currently, neither the ANQA nor the Awarding Boards
have been established, and the NQF is also yet to be implemented. However, the project still made
substantial contribution to the establishment of a high-quality TVET system because the design of the
institutional framework (i.e., the ANQA and the Awarding Bodies) has been developed and legislation for
enacting this framework has been drafted. The NQF has also been developed. These are, in themselves,
substantial achievements in any context including developed countries, but especially in Afghanistan.
Developing these frameworks was challenging from both a technical and a political viewpoint. From a
technical perspective, the process required extensive research and deliberations with the various
stakeholders to develop a sound framework that was aligned with international best practice but also
appropriate for the Afghan context. From a political perspective, the process required a long and
painstaking dialogue between various ministries and stakeholders in the Afghan TVET system to build
consensus for both the institutional framework and the NQF. Although these frameworks have not yet
been submitted to Parliament for ratification, they have been approved by the CESP and temporary
institutionalization of both the National TVET Board and NQF is under consideration. GoA is also
considering the possibility of having the CESP Secretariat function as an interim entity to pilot the
ANQA. In light of these considerations, the project made a Modest contribution to improving the
institutional and regulatory framework for TVET.

Outcome 4: Improved M&E and program management capacity - Substantial Achievement

6.      This objective and target remained the same throughout the life of the project. Section 3.2 (see
ICR paragraphs 53-56) provides a more in-depth discussion of the project’s achievements in this area and
these are not reported here. It is sufficient to say that the project substantially achieved its objective of
improving M&E and program management capacity by developing and implementing an MIS (both for
project management as well as for information management in the formal and non-formal TVET sectors)
and surpassing its target of training 300 administrative and management staff at both NSDP and
DMTVET in various functional areas of the TVET.

Justification of overall outcome rating based on original (pre-restructuring) indicators and targets
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

7.       The project objectives, design and implementation remained Highly Relevant throughout the
entire duration of the project and remain Highly Relevant today (discussed in Section 3.1 of the ICR). The
project was also Substantially Efficient (as discussed in Section 3.3 of the ICR and Annex 3) in achieving
its objectives. However, its Efficacy, when evaluated against original (pre-restructuring) indicators and
targets, is deemed Modest. As a result, the overall outcome rating against the original (pre-restructuring)
indicators and targets is rated as Moderately Unsatisfactory (as per the evaluation guidelines).




26
  Per the Supplemental Letter (Performance Monitoring Indicators), dated March 10, 2008, four Awarding Boards (for Secondary Education,
TVET, Islamic Education and Higher Education) were to be established.

                                                                 56
                         Annex 11: List of Supporting Documents


1. International Development Association (IDA) and International Finance Cooperation (IFC)
    (2012). Interim Strategy Note for Islamic Republic of Afghanistan (2012-2014). Report No:
    66862-AF. Afghanistan Country Management Unit, South Asia Region, IDA and Middle East
    and North Africa Department, IFC. Washington DC.
2. Islamic Republic of Afghanistan (2012). National Priority Program 1: Sustainable Decent Work
    through Skills Development and Employment Policies for Job-Rich Growth. 2012 draft.
3. World Bank (2007). Interim Strategy Note for Islamic Republic of Afghanistan (2007-2008).
    Afghanistan Country Management Unit, South Asia Region, the World Bank. Washington DC.
4. World Bank (2008). Skills Development in Afghanistan. Discussion Paper Series: Report 25. The
    World Bank, Washington DC.
5. World Bank (2008-2014). Documents in the Project’s Electronic File, including the
    Memorandum and Recommendation of the President, Report No. P7709-AF; Technical Annex,
    Report No. T7709-AF (in lieu of the Project Appraisal Document per OP 8.50); Documents
    submitted to the Management Committee of the ARTF; Grant Agreements; Legal Amendments;
    Supplemental Letter – Performance Monitoring Indicators dated March 10, 2008; Aide-Memoirs;
    Project Status and Results Reports; Mid-term Review Aide Memoire; Quality Enhancement
    Review (QER) report; and Financial and Project Procurement Assessments. The World Bank,
    Washington DC.
6. World Bank (2012). ASDP - Restructuring Package, including Supplemental Letter –
    Performance Indicators. Submitted by Bappaditya Chakravarty, Task Team Leader to the
    Country Director, for Approval on July 20, 2012. The World Bank, Washington DC.
7. World Bank (2013). Higher education in Afghanistan: An Emerging Mountain Scape. Working
    Paper Series 80915. The World Bank, Washington DC.
8. World Bank (2013) Second Skills Development Project (ASDP II) Project Appraisal Document.
    The World Bank, Washington DC.
9. World Bank (2013). Non-formal Approach to Training Education and Jobs in Afghanistan
    (NATEJA) Project Appraisal Document. The World Bank, Washington DC.
10. World Bank (2014). Afghanistan Economic Update: October 2014. Macro-Economic and Fiscal
    Management Global Practice Group. The World Bank, Washington DC.




                                            57
Map




58
