 IEG
                                                                                              Report Number: ICRR14732

                 ICR Review
                 Independent Evaluation Group




       1. Project Data:                                      Date Posted: 06/30/2015

              Country: Afghanistan
            Project ID: P102573                                                   Appraisal              Actual
         Project Name: Afghanistan Skills          Project Costs (US$M):                      26.0                34.01
                        Development Project
  L/C Number:                                        Loan/Credit (US$M):                      20.0                18.76
      Sector Board:       Education                  Cofinancing (US$M):                       6.0                15.25

          Cofinanciers: Government of Norway          Board Approval Date :                                01/31/2008
                                                              Closing Date:           02/28/2013           06/30/2014
         Sector(s):       Vocational training (83%); Central government administration (17%)
         Theme(s):        Education for the knowledge economy (67%); Improving labor markets (33%)


Prepared by:              Reviewed by:           ICR Review                 Group:
                                                 Coordinator:
Ann Elizabeth Flanagan Judyth L. Twigg           Lourdes N. Pagaran         IEGPS2

2. Project Objectives and Components:

a. Objectives:

    The project development objective (PDO) was "to increase the number of immediately employable graduates in
    Afghanistan by supporting the establishment of a high quality technical vocational education and training (TVET)
    system that is equitable, market responsive and cost-effective" (Financing Agreement [FA], March 10, 2008, p.
    4).

    The Technical Annex (TA) stated that the objective was "to increase the number of immediately employable
    graduates by building, in stages, a high quality TVET system that is equitable, market responsive, and
    cost-effective” (TA, p. 10).

    The Afghanistan Reconstruction Trust Fund Grant Agreement (ARTF GA), covering project co-financing at
    appraisal, stated the PDO as "to increase access to high quality vocational education and training in the areas of
    management, administration and information and communication technologies (ICT) in a manner that is
    equitable, efficient and sustainable" (ARTF GA, p. 5).

    The objectives as stated in the FA and TA are almost identical; the TA highlights the project’s phased approach.
    The PDOs contained in the TA and ARTF GA are broadly aligned with the Financing Agreement’s PDO.

    The project was formally restructured in July 2012, at which point 78% of the IDA grant, had been disbursed.
    The PDO remained the same; but key outcome indicators/targets were dropped and/or modified.

    This ICR review uses the FA original and revised statement of objectives. A split rating will be undertaken given
    the material change in outcome target values.

b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
Yes
 If yes, did the Board approve the revised objectives/key associated outcome targets?
Yes
Date of Board Approval: 07/23/2012

c. Components:

   Original Components

   Component 1: Develop Regulatory and Quality Assurance Framework for TVET (Appraisal, US$ 1.5 million;
   Actual, US$ 1.45 million). This component was to focus on creating the institutional framework for a
   demand-driven system of TVET in Afghanistan. It had three sub-components:

       Support the legal and regulatory reforms required for establishing the statutory agencies needed for a
        robust quality assurance system in the TVET sector. Quality control measures included the separation of
        service provision and quality assurance. The Afghan National Qualifications Authority (ANQA) would be
        established through an Act of Parliament; the Act would endow the ANQA with the authority to develop a
        National Qualification Framework (NQF) and establish a National Vocational Education and Training Board
        (NTVETB).
       Design and develop the ANQA and establish a National Qualifications Framework (NQF) in Afghanistan to
        provide a competency-based and level-based structure to TVET in order to standardize certification and
        accreditation across the country.
       Support continued improvements in the relevance, quality and efficiency of TVET, including the
        establishment of awarding bodies (NTVETB, the Board for Secondary Education, Islamic Education Board,
        and the Higher Education Board) to take stock of existing skills in Afghanistan, categorize award levels and
        types, and assess and certify trainees against standardized measures of learning such that trainees would
        be of high quality and their skills relevant and transparent to employers.

   Component 2: Improve Relevance, Quality and Efficiency of TVET (Appraisal, US$ 18.5 million; Actual, US$
   26.91 million). This component was to support improvements in the relevance, quality and efficiency of TVET
   programs. It had three sub-components:

       Establish a new institute (National Institute of Management and Administration, NIMA) dedicated to training
        in high-skill, high-demand areas of (i) Management and Administration, (ii) Accounting, and (iii) Information
        Technology. The sub-component would also support the rehabilitation of temporary facilities, student
        scholarships, and vehicles. This sub-component was to be co-financed with the Government of Norway
        (through the Afghanistan Reconstruction Trust Fund, ARTF) and supported through parallel financing from
        USAID.
       Grant reform packages to self-selected Deputy Ministry of Technical And Vocational Education and Training
        (DMTVET) institutes (total of 42 qualified institutes other than NIMA and those supported by other donors) in
        order to reduce fragmentation of decision-making, create institutional autonomy, and reorient programs to be
        demand-driven. The sub-component was to finance consulting and technical assistance, upgrading of
        infrastructure, purchasing of new equipment, and training of faculty in support of institute-specific reform
        strategies.
       Reform the DMTVET to increase capacity, monitoring and evaluation systems, and information technology
        infrastructure in order to fully implement the project and the new structure of TVET.

   Component 3: Skills Development Program and Market Linkages with a Rural Focus (Appraisal, US$ 5.0
   million; Actual, US$ 4.95 million). This component had three sub-components:

       Support competency-based, market-driven training, building on existing training programs provided under
        the National Skills Development Program (NSDP). Training was to be contracted out and focus on training
        for self-employment and wage employment for youth, chronically poor women, and marginal and landless
        farmers.
       Support the USAID-funded Learning and Community Empowerment Project 2 (LCEP2) through contracting
        for training of Productive Skills Officers (PSO), Business Development Service (BDS) trainers, and trade
        trainers, and developing skills curriculum materials.
       Capacity building and training within the National Skill Development Program (NSDP)/Ministry of Labor and
        Social Affairs, Martyrs, and Disabled (MoLSAMD). Specifically, the subcomponent was to finance technical
        assistance for curriculum and materials development; an international consultant to provide technical
        assistance in the area of labor market assessments; and distance learning programs for training of TVET
        managers in NSDP, MoLSAMD, MOE, etc. in TVET planning and management.

   Component 4: Research, Monitoring & Evaluation (Appraisal, US$1.0 million; Actual, US$ 0.7 million). This
   component had two sub-components:
        Develop and operationalize a Management Information System (MIS) to be used in monitoring program
         performance and decision making during project implementation.
        Conduct tracer studies and impact evaluations on specific sub-components.

   At a July 2012 restructuring, the first three components were revised.

        Component 1 was modified to reflect the unlikelihood of establishing the ANQA by project closure. As a
         result, the first sub-component was revised to finance the development and approval of a legal, policy,
         regulatory, and administrative framework for autonomous TVET institutions, and the third sub-component
         was dropped.
        A voucher program was added to the fourth sub-component of Component 2. The vouchers were to cover
         tuition, fees, and other support for eligible students (TVET graduates) to continue their studies.
        Under the third component, the list of vulnerable groups was extended to include rehabilitated injectable
         drug users (IDUs). Other activities (training of productive skills officers, business development services
         training, and facilitation of linkages to microfinance) were dropped.

d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:

   Project Costs:
     Total project cost at approval was US$ 26 million, of which US$ 20 million was to be financed through an
        IDA grant and US$ 6 million through the Afghanistan Reconstruction Trust Fund (ARTF) (TA, p. 43).
     Actual total project cost was US$ 34.01 million, with total IDA disbursements of US$ 18.76 million.
     The ARTF eventually disbursed US$ 15.25 million of its planned total US$ 18 million contribution.
     The ICR provides no information on the divergence between appraised and actual costs.

   Financing:
      The project was financed through two sources: a planned US$ 20 million through an IDA credit, and planned
       US$ 18 million through the Afghanistan Reconstruction Trust Fund, a pooled funding mechanism to support
       Afghanistan’s national priorities and administered by the World Bank. The Technical Annex states that the
       original contribution of the ARTF was US$ 6 million, but the ICR states that the original planned ARTF
       contribution was US$ 9 million. Ultimately, the ARTF's total planned contribution was US$ 18 million, with
       US$ 9 million of that provided through additional financing in at restructuring in 2012. Of the added US$ 9
       million, US$ 1 million was to finance the voucher program.

   Borrower Contribution:
     There was no planned contribution from the Borrower.

   Dates:
     The project was formally restructured in July 2012, at which point US$ 14.65 million, or 78% of the IDA
       grant, had been disbursed (total disbursement of US$ 18.76 million). The PDO remained the same;
       however, project activities were modified which reduced the scope of Component 1 and expanded the scope
       of Components 2 and 3. Project restructuring included dropping, adding, and modifying key performance
       indicators and target values. The closing date of February 28, 2013 was extended for a period of 16 months
       to June 30, 2014. The extension was granted to provide time to complete construction activities; to facilitate
       and develop a new implementing partner for the National Institute on Management and Administration
       (NIMA); and to allow for two additional graduation cohorts from the Institute. Finally, covenants were added
       to the project: (i) to ensure autonomous operations of TVET institutions, and (ii) to address Environment and
       Social Safeguard issues (ICR, p. 5).

3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

a. Relevance of Objectives:


   Relevance of objectives is rated Substantial under both the original and restructured project. At project approval,
   the TVET system in Afghanistan was highly centralized, lacked an overall quality assurance system, utilized
   outdated equipment and informal training techniques (e.g., informal apprenticeships), and was not strategically
   aligned to the needs of the economy. The long-term aim of the project was to transform Afghanistan’s TVET
   system to a high-quality, demand-driven system. At the same time, there were immediate needs to increase the
   employability of the Afghani population. As Afghanistan transitioned from conflict to post-conflict and
   reconstruction, efforts to rebuild the country required skills that were unavailable in the country at the time. The
   need to build skills and capacity in Afghanistan was recognized as a priority for continued peace-building,
   long-term economic growth, and poverty reduction.

   At approval, the project was fully aligned with the Government of Afghanistan’s commitment to the Afghanistan
   Compact (2006) and the Afghanistan National Development Strategy (ANDS) for 2008-2013 (upon which the
   2008 Poverty Reduction Strategy (PRS) was built). Economic and social development was one of the
   Government's three strategic pillars for development, along with security and governance, rule of law, and human
   rights.

   The project was fully aligned with the Government’s Education Sector Strategy, which emphasized the provision
   of quality education and the necessary regulatory frameworks and standard settings for quality assurance. The
   strategy also stressed the importance of decentralizing the management of education to the institution or school
   level, which was a significant element of the project (i.e., autonomous institutions).

   The project was consistent with the Bank's FY09-11 Interim Strategy Note (ISN), which emphasized maintaining
   equitable service delivery in order to build capacity and credibility of the state and improve rural livelihoods (ISN,
   p. 26). The project was also consistent with the FY12-14 ISN, which noted the importance of improving the TVET
   and higher education systems to meet the increasing numbers of students completing basic education.

   At project closure, the project was fully aligned with the ISN’s pillar of equitable service delivery and targeted the
   key Government goals of providing rural areas with access to education, improving education quality and
   developing a National Qualification Framework to regulate all sub-sectors of education, and increasing school
   enrollment rates and the number of teachers trained (ISN, 2012, p. 43). The project also supported the
   Government’s efforts to support projects that would reduce the risk of a recurrence of violence, such as those
   supporting employment and education (ISN, 2012, p. ii).

   However, the project objective was ambitious in the context of a post-conflict country. Throughout
   implementation Afghanistan experienced a high level of political instability; passing an Act through Parliament
   and the granting of autonomy to individual institutes were ambitious design features.


b. Relevance of Design:

   Relevance of Design under the Original Project : Modest
   Relevance of Design under the Restructured Project : Substantial

   Relevance of the original project design is rated Modest. The statement of objectives was generally clear but
   complex. The logical framework linking project inputs to intended outcomes was reasonable. Key assumptions
   were that a credible system of quality control and transparent certification standards were needed to signal the
   employability of graduates to potential employers and that institutes be given the authority to offer market driven
   programs and training opportunities. The long-term, system-wide structural changes supported by the project
   were misaligned with the choice of lending instrument (Emergency Recovery Loan) and the country environment.

   Project activities were modified at restructuring to better reflect the realities of the post-conflict environment. With
   restructuring, the modifications improved results chain. Relevance of design under the restructured project is
   rated Substantial.




4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):

   To increase the number of immediately employable graduates in Afghanistan by supporting the establishment of
   a high quality technical vocational education and training (TVET) system that is equitable, market responsive and
   cost-effective.

   Under the Original Project : Modest
   Under the Revised Project : Substantial

   Note: Trainees include those graduating from formal programs and non-formal training programs under
   DMTVET, MOE, and NSDP.

   Output and Outcomes revised and dropped at Restructuring:
   Outputs:
    Enacting legislation for the ANQA, ANQF, and Awarding bodies required political consensus that did not
     exist in Afghanistan during project implementation. The goal putting in place a new Institutional Framework,
     which was functioning by project closure was revised downward to take into consideration the realities under
     which the project was being implemented (see below).
    The number of certified TVET managers graduated through on-line, distance-learning training on TVET
     management was dropped at restructuring.
    All other outputs remained substantially the same.
Outcomes:
    Increase in the number of graduates from project financed institutions compared to baseline of non-reformed
     institutions revised at restructuring to the number of graduates from project financed institutions, no progress
     reported.
    Degree of satisfaction of employers with trainees from aided TVET schools as compared to a baseline,
     dropped at restructuring with no progress reported.

Outputs:
  Institutional framework for the NQF was designed and legislation drafted to establish the NQF and NTVETB,
    The target was partially met as legislation was drafted but not submitted to Parliament.
  Two DMTVET institutions were awarded reform packages, falling short of the target of six institutions.
  221 out of a target of 200 graduates received voucher benefits, including females (added at restructuring),
    exceeding the target.
  Females represented 40% of trainees in NSDP training centers, exceeding the targeted 30%.
  A MIS was established and operationalized. Twelve reports were produced, exceeding the target of 7
    reports.
  1,652 Business Development Services (BDS) personnel were trained, meeting the target of 1,652.
  325 Project Staff and Officers were trained in different functional areas (including NSDP), exceeding the
    target of 300.
  14 tracer studies for TVET were conducted.

Original Outcomes:
  Increase in the number of graduates from project financed institutions compared to baseline of non-reformed
     institutions, revised at restructuring with no progress reported.
  Degree of satisfaction of employers with trainees from aided TVET schools as compared to a baseline,
     dropped at restructuring with no progress reported.
  7,720 students graduated from project-financed institutions (DMTVET), falling far short of the targeted
     10,468 graduates.
  9,676 vulnerable youth, poor women, and marginalized farmers were trained in NSDP training centers,
     falling far short of the targeted 15,000 trainees.
  The average earnings of women increased from AFN 0 to AFN 2,766 within six months of completing
     training, exceeding the targeted AFN 2,500.
  The average earnings of youth increased from AFN 998 to AFN 8,475 within six months of completing
     training, falling short of the targeted AFN 9,000.
  The average earnings of marginalized farmers increased from AFN 3,076 to AFN 7,780 within six months of
     completing training. No target was set.

Revised Outcomes:
  7,720 students graduated from project-financed institutions (DMTVET), exceeding the targeted 5,380
    graduates.
  75 percent of NIMA graduates were employed six months after completing training, meeting the target of 75
    percent (based on a tracer study conducted nine months after the first cohort graduated).
  9,676 vulnerable youth, poor women, marginalized farmers, and IDUs were trained in training centers,
    exceeding the targeted 9,000 trainees.
  The average earnings of women increased from AFN 0 to AFN 2,766 within six months of completing
    training, exceeding the targeted AFN 2,500.
  The average earnings of youth increased from AFN 998 to AFN 8,475 within six months of completing
    training, falling short of the targeted AFN 9,000.
  The average earnings of marginalized farmers increased from AFN 3,076 to AFN 7,780 within six months of
    completing training. No target was set.

The indicator for average earnings under revised outcomes as reported in the ICR are the results of a tracer
study on the pre- and post-training earnings of the vocational training beneficiaries under ASDP. The ICR notes
that the restructured indicator did not capture the essence of the original indicator (ICR, p. iv) which sought to
measure the change in labor market outcomes relative to a comparable control group (TA, p. 22).
5. Efficiency:
 Efficiency is rated substantial.

    No ex-ante rate of return was calculated. The ICR calculated the ex-post internal rate of return of 22 percent and
    net present value of US$ 20.8 million using a discount rate of 10%. The costs of the project are the US$ 34
    million in disbursements associated with the project. The benefits are calculated for: (i) graduates of
    TVET-supported institutes under the DMTVET; (ii) voucher beneficiaries; and (iii) trainees trained under the skills
    training program. Productivity is assumed to increase for 40 years for institute graduates and 25 years for
    trainees (over each productive life span). The assumptions of benefits are consistent with the outcomes
    achieved.

    The opportunity costs of attending post-basic primary education were not accounted for except in the case of
    voucher beneficiaries. The benefits for all DMTVET institute graduates were estimated based on likelihood of
    employment and wage premia. For trainee benefits, pre- and post-training earnings were used to calculate the
    benefits of the program. Benefits for both groups were estimated by way of tracer studies, which would not
    account for factors affecting wages outside of the project. Assumptions used to calculate the ex-post rate of
    return were both conservative (leading to an underestimate of returns) and liberal (leading to an overestimate of
    returns). The net impact is unclear.

    The project experienced delays. The team further clarified that ring-fencing of activities mitigated the significance
    of the effect of the delays in establishing the ANQA and establishing a legislative framework for TVET. In other
    cases implementation continued although there were technical delays, for example, in contracting an
    implementing partner for NIMA.

 a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
    re-estimated value at evaluation :

                                    Rate Available?                         Point Value                        Coverage/Scope*

    Appraisal                           No

    ICR estimate                       Yes                                      22%                                     100%
                                          * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



 6. Outcome:
   Original Project: Moderately Satisfactory
The objectives were substantially relevant to Afghanistan's context and strategies. Relevance of design is rated
modest. Achievement of the project's objective under the original project is rated modest. Efficiency is rated
substantial.

Restructured Project: Satisfactory
The objectives were substantially relevant to Afghanistan's context and strategies. With restructuring, the results chain
has improved and became more realistic and is rated substantial. Achievement of the project's objective under the
restructured project is rated substantial. Efficiency is rated substantial.

According to IEG/OPCS guidelines, the final outcome rating for restructured projects is determined according to the
percentage of IDA funds that had disbursed before and after restructuring. The grant had disbursed US$ 14.65 million
or 78% at the time of restructuring. The overall rating is calculated as a weighted average of the pre- and
post-restructuring ratings where the weight is the share of disbursement. The ratings are assigned values on a six
point scale: Moderately Satisfactory is assigned a value of 4 and Satisfactory a value of 5. Therefore, the overall
rating is .78*4 + .22*5 = 4.22 Rounding the overall rating equals 4, which is Moderately Satisfactory.



 a. Outcome Rating: Moderately Satisfactory


7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:

    Support to the TVET sector will continue with ASDP II and the Non-Formal Approach to Training, Education and
    Jobs in Afghanistan project (NATEJA), and Government awareness and commitment remain high. However,
   significant risks remain. Highly centralized structures are still in place, and political instability continues to be a
   fundamental constraint. Fiscal constraints have increased, and Government funding gaps are likely. Security
   expenditures have increased and revenues have fallen due to the economic downturn in 2013 and 2014.
   Increased security expenditures and reduced revenues are expected to continue negatively impacting
   expenditures on education.


  a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Significant

8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

a. Quality at entry:

   The project was prepared based on the findings of a World Bank technical assistance project (Skills
   Development in Afghanistan, 2006) and on a consultative process with international and national
   non-governmental organizations. The project's approach to the TVET sector was strategically relevant,
   balancing the need for long-term reforms in the sector with short-term needs for employment opportunities.
   The reliance on strong political institutions in a situation of enormous political instability and low capacity
   caused significant delays in implementation. Project design was ambitious and complex, given the
   post-conflict context, with no clear sequencing of activities. The results framework and M&E were weak (see
   Section 10).


  Quality-at-Entry Rating:                        Moderately Unsatisfactory

b. Quality of supervision:

   The ICR does not report on supervision arrangements prior to the Midterm Review (MTR). Given the
   post-conflict environment in which the project was being implemented, lack of intensive supervision and
   progress on implementation early on was a major shortcoming. Consistent supervision is difficult with
   frequent changes in Task Team Leaders (four over the life of the project). Shortcomings in project design and
   weaknesses in M&E should have been systematically noted and addressed in Implementation Supervision
   Reports. With earlier detection, a more timely restructuring would have been possible. Supervision improved
   significantly post-restructuring.



  Quality of Supervision Rating :                 Moderately Satisfactory

  Overall Bank Performance Rating :               Moderately Satisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

a. Government Performance:

   The project was one part of an overall strategy to improve skills development in Afghanistan, beginning with
   the National Skills Development Program in 2004. The Government signaled its high level of commitment to
   the project by chairing the Committee on Education and Skills Policy (CESP) with the First Vice President.
   The Government did not approve financial autonomy to DMTVET institutions, hindering implementation
   progress. Continued security risks and political instability led to some implementation delays.


  Government Performance Rating                                 Moderately Satisfactory

b. Implementing Agency Performance:

   There were three separate implementing agencies for the project: The CESP was the implementing agency
   for establishing the ANQA, NQF, and independent Awarding Bodies. The DMTVET within the MOE was the
   implementing agency for improving the relevance, quality, and efficiency of TVET. The National Skills
    Development Program (NSDP) within the Ministry of Labor and Social Affairs, Martyrs, and Disabled
    (MOLSAMD) was the implementing agency for the skills development program and market linkages with a
    rural focus. Project implementation was hindered by high turnover in each of the implementation agencies,
    with two chairs of the CESP, two Ministers in MOE, and three Ministers in MOLSAMD. The overall enabling
    environment, fragile country context, and highly bureaucratic procedures all hindered project implementation
    progress. Inefficient communication between CESP and the other implementing agencies slowed progress.
    Initial weak capacity in project, financial, and environmental management improved over the course of project
    implementation with Bank support and external hires. M&E capacity remained weak.


  Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                     Moderately Unsatisfactory

  Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                        Moderately Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

a. M&E Design:

   The discussion of M&E in the TA was limited to the description of M&E activities explicitly built into project
   design. The project anticipated an operational Project MIS system to monitor project progress and a TVET MIS
   system to collect data on DMTVET institutions (ICR, p. 17). Tracer studies and impact evaluations were planned
   to track the relationship between project activities and improvements in labor market outcomes.

b. M&E Implementation:

   Due to the situation on the ground, there were limited data available at project approval. Baseline data were
   expected to be collected during the first year of the project through tracer studies. However, these data were not
   collected as planned due to limited technical capacity, security issues, and lack of a clear plan to collect data
   (ICR, p. 9). Tracer studies were eventually undertaken to assess the impact of training programs. Four of six
   project-financed institutions were collecting TVET data at project closing. Targets and indicators were dropped or
   revised during restructuring, given the difficulty in collecting verifiable data (Restructuring Paper, 2012, pp. 7-8).


c. M&E Utilization:

   Supervision missions did not consistently collect or report data in order to make timely corrections and
   adjustments. The Midterm Review (2011) identified weaknesses in project design, and the project was
   restructured to better align the results framework with the PDOs. A more realistic results framework was put in
   place, taking into consideration the political situation in Afghanistan and the associated risk to implementation.


M&E Quality Rating: Modest




11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards:

   The project was classified as Category “B," triggering OP/BP 4.01 (Environmental Assessment) given
   project-related construction activities. In compliance with Bank requirements, an Environmental and Social
   Management Framework (ESMF) was prepared. Although the guidelines were shared with contractors,
   shortcomings in environmental management occurred resulting from both construction and inadequate water and
   sanitation. Actions taken to correct safeguard violations included appointment of an environmental focal person in
   the engineering team, training in environmental safeguards compliance, dissemination of safeguard documents
   in local languages, enhancement in the requirements for site-specific ESMF, and allotment of monies for the
   maintenance of health and sanitation facilities. Given these actions and close supervision by the Bank, the
   safeguard rating was upgraded from Moderately Unsatisfactory in June 2011 to Satisfactory in June 2013.
b. Fiduciary Compliance:

    Financial Management:.
    Financial management at the project level was undertaken by the MOE Grants Management Unit (GMU) and the
    Finance Department (FD) of the NSDP. Lack of coordination between the GMU and the FD was resolved early on
    in project implementation. Weaknesses in budgeting and invoicing (excess payments to contractors) were
    resolved with the addition of two internal auditors (one in the DMTVET and one in the MOE). The project
    strengthened the financial management of the implementing agency by including a financial management
    specialist, a finance officer. Additional capacity was augmented with consultants on an as-needed basis. Annual
    audits were submitted on time, with the exception of the first-year audit being submitted four months late. Audit
    observations up to 2013 were promptly resolved (ICR, p. 11).

    Procurement:
    Procurement capacity was known to be weak at project approval. The project expected support from
    international procurement specialists hired for an on-going primary and secondary education project (EQUIP II),
    in addition to a procurement specialist hired for the NSDP to ensure compliance with the Bank’s fiduciary
    requirements and to provide training to the NSDP procurement staff. Procurement issues flagged were
    responded to immediately.

c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):

    None reported.

d. Other:



12. Ratings:                               ICR                   IEG Review                Reason for
                                                                                    Disagreement/Comments
                     Outcome: Moderately                    Moderately
                              Satisfactory                  Satisfactory
          Risk to Development Significant                   Significant
                     Outcome:

            Bank Performance: Moderately                    Moderately        Consistent with the harmonized
                              Satisfactory                  Satisfactory      evaluation criteria that when one
                                                                              dimension is in the satisfactory range
                                                                              and the other dimension is in the
                                                                              unsatisfactory range, the overall rating
                                                                              depends on the outcome rating.

       Borrower Performance : Moderately                    Moderately        Consistent with the harmonized
                              Satisfactory                  Satisfactory      evaluation criteria that when one
                                                                              dimension is in the satisfactory range
                                                                              and the other dimension is in the
                                                                              unsatisfactory range, the overall rating
                                                                              depends on the outcome rating.

                Quality of ICR:                             Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:
    Lessons drawn from the ICR (page 22) with some adaptation:

         In a post-conflict environment, it is important to begin intensive supervision as soon as a project becomes
          operational and continue throughout the life of the project. In this project, supervision was weak prior to
          the MTR, and early warning signs were not acted upon quickly.

         Project restructuring is best undertaken at an early stage as soon as it becomes clear that outcome
          targets will likely not be achieved or that original targets were too ambitious. Delayed restructuring, when
          the project funds are almost fully disbursed impacts on the final outcomes of the project

         Progress on improving gender equity can be made even in situations with substantial cultural barriers. By
          focusing on improving the outcomes of women, this project was able to increase women's enrollment in
          formal TVET from 8% to 32%.

14. Assessment Recommended?                  Yes     No




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:



    The ICR provides significant detail on the process of project preparation and design. It also provides a candid
    assessment of factors influencing project implementation. Analysis of the evidence is thorough, but the overall
    discussion of results is unclear. Outcome results are presented in terms of components rather than project
    objectives; output and outcome indicators are not clearly listed. The ICR fails to provide an assessment of the
    relationship between project activities and intended outcomes (or any discussion of the results framework) to
    justify a rating for relevance of design. Sufficient information on Bank supervision, especially prior to the Midterm
    Review, is not provided. Finally, there are inconsistencies between the project cost and financing amounts
    reported in the ICR and those reported in the Trust Fund Agreement.

a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
