OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS
The World Bank                                        1818 H Street N.W.        (202) 473-1000
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT  Washington, D C. 20433   Cable Address: INTBAFRAD
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION                 U.S.A.                    Cable Address: INDEVAS
September 18, 2013
H.E. Hazrat Omar Zakhliwal
Minister of Finance
Ministry of Finance
Kabul
Islamic Republic of Afghanistan
Excellency:
Re: Afghanistan Skills Development Project
Second Amendment to Financing Agreement (Grant No. H-352-AF)
We refer to the Financing Agreement for the Afghanistan Skills Development Project
dated March 10, 2008 (the "Financing Agreement"), between the Islamic Republic of
Afghanistan (the "Recipient") and the International Development Association (the "Association")
as amended vide our letter dated July 23, 2012, said amendments being accepted by you vide
your confirmation dated July 31, 2012
We propose to make a further amendment to the Financing Agreement as set out below.
All capitalized terms used in this amendment letter (the "Amendment Letter") have the same
meanings as assigned to them in the Financing Agreement.
1. The table in paragraph 6 of our amendment letter of July 23, 2012 (amending sub-
paragraph 2 of Section IV.A of Schedule 2 tc 'he Financing Agreement) is revised as
follows:
Category                Amount of the         Percentage of
Financing Allocated    Expenditures to be
(expressed in SDR)         Financed
S(inclusive of Taxes)
(1) Goods, works, consultants'
services,  training   and
Incremental     Operating
Costs* for the Project
(2) Vouchers                         600,000         100%
TOTAL AMOUNT                        12,600,000
All terms of the Financing Agreement and its subsequent amendments on July 23, 2012
not hereby amended shall remain in full force and effect.
This Amendment Letter shall become effective upon signature thereof by the parties
hereto.
RCA 248423 Wi WIJI 631145 ',J FAX (202) 477-6391


﻿First Amendment to
Financing Agreement
(Grant No. 352-AF)                       -2-
Please confirm your agreement to the amendments proposed above by signing and dating
the form of confirmation on the enclosed two copies of this Amendment Letter and returning one
copy to us.
Sincerely,
Robert J. a m
Country Director or Afghanistan
South Asia R ion
CONfIRMD
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF AFGHANISTAN
By:    '
Name:
Title:
Date:______


﻿First Amendment to
Financing Agreement
(Grant No. 352-AF)                     -3-
ATTACHMENT
"SCHEDULE 1
Project Description
The objective of the Project is to increase the number of immediately-employable
graduates in Afghanistan by supporting the establishment in stages of a high quality technical
vocational education and training (TVET) system that is equitable, market responsive and cost-
effective.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part 1: Development of a Regulatory and Quality Assurance Framework for Technical
Vocational Education and Training
(a)    The development and approval of a legal, policy, regulatory and administrative
framework for TVET.
(b)    Designing, developing and institutionalizing a national qualifications framework to
provide the structure needed to map all education and training course provisions for
TVET so as to allow for appropriate and meaningful certification and accreditation
processes.
Part 2: Improvement of the Relevance, Quality and Efficiency of Technical Vocational
Education and Training
(a)    Establishment of a national institute of management and administration to offer training
programs in, inter alia, management and administration, accounting, and information
technology, including rehabilitation and construction of physical infrastructure and
provision of equipment for the new institute.
(b)    Supporting the reform and rehabilitation of selected TVET institutions through, inter
alia, physical upgrading of their buildings, provision and maintenance of equipment,
provision of process consulting services and technical assistance, and provision of faculty
training.
(c)    Supporting the implementation of management and administrative reforms within
DTVET aimed at re-orienting its procedures, systems, skills and equipment to the new
ANQA and national qualifications framework, through, inter alia, provision of training to
DTVET staff, development of an appropriate management information system and
provision of information technology infrastructure.
(a)    Introduction of a voucher program (including coverage of tuition fees and student
support) acceptable to the Association, to enable selected_students who have graduated
successfully from the TVET Institutes, to pursue higher qualifications in-country or
abroad.


﻿First Amendment to
Financing Agreement
(Grant No. 352-AF)                       -4-
Part 3: Supporting the National Skills Development Program and Strengthening Market
Linkages with a Rural Focus
(a)    Provision of market driven training to youth, chronically poor women, rehabilitated drug
addicts, and marginal and landless farm laborers in, inter alia, agriculture, construction,
and business development services.
(b)    Provision of training to trainers in business development and trade, and development of
contextualized productive skills curriculum materials.
(c)    Strengthening the capacity of MOLSAMD and NSDP to, inter alia: (i) develop
curriculum and materials for training; (ii) collect, collate, analyze and interpret labor
market information; (iii) review and interpret information from a labor force survey; and
(iv) plan, manage and provide outreach for TVET.
Part 4: Research, Monitoring and Evaluation
(a)    Establishment of monitoring and information systems to measure implementation
progress and collect data to be used as input to support decisions, identify alternatives
and recommend corrections in Project implementation.
(b)    Carrying out of impact evaluations of Project activities against Project objectives and
performance indicators.


