Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY           FILE    COPY
Repot No. P-3062-BU
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI
FOR A
NICKEL EXPLORATION/ENGINEERING PROJECT
May 8, 1981
This documtent has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
|  their offical dutis. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorizaton.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit               -           Burundi Franc (FBu)
US$ 1.00                    -           FBu 90
FBu                         -           US$0.011
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS
MUSONGATI PROJECT        -   Large Scale Musongati Nickel Development Project
which could be the outcome of the proposed explora-
tion/engineering credit.
ONATOUR                  -   National Peat Bureau.
REGIDESO                 -   Water and Electric Power Distribution Authority.
UOP                      -   Universal Oil Products
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BURUNDI
NICKEL EXPLORATION/ENGINEERING PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower               Republic of Burundi
Amount          :      SDR 3.3 million (US$4.0 million equivalent)
Terms           :      Standard
Project Objective
and Description:       The objective of the proposed Exploration/Engineering
Project is to develop and analyze the basic data needed
to reformulate the large-scale Musongati Nickel Develop-
ment Project with the view to establishing a financially,
technically and economically sound project. It would
include (i) nickel exploration (ii) trial peat production
(iii) engineering studies (high grade mineability, hydro-
electric site, sulfur sources, and process selection)
(iv) overall review of the Musongati Project viability
and (v) management assistance.
Justification
and Risk               The proposed Credit is considered as the minimum invest-
ment required to bring the Musongati Project to a point
where both the Government and potential investors can
make informed decisions regarding the Project's viability,
including whether or not to proceed with a full feasibility
study. The riskof undertaking unnecessary studies has
been minimized by phasing the nickel exploration, peat and
engineering work.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



(ii)
Estimated Cost:                               Foreign            Local        Total
(net of import taxes and duties)            -----(US$million equivalent)-------
Management Assistance                           0.32             0.01         0.33
Nickel Exploration                              1.61             0.24         1.85
Engineering Studies                            0.75              0.03         0.78
Trial Peat Production                          2.67              0.20         2.87
TOTAL BASE COST                                5.35              0.48         5.83
Physical Contingency                            0.64             0.05         0.69
Price Contingency                              0.71              0.04         0.75
TOTAL COST                                     6.70              0.57         7.27
_______                   ___                 -           -     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~% of
Financing Plan                              Foreign             Local          Total  total
Government                                      _                0.6          0.6       8
IDA                                            4.0                -           4.0      55
Finland                                         1.8               -           1.8      25
Denmark                                        0.9                -           0.9      12
6.7              0.6          7.3     100
Total
Estimated Disbursements:
IDA Fiscal Year                            1982                 1983           1984
…--   (US$ million equivalent)--------
Annual                                          2.5              1.1          0.4
Cumulative                                     2.5               3.6          4.0
Economic Rate of Return: Not applicable.
Appraisal Report:  No separate appraisal report was prepared.
Maps:    IBRD 15221 and 15222.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
CREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI
FOR A NICKEL EXPLORATION/ENGINEERING PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Republic of Burundi for the equivalent of SDR
3.3 million (US$4.0 million) on standard IDA terms to finance a Nickel
Exploration/Engineering Project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY _/
2.        A Country Economic Memorandum was distributed to the Executive
Directors in March 1981. Updated country data are provided below and in
Annex I.
3.        Background.  With an average GNP per capita of about US$180 in
1979, Burundi is one of the poorest countries in the world and is designated
as "least developed" by the United Nations. Of a population of about four
million, only 90,000 are wage earners; the remainder depend mainly on subsis-
tence agriculture. The Government is facing several critical problems
in its efforts to develop the economy: the capability to prepare and manage
programs and projects is weak; the agricultural labor force is largely
untrained; and population growth keeps straining Burundi's productive resources,
particularly in agriculture. Despite a stated policy of "spaced births",
the problems of population pressure cannot be solved in the immediate future.
A major effort must therefore be made to increase agricultural productivity.
During the past decade, agricultural production per capita declined steadily.
The search for more arable land has caused large-scale deforestation and
severe shortages of firewood in the rural areas, which makes the develop-
ment of alternative energy sources urgent.
4.        Shipments of imports and exports through the principal outlets
via Tanzania have frequently encountered delays due to bottlenecks in the
port of Dar-es-Salaam, underinvestment in the railway link between Tabora
and Kigoma on Lake Tanganyika, and losses because of theft. However, action
is being taken to make external connections more reliable. The link via
Rwanda and Uganda to the port of Mombasa (Kenya) is becoming increasingly
attractive with the continuing improvement of national highways between
Bujumbura and Mombasa.
5.        Government Development Strategy.  Since 1977 the Government has
designed a new strategy to achieve social justice, ethnic reconciliation
and improved living conditions in the rural areas. The poll tax, which
1/ This part is virtually identical to that in the Grey Cover President's
Report for the Third Highway Project dated April 1, 1981.



-2-
was levied on all males, was replaced by compulsory deposits which can
be withdrawn after three years. In addition, the traditional obligation
for small farmers to provide services to landowners in exchange for the
right to cultivate land was abolished. Likewise, land which was obtained
in an irregular manner for speculative purposes was returned to the State
or to the farmers who cultivated it. Other aspects of the new policies,
which are embodied in the Third Five-Year Plan (1978-82), are: (a) emphasiz-
ing agricultural production to meet the increasing needs for food of the
rapidly growing population; (b) increasing the rate of economic growth
substantially in order to provide greater employment opportunities and
more income to the poorest segments of the population; (c) raising the
investment rate significantly; (d) giving the Government a more active
role in mobilizing financial and manpower resources, and greater participa-
tion in mixed enterprises in the commercial and productive sectors; and
(e) fostering decentralization of economic and social activity away from
the capital city through the creation of development poles and voluntary
settlement of the peasant population in villages. To facilitate the imple-
mentation of its strategy, the Government strengthened the role of planning
by elevating the planning organization to the rank of Ministry and by giving
it a key role in selecting and monitoring public investment.
6.        Recent Economic Developments.   The period 1977-79 constitutes
an important phase in Burundi's economic history, as it has witnessed an
acceleration of economic growth as well as a major effort by the Government
to raise the country's investment rate, traditionally among the lowest
in the developing world. During this relatively short period, the volume
of investment grew by about 75 percent, and the investment rate rose to
more than 12 percent of GDP. However, this effort, which was led and implemented
by the public sector, had important repercussions on the pattern of domestic
demand, domestic inflation, and the mobilization of domestic and external
financial resources.
7.        The growth of domestic demand in Burundi accelerated in the last
few years owing mainly to high producer prices for coffee during 1976 and
1977, and to the rapid growth of public sector expenditures during 1978
and 1979. Public consumption and investment expanded at a rate almost
triple that of the private sector during the period 1976-79. Government's
expenditures more than doubled in current terms and increased from about
16 percent of GDP in 1976 to 21 percent in 1979. Capital expenditures,
particularly for infrastructure and financing public enterprises, contributed
most to this growth.  The government overall deficit, which increased from
about 3.3 percent of GDP in 1976 to 7.3 percent in 1979 was covered to
an increasing extent through recourse to the domestic banking sytem (about
half in 1979).
8.        The sharp expansion of domestic credit was the main cause of
the almost 30 percent rate of inflation in 1979, although rising import
prices were also a contributing factor. Owing mainly to high transportation
costs, import prices increased by 33 percent in 1979, more than twice the
international inflation rate. During 1980, domestic credit did not expand
much further, and, in spite of continued high inflationary pressures from



-3-
abroad, domestic inflation has according to preliminary estimates slowed
down significantly to about 15 percent.
9.        Burundi's external current account registered surpluses in 1976
and 1977 but showed deficits in 1978 and 1979. In 1979, the current account
deficit was about US$57 million, equivalent to 7 percent of GDP. Underlying
this shift was an adverse movement in the country's terms of trade as well
as an unprecedented increase (55 percent) in the volume of imports. Owing
mainly to a 30 percent fall in the terms of trade, Burundi's current account
deficit widened to US$100 million in 1980, equivalent to 11 percent of
GDP. By December 31, 1980, however, Burundi's international reserves still
stood at the comfortable level of US$95 million, equivalent to five months
of imports, a legacy of the 1976-77 coffee-boom years. The country's growing
deficit has been financed mainly with project-related aid to the Government
and parastatals from multilateral and bilateral agencies. During 1979-
80, these flows averaged US$72 million per annum ( equivalent to 36 percent
of Burundi's 1979-80 imports), compared to US$18 million in 1976.
10.       External Assistance, Major Issues and Prospects.  Because of
the unfavourable outlook for world coffee prices, the medium-term prospects
of the economy are not good. (Coffee exports constitute about 90 percent
of Burundi's merchandise exports). According to current forecasts, the
price for coffee could fall by as much as one-third in real terms between
1979 and 1984. The impact of this decline in Burundi would have to be
absorbed by the small farmers (through lower producer prices in real terms)
and by the Government (through lower coffee tax receipts in real terms).
Even with a drastic policy of demand restraint, it will be difficult for
Burundi to reduce its current account deficit below 9 percent of GDP.
11.       Burundi's future external capital requirements are likely to
be much higher than in the recent past. In order to sustain a growth rate
of the economy of about 4% p.a. in real terms, medium-and long-term external
capital requirements would have to double to an average of about US$155
milion p.a. in current prices during the period 1981-84. Although Burundi
has been remarkably successful in mobilizing external resources, recently
a few high priority agricultural projects have not attracted sufficient
financing. The composition of aid flows also would have to be changed,
since direct balance of payments support (and/or commodity assistance for
essential imports) would have to be provided to a greater extent than before.
12.       Restraining the growth of domestic demand and stimulating the
productive sectors would help Burundi obtain needed external aid.  This
would imply close coordination of policies on several fronts: government
expenditures, the taxation of consumer goods and imports, as well as price
policies.  Together with the government's investment program, a more flexible
pricing strategy should constitute the cornerstone of a policy to expand
domestic production. In recent months, the Government has taken important
steps in this direction by raising significantly electricity and water
tariffs, domestic transport fares, gasoline retail prices, and lifting
selectively rent controls.



-4-
13.       If Government policies are successful in slowing down the growth
of consumption from an average of over 5 percent p.a. in real terms during
the period 1976-79 to about 3 percent p.a. during the period 1980-84, the
expected decline in the terms of trade would still lead to a significant
fall in Burundi's domestic savings rate. Public savings play a most important
role with respect to the latter. Reversing the erosion in the Government's
financial situation will require restraint in current expenditures and
a wide-ranging rationalization of government's programs.
14.       Because of the expected financial constraints, it is highly unlike-
ly that during the period 1980-84 the volume of investment can be much
more than half of that envisaged in the Plan.  Nevertheless, even this
reduced level would still allow the economic growth mentioned above (para.
11) as well as some increase in the investment rate. Also, a lower level
of investment would be more in line with the expected implementation capacity.
15.       The Government has already taken some steps to reduce investment
levels, but an important issue remains whether the Government will attain
its objective of directing investment to the productive sectors, particularly
agriculture. Population pressure on available land, and its adverse effects
on soil fertility, foodcrop production and nutrition, underlines the urgency
of accelerating rural development. The Government recently launched a
number of integrated rural development projects, which, over the next few
years, are expected to benefit an increasing number of small farmers.
However, the preparation of integrated rural development projects has been
hindered by limited knowledge of intensified cultural practices and of
the willingness of small farmers to adopt them. The first major projects,
scheduled to begin implementation in 1981, remain in many respects
experimental, and will have to be complemented by adaptive research.
16.       Government policy is to establish regional development companies
(SRDs) to promote integrated rural development, appropriate technology,
village-level organizations, and decentralization of government services.
To this effect, they will manage all agricultural, forestry and veterinary
government staff working in the proposed project areas. These integrated
rural development schemes cut across the functions of various ministerial
departments. Although the Government expects SRDs to cover eventually
part, if not all, of their expenditures with their own earnings, opportuni-
ties to make commercial profits will develop only slowly, and SRDs will
probably depend on government budgetary allocations for a number of years.
In spite of this financial dependence, and subject to Government-approved
annual work programs, the Government intends to endow SRDs with full manage-
ment autonomy.
17.       Despite certain successes, a number of parastatals have been
affected by inadequate coordination with the Central Government, management
problems, lack of career incentives for staff, financial weaknesses and,
in the case of agricultural parastatals, lack of small farmer participa-
tion owing to insufficient incentives. Increasing the efficiency of the
parastatal sector constitutes a top Government priority. With IDA assistance,
the Government is assessing the situation of the parastatal sector with
the intention of providing it with the resources, autonomy and flexibility
it requires to achieve satisfactory economic and financial performance.



18.       To complement the efforts made by SRDs, it is also necessary
to promote rural development more actively through stimulating the activities
of small and decentralized organizations such as government-sponsored and
private cooperatives as well as private secular and religious groups, and through
supporting the communal efforts under the UPRONA party. The scope and efficiency
of the activities of communes (the basic administrative unit) could be
greatly improved by providing more resources to local authorities. Available
evidence suggests that these organizations can play a key role as "transmi-
ssion belts" between the small farmers and the rest of the economy. Rural
development projects now face the difficult challenge of combining the
vertical integration needed for increasing the production and quality of
coffee with the more participatory arrangements necessary for increasing
foodcrop production and meeting other basic needs.  This reconciliation
is critical since the satisfaction of basic nutritional needs guides to
a large extent the socioeconomic behaviour of the farm family. The scarcity
of land is already such that in a number of regions farmers face a choice
between continuing coffee cultivation and gradually shifting to foodcrop
production.
19.       If the Government continues to focus on development, pursues
improvements in policies, and strengthens its administration, it may achieve
a steady, albeit slow, improvement in per capita incomes. If mining of
Burundi's nickel resources proves feasible, the prospects over the next
ten years would be much better. However, the commercial viability of exploiting
these deposits has yet to be established. Regional development in Central
Africa will also be important to Burundi's economy. In September 1976,
Burundi, Rwanda and Zaire signed a convention establishing the "Economic
Community of the Countries of the Great Lakes". The Community, which has
its seat in Gisenyi, Rwanda, aims inter alia at stimulating and intensi-
fying intra-regional trade and cooperation in a wide range of activities.
A major objective of the Community is the electrification of the Great
Lakes region. The three countries have also agreed to set up a joint development
bank, to exploit methane deposits around Lake Kivu, and to develop a fishing
industry around Lake Tanganyika. They have also instructed the Secretariat
to investigate ways of improving the transport system around the lakes
in order to ease the transport bottlenecks affecting Burundi and Rwanda.
20.       In the 1977-80 period, total long-term capital inflows to Burundi
amounted to about US$220 million, of which US$90 million (41 percent) was
in the form of grants. Most of the assistance comes from the UN agencies,
Belgium, the European Development Fund, IDA, the Federal Republic of Germany,
and the People's Republic of China. On December 31, 1979, Burundi's external
medium and long-term debt amounted to about US$103 million (excluding undisbursed
amounts), of which IDA held 25 percent. Debt service averaged 8.5 percent
of export earnings. Due to the important proportion of grants in external
assistance, IDA will probably continue to hold an important proportion
of Burundi's outstanding debt. Notwithstanding the relatively low debt
service ratio, Burundi,because of its poverty and the instability of its
export earnings, is unable to absorb any borrowing on commercial terms.
External aid should therefore be on grant or very concessional terms and
should continue to include a substantial share of local cost financing.



-6-
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
21.        Since IDA lending started in Burundi in 1966, fifteen credits
have been made totalling US$92.9 million; one credit (US$1.1 million) helped
improve water supply to Bujumbura; four credits (US$17.3 million) were
for agriculture (two for coffee production, one for fisheries and one for
forestry); three credits (US$19.4 million, including an engineering credit
of US$400,000) helped start a highway maintenance and improvement program;
a US$10.0 million credit is supporting the improvement of primary education
and a second one of US$15.0 million finances vocational and technical training;
two credits (US$4.0 million) were made for technical assistance and the
National Economic Development Bank received a credit of US$3.4 million.
A US$15.0 million credit for an Urban Project aiming at improving the condi-
tions of the poor in the city of Bujumbura, and a US$7.7 million credit
for a Telecommunications Project became effective in October 1980 and January
1981, respectively.  The Second Coffee Project and the Fisheries Project
are being cofinanced by the Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development (US$1.0
million) and the Abu Dhabi Fund (US$1.2 million), respectively. The Second
Highway Project is cofinanced by the Arab Bank for Economic Development
in Africa (BADEA) in an amount of US$6.0 million. The Forestry Project
is cofinanced with a credit of US$1.2 million equivalent made from the
EEC Special Action Account. In August 1980, IFC appraised a glass container
project. Annex II contains a summary statement of IDA credits and notes
on the execution of projects and the status of disbursements as of March 31,
1981. A Credit for a Third Highway Project (US$25.0 million) was approved by
the Board in April 1981.
22.        Project performance has been hampered by the shortage of local
management capacity and technical skills which is likely to remain a major
constraint to development for some time to come. This situation has particu-
larly delayed the execution of the Fisheries and the Second Coffee Projects,
although the implementation of the Second Coffee Project has recently improved.
Problems encountered in the execution of IDA-financed projects were discussed
with the Government during the Second Country Implementation Review held
in Bujumbura in June 1980. Recommendations were made in particular regarding
the training of local staff, accounting, audits and disbursement procedures.
Given existing constraints, however, project performance is, on the whole,
satis factory.
23.        Future IDA operations in Burundi will aim primarily at reversing
the decline in agricultural productivity, improving the transport and communi-
cation network, developing energy resources and strengthening absorptive
capacity through training and technical assistance. Three projects have
recently been appraised: a pilot project to assist the local construction
industry, the Ngozi III coffee improvement and rural development project
and the Kirimiro rural development project. The Second Technical Assistance
Project is assisting the Government in its efforts to improve the planning
process and the management of the public enterprise sector. A third technical
assistance credit aiming principally at continuing these efforts and assisting
in the restructuring of the public enterprise sector is to be appraised
in September 1981. A sector mission will visit Burundi in May 1981 to
determine priority areas in the energy sector.



-7-
PART III. THE MINING SECTOR AND RELATED INFRASTRUCTURES
Ministry of Energy and Mines
24.       The primary responsibility of the Ministry of Energy and
Mines is to identify and promote the development of Burundi's energy
and mineral potential. The Ministry comprises two departments:
the Department of Energy and the Department of Geology and Mines.
In addition, the National Peat Bureau (ONATOUR) and the Water and
Electric Power Distribution Authority (REGIDESO) report directly
to the Minister of Energy and Mines.
25.       The Department of Geology and Mines comprises three divisions
and a Mineral Research Planning Office. These divisions are: (i)
the Geology Division, responsible for exploration, geologic analysis
and mapping; (ii) the Mines and Quarries Division, responsible for
mining research, exploitation and mine inspection; and (iii) the
Laboratory Division, responsible for chemical analysis of samples.
The Mining Sector
26.       Prior to independence, medium-sized Belgian mining companies
(Minetain, Somuki) had obtained prospecting concessions in Burundi.
However, no major mining activity was ever undertaken. The sector
is characterized by small-scale artisanal mining of mineral outcrops.
The Government reserves the right to regulate exploration, production
and exports. The main mineral producer has been Sobumines (formed
in late 1974 with 51 percent ownership by the Belgian Societe Minerale
de Karonge and the remaining 49 percent by Government). The company
has mined principally cassiterite (tin) and bastnaesite (rare earth),
but output has been declining and operations have now virtually ceased.
27.       The country possesses a number of small deposits of alluvial
cassiterite, particularly in the northwest region near Butara. The
level of production in recent years has been on the order of 80 to
100 tons per year, but is reported to have declined to less than
50 tons in 1979.  The only active mine has been the one producing
bastnaesite in the southeast of Bujumbura.  Gold is extracted in
small quantities.  Production was 35 kg in 1966 but declined to 10
kg in 1978.  Wolfram exploitation in the northeast, south of the
*               Rwezi Lake, provides about 3 tons of mineral per year.  There is
also a small production of colombo - tantalite of about 8 tons per
year.
28        Available data for the mining sector are aggregated with
those for mineral processing and energy. The combined contribution
to GDP (at factor cost) throughout the 70s has been about 0.4 percent



-8-
or less. In constant 1970 prices, the portion of GDP originating
from the mining, mineral processing and energy sectors between 1970
and 1977 increased at an average annual rate of 2.4% (from US$0.73
million to US$0.86 million). The increase was more significant in
the subsequent two years: 12% in 1978 (US$0.97 million) and an estimated
21.6% in 1979 (US$1.18 million). Mineral exports in current values
increased steadily between 1970 and 1974, declined sharply(by almost
a half) in 1975 and again in 1977, but increased by 64% in 1978 (US$0.18
million). At present, these exports correspond to only about 0.3% of
the country's total exports.
29.    Since 1970, the Government -- with technical and financial assist-
ance from UNDP and recently from BGR (Bundesantalt Fur Gewissenschaften
und Rohstoffe) of the Federal Republic of Germany and BRGM (Bureau de
Recherches Geologiques et Minieres) of France -- has been undertaking
extensive exploration of Burundi's mineral potential, with the objective
of developing sufficient information to attract foreign investments.
Exploration activities include: aerial surveys and photogeological
interpretations; various borings and drillings; and the preparation
of detailed geological maps covering the entire country. Preliminary,
though not exhaustive, results have indicated the existence of some
relatively significant mining possibilities. In particular, it appears
that the country possesses large nickel deposits, particularly in Musongati,
as well as peat in the Akanyaru valley which can be used both as reductant
for nickel and as an energy source. The Government's interest was therefore
increasingly focused on the possibility of exploring the nickel deposits,
and the associated copper and cobalt, along with the utilization of
peat. Assisting the Government in further exploring the viability of
exploiting the deposits of nickel and associated metals at Musongati
is the purpose of the proposed credit.
The Peat Sector
30.    Government activities in the peat sector began in 1977 when the
Office National de la Tourbe (ONATOUR) was created as a planning and
coordinating agency for the sector. ONATOUR's objective is to promote
substitution of peat for wood and charcoal in home use and for petroleum
products in industrial applications, thereby preserving Burundi's forestry
resources and restraining imports of petroleum. ONATOUR is organized
in three branches - technical, comnercial and administrative/financial
- and has responsibility for planning and coordinating all activities
relating to the exploration, exploitation and commercialization of peat
in the country. In this capacity, ONATOUR acts as an advisor to the
Minister of Energy and Mines.
31.    ONATOUR has received aid from a number of donors, including USAID,
the Irish Government, the Finnish Government, UNIDO, European Development
Fund and Danish Agency for Cooperation. In August 1978, USAID funded a
two year Alternative Energy Peat Project for US$490,000 to assist



-9-
ONATOUR to improve its organization, launch a pilot scheme for the production
of 30,000 tons of peat,develop Burundi's peat reserves for non-industrial
thermal energy requirements and design alternative approaches to encourage
rural household consumption of peat. The project is nearing completion
and while it has increased peat production from 1500 tons in 1978 to
an estimated 5000 tons in 1980, it has not accomplished several of its
objectives. During the course of the program the objectives were found
to be too ambitious particularly with regard to market demand assump-
tions. Nevertheless, the project has identified many of the problem
areas that will need to be addressed in the second Peat Project, which
is expected to follow up on the first one. The project will finance
long-term technical assistance to ONATOUR, harvesting equipment, tools,
vehicles and other materials, training, construction of ONATOUR head-
quarter facilities and other related costs. USAID completed the appraisal
of this project in August 1980, and up to US$8.0 million in grant funds
have been authorized for its financing.
32.    Since 1977, ONATOUR has explored the large peat deposits in north-
ern Burundi, identifying 400 million dry tons of probable reserves,as
well as small peat bogs in central Burundi, three of which are now being
exploited. Peat production in 1980 amounted to almost 5,000 tons, which
were consumed by local industries, brick ovens, bakeries and households.
ONATOUR plans to increase annual peat production to 45,000 tons by 1985,
through increased mechanization of the extraction process. Concurrently,
it plans to increase the domestic market for peat by active promotion
of its usage for industrial purposes. All of the country's petroleum
requirements (30,000 tons in 1980) are imported, with the transportation
sector consuming about 70% and local industry and households the remain-
ing 30%. The objective is to substitute peat for that 30%.
33.    The proposed Musongati Nickel Project would require large quanti-
ties of carbonaceous material as reductant and fuel. Preliminary estimates
done by consultants indicate that air dried peat could be a substantially
cheaper fuel than imported oil. Since the peat is indigenous to Burundi
and thus nearly independent of future oil price increases, it could
be an attractive fuel for the Musongati Project.
The Power Sector
34.    At present, Burundi is almost totally dependent upon imports
for its electric energy needs, which are growing at an annual rate of
7%. The major consumption center, Bujumbura (40 GWh or 98% in 1980),
is supplied entirely from the Rusizi hydroelectric power station in
Zaire. The second largest consumer, Gitega (1 GWh per year) is supplied
from a small hydroelectric power plant of 1275 KW capacity completed
in the third quarter of 1980. The less important centers use small
diesel units (10 - 100 KVA) totalling 4 MV and operated an average of
4 hours a day. Supply and distribution of electric energy to the major
population centers are the responsibility of REGIDESO.



-10-
35.    Burundi has a large hydroelectric potential estimated at 500
MW of installed capacity according to a summary inventory made in 1979
by Siemens. The topography and rainfall is such that all consumption
centers could be supplied with energy either from small nearby power
stations or, for industrial consumers, from large sites, all linked
to an interconnected network. Burundi is taking steps to exploit this
potential and reduce its outside dependence. Small power stations are
being constructed at Mugere and Muramvya (total 8,850 KW installed capacity).
Power stations totalling 21 MW are currently being studied.  Amongst
these, a feasibility study for a proposed 18 MW hydroelectric development
at Rwegura, in the north, is being completed. Overall construction
of nine power plants is either ongoing or planned.
The Transportation Sector
36.    Burundi is a land-locked country which relies principally on
two routes to the Indian Ocean. The southern route uses barges over
Lake Tanganyika (175 km) and the railway from Kigoma to the port of
Dar-es-Salaam (1,255 km). The northern route, over mostly asphalted
highway, passes through Rwanda, Uganda and Kenya to reach the port of
Mombasa. It is 2,025 km from Bujumbura. This route can be alternatively
taken by road from Kigali to Kampala (586 km) and by rail thereafter
to Mombasa (1,338 km). The western route via Bujumbura-Kalemie-Lobito
is not used at present. Transportation would pose a problem should a nickel
development project prove viable. The southern route would be used,
involving long distances on old railroad, many transfers en route and
potential port bottlenecks at Dar-es-Salaam.
37.    Burundi has a well-defined program to upgrade, modernize and
expand its transportation network over the next five years. This program
is receiving technical and financial support from several members of
the international development community, including the World Bank (para.
23).
PART IV - THE PROJECT-/
Project History
38.    In 1968, UNDP geologists established the presence of nickel in
the laterized minerals over ultrabasic rocks located in Central Burundi.
Based on this discovery, an initial program of exploration and pre-invest-
ment work was conducted during the 1973-78 period with US$2.2 million
provided by UNDP and US$1.0 million equivalent contributed by the Govern-
ment. This program included (i) a drilling-sampling campaign in 1973-
74 at Nyabikere, Waga and Musongati; (ii) investigation of the peat
deposits along the northern border of Burundi in the Akanyaru valley
with exploration and reserve calculation carried out by UNDP and studies
1/ The work to be financed by this credit is a part of the pre-investment
work which would precede the possible commercial exploitation of the
Musongati Nickel Deposits. The work financed by this Credit will be
referred to as " the Project" while the work leading to possible commer-
cial exploitation will be referred to as "the Musongati Project".



-11-
of methods for excavating, preparing and utilizing peat carried out
by Outukumpu Oy, Finland; (iii) a study of the hydroelectric power potential
in the region near Musongati followed by a study of a hydroproject at
Mulembwe near Lake Tanganyika, both undertaken by Societa Servizi Tecnici
Internazionali (ITS), an Italian consulting firm; (iv) a metallurgical
study for extraction of nickel, cobalt and copper from the Musongati
ore using a reduction -ammonia leach process undertaken by Universal
Oil Products (UOP), the US process holder; and (v) a pre-feasibility
study completed by Ralph M. Parsons (US) in July 1978 on the basis of
the UOP process and using the results of the earlier studies. The Government
itself had financed a second drilling campaign at Musongati in 1976-
77, which was undertaken by ITS at a cost of US$0.9 million.
39.    The 1978 pre-feasibility study envisaged a very ambitious develop-
ment scheme including:
(a) a nickel mine and plant facilities using the UOP reduction-ammonia
leach process, producing 30,000 tpy of nickel, 3,000 tpy of copper
and 700 tpy of cobalt. These facilities would have required
1,300 workers, 60 MW of electric power and 940,000 tpy of peat
as fuel and reductant;
(b) peat processing facilities, including cutter-head suction dredges,
slurry pumps, air drying and manual windrowing; this would have
required 11,300 laborers during the three months drying season;
(c) a large hydroelectric projet with 135 MW of installed capacity
and 74 km transmission line to Musongati;
(d) construction of a new 185 km railroad from Musongati south to
a link-up with the existing railroad in Tanzania, upgrading of
the 160 km highway from Bujumbura to Musongati as well as upgrading
of the navigation system on Lake Tanganyika from Kigoma
to Bujumbura (175 km)
Estimated capital cost of this scheme was US$1,027 million in 1978 prices
including US$126 million for interest during construction. Financial
and economic analyses based on realistic assumptions indicated that
the overall internal rates of return for the scheme would be about 8%.
40.    When first contacts with potential industrial sponsors proved
unsuccessful, in 1978/80 the Burundi Government embarked on a series
of studies and tests estimated to cost US$0.7 million and financed with
its own resources, notably (i) a study of an alternative metallurgical
process on pressure acid leach technology proposed by its developer,
Sulzer Brothers Ltd., of Switzerland; (ii) testing of a 700 ton sample
of ore in UOP's reduction-ammonia leach pilot plant; and (iii) a review
of past data and proposal for further pre-investment work undertaken
by Bechtel Inc., the US engineering firm. Also, in 1980, EKONO, a Finnish



-12-
engineering firm prepared a re-examination of the peat deposit, which
was financed with a contribution of US$0.2 million by the Finnish Government.
41.    Since 1973, the Association has followed the UNDP's exploration
work on the Musongati nickel deposit. Between 1978 and 1980, the Second
Technical Assistance Project (Credit 917-BU) financed a Metallurgist
and a Lawyer to advise the Minister of Energy and Mines on the development
of the Musongati project. Following the Government's request in 1979,
IDA reviewed the available project information and agreed with the Burundi
Government to formulate a coherent minimum program of exploration and
engineering studies aimed at better establishing the viability of the
Musongati project.  The program was appraised in November 1980.  Negotia-
tions were held on April 16 and 17, 1981 in Washington. The Government
delegation was led by Mr. Nyaboya, Minister of Energy and Mines. No
Staff Appraisal Report has been prepared for this project. A project
and credit summary is given at the beginning of this report. A short
description of the project components is given below and supplementary
project data and terms of references (for management of the nickel explora-
tion and execution of the engineering studies) are given in Annexes III
and IV, respectively.
Project Objectives and Description
42.    The objective of the project is to develop and analyze the basic
data (notably on ore grades, power, peat and sulfur availability as
well as process choices) on the Musongati Project with the view to establishing
its financial, technical and economic viability. The critical parameters
for a successful project are, among others, the availability of high
grade ore during the early years of operation (when debt service expenses
are high) and the availability of peat delivered at a reasonable cost.
When the proposed work is completed and if it proves that the project
can be viable, the Burundi Government should be in a position to (i)
contact foreign, private sponsors to undertake the subsequent feasibility
and development work; and (ii) negotiate concession arrangements based
on adequate knowledge of the project's development potential. The proposed
credit would finance the minimum investment required before a decision
can be made whether a full feasibility study is justified.
43.    The scope of the project would be based on the recommendations
made by Bechtel in their 1980 review (para. 40). The project comprises
three interrelated programs -- continued nickel exploration, trial peat
production, and engineering studies. The engineering studies would
include examination of (i) mineability of high grade ore; (ii) alternative
hydroelectric sites; (iii) sources of sulfur (sulfides or sulfates);
(iv) process selection; and (v) overall project viability.
(a) Nickel Exploration - Preliminary exploration of the Buhinda Plateau indicated
about 73 million tons of ore averaging 1.6% nickel. Ten adjacent drilling
holes averaged better than 2.2% nickel. Additional exploration is proposed
to drill and sample about 150 holes in the area around these ten holes
in order to establish the nickel, copper, cobalt and platinum group
metal content of this area.



-13-
(b) Trial Peat Production - Preliminary evaluation indicates peat
reserves in the Akanyaru District in excess of 400 million tons
and about 35 million tons were actually sampled in the Buyongwe
and Ndurumu valleys, which are totally within Burundi. However,
the Akanyaru peat is unlike peats of northern Europe mainly because
of its high moisture content and it has not yet been demonstrated
that it can be harvested and utilized for a nickel project.
The first step of the proposed trial peat production would be
a survey of the Buyongwe and Ndurumu bogs to obtain more complete
information on the characteristics of bogs and of the peat itself.
Next, trial production of peat would be undertaken. The bogs
would be prepared, equipment ordered and delivered, and trial
operations conducted.  The survey would indicate which harvesting
technique -- sod peat, milled peat or dredged peat -- should
be tested. It is possible that more than one technique may have
to be tested. At the completion of the peat program, the availability
of peat and a reliable estimate of its cost would have been established.
Experts in Northern European peats believe that sodded or milled
Akanyaru peat could be utilized in the Musongati project by existing
gasification or combustion technology. Also, earlier laboratory
tests indicate that Akanyaru peat, whether sodded, milled or
dredged, can be upgraded by hydrothermal treatment which yields
a product much more amenable than natural peat to utilization
under existing technology. Despite these indications, it is
still necessary to demonstrate that Akanyaru peat can be treated
and utilized. However, only additional laboratory tests would
be required at this stage. Pilot or demonstration tests of treatment
and utilization, similar to the harvesting tests, are planned
in the next stage of peat development.
(c) Highgrade Mineability Study - In order for ore in the highgrade
zone to impact favorably on the Musongati project's viability
it must be possible to mine and deliver it to the process plant
at a reasonable cost. This study would analyze the results of
all previous exploration work, predict, the metal content of
the ore to be processed and estimate the mining capital and
operating costs.
(d) Hydroelectric Site Study - The pre-feasibility study estimated
that the Musongati project would require 51 MW of power. Possible
changes in the metallurgical process and/or a reduction in the
annual production could result in lower power requirements.
In addition, it has been suggested that sites nearer Musongati
might be developed at a lower cost than either the complex Mulembwe
or Sikuvyaye projects considered earlier. The proposed hydro-
electric site study would re-examine the requirements of the
Musongati project, would examine potential sites closer to Musongati,
would engage the technical services required to assess these
sites and would prepare a preliminary estimate of generating
potential and cost for each site including a plan for
their development. When the study is complete, the results should
indicate whether it would be possible to deliver power to the
Musongati project at a lower cost than originally estimated.



-14-
(e)    Sources of Sulfur - Three processes have been considered for
treatment of the Musongati ore (i) reduction-ammonia leaching,
(ii) pressure sulfuric acid leaching, and (iii) sulfide matte
smelting. For the latter two to be economically viable, they
must have a supply of sulfur bearing material at a reasonable
cost. This study would assess potential sources of sulfur
(i) as minerals within Burundi, (ii) as minerals or by-products
of mining operations in neighboring countries and (iii) as elemental
sulfur imported via Dar-es-Salaam. The study would include a
preliminary examination of Burundi's geology, the possibilities
of locating sulfide or sulfate minerals and, if appropriate,
the outline of an exploration program. In addition, a raw material
purchasing expert would visit Burundi and neighboring countries,
identify sources of sulfur bearing material, obtain information
on quantity and quality, and estimate the costs of the materials
if transported to Musongati.
(f) Process Selection Study - At the time of the pre-feasibility
study, insufficient information was available about the ore compo-
sition, the response of the ore to different processes, and cost
of supplies, such as fuel, sulfur and electric power, for a meaningful
process selection to be done. The three processes mentic,iiad above
were considered and, based on incomplete information, the UOP
variant of the reduction-ammonia leach process was selected.
However, the pressure acid leach process proposed by Sulzer would
yield higher metal recoveries than the reduction-ammonia leach
process -- perhaps 10% more nickel and copper and 30% more cobalt.
The sulfide matte smelting process is the only process considered
which could recover all the platinum group metals if they are
present in the Musongati ore. Because each process has its advan-
tages and disadvantages, it is important to undertake the process selec-
tion study after the necessary preliminary information has been obtained.
In the first step of this selection study, the results of bench
scale metallurgical tests and the process design parameters would
be obtained from firms marketing each process. An objective
process comparison would then be prepared based on the bench
test results, design parameters, costs of peat, power and sulfur,
and the confirmed ore compositions.
(g) Project Management and Review of Project Viability - The entire
program would be coordinated by a qualified management firm.
Following a review of the results of the work outlined above
under (a) through (f) a proposal would be elaborated for a new
design of the Musongati Project and an assessment would be made
of its overall viability.



-15-
44.    The Project would be implemented in phases to ensure that the
proposed studies and work are carried cut only after previous results
have been evaluated and have established the desirability of proceeding
further. The first phase would comprise the nickel exploration program
and trial peat program. During this phase, there would be two interim
reviews at key stages to determine whether to proceed any further.
Agreement was reached during negotiations that (i) the technique, estimated
cost and environmental impact of peat production would, upon completion
of the bog survey (para. 43 (b)), be reviewed by the Government and
IDA and following this review a decision would be made whether or not
to continue the peat program (Section 3.06 (b) of the draft Development
Credit Agreement) and, if it is continued, what technique or techniques
would be tested; (ii) the engineering studies (to be carried out under
the second phase) would be initiated only after completing the first
50 holes in the highgrade zone and only if a review by the Government
and IDA concludes that the level of peat production would be adequate
and economic, and the nickel ore content would be sufficient (Section
3.07 of the draft Development Credit Agreement). Only if the results
of the first 50 holes average more than 1.6% nickel, the drilling work
would continue on the remaining 100 holes (Section 3.05 of the Draft
Development Credit Agreement). The second phase of the project would
include the mineability study, the hydroelectric site study, the sulfur
study, the process selection study and the review of project viability,
together accounting for about 14% of total project cost. A more detailed
phasing is not warranted because of the interdependence of the factors
influencing the viability of the Musongati Project.
Project Cost and Financing
45.    The total cost of all three programs is estimated at US$7.3 million
-- nickel exploration about US$2.2 million, management and engineering
studies about US$1.5 million and trial peat production about US$3.6
million -- as detailed in Table 1.



-16-
TABLE 1
PROJECT COST
US$Million
Foreign     Local   Total
Management (Nickel Exploration and Engineering Studies)          0.32        0.01    0.33
Nickel Exploration
Services                                                     1.10       0.10    1.20
Equipment                                                    0.51       0.14    0.65
Engineering Studies
Highgrade Mineability                                        0.05          -     0.05
Hydropower Sites                                             0.21        0.01    0.22
Sulfur Source                                                0.15       0.01    0.16
Process Selection                                            0.22       0.01    0.23
Viability Update                                             0.12          -     0.12
Trial Peat Production
Management                                                   0.81        0.09    0.90
Services                                                     0.44       0.07    0.51
Equipment                                                    1.42       0.04    1.46
Base Cost                                              5.35        0.48    5.83
Physical Contingency                                             0.64        0.05    0.69
Price Contingency                                                0.71        0.04    0.75
Total Project Cost 1/                                        6.70       0.57    7.27
l/ Excluding taxes and imports duties.



-17-
The price contingency is based on a 10% per year average price increase
for 1981-83. The physical contingency is 10% for the peat program and
20% for the nickel exploration and engineering studies. An estimated
90 man-months of foreign consultants and 90 man-months of local staff
would be required.  The average estimated cost of short.term foreign
specialists for the engineering studies is $500 per day which includes
salary, fringe benefits and home office expenses. For long-term specialists,
the average man-month cost, which includes housing, food, transportation,
reimbursable expenses and indirect costs, is estimated at US$7,500 for
foreign professionals, US$5,500 for foreign skilled labor, and US$2,000
for local professional staff.
46.    The financing plan for the Project would be as follows.  The
proposed IDA credit of US$4.0 million would finance the total foreign
exchange costs of the nickel exploration program and engineering studies
(about US$3.37 million including contingencies) as well as the foreign
exchange costs of peat specialists and part of the peat production equipment
(about US$0.63 million including contingencies). In addition:
(a) The Finnish Government would make a grant of US$1.8 million to
finance the foreign exchange costs of management, engineering
and technical services in the peat program;
(b) A grant from Denmark is expected to finance the remaining
foreign exchange costs of US$0.9 million for the peat program
(part of technical services and peat production equipment); and
(c) The Burundi Government would finance the total local costs of
about US$0.6 million.
Approval of these grants from Finland and Denmark would be a condition
of effectiveness of the proposed IDA Credit (Section 6.01 of the draft
Development Credit Agreement). In the event that these grants do not
materialize in time, the Government of Burundi has agreed to provide
the necessary funds.
Project Execution
47.    The three programs to be executed under the Project --peat, nickel
exploration and engineering studies -- would be undertaken by experienced
expatriate firms who would report to the Ministry of Energy and Mines.
The Burundi Government has (i) appointed a qualified Burundian as project
coordinator within the Ministry and (ii) assigned eight qualified Burundian
professionals to assist in carrying out the Project (Section 3.01 of
the draft Development Credit Agreement), the experience and qualifications
of whom are satisfactory to IDA.
48.    The Project would be executed by international consultants whose
qualifications, experience, and terms and conditions of employment would
be satisfactory to the Association (Section 3.02 of the draft Development
Credit Agrement). In particular:
(a) The peat program would be undertaken by the Finnish firm, EKONO.
EKONO's qualifications and the proposed trial peat production



-18-
program are satisfactory. This program would include the up-
dating of the estimated cost of producing and transporting peat
to Musongati. Appointment of the consultants to carry out the
initial phase of the peat program would be a condition of credit
effectiveness (Section 6.01 of draft Development Credit Agreement).
(b) The engineering studies would be undertaken by an experienced
consulting firm which would also manage the nickel exploration
component. The firm should be able to provide the technical
personnel who would conduct the hydroelectric site study, the
sulfur source study, the process selection study, the viability
review as well as to coordinate the work in general. This firm
would be responsible for the exploration work through a subcontract
arrangement with an experienced exploration firm. Terms of references
for the engineering studies and the managerial sections (Annex
IV) were agreed during negotiations. Signing of the contract
for assisting the Government in managing the Project would be
a condition of credit effectiveness (Section 6.01 of the draft
Development Credit Agreement).
(c) The nickel exploration program would be executed by an experienced
exploration firm. The exploration would be included in the contract
for the management and the engineering services thus making the
same consultant responsible for all but the peat program. Under
this arrangement the management firm would subcontract the exploration
services on the basis of limited international tendering (para. 50).
The drilling equipment would be provided by the exploration firm.
The implementation schedule for the various components of the Project
is given in Annex V.
Disbursements
49.    Disbursements from the IDA credit would be made on the basis
of 100% of the foreign expenditures for (i) the contract for engineering
studies/management (US$1.4 million), (ii) the nickel exploration contract
(US$2.0 million), and (iii) the services and equipment for trial peat
production (US$0.6 million ). The proposed credit is expected to be
fully disbursed by the end of 1983 (see Annex VI). A special condition
of disbursement for the engineering studies (second phase) would be
the agreement between the Government and IDA that the results of the
50 holes drilling campaign confirm the existence of highgrade areas and
that the peat production program is economically feasible (para. 4 (b) of
Schedule 1 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
Procurement
50.    Procurement of equipment to be financed under the credit would
be on the basis of international competitive bidding in accordance with
Bank guidelines with the exception of contracts for equipment costing
less than the equivalent of US$300,000 each and contracts for exploration
services, which would be procured through limited international tendering
on the basis of at least four responsive quotations from suppliers of



-19-
at least three countries. (Section B of Schedule 3 of the draft Development
Credit Agreement). The qualifications, experience and terms and conditions
of employment for all consultants would be satisfactory to IDA (Section
3.02 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
Justification and Risks
51.    On the basis of available information regarding possible availabi-
lity of peat, high grade ore areas for the initial years of production
and the possibility of using a more cost effective process, there are
good reasons to believe that a technically feasible and financially/econo-
mically viable Musongati project could be defined and serve as a basis
for negotiations with interested industrial sponsors. At this stage
of project preparation, it is essential that the Government proceed
with a logical program of pre-feasibility work to bring the Musongati
project to a point where both the Government and potential investors
can make informed decisions regarding the project's future development.
52.    If the work to be undertaken under the proposed Project leads
to the formulation of a viable Musongati project, it is likely that
industrial sponsors would enter into concession arrangements with the
Government to follow up with feasibility/engineering studies and subsequent
development work. Assuming that the Project confirmed the availability
of nickel ore at about 2.2% average grade during the first six years
of production and the availability of peat excavated, prepared and trans-
ported to Musongati for about US$75/ton in 1979 prices, the financial
rate of return of the Musongati project would be about 10-11% and the
economic rate of return 12-13%. Under these assumptions, annual foreign
sales receipts for a nickel project producing up to 38,000 tpy during
highgrading and 21,000 tpy thereafter would be approximately US$250
million in 1979 terms during highgrading and US$190 million thereafter,
compared to present export receipts of Burundi of about US$100 million.
As a substantial portion of foreign exchange receipts would be used
to finance imports , foreign staff and debt service payments, annual
net foreign exchange receipts would average about US$95 million in 1979
terms. More than 1,000 full time jobs would be created at the nickel
mine and processing facilities and more than 500 full time jobs would
be created by the peat project and related transport services. The
studies to be carried out under the proposed project are exected to
lead to the selection of a more cost effective metallurgical process,
provision of cheaper electric power and transport than contemplated
in the original pre-feasibility study as well as confirmation of platinum
group metals in the ore, which would further improve the Musongati project's
profitability.
53.    The major risks facing the project are:
(a) that neither highgrade nickel ore nor additional platinum nor
the availability of peat at reasonable cost could be confirmed,
(which would imply that no viable Musongati Project could be
formulated); or
(b) that after the completion of the project, the Musongati Project



-20-
could be considered viable but marginal compared to alternative
nickel deposits worldwide (See Annex VII), which would entail
the risk that Government may not be able to attract industrial
sponsors.
The available information indicates that the first risk is relatively small
but it cannot be ruled out at this early stage of pre-investment work.
However, the risk of potential waste has been minimized by phasing the
nickel exploration, peat and engineering work. The second risk relates
plimarily to investment conditions at the time of eventual implementation.
While industrial sponscrs might not follow up immediately, worldwide
raw material demand generally leads to the development of viable projects
within 10-15 years after their discovery. Should the Musongati project
never come to fruition, the information gained about power sites and
peat production could be directly applicable in other development projects,
and the peat production and exploration equipment, if purchased and
not leased, could still be used for small scale peat production and
other exploration works; in particular, the proposed project could lead
to the utilization of peat as a major energy source for industries and
households in Burundi.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
54.    The Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of Burundi
and the Association, and the Recommendation of the Committee provided
for in Article V, Section 1 (d) of the Articles of Agrement of the Associ-
ation are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
55.    Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III of this Report.
56.    Additional conditions of effectiveness of the proposed Credit
are: (i) the grants from Finland and Denmark have become effective
(para. 46), (ii) consultants to carry out the initial phase of the
peat program have been appointed (para. 48 (a)) and (iii) a project
management assistance contract has been signed (para. 48 (b)).
57.    I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
58.    I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Washington, D. C.
May 8, 1981



-21-                                                            ANNEX I
TABLE 3A                                                          Page  1  of  5
BURUNDI - SOCIAL ItDICAIOPS DATA SHEET
BIRUNDI                         REFERENCE GROUPS WEICHTED AVE7AGEE
LAID AREA (THOUSAND SO. KM. )O- ST PECENT ESTIMATE)-
TCTAL              27. 3
AGRICULTURAL       17. 1                                  HOST RECENT             LOU INCOME              MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIIIATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  AFFICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
GCP PER CAPITA (11S$)                    60. 0        90.0      180.0                 260.0                     86 0
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)        11.0/c       16.0       12.0                   80.0                     699.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)         2. 7         3.4       4.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL)  2.2             2.2       2.3                   17.3                      28.9
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                           8.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                            21.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                     2160
POPPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                         95.0        121.0      142.0                   27.4                     61.7
PER SQ. EM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    168.8          208.6      231.0                   82.6                    126.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                           42.5         42.5       43.9                   44.9                     45.5
15-64 YRS.                           54.6         54.7       53.1                   52.2                     51.6
35 YRS. AND ABOVE                     2.9          2.8        3.0                    2.8                       2.8
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                2.0          2.4       2.1                     2.7                       2.7
URBAN                                 1.9         2.4        3.2                    6.8                       4.9
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       48.0          47.0      47.0                   47.4                      46.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)        27.0         22.0      20.0                   19.6                      16.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                 2. 6d        2.8       3. 1                   3.2                       3. 2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)          ..          ..         ..
USERS (PERCENT OF HARRIED WOMEN)    ..             ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)           103.0        101.0     97.0                    91.8                      94.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                     91.0         98.0       97.0                  90.2                      92.7
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)            56.0         61.0       60.0                   53.0                     53.0
OF WHICH ANI1MAL AND PULSE        28.0         30.0       30.0                   18.4                     15.6
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE       41.0          36.0      28.0                   27.7                      21.3
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    37.0           42.0       45.0                   45.3                      50. 1
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                                ..        140.0
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..           ..         ..                   23.2                      31.0
URBAN                                 ..         77.0       94.04Je                58.0                     66.8
RURAL                                 ..           ..         ..                   16.8
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OP POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..           ..         ..                   28.9
URBAN                                 ..           ..       95.0/e                 67.0
RURAL                                 ..           ..
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN           71390.0      55830.0   45020.0                30910.4                   14508.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON       6340.0       7490.0    6180.0                  5793.2                   3279.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                              820.0        740.0         ..                 1198.9                   1141.5
URBAN                                 ..         30.0
RURAL                                 ..       1790.0
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED             ..           ..
HOUSINg
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                 ..           ..
URBAN                                 ..           ..
RURAL                                 ..           ..        5.0
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                 ..           ..
URBAN                                 ..           ..
RURAL                                 ..           ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                 ..           ..
URBAN                                 ..           ..
RURAL                                 ..           ..



ANNEX I
-22-
Page 2 of 5
TABLt 3A
BURUNDI - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
IJDuBDDI                      RErKCz OUS (WE[IE D AvFrWACs
- "DST RECEYNT E=IATE)
MOST REC£NT           OW  INCCE               HIDDLE Vr.OrE
1960  fb    1970 /b ESTMtATE lb   AFRICA SOLtrr OF SAPARA  AFRICA SOUTN OF SAKARA
_DUCATION
ADJUSTED EIIROLLZEWT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                IB.0         30.0      23.0                  57.7                    61.7
MIAZ                 27.0         41. 0     29.0                  74.2                    69.2
FUZALE                9.0        20.0       is.0                 54.1                     51.4
SBCONURY:  TOTAL                    1.0         2.0       3.0                  fb.o                    20.6
MIALE                 1.0          3. 0      4.0                  13.7                    29.2
?tAL!                 1.0          1.0       2.0                   7.1                    IL 7
WCA0IIAL XrEOX. 1; or srcoDa) 35.0               24.0      13.0                   6.8                      7.0
PumL-TEACHER RATIO
mnLDUY                            36.0         31.0      32.0                  45.0                    36.6
SECO5 ART                          15. 0       12.0     .16.0                  25.2                    24.3
ADWLT LnIRACY RATE (PERtCENT)        13.9          ..      25.0                  25.5
CONSUROTION
PASSENGEi CARS MNW THOUSAND
POPULATION                         0. 9         1.1       1.5                   3.6                    35.8
ADIO R=EIVERS PEP THOUSAND
POPULATIOU                        20.0         20.0      31.0                  31.5                    a3.5
TV LECEIVERS P£R THDUSAND
POPUIATION                          ..           ..        ..                   1.8'
UIIISPAPER (-DAILY CENEZAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THODUSAND POPULATION                  ..          0.1       0.3                   4.6                    26.2
C7NEMA ANUL ATTENDACE PER CAP         ..           ..        ..                    .                      0. 7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)     1398.7       1715.2    1958.0
rDIULE (PERCENT)                  45.1         44.8      44.0                  33.5                    3J.1
AGRICULTURE (PERCDET)             90.0         57.2      85.0                   0. 7                   54.3
IDUSET1  (PERCE£T)                 3.0          3.9       4.8                   E.1                    17.8
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               52. 7        51. 2     49.6                  42.2                     38.8
HALE                                 5S.5        57.2      55.8                  55. 1                   48.4
FEKALE                              47.0         45.3   - 43.4                   29.5                    29.4
ZCO9tIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                0. 9        0. 9      0.9                   1.2                     1. 3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PEBCEST OF PRIVATE INCOME
ECErVED BY
EICREST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS     ..
IEST   20 PERCENT OF ROUSEHOLDS
LoWEST 20 PERCENT OP ROUSEROLDS      ..
LOIWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEROLDS    ..
POVERTY TARGET CROUPS
ESTIDATED ABSOLLTE POVERTY INCOCE
LEVEL MUS5 PER CAPITA)
DUMA                                ..           ..     213.0                 138.2
AL                                  ..           ..     136.0                  86.1
ESTIMATED WZATIVE POVERTY INCMUa
LEVEL CUSS PER CAPITA)
WJAN                                ..           ..        ..                 107.0
RUMAL                               ..           ..      37.0                  65.0
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUrE
POVERTY INCOnE LEVEL (PERCENT)
URLAN                               ..           .       55.0.
RRAL                                ..           ..      83.0                  6.9
not available
Not applicable.
IK=S
The group averages for each indicator are popalat±oo.vizhced arithmetic *-aan.  Coverseg  of rountrias
_oa the indicators depends on availability of data and Is not etfots.
/   Unloo  otherviae noted, data for 1960 rafer to any yar between 1959 end 1961; for 1970, betwen 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent tEtinact. betwen 1974 and 197S.
C   1962;  /d 1957;  Is 1979.
Most recent estimate of CGN per capita ts for 1979. population and related eacimatee Ive *1ae been
resvlad; all other dsc are as of April. 1980.
October. 1960



ANNEX I
-23--                                                                                 Page 3 of 5
zUMTxms Of SOCIAl IgOlCATOj
Notes:  Althouh the detect-  dram  tfee anet  gine ly jedae  tha nt eathoritnlvo  and reliable, it choold al.o ha  totd that they -Y Oat ba later-
atioea_lyoaeblt beoetae of the leek of .tiad-lae    dainititm   an  c-otpt. red by diff.-at cotieai   olete   the d.te.  The data r.                                    to-
cheas.  jeful t  d:.act.  order.R of eaated..  Wind t.r tende., md char-t-ite  tetitmJoc diff-rec-  betwee   .ootrle..
rhe r-faeeegop   r              the   -S  eot.te   grou  of the *chj.t cosrysd (2). oocr   .roup with eumewAt high-r                           I-oe - acm   thee the c-atr  grop
Ofcheeuhj.otoootr   (ntpt fo  "CspiMe  Scrilas Oil lepocear.` gro   wh-   "Middle In-e  fl-th Africe  Ie tddla fAWt" i. obree  heoce. of ettoeeI
oooo-oltual  fflitisl. In  he  efaeno   grmW data the aveag. era pOpulCOje  -eatdaibe                     eaafor  _ah iedi--orad ah-w  only whe  at
irer  al  o   th   eare  I                  -rs   a  dat. tar thee ind1este.  Si-n   the oocrZ. of rotines su  th  iediot.e. d.pea or. the avilabilIty Of
d-tRtd L. not uniform,  autio  mot he enroteo1d L. reletlag  averee  of on  Iolao  to a-thr.,  Th... ercs.ae  nyueu  i  coparing rh. -1a
of on  iodicator t .u rim s-uE   the tete, end ref eeu cows
L0190 AREA (thetssd  q.he.)                                                                   Feu.Retien e   PbreIOi   - "opolioo floOdd by osge  or Pe-otton   Phy-
Tutal - Total rfo.-ae   -reie."  i-   area dae            -da     eatare.                      slolan   qnaif te  fe  I  adilol aheol at -iv.'reity levelf ..t.
Asti-ult-1a  - eti-ata of Mryl-at-I -sl e   -awe  t."railyorpermnetly                        PWtolti_n V_r M.  it  Part  - P.peltl_ divided by wobato-                 roil
orcoce  retre,            kaht aed tie -  gardom   0. to It. fallen; 1977 d-te,             male a   fele  gradate .t.r....  p-oti-eI n-re, -de..istAEt   rea
GNP Pn CAITA (UtS) - GHP Per cpita ..eimtes at outort maket prio...a. te-                        uba.edralfidd by thei  rIprir                               fheI Aa bnd
c-latnd by .-  c--eoiu  metbd - W-Itd lak Atlas (1977-79 %..ta) ; 1960,                        -vilabla to poblit end pri-ate genra  end aprielird hosptal eAdo-
1970, end  19y9d.t..                                                                          hbiblitetion c-ne.  etepiteis ar  aetulteheete Peoently crfted
EtNtRGt ClMUgt,PTIO  PM  CAPITA - Atona    -ptaleie   of   -.eris1  -uery (ocel                  by .t least on  pbyeloi-e E.  tbhliehet. proiding prinlpelly  utetdia1
.tt  -r  net looled.d.  tRa-I heapitale. bh-e., itlede hatb end medicl
end lignite, petroleom    nt-a  gas end hyde-, rate-  an  beotheoml .1.-                       cente.  .to  psomnotly etaffed by R phyalolan  (but by a madi.eI egeetent.
riotity) it hilogram   of coa  ".qivAleet pat -pi-a; 1960. 1970. and 1978                      natee  mideifo.  tc.)  bob offer tn-patient ato-datIo                nd Proide a
date,                                                                                          limited range of madicl fuilitti-n  Pe  ettietiae  p-rpca  uben hePi-
POPOLATCCR hit OITAl, STATISTICO                                        ~~teie in_jde Otee priotipaj goenal sad ap-ioleted bhepttae, and octa
POPULATICK AM VrrAL STATISTICS                                          =~~~~~bepi-ule 1-1a or rura  heepiosle aed madirl and ea.tteoiy ooe
Tota  Poonlatit. Rid-Tea  1milion) - As ef Jaly 1; M96f  1970, end 1979                     edleoatttottlnd-Tta   abeo   d ieeO     to or dicohergee
date.                                                                                        Tr_- hpitaie diridad by the  -ob-r of bode.
lobes Poition  bret of total) - lotte of erbe  to total popuLa"tin
dW=ors  dfinitions of ura  ar`EE May afftet cowarbility of data                         neSIpo
Sm    _ cotoi.e; 1960. 1970, and 1978 dots.                                             AcErus  Sie.  Hf focabold (o-o...  Iet h-oced      ud    ra.adfrl
loculetion protautians                                            A housobold tons~~~Ist   fagro-p of idodiidcale ebo eh.. living qoatote
PoruleAtlon to cast2000 - Curret p uetito proJntlaa  are based on 190                         adtereosae        ere   rldo                         rmynth   nlddi
total Populcion by nge end -en          thei  artlity  and ferility  -ete.                the ho...ahold Pef    taIetoe  p_fpu..
trolatiea peramotr  for eetality rats tleof th-e  le1-                    oe1-.eaecbo   frroc    t  om   total, uba.an  rual- Av-rge  rw
Zn  life eapeoteny at birth i-oeai.g with ootery   per ..Pit. I=cn                       hoc of Po.e..e rot c-       -aaluban, and rral oouidct tione
leve, and        IIIl lif  eap..tano   etili.nin   at 77.5 yPar..  Th. paca-              deollitg. reperti-ely.  Dwe11ioRe to1lde oo--Percet etruotur   sad
enter f. or fertility rar  Alee hav  three leve. easagd.olie In                           uooouptid ya--e
f-trilitys....rding  to ia       level d poet f mily pleeing ptoformte.                 AM..ae to Electrilyinotto   ollaa      otl   re.  n   ua  -
Ouch co-try Ia thaa a.seiee  se  of ntea  Elte eloa-tln-  of motality                     Cocoi ldweling  trit   elttel ity                 living'qaria- ete ..p--otta
and tertility  trt.s  for Pooiaotis  puOpaa-                                              of tota, urba..  ad rua  foelitt  rep-oi-rly.
SItatlsr  tuWltion - I.  a etetienso   ggPeLettee there Ia t  gotoh etic
the bIrthrat  ie equl to the death rats  s.d also the eg. etourt... r-                .oUCATIoo
mama  -tontt.  Thi. Ie -hbiave  sely alta  farnility rtee.  de-lit  t.                  Adi..ted Onooimet Ratiee
tho reriett le-1 of omit eat oe9pedatls  rate. ebshs asob flenetion                        Prmr   ool-ttl   aeadfete-ieettl   oeadfn
of e      rpI.... it..lf aoatly.  The etti.aao  popluloio  aloeI-T en                         arileo          tof all ge  onth Apriefay level..  petatnltagse of.onari
ectinea   on. the haste of the promoted nbnatneti.tl   of the  outto                        priato - trioo-ag  population; totmlly tetldee children aged h-li
itthe year 2000. and the rate of d-1lie  of f-rtility eate to  epleoc-                     yea.-  but adjeted for diffrtt 1engthe ot primary eduction; for
eac  leel                                                                                 c_utriteeith  omvru   dutatio enrollmet my enoed 100 paroat
Veer tttioney  ,etlui-a ia  -asbo  - The yas  s- enetmoer  Ppoplation                          ai_c  eo_  Pupil, are  alo  or above the Official .cheol ago.
eiao has been  -ahad.                                                                     S-cud.ry echeol - tota.1  male and -   elt - Compted as uov; eerod.r
f.OIultin D-eitv'                                                                                educti  to rqoir-  at bat te-  yIne of approvd protty i-tootctioa;
Pet en. km. - tid-y-a  population per eqar  kilamoo   (100 he.tte...e  of                      Poorid.. S--.rL  vcti-1,l..o t-.bth   t-aioio   i-tto-rion   too PoPik-
total area.                                                         ucual~~~~~~~~~~ly cf 12 t0 17 Ieur  of age;  -orrePondeat  rae- ae  ontal
Ptoo.h.  aeiul         .e lnW   Cowted asthy  far agritolt-ra  land                            entlded.
P  aly.1t.A.S-t.M                       hl, (-47t)                  k.-g    1               Voc..ti-ns  -tr11-set breroet of  -econdry) - VoOatiOe1 intitttion
Peclaio  ae  crotot(,oren~      Chlden(014yore   entlg-ge(1-                include tnoheica. induettia.o   te  prora.    io  operte indepc-
t             -yer).an 1etre46Z yer  -dvc   spetana  of aid-year PoPu-                     dettly cr a. d.par-ete  fscoey  ttttos
Cation; I1960  1970. and 1979  ae                                                             uo-ece   ai  -oicy   n   eudr   Tottietdoote onolad L.
PPOruaIe  irebgt  fsol-  t              ota  -AMeal Sgro        -tb    a  of total rid-          primary ad e-oodery le-tl  d.ivie  by tobore oftehesite
yea   opltin                               :W015-0  16-9   n  1970-79.                          --otpu-dita local.
looclait =  ro      .'o,.t 1(=eeetl     ah   - A-1A geowe  rete. ot -urba  ppu-                ndult lit-eac   rte. -rerceto  - Literte  aute (able to rod end -it.)
1etione for 195D-60. 1960-70  ond 170-7.                                                            p--.S.  t    .1 d_1t_P____.._d___I_____
Crude tirtb giR-tar tbuuendl- A-al live birtha per theuad of  ild-yer                            aaecaue              tte..l  ouOiougd1   ae   n   vr
populatin ; 1960;.I 1970.an 1978 data.                                                 CONSUMPTION
Crude Inth Set. ( .s theus   - A--aI doethe P.e thotod of rid-yea                            Pas-aner Care (0.0 th-ot .d ouletioo) - P.....f   car  ceplemtto
.Poplutior; 1960. 1970, ead 1979 dana.                                                       cae     a I..le. thO *ight purevn;  -ncidee aehulaoO, h--se  end
Cr...   p,ond.ctioo Rtie - AveAge   -boc  of daaahtaa a -a  will best It                        ilitery  -ohiclee
h-r   -1ma  repTednticn pariod if she em,sisao     pree  .gn-epnific tee-                 Rai                      hoirt  (e   tboad pulir)-oltype. of rr-ivnr  for radb
tilucyrtteeueneiiy  f on-year avrassa endig in 1960.1970, and 1977.         bracercecr(                pbiPprt-so    f  euaio   eoua    ni
taly_      aoin   hoc_eotore. Atenl (thaessl - A-ssa  nbtar of  ocptoTe                        ....eodrec-iv-- io c-utriet acd it Y-er  -hen registrati- of -efhoae
of hrth-ootrlDdevicee ceder aupite of astioanl family plning. progra.                         .a. it effect; dat  for  e tc years may oot be topral   ittmt
_aIyPeee   - Cuo  (--ret of maed.        el   Percetag  of --rird                     -outri..eah1icehod lc
crma  of  hblld-b-esrg aE  (15-44 yea) olbc,  bioth-eontr-I devi... to                    yT1gR oeiver'1e (orhoen !!"       olatton) - TV  eciv-- f rr b-od-ee  to
all __risd=oe  it  m_  aSe grOw.                                                            genra  publJt PerMhoue   populecioo;  -niudee olicented TV  -rcivo
It c__tiee end It yea,  hee  taglet-aiot of TV este ou  t   ff-ct.
FOOD AiND NUTRITIOON                                                fNenei.                       i-ofo Cdircloco be  thousand tR rolato               Shee  the averag  ci-ruIa
producion o  all fod cdtter. Produtiam  eclada  eed aad f-   *d                licatioo devotd  ti-.ilY to recoding ge.ra--I            a   It is -ooid-td
i. to caledar yea  heeie.  C.ditine  t-e  prisary goode  .S log.  be.taa                    t   hadaily' if it aPper-  rt Inat fou   tme5  nb
instead of  u-)o ehich er  edible nod  otnn. eatriant  (e.g. coffer sad                   CCeuLou  Atnac   orCrt   o                                    ko-ee nthe thet of
tt  ae  ala.d.d).  Aggregte prodoctia  of seh  -totr  Ie based to                         tickete etd durt  thrrr.  locIuding odoeeon  to doic-in cinsa
"Is,e oerg  prodocee prior weight.; 196-65  190   a   98dt.ad ecbilo utite
-croy equialet ofetfood ewple  eelel  heoutry Vpar opito                              IABOt FRtCE
Per dey.  Aveiiablof.eppylloe  -Viee demetit P-ed-tie. import. Iee.                       oa.ao   oc    toaoe       cooial   cioprae   nldn
apr   n   hange. In etotk.  Sot e-ppli-a asolao anima  feed,..esde,                cred forcoe eu  ooyld             but ...ciodine bhustoiv-,etdao,
q-atitio     ."o In food  -rosing. end Iane  In dietribttiu.  nequire-                    D.fieiti... it  -aiouc cot.iri    areootcopbrhi; 1960. 1970 and
ertu  -sr  weo-td by PAP breed on pkyneleginel s.A. f- or -ne  at-                         1910 date.
city aud hath conidering  -oIrots   t enr,body weighte   . eg                            n    yjpca) - fes   Cabot f....e.a pur-nAge of tota  Cabot force.
_af  -e  di.tribotion of pupulantan  sed a11letsa 10 psrtet for  -ete ~t                  arctusbcco)- Labot force it farming. f-eetry. hcethg and
h,a,-h,l  leve; 1961-65, 1970. end 1977 d5t5.                                              fishiog ne p--ceteocof tota  labor force ; 1960. 1970 end 1979 fate.
Peecotacrl  of Ote -eaMe amI dsv  - Pot-eIn cotet of Pet -Prt                              entr    Ortt   Cuber foror it mining,  rer.                 ic   cuatr
not eupply of food par dy.  Wnn eaply of fue  i dafincd as abv.  So-                       td el1-trtcity,  --n and go. a. P.rc-tOar- of total Cabot fooce; 1960,
qoreoefor all cotria    stebliahe  by UItA preida for Ocai-                         1970 end 1970 dat..
alleato  of 60 grm   of tota  protei  per day  1d0 gram   of tote    d                  P-riiptira .o note (Vorten   - total    ae   n  f l-part....ti. .Or
plsprtntin, of ehiub 10 geen eheeld ha _ni_a  protoin.  Th_n  etad-                    attivityra.tear-   = ted astta%l, rLfe. and  tm leAbo- forot a
Ir     - otloe  thea tftae of 75 gr    of total protein and 25 am  .  f               percetage. of tota.1  nee a-d tamal  pupoletion of alnaeatPeticely;
anima  procte aeen avoagnfer the meri. Inp..pnd by PAP in t Theibd               1960. 1970. end 1975 dete.  Th... ate ILl'. eP-ti.iPutinO  ratee rfleotig
Word Pod  arvy;  961I 5 f 1970aad177 data,                                           to-se        --rcr  of th. roulatie. and long tie  tred.  A fes neti-
ret cerita rrtnia  euroly  rom  amImal ed onlen - POt.in eupply of food do-    mat;e art,free nstloelsor
riced ir    niae  n  pl    in Eoe pardy  1961-61, 1970 and 1977 dot.-                   aool Un      odeo  Rto- Rtio of Vpoplatin under C) and 65 an-ue
Chil  (ons C-l eotoliv Rte (tor the-sab  -  tas-l datha Pee th-uad It                   otetoa   ao  forts.
ge gray  i-h years. to thild-r I. itohi  ag  ten; Per medvloping ooO
Iti.e dat  derived fre  life teble; 1960. 1970 end 197dt.INOME DISTIBUTtIcON
Pereaag   o  Ptrae  ncme(boh  c  ee  ad hin) - tocicod bytiobeet
~~~~EALTH                                                               5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ tret. richee  70 yartot. poo-et 20 poca,sd puo.tat 60 p-r-a
lifWEg footac  It tirtb  (vn'- A-ereg   .dsv  of lo-t of ui.t 0rminiog                         of hou...hold..
atbirth; 1960. 1970 sd 1979' data
Ictant NOralt  Rae  ea  thensndl - Am-wa dathe tf hWttot  under oeY-                      PronTEE TTARGET GROUP'
ofr   P                     tf ago trr thousand C og  -irtha.                              nttaa-d Ab01lte Povrt  -nom  'eve  (USii_ "e etta ; ..-ut                 and rura-
Acce.e to Saf.  ster (praoo   nelte)-tnl.ahn                             url-0                 hnlte poverty incm   Corn  ie tha.t itoom    -lionbel   -brb0..           nm
oruder of peaplo (total, -bhan.          -.1)l with teasteble  ora  ted                      otritionely adeqante diet plus aeeenti1 to-food  -equirets Ie  -to
oaeepoly  (inot-de-  crnst       efe   .tr r-nre    bat  oootminatd                      affordable.
..a cub octha  fro   prottoa   hueshala, a.pri , end osaitey tolls) es                 tti-atod Relativ- Peet   eoelvl(5    ttcetl-ohnadma
_orentgn  of their  epcieppltestna   ro   raapbi                                            ua   eeitpvryIcm   ee _ -eon h-thId  fvtage p-r tapita
focteic or  t-dpoet lcted eat ee-then 200 noe-  free a hone  may he                          peenllc-oo   h   outyZra                        it   eived Pose the turu
-.tede-d ae botng wIthin roas blhi  a-ns of that houee.  I.t -.ral- Aren                    lore  oth odj--tt  foe hcif-   -ot of limeo It ubanaes
rroeo..hbsocceeew.-Id iMply thet the hongamifs or  .sre of the honehoid                   Etetetd    ritotOinaslt   ovevicm    .vC-ttet      re
dorthav-  to sPend a diepreprtlont. part of the day in ftrbheg thanr l-reciofpuatn  (booe  and rurt) rho ar  "b-tit  Poor"
fally'. -ete  used..
c.oral - fwber of Pe-ePIt.              ubn        url   soe   y  art
diet ..a  as. peocantogen of their respective paptleeios.  foeta die-                                                       -OamOad S.cIal Deta Dicisian
P...l may inlude the tula Io en  dispoei. with or rIthen   t-at-Ot                                                     Ootm       nA-lytie cad Proleti-n DiaPurema
of  _ce  ___ec  end enet-1etn  by  nt.r-born  ey.t    or tbs as  of                                                                         itthe Z1960
Pit prvi       d t  eiilaoieeltos



ANNEX I
-24-                                    Page 4 of 5
ECONOMiC.   TDICATO1S
oUTrPur. LABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY Ir 1979
Value added
US$ min.    _
Agriculture                   391.5      55.5
Industry                      115.9     16.4
Services                      197.8      28.1
Total                    705.2    100.0
COVERNHZNT FrNANCE                     Central   Government
(-AP Million) Xercent or GVF
1979 (P)             1979             1976 - 78
e
Currenc Recipts               10,382.4              14.6                 14.8
Current Expenditure            8,546.7              12.0                 11.2
Current Surplus                1,835.7                .                   3.      -
Capital Expenditures           6,300.0               8.8                  I,0
External Assistance (net)      2,71q,7               3,8
. 
MMNC. CRETT and PRICES                   1975        1976       1977 -  1978            1979        1980 (Autust)
(MiLllon Bup outstanding end period)
Money and Q0usi Money                  3544.4       5220.9     8233.2      9411.2     11452.7       10445.0
Bank credit to Public Sector           1271.6       1125.0      210.8      1660.8     4150.4         4495.0
Bank credit to Private Sector           997:0       1532.2     1886.9      4491.3     6220.4         6741.0
(Percentage or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi as Z of CDP              10.8         13.2        16.8       17.0        16.1
General Price Index (1970=10O0)         153.1        163.6      174.6       216.4      272.1
Annual percentage changes in:
General Price Index                      15.8          6.8        6.7        23.9       25.7
Bank credit to Public Sector             41.7        -11.5      -75.9       513.3      149.9
Bank credit to Private Sector           -6C.3         53.7       23.3       13t.0       38.5
BALANCZ Or PAy%qrNTs                                                        INCECANDiSE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1977-80)
1977    1978    1979    1980  /                             tSS Mln     1
-illlions  US Dollars)
-Exports of Goods, NFS                 96.3    71.4   111.9    72.7           Coffee                   75.2   91.1
Imports of Goods, NFS                 94.7   123.4   192.9   208.3           Cotton                    2.1    2.5
- Resource Gap (deficit = -)             1.6   -52.0   -81.0  -135.6           Skins                     0.7    0.8
Tea                       1.8    2.2
-- Interest Pavments (net)               -0.6    -0.9    -1.3    -3.9
Workers' Recittances                   ..       ..
Other Factor Payments (net)          -13.1   -13.6    -8.9    -8.3
Net transfers                         29.0    32.7    34.3    47.8           All other comodities    2.8    3.4
Balance on Current Account            TZT   -3T   -3:T  -l6Z7r                   TOTAL                82.6  10.0
NOTE:    All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing_
_   during the period  covered.
1/  Consolidated statement of Government finances.
2/ Preliminary estimates.



ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
BALACE OF PAYTNESN
1977    1978    1979  1980
T(14= o  US Dollar-S)
Direct 7o0ragn zvvest .                 -                                    TERNAL DESS. DECEMBER 31. 1979
Net MUT Borroving
Disbursements                      18.9    20.2    41.7'   46.7                                           US$ m
Amortization                        3.5     2.6      2.7     2.3
Subtotal                           15. 4    17.6    39.0    44.4         Public Debt. incl. guaranteed   103.0
Capital Grants:                       13.8    20.9    25.4    31.1          Non-Coartaueed Private Debt
Other Capital (net)                   -0.3   -24.6    -4.3    24.6          Total outstanding & Disbursed
Other items n.e.i.                     0.2     3.Z    -6.7       -
Tncrease in Reservet-)               -46.1_ 1U6.7       3.4      -          D13T sZUSCz RATiO FQR 1980 
Gross Reserves (end year)Z'           95.9    83.4    92.7    92.9Y         P ublic Debt, iutlr. guaranteed     8.5
Met Reserves (end year)               86.0.   69.3    65.9    65.9           oau-Guaranteed Private Debtc
Total outstanding and disbursed
Fuel and iqelated v&ter1a4-L
Imports of whicht
Petroleum                     5.6     6.7    12.6    25.0          TDh, 2mEnDG, March 31, 1981
Exports of which:                                                           (Nillion 'S Dollars)
Petroleum                              _       _        _
RATE OF BxChNE  cz 
Outstanding &
Throgh Feb. 1973                   Since May' 3. 1976                         Disbursed                       39.0
US$1.00  -  BuF 87.5               USSl.OO - BuF 90.0          -            Undisbursed            -          53.8
BuE100   -  US$1.14-               BuE 100 - USS.l                          Outstanding inl.-
undisburied                     2
From Marth 197 to NaT 2, 1976
US$1.00 - SuF 78.75
SuP 100 - US$1.27
--11-PP?eIAlarx   est±mates.'
2/ Central Bank _- _-
3/  September 30,.1980                                 ..  not available
4/  Ratio of Debt Service to Export                     -   not applicable
of Goods and Non-Factor Services.
May 5, 1981



-'I;-
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 5
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BURUNDI
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS TO BURUNDI
(as of January 31, 1981)
Amount
Loan or                                                      US$ million
Credit                                                    (less cancellations)
Number    Year     Borrower      Purpose               Bank   IDA 2/  Undisbursed
One loan -l and five credits fully disbursed           4.8    9.80         -
593-BU    1975     Burundi    Second Coffee Improve-
ment                   -     5.20        0.75
626-BU    1976     Burundi    Fisheries Development   -        6.00       3.56
679-BU    1977     Burundi    Education                 -    10.00        0.20
731-BU    1978     Burundi    Development Bank          -     3.40        2.11
773-BU    1978     Burundi    Second Highway Project  -    14.00          6.23
917-BU    1979     Burundi    Second Technical
Assistance             -     2.50        1.79
918-BU    1979     Burundi    Forestry                  -     4.30        3.70
976-BU    1980     Burundi    Second Education          -    15.00       14.86
1049-BU   1980     Burundi    Urban Development         -    15.00       14.35
1058-BU   1981     Burundi    Telecommunications        -      7.70       7.70
Total                              4.8   92.90       55.25
of which has been repaid           4.8    0.20
Total now held                     0.0   92.70
Total undisbursed                  0.0   55.25       55.25
1/   Extended in 1957 to the Belgian Trust Territory of Ruanda-Urundi for
the improvemnt of the Bujumbura-Muramvya road and the expansion of
the Lake port of Bujumbura. The loan which was guaranteed by the
Kingdom of Belgium has been fully repaid.
2/   Prior to exchange adjustments.



-27-                        ANNEX II
Page 2 of 5
B. Statement of IFC Investments
There have been no IFC investments in Burundi.
C.   Projects in Execution 1/
Credit No. 593-BU         Second Coffee Improvement Project:  US$5.2 million
of December 5, 1975; Effective Date: October 31,
1976; Closing Date: September 30, 1981
The project is a continuation of the first Coffee Improvement Project
(US$1,8 million Credit No. 147-BU of April 11, 1969). It is being co-financed
by the Kuwait Fund (US$1.2 million) on a parallel basis and by Belgium (about
US$600,000). The Kuwait Fund has financed the construction of coffee washing
stations and of the road construction component, and Belgium assists in the
carrying out of a coffee research component. The project is designed to support
the development of coffee and food production by strengthening and expanding
extension services and distribution of agricultural inputs; it includes a
pilot rural development program to improve livestock and food crop production.
Start up of the project was slow because of frequent changes in foreign and
local project staff. A new team of foreign experts has been appointed and
project management is now improving under a newly appointed Burundian manager.
Coffee extension work is showing favorable results. Husbandry methods practiced
by coffee growers continue to improve and coffee research activities are making
satisfactory progress. Construction of the eleven coffee washing stations
is nearly completed. The pilot food crop development programs have been redefined
and scaled down to ensure better control. The Credit is expected to be totally
disbursed by September 1981.
Credit No. 626-BU         Fisheries Development Project;  US$ 6.0 million of
June 11, 1976; Effective Date: February 22,1977
Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
This project is designed to increase the production of fish through
the provision of training, equipment and materials to fishermen and to improve
the distribution of fish throughout Burundi. The project also includes financing
for the preparation of rural development plans for the coastal region along
Lake Tanganyika and the implementation of pilot development activities. The
project is co-financed by a US$1.2 million loan from the Abu Dhabi Fund.
Project implementation was initially very slow because of problems encountered
in the recruitment of both expatriate technical assistants and their national
counterparts and in the procurement of goods.  Some of these constraints have
been overcome and the pace of project implementation has accelerated. Production
of a limited number of fiberglass hulls for fishing boats has begun and there
has been an improvement in the catch rates at some fishing centers. A new
experiment is underway to use low quality local wood and a minimum amount
of foreign exchange to produce longer lasting and cheaper laminated wood boats.
Problems of shortages of spare parts for the outboard engines are being solved.
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any problems
which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy them. They
should be read in this sense, and with the understanding they they do not
purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and waeknesses in
project execution.



ANNEX II
-28-                          'Page 3 of 5
Contracts for all the studies have been signed and all of them are underway.
However, SUPOBU's activities related to commercialization and marketing of
fish have been unsuccessful, causing severe financial strains on the Company.
Further to a recent review of implementation problems with the Government,
it is now proposed to stop all processing and marketing activities, and limit
SUPOBU's role to the provision of fishing craft and gear and extension services.
A proposal to amend the Credit Agreement will be made accordingly.
Credit No. 679-BU         Education Project:  US$10.0 million of April 28,
1977; Effective Date: September 1, 1977;
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
This project assists the Government in continuing and consolidating
the reform of primary education. It aims at substantially expanding primary
school enrollments and improving the distribution of educational opportuni-
ties. It provides technical and financial assistance to the Rural Education
as well as for teacher training. As a result of a shortage of cement and
fuel caused by the hostilities in Uganda in 1979, project execution has been
delayed by about a year. Because of this interruption and of higher than
anticipated price increases, the Project is encountering high cost overruns.
The construction of 21 schools, a teacher training center and a printshop
has been completed. An additional eight schools are nearing completion and
the construction of seven new schools is in progress. Funds are nearly totally
disbursed.
Credit No. 731-BU         Development Bank Project; US$3.4 million of
September 30, 1977; Effective Date: March 27, 1978
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
The project aims at providing funds for investment in medium size
productive entreprises and technical assistance to the National Economic Develop-
ment Bank (BNDE). Implementation of the Project started slowly. Following,
however, an Amendment of the Credit Agreement of June 1980, which allows the
use of up to US$1 million for financing loans to small-scale enterprises,
project execution has accelerated. It is expected that the Credit will be
fully committed by mid 1981. The newly established Industrial Development
Unit of BNDE which is to promote and appraise industrial projects is now fully
staffed.
Credit No. 773-BU          Second Highway Project;  US$14.0 million of
March 29, 1978; Effective Date: July 27, 1978
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project finances the paving of a major national road, Bujumbura-
Rugombo (65 km), the start-up phase of an improvement program for selected
secondary and tertiary roads and bridges, the construction of a new central
laboratory, the strengthening of the mechanized maintenance brigade and the
provision of technical assistance and equipment for the ongoing maintenance
program. Project implementation, in particular major road construction, was
delayed by the lack of cement and fuel supplies due to disruption in international
transport through neighboring countries during the first half of 1979. Since



-29-                                ANNEX  II
Page 4 of 5
then, works have resumed satisfactorily. Because of these interruptions,
and of higher than expected price increases, the project is encountering high
cost overruns. The improvement program for selected secondary roads is proceed-
ing satisfactorily. The construction of a new central laboratory is well
underway and will be completed on time by mid-1981. The mechanized maintenance
brigade is already fully operational and has received all the equipment financed
under the project. The technical assistance component is, in general, meeting
its objectives; however, difficulties in recruiting local counterparts and
in retaining them in service once trained have not made possible the reduction
of expatriate technical assistance as planned.
Credit No. 917-BU          Second Technical Assistance Project;  US$2.5 million
of June 1, 1979; Effectiveness Date: September 27,
1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
This project provides for the further strengthening of the Govern-
ment's planning mechanism and its project preparation and implementation capacity.
It includes continuation of the technical assistance to macro economic planning
at the Ministry of Planning, provision of experts to the planning divisions
of the Ministries of Agriculture and Industry and financing of feasibility
studies. The Credit is also financing consultant services to support the
Government's effort in restructuring public enterprises. Most of the experts
have been recruited. Project implementation is satisfactory.
Credit No. 918-BU         Forestry Project;  US$4.3 million and US$1.2 million
EEC Special Action Credit of June 1, 1979;
Effectiveness Date: October 22, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1985
This project assists the Government in initiating the first stage
for a long-term program to develop basic forestry services and plantations
to supply fuel wood, building poles and timber and to establish long-term
wood production and marketing policies. The project includes the establish-
ment of rural nurseries in 30 communes, a 2,000 ha eucalyptus plantation and
a 5,000 ha pine plantation, technical assistance (provided by France) and
financing of energy studies. The three expatriate technical assistants (project
manager, two silviculturists) are in post. The project is progressing satisfac-
torily.
Credit No. 976-BU          Second Education Project;  US$15.0 million of
April 23, 1980; Effectiveness Date: July 21, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985
The project assists the Government in training middle level technicians and
skilled workers in industrial trades and secretarial/administrative skills.
It includes the construction, furnishing and equipping of two new boarding
technical schools, a Mechanics Department and a Typist and Bookkeeper Training
Department in two existing schools and staff housing. The Credit became effective
on July 21, 1980 and implementation is progressing satisfactorily.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 5
Credit No. 1049-BU        Urban Development Project: US$15.0 million of
June 24, 1980; Effective Date:
October 31, 1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
This project seeks to redress the most urgent infrastructure deficien-
cies in Bujumbura neighborhoods while laying the foundation for more efficient
future growth. Essential improvements to street, drainage, water and public
lighting networks will improve living conditions for 118,000 persons in Bujumbura,
or 85% of the population. Serviced plots and loans for house construction
will be made available to families between the 15th and 65th income percentiles.
An artisan promotion component will provide technical and financial assistance
to masons, carpenters, tailors, and metalworkers. An energy assistance program
will improve the efficiency of charcoal-burning metal stoves. A municipal
services component will strengthen the capacity of the Bujumbura municipality
to collect garbage and maintain streets, drains, and public buildings. Project
start-up is progressing satisfactorily. Following signature of a contract
for the majority of technical assistance posts, the first expatriate technicians
are in place in the Project Unit.
Credit No. 1058-BU        Telecommunications Project:  US$7.7 million of August7,
1980; Effective Date: January 7, 1981;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985
The project is a major component of the country's 1980-84 investment
program for telecommunications. It aims at improving the quality of existing
services while extending the coverage to rural areas and segments of the popula-
tion presently unserved. It would also strengthen the management of the tele-
communications parastatal company (ONATEL) in order to establish the company
as a financially autonomous entity, and provide assistance for staff training.
The project became effective on January 7, 1981.



ANNEX III
-31-
BURUNDI
NICKEL EXPLORATION AND ENGINEERING PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Identification - September 1980
(b) Project Preparation - Government
(c) Appraisal Mission - November 1980
(d) Negotiations - April 1981
(e) Target Date of Effectiveness - September 1981
Section II; Project Implementation Actions
None.
Section III - Special Conditions
(a)    Engineering studies would be carried out only after the completion of
the drilling of the first 50 holes and after a review by the Government
and IDA has concluded that the level of peat production would be adequa-
te and economic and the nickel ore content would be sufficient (para. 44);
(b)    After completion of the first 50 holes, drilling of an additional 100 holes
would be carried out only if the drilling results establish an average
nickel content of 1.6 percent or more (para. 44);
(c)    Consultants would be selected whose qualifications, experience, terms of
reference and conditions of employment would be satisfactory to the
Association (para. 48); and
(d)    As additional conditions of effectiveness, (i) the grants from Finland
and Denmark have become effecitve (para. 46) (ii) consultants to carry
out the initial phase of the peat program have been appointed (para. 48 (a))
and (iii) a project management assistance contract has been signed (para. 48
(b)).



-32-                           ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 5
BURUNDI
NICKEL EXPLORATION/ENGINEERING PROJECT
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR MANAGEMENT
OF THE NICKEL EXPLORATION
AND
EXECUTION OF THE ENGINEERING STUDIES
Project Management
1.      The firm selected to manage the nickel exploration and engineering
studies will be responsible to the Minister of Energy and Mines. It will
supervise and administrate these portions of the engineering/exploration
project.
2.      The management firm will provide administrative services such as
preparing requests for tenders, tender evaluations and contracts for services
and goods. It will maintain accounts of expenditures and, on behalf of the
Ministry, prepare credit   withdrawal applications.  It will issue quarterly
progress and accounts reports.
3.      The management firm will supervise all activities in the nickel
exploration and engineering studies. It will assure that the work is done
to high, professional standards, is executed in accordance with the agreed
schedule and is properly reported. It will assure that consultants per-
forming the work are provided with the available background information
before their work starts. The firm will coordinate with the Government all
travel of consultants into, out of and within Burundi.
4.      Upon being appointed to the position of Manager, representatives of
the firm will meet with the Minister to review the project scope, the estimated
costs, the implementation schedule and the personnel assigned to the project.
If required they will develop a project code of accounts and present these for
approval at this meeting.
5.      The management firm will sub-contract the nickel exploration services
described below under terms and conditions agreeable to the Government and
IDA. It is expected to possess enough expertise in exploration to supervise
the work.



-33-                              ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 5
6.      The management firm will execute the viability update which is
described below.
7.      The management firm will prepare a final report covering the nickel
exploration and engineering studies. It will separately report on the viabi-
lity update study.
Nickel Exploration Services
8.      The nickel exploration services can be separated into two areas
of responsibility which can be sub-contracted separately or together after
discussion and agreement with the Government and IDA. These areas are:
(a) responsibility for the reliability of geological results and for the
reserve calculation, and (b) responsibility for performing the drilling and
sampling.
9.      The geological responsibility will include reviewing the existing
data, planning the drilling program, supervising the drilling, determina-
tion of in-situ moisture and density, compilation of drill logs including
a record of sample mineralogical and chemical composition, and preparing
quarterly progress reports. The geological consultant will be responsible
for preparation and shipment of analytical samples, preparation and storage
of reserve samples at Musongati. The geological responsibility also includes
the calculation of reserves at 0.8, 1.0, 1.2 and 1.5% nickel cut-off. The
result should indicate the Ni, Cu, Co, Fe, SiO2, MgO, A12 03 and possibly the
platinum group metals of the reserve differentiated into saprolitic, ferrolitic
and total mineralization.
10.     The drilling firm will provide, operate and maintain the drill and drill
support equipment which is judged suitable by the Government, IDA and the
geological consultant. The drilling firm will operate and maintain the living
and working facilities provided at Musongati by the Government.
11.     The drilling campaign will be divided into two stages.  A total of
about 150 holes will be drilled and sampled in what now appears to be a high-
grade zone of the Buhinda plateau. In the first stage 40 holes will be drilled and
sampled in the laterized mineral, and a preliminary evaluation made of these 40
holes plus 10 drilled earlier in the same area. If the result of this fifty-hole
average indicates less than 1.6% nickel in this area, the drilling will be
terminated. Otherwise the remaining 110 holes will be drilled. Of the 150
holes, 140 are expected to average about 40 meters through the laterite
mineralization and 2 meters into base rock and 10 are expected to average about
50 meters through laterized minerals and about 100 meters into the base rock.
The penetration and sampling of base rock will be seeking evidence of sulfide
mineralization.
12.     The Government, IDA and the geological consultant will agree on the
selection of an analytical laboratory which is qualified to make determinationof



ANNEX IV
-34-                         Page 3 of 5
Ni, Cu, Co, Fe, A1203, MgO and SiO2 contents, "as received moisture" by
drying at 1050C and "loss on ignition" by heating at 8500C on approxi-
mately 6000 samples. Also a laboratory will be selected which is
qualified to make determination of Pt, Pd and Rh on about 500 samples.
The contract for these services will be awarded and administered on the
Government's behalf by the Project Manager.
Highgrade Mineability Study
13.     After the drilling of 150 holes is completed and reserves calculated
a consultant, either a mining geologist or mining engineer, experienced
in nickel laterites will use the data obtained in all Buhinda drilling
campaigns to determine the possibility of mining the highgrade area during
the initial years of plant operation. The consultant will propose a
preliminary mine plan, make an "order of magnitude" estimate of capital
and operating costs and, to the accuracy the data will permit, predict the
composition of the feed to the plant for the first 25 years of operation.
The results will be presented in a report to be written by the consultant.
A site visit might be necessary.
Hydroelectric Site Study
14.     After review of the fifty-hole average and with agreement of the
Government and IDA, a qualified consultant will start this study of reviewing
the existing data on potential sites. This includes earlier hydropower
proposals, water flow, topography and geology data, and existing or proposed
hydroprojects operating or under construction in Burundi. A site visit is
required to make ground level visits to all potential sites to be included
in this study and perhaps visit existing hydroelectric plants. He will
obtain information on the power demands of the proposed nickel project.
15.     After the data review and site visit, the consultant will determine
what additional information is required to complete his assignment. If
required, he will identify technical firms capable of providing aerial
photographic services, preparation of topographical maps, preparation of
geological maps for the selected sites. The project management firm will
contract for these services but the consultant will supervise the work.
If the consultant believes that additional water flow and sedimentation
measurements are required, he will specify the type and location of
measuring stations, and specify the equipment and procedures to be used.
The Project Manager will purchase the equipment on behalf of the Government
but the Government will install and operate the equipment, and record the
measurements.
16.     The consultant will estimate the generating capacity of each site.
He will prepare an "order of magnitude" estimate of capital and operating
costs for power projects at each site over 3MW generating capacity and the
required transmission lines to Musongati.



ANNEX IV
-35-                             Page 4 of 5
17.     The consultant will prepare a report presenting a description of
each site, a description of the proposed projects and transmission lines,
and recommending a program for the optimal development of the site or sites
as power sources for the proposed Musongati nickel project.
Sulfur Source Study
18.     After review of the fifty-hole average and with approval of the
Government and IDA, qualified consultants will seek information on sulfur
requirements of the pressure acid leach process and the matte smelting
process for treating Buhinda ore. They will seek general information on
potential sources of sulfur as sulfides, sulfates or elemental sulfur in
East Africa and they will prepare a work program.
19.     In Burundi, a geologist will review existing information on sulfides
and sulfates. At his home office, he will evaluate the data, assess the
potential for locating a sulfur source in Burundi, and, if warranted, propose
a plan for future sulfide exploration.
20.     A consultant experienced in raw material procurement will determine
potential sources of sulfur as sulfides, sulfates or elemental sulfur which
currently exist in neighboring countries such as Kenya, Rwanda, Tanzania,
Uganda, Zambia and Zaire. He will visit the Ministries of Mines and mining
companies to obtain information on availability,quality, transportation
facilities and approximate delivery cost from known, existing sources in
these countries.
21.     A qualified consultant will prepare a desk study on sources and costs
of elemental sulfur delivered to an East African port. He will determine the
ability of inland transportation facilities to deliver the elemental sulfur
to Musongati. He will obtain or estimate the cost of sulfur delivered at
Musongati.
2.      The firm responsible for the sulfur sources study will prepare a
report that presents a summary of the findings of the consultants, evaluation
of their results and estimation of the costs of sulfur, as sulfides, sulfates
or elemental sulfur, delivered to Musongati from the potential sources.
Process Selection Study
23.     After the completion of the sulfur source study, a qualified
consultant with no commercial interest in any process will, in agreement
with the Government and IDA, start this study. He will recommend metallurgi-
cal laboratories to perform bench scale tests on ore samples from Buhinda.
Three or four processes will be tested. The consultant will monitor the
tests and prepare a single report summarizing the results. The consultant
will review the literature and all existing tests results - laboratory and
pilot plant - and write a brief description of three or four most suitable
processes and compare the advantages and disavantages of each process. The
consultant will recommend sources, such as companies marketing nickel
processes, for obtaining data required to evaluate the three processes.



ANNEX IV
Page 5 of 5
-36-
These data, such as material balances, flow diagrams, size and cost of major
equipment can be very preliminary and only need to be sufficient for his
evaluation.
24.     The Project Manager will award contracts for the bench tests and
obtaining process data on behalf of the Government.
25.     The consultant will compile an "order of magnitude" capital and
operating costs for each process, making his own estimate and using data
obtained from groups marketing the processes. The consultant will prepare
a report summarizing and evaluating the processes on a common standard. The
consultant, with agreement of the Government, will include in the report a
recommendation of a single process for future pilot tests and feasibility
studies, and a plan for future development work.
Viability Update Study
26.     After completion of the process selection study and with agreement
of the Government and IDA,the project management firm will start a review
of the nickel project's viability based on all the information available
from peat work.
27.     The management firm will review all existing information, examine
the alternatives and propose a scope which optimizes the nickel project's
viability.
28.     The management firm will prepare a report which discusses the
alternatives, describes the proposed optimum plan, states the rationale
which justifies the optimum plan, and presents a realistic economic analysis
of the optimum plan. The report will have two main objectives: (i) to give
the Government an objective view of the project's potential and (ii) to
prepare the Government for future discussions with potential investors.
29.     The firm will also prepare a supplemental report which outlines the
work required to bring the project to a point where financing could be sought
for implementation.
General
30.     All reports are to be in English.



-37-
Chart I
BURUNDI EXPLORATION/ENGINEERING CREDIT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE                                                                             ANNEX V
1981                                 1982                                 1983
1        2        3        4         1        2        3        4         1        2         3        4
I7   Ir I                I I         I I  1    I:  I                      T7    IT I                
1  PROJECT MANAGEMENT (Nickel Exploration and Engineering Studies)                                             Stage I                       -         -    .Stage 1      
Prepare TOR, invite proposals and negotiate contract
It. NICKEL EXPLORATION PHASE Ill
Prepare TOR, invite proposals and negotiate contract (if necessary)
Plan campaign
Mobitize equipment and personnel
Drill and sample 141 m grid, about 50 holes
Evaluate and report results on 50 holes
Drill and sample 100 m grid, about 100 holes
Calculate highgrade reserves and report
Ill. ENGINEERING STUDIES
A, Highgrade Mineability Study
Prepare TORN invite proposals and negotiate contract (if necessary)
Examine and evaluate data
Prepare report
B. Hydroelectric Site Study
Prepare TOR, invite proposals and negotiate contract (if necessary)
Consultant visit sites
Propose technical services (mapping, geology, water flow., etc.)                                                               l     -
Execute technical swrvices
Develop optimal plan and costs, report
C. Sulfur Source Study
Prepare TOR, invite proposals and negotiate contract (if necessary)
Geologist visit Burundi
Geologist prepare report
Purchasing expert review data
Purchasing expert visit neighboring countries
Prepare report including rough costs
0 Process Selection Study
Prepare TOR, invite proposals and negotiate contract (if necessary)
Evaluate and recommend sources of process data
Conduct bench scale metallurgical tests
Receive and evaluate process data
Prepare report including basic process data
E. Project Viability Up-Date
Prepare TOR, invite proposals and negotiate contract (if necessary)
Receive and evaluate earlier reports
Prepare report including rough cost estimates                                                                                 *
IV. TRIAL PEAT PRODUCTION (EKONO Management)                                                                                      Review
Plan tests                                                                                Review
Survey bogs and report                                                                          _               _
Purchase and deliver equipment
Clear and prepare bogs
Sod and/or milling tests
Prepare drying fields
Dredging-drying tests                                                                                     -                 -
Prepare final report
Industrial Projects Department
March 1981                                                                                                                                                              World Bank -22623



-38-
ANNEX VI
BURUNDI EXPLORATION/ENGINEERING CREDIT
DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
F-timated Disbursements in Million US$
Bank Fiscal Year         Quarter      Quarterly                    Cumulative
FY 1982                   I
II         1.5                           1.5
III         0.5                           2.0
IV         0.5                           2.5
FY 1983                   I          0.3                           2.8
II         0.3                           3.1
III         0.3                           3.4
IV         0.2                           3.6
PY 1984                   I          0.2                           3.8
II         0.2                           4.0
Industrial Projects Department
March 1981



ANNEX VII
-39-
TYPICAL UNDEVELOPED NICKEL LATERITE DEPOSITS
RANKED BY GRADE & RESERVES
AVERAGE       ESTIMATED
PERCENT       RESERVES
LOCATION           PROJECT           NICKEL       MILLION TONNE
1.   New Caledonia     North Project          2.5            50
2.  Philippines        Rio Tuba               2.2            24         shipping ore
3.   Indonesia         Gabe Island            2.2            32         shipping ore
4.   Brazil            Barro Alto             1.9            42
5.   Burundi           Musongati            1.6-2.0          70               *
6.   Venezuela         Loma De iierro         1.7            ?
7.   Indonesia         Gag Island             1.5           190
8.   New Caledonia     Plaine de Lacs         1.4           400
9.   Philippines       Palawan                1.4           142
10.  India             Sukhinda               1.1            65
11. Puerto Rico        Guanaijibo             1.1            15
* This ranking of Musongati ignores the copper and platinum group metals which
are unique to Burundi.






IBRD 15221
\t   g to 30'                                                                  r |0                                                                                             8 33  0   AUGUST 1980
a( ,   .                U  G  A  N  D A fO _                               rB U R U N D I
Elda..t                               INTERNATIONAL TRANSPORTATION
0-                               do                                r         KiSumu                              8                             235 | Distartces in kilom eters
Pa-ed ro&ds
'~~~~~O  ~~~~~~  I                                                                     _______ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Earthrad
0 <4 t Mbarara          Ma atoa  i/t'----- 5 o                                                                                                        Paved roads ueder s-udy
ig; \ tvi > ~~~~~~~/                                                                     A ,  ,, 6t\
N@o \ j \2 riGk    ng- 1                     z                        :  .   !  ; J; {_ K t E  N  Y  A
\ \ Ot uetano       /                                5                                                                                              : 15 g >= +.S;  :: .  =  ,) ) r Railwazys ur der study
Auttsur       huKaot  /   Kasituwba;         C ,      0t3  F= <'          ;1.S-                                                                                      .-.-. tetereational boondaries
eruera er<\ '" uturra                                        l  ;# ,    &MoNa                                                NAIeODI
~\s\\   g    / f   ~> LGALl  t                        /                      0.F'              ( )
BuhXugu~~~~       ~~~~                                 Ct/I                                         u           Narv-t  jN.r
R.tdhb Koyaree                  k,Wmb. ar                                    9r a
eUJUMXS  Am,               5   Gia                                                                                  &o,                          Ausha
f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
4                     /~~~~4
\ 0 I          .,twAo,2eueutoh                                              I                           \
+t\\:C<_TANZ       A   R  IE i,0g3::  -
U- ,,                                     q I0    =,                                                                                 r ,,Tong     o0yZr  rr_ ur   O                       0   0,,.  ,0 ,  0
CHAOiA            u                                                                                                               .'0  50   1  .    o,ao.,0 |10'Ora.0_,t                            AA                   AM
-A   r   eozs    f            E          l    A    I        B           P I A                                                        A       N        I      A
\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A L9    A  ,       IV
7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4 AEe                                                                                                                                               N    f  t$a
I U .  NAA5l5f                                                                             '.30A
Z0A 130   5    RU     I                                        ,        - X                                               LOMTES                  100            200             300 400
| g 4 - ( iM02AMllfi:iik v PZ               A       M      B    I    A                                   -. . .oiuhLnd  E..... 






I B R D 15222R
BURUNDI  r                                              Tvkigeh      r                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~APRIL 1581
NICKEL DEPOSITS AND  RELATED  INFRASTRUCTURE                                                                                                &%iro   f\"     - .
JD (  NICKEL DEPOSITS                                                                                                        SW~; AMP                 U
1. Musongati: Estimated 75milliontonneatl.6%Ni,0.1%Co,0.3%Cu                                         55A   NI Dr A
2. Nyabikere: Estimated 46 million tanne at 1.5% Ni toAXNi'*Le4A,                            b
3. Waga:    Estimated 35 mil lion tonne ait 1.2 to LA % Ni
2A  PEAT DEPOSITS (Aksenyaru District)                                                                                                                                                                 5
1. Buyongwe: Estimated 19 million tonnes when dried to
30% H 20, 3300 K Cal/ kg.
2. Ndurumu:  Estimated l6millian tonnes when dried to 30% 11,0                                  ~
HYDROELECTRIC POWER PROJECTS                                       .Neg  Io,,,                                                           1AM
In Operation or Under Construction
1. Mugere          8. 0MW  to supply Bulumbura i
2. Gitega          1.3 MW                                                                                                                                t"5                    N..           
3. Mura3mvya       0.9MW                                                                                                                                                   wRbeoee
4. Bukavu          9.0MW imported from Zaire                        5                                                       
Under Preparation with Financing Secured
5 Rwegura         18.0MW                                                             ,
6. Bururi          2.0OMW                                                                      M
7. Muyinga         0.5MW                                                                           V
8. Kirundo         0.2MW
In Advanced Stage of Planning -
9. Rutana          10.0MW
10. Ruyigi          3.0 MW
Potentical Sites near  Musongti 
11. Sikuvyaye
12. Mulermbwe                                                     . j5
13. Ji1i                                                                                                                   So                                                MO,k   t
15. Nyukijanda                                                                                                                    , ;                    ,                 ,a, - ,f i  a pwo=
16. Kyoyngozi
17 Mutoyi
-    Paved roads
…   --Paved roads under construction
Earth/gravel surfaced roods                                                                                                                                                   KENYA
.......--- Roads being studied for construction to paved standards
Rivers                                                                                      '
International boundairies
Elevotion:                                                                                                                                                                                E
2,500 - 3,000 meters                                                                                                                                           TANZAA
2,000L- 2,500 meters                                                                                    . ;    T$ONK  Ii -         ,. ,                 (ek
1,500 - 2,000 meters                                     ~                                         ~     v      rk A I                         A4R      ae'atk
Below 1,500 meters                                                                                ise'.                      .



