CREDIT NUMBER 1154 BU
Development Credit Agreement
(Nickel Exploration Engineering Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                 ,\1981


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1154 BU
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                             , 1981, between
REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNA-
TIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Associa-
tion).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association
to assist in the financing of the foreign exchange cost of the
Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by extending the
Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Borrower intends to contract from the Republic of
Finland a grant (hereinafter called the Finnish Grant) in
an amount of about one million eight hundred thousard dollars
($1,800,000) equivalent to assist in financing Part B of the
Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement
(hereinafter called the Finnish Grant Agreement) to be entered
into between the Borrower and the Republic of Finland; and
(C) the Borrower intends to contract from the Kingdom of
Denmark a grant (hereinafter called the Danish Grant) in an
aggregate principal amount of about nine hundred thousand dollars
($900,000) equivalent to assist in financing Part B cf the Project
on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (hereinafter
called the Danish Grant Agreement) to be entered into between the
Borrower and the Kingdom of Denmark; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the
General Conditions).


﻿-2-
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and ir the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the term "Musongati
Project" means the planned project to implement the commercial
exploitation of the Musongati nickel deposits.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to three million three hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 3,300,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Association, for
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
Section 2.03. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and exploration services to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by
the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
(b) The Borrower shall cause its consultants for the manage-
m.2nt of Parts A and C through G of the Project to subcontract for
exploration services in accordance with the provisions for such
services in Schedule 3 hereof.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1984
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.


﻿-3-
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each March 15
and September 15 commencing September 15, 1991, and ending March
15, 2031, each installment to and including the installment
payable on March 15, 2001, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter
to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project
through its Ministry of Energy and Mines with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate financial, engineer-
ing and administrative practices, and shall provide, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the purpose.
(b) The Borrower shall assign to its Ministry of Energy
and Mines such number of Burundian professionals as shall be
deemed necessary in consultation with the Association, to assist
in carrying out the Project.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in the carrying
out of Parts A through G of the Project as well as to coordinate
the carrying out,of the Project, the Borrower shall employ consul-
tants whose' qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Borrower and the Associa-
tion.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any


﻿-4-
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause all goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and procurement schedules for the
Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request.
(b) The Borrower shall: (i) maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii)
enable the Association's accredited representatives to visit the
facilities and construction sites included in the Project and to
examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) furnish to the
Association at regular intervals all such information as the
Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, its
cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it,
the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and
services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the
Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and results
of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be
derived from it, the performance by the Borrower and the Associa-
tion of their respective obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit.
(d) Upon the award by the Borrower of any contract for
goods or services to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit, the Association may publish a description thereof, the
name and nationality of the party to whom the contract was awarded
and the contract price.


﻿-5-
Section 3.05. Upon completion of the drilling and sampling of
fifty holes under Part A of the Project, the Borrower shall (a)
suspend drilling of further holes until the average nickel content
of the ore recovered from the first forty holes drilled under the
Project and the ten holes drilled previously in the same area has
been determined; and
(b) not resume the carrying out of Part A of the Project
unless the Borrower and the Association agree that the average
nickel content of the ore recovered from said ten plus forty holes
exceeds 1.6 percent.
Section 3.06. (a) Upon completion of the survey to be carried
out under Part B.1 of the Project, the Borrower shall exchange
views with the Association, on the feasibility of the harvesting
method, recommended in such survey, and on any adverse environ-
mental or ecological effects which could result from the carrying
out of the peat production in accordance with such harvesting
method.
(b) Part B.2 of the Project shall only be carried out if the
results of the survey under Part B.1 of the Project establish
an economical and technical feasible level of peat production
satisfactory to the Borrower and the Association.
Section 3.07. Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 3.01
of this Agreement, the Borrower shall not carry out Parts C
through G of the Project unless the Borrower and the Association
agreed that the execution of Parts C through G is justified by
both: (i) the results of the analysis made pursuant to Section
3.05 of this Agreement or a later analysis under Part A of the
Project show a nickel content of the ore of the Buhinda Plateau
sufficient to carry out Parts C through G of the Project; and (ii)
the economical level of peat production that can be achieved under
the production method by the survey made under Part B.1 of the
Project.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when
needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for carrying out the Project.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall, at all times, during
execution of the Project, employ a Project Coordinator within its
Ministry responsible for mining, whose powers, responsibilities,
experience and qualification shall be satisfactory to the
Association.


﻿-6-
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices the
operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project,
of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. (a) For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof, namely, that subject to para-
graph (b) of this Section the right of the Borrower to withdraw
the proceeds of the Finnish Grant or the Danish Grant made to
the Borrower for the financing of the Project shall have been
suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole or in part, pursuant
to the terms of the Finnish Grant Agreement or Danish Grant
Agreement.
(b) Paragraph (a) of this Section shall not apply if: (i)
such suspension, cancellation or termination is not caused by the
failure of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations under
such agreement; and (ii) adequate funds for the Project are
available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and condi-
tions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under this
Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the
General Conditions:
(a) the Association has been notified by the Republic of
Finland and the Kingdom of Denmark that all conditions precedent


﻿-7-
to the initial disbursements of the Finnish Grant and the Danish
Grant, respectively, other than the effectiveness of this Agree-
ment, have been fulfilled;
(b) the consultants have been appointed by the Borrower
to carry out Part B.1 of the Project; and
(c) the Association has been furnished by the Borrower with
a copy of its contract with the consultants employed pursuant to
Section 3.02 of this Agreement to coordinate the carrying out of
the Project.
Section 6.02. The date OCY-  W   131 rlis hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower responsible for
Mines is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Minister of Energy and Mines
B.P. 745
Bujumbura, Burundi
Cable address:                       Telex:
Geomines, Bujumbura                 48 BDI
Burundi
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿-8-
Cable address:                      Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By       f
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of foreign exchange
costs to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the
allocation of amounts of the Credit to each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
(Expressed in
Category                                     SDR Equivalent)
(1) Consultants services to manage                   290,000
Parts A, C, D, E, F and G of
the Project
(2) Exploration services and equipment             1,310,000
to carry out Part A of the Project
(3) Consultants Services to carry out                620,000
Parts C, D, E, F and G of the
Project
(4) Consultants services to carry out                130,000
Part B.2 of the Project
(5) Equipment needed to carry out                    370,000
Part B.2 of the Project
(6) Unallocated                                      580,000
TOTAL                     3,300,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule the term "foreign expendi-
tures" means for the purposes of this Schedule expenditures
in the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than the Borrower.
3.    The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied


﻿- 10 -
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of: (a) payments made for
expenditures prior to                          ; and (b) payments
made for expenditures under Category (3) unless agreement has been
reached between the Borrower and the Association pursuant to
Section 3.07 of the Development Credit Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the. Association has reasonably estimated
that the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category
will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all
expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by notice to
the Borrower reallocate to such Category, to the extent required
to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are
then allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the
Association are not needed to meet other expenditures.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that
the procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way
restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the
Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to
the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Associa-
tion's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expendi-
tures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out
of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿-- - 11 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:   Nickel Expl6ration
Drilling and sampling of about 150 holes on the Buhinda
Plateau to analyse the tonnage and composition of the
ore reserves, in particular of the nickel, copper,
cobalt and platinum group metals content of such ore.
Part B:   Trial Peat Production
1.   A survey of the Buyongwe and Ndurumu bogs to determine
their peat content, the economically and technically
optimum harvesting method and the cost thereof.
2.   Carrying out trials to determine the feasibility of peat
production in the Buyongwe and Ndurumu bogs.
Part C:   Highgrade Mineability Study
A study to analyze the mineability of high grade ore and
estimate the capital and operating cost of mining such
ore on the Buhinda Plateau.
Part D:   Hydroelectric Site Study
A study:
1.   to examine the electric power requirements of the
Musongati Project;
2.   to examine new sites for the generation of electricity
near Musongati; and
3.   to estimate, on a preliminary basis, the generating
potential and cost of each site, and to prepare a plan
for their development.
Part E:   Sources of Sulfur
1.   A preliminary study to determine the possibility of
locating sulfide or sulfate minerals and make recom-
mendations on obtaining sulfur: (a) as a mineral in


﻿- 12 -
Burundi; (b) as a mineral or a by-product of mining
operations in neighboring countries; and (c) as
elemental sulfur, imported into Burundi.
2.   If the Borrower and the Association shall so agree, a
study to prepare a sulfur exploration programme, based
upon the results of Part E.1 (a) hereof.
3.   If the Borrower and the Association shall so agree based
upon the results of Part E.1 (b) and (c) hereof, a study
to estimate the cost of transporting of any sulfur
bearing material from neighboring countries for use in
the Musongati Project.
Part F:   Process Selection Study:
A study to analyse the results of bench scale metallurgical
tests and the process design parameters obtained from firms
marketing each process and, thereafter, to compare objectively
the processes based on the bench results, design parameters, costs
of peat, power and sulfur and the confirmed ore compositions.
Part G:   Review of the viability of the Musongati Project
A study to assess the overall technical, financial and
economic viability of the Musongati Project.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1983.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part B hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement under
World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in
March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of
international competitive bidding as described in Part A of the
Guidelines.
2.   For goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of paragraph
1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and forward to
the Bank as soon as possible, and in any event not later than 60
days prior to the date of availability to the public of the first
tender or prequalification documents relating thereto, as the case
may be, a general procurement notice, in such form and detail and
containing such information as the Bank shall reasonably request;
the Bank will arrange for the publication of such notice in order
to provide timely notification to prospective bidders of the
opportunity to bid for the goods in question. The Borrower shall
provide the necessary information to update such notice annually
so long as any goods remain to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state in
their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported goods,
or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other goods,
offered in such bid; and (ii) customs duties and other import
taxes levied in connection with the importation, or the sales and
similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or delivery,
pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken into account
in the evaluation of the bids.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
Contracts for the supply of goods estimated to cost less than
the equivalent of $300,000 each and contracts for exploration
services shall be procured through limited international tendering


﻿- 14 -
on the basis of at least four responsive quotations from suppliers
of at least three countries, members of the Association, Switzer-
land or Taiwan.
C.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts with respect to all contracts estimated to cost the
equivalent of $100,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in
sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the evalua-
tion and comparison of the bids received, and such other inform-
ation as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association
shall, if it determines that the intended award would be inconsis-
tent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the
Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to
the submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
after its execution and prior to the submission to the Association
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit


﻿-15 -
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids,
recommendations for award and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it
determines that the award of the contract was not consistent with
the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 15% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Association of the proposed modification, waiver, .extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Association, if it
determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the
provisions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower
and state the reasons for its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the            day of
198 /
FOR SECRETARY


