Report No. PID8932
Project Name                     TANZANIA-Eastern Arc Forests Conservation (@)
and Management Project (GEF)
Region                           Africa Regional Office
Sector                           Forestry (96%); Central government administration (4%)
Project ID                       P057234
Borrower(s)                      GOVERNMENT OF TANZANIA
Implementing Agency
MINISTRY OF NATURAL RESOURCES & TOURISM
Forestry and Beekeeping Division
Address: P.O. Box 426, Dar es Salaam, Tanzania
Contact Person: Prof. Said Iddi, Dr. Felician Kilahama
Tel: 255-22-2111602
Fax: 255-22-2130091
Email: tfcmp@intafrica.com
Eastern Arc Mountains Conservation Endowment Fund
Address: P.O. Box 40832, Dar es Salaam, Tanzania
Contact Person: Vincent Shauri
Tel: 255-22-2780859
Fax: 255-22-2780859
Environment Category             B
Date PID Prepared                February 4, 2003
Auth Appr/Negs Date              September 27, 2001
Bank Approval Date               March 27, 2003
1. Country and Sector Background
Main sector issues
Tanzania's 1998 Forest Policy characterizes the most important priorities
and constraints with regard to the sector as being related to the need to:
manage the country's forest resources in respect of its various types
(woodlands, high forests, coastal forests); uses (production and
protection forests); and legal status (reserved forests, forests/woodlands
within national parks, and non-reserved forested land);
manage forest industries and other forest-based activities to contribute
to national development and to the equitable sharing of benefits between
stakeholders;
conserve the country's unique ecosystems and biological diversity,
considering the needs of local populations and appropriate methods of
management and use; and
adapt the institutional arrangements and financial and human resource
requirements to meet these objectives of forest sector development.
More specifically, factors which constrain the effective management of
Tanzania's forest and woodland resources include:



weak oversight for forest and woodland management, rooted in problems of
accountability and supervision in the current institutional framework. As
an outcome, forest exploitation has, in many instances, been subject to
few controls or constraints, and has resulted in the movement and
settlement of people into reserved forests, and the unsustainable and
illegal harvesting of wood for commercial purposes;
an ineffective system of decentralized forest administration, which
separates the need for enforcement and regulation from the needs of rural
communities for forest and woodland products; one outcome of this is the
limited emphasis on the role of forestry institutions in service delivery;
inadequate systems of revenue collection in a decentralized forestry
administration, and inadequate mechanisms for ensuring that revenues
collected are used, in turn, for forest management or are otherwise
returned or shared with villages and communities with a stake in forest
protection. Targets set for revenue collection are not clearly
rationalized, and though it is estimated that less than 10 percent of
revenues which are due from natural forests are actually collected, little
thinking has focused on how and with what objective should revenues be
collected. Low rates of revenue collection adversely affect recurrent
funding of forestry activities, increase the potential for rent-seeking,
and encourage rates of consumption which are not consistent with the
economic costs of forest exploitation;
inadequate institutional mechanisms for forest biodiversity conservation
specifically with the capacity to assess the need for, plan, coordinate,
implement and monitor conservation activities;
widely disparate systems of tenure over forested lands and related weak
incentives to undertake community-based forest conservation, such as in
the Eastern Arc forests, with unclear opportunities for closer cooperation
with villages to undertake these activities;
limited scope for publicly-financed forest biodiversity conservation
(largely because public revenue streams from logging have dried up since a
logging ban was put in place) and a heavy dependency on donor assistance
to provide irregular support for the sector;
limited effectiveness of the public expenditure program in the forestry
sector in meeting national forest policy objectives, and highly distorted
financial and technical resource delivery from the donor community.
Government Strategy
Government's strategy for improving the management of the forest sector is
captured in three processes: the forest policy process, which was
completed in 1998; the legislative process, which is underway, and is
intended to provide the basis for the implementation of the policy; and
the process which has led to the preparation of the National Forest
Program, which prioritizes a program for future action within the already
defined policy framework.
The overall goal of Government's National Forest Policy is to enhance the
contribution of the forest sector to the sustainable development of
Tanzania, and the conservation and management of its natural resources for
the benefit of present and future generations. Consistent with this
overall goal, the government strategy for doing this is to:
ensure sustainable supplies of forest products and services by maintaining
sufficient forest cover under effective management;
- 2 -



increase employment and foreign exchange earnings through sustainable
forest-based industrial development and trade;
ensure ecosystem stability through the conservation of forest
biodiversity, water catchments, and soil fertility; and
enhance national capacity to manage and develop the forest sector in
collaboration with other stakeholders.
Government intends to implement its strategy by relying on a diverse set
of institutions, including the private sector, local government,
specialized 'executive agencies,' and communities or other organizations
of people living adjacent to forests. Decentralized forest management
will be strengthened and improved by clarifying the role of Villages in
forest management and protection, by developing coordination mechanisms
between central and local forest administrations, and by ensuring
accountability mechanisms are incorporated into institutional change
efforts. Functions which would be retained by the Ministry responsible
for natural resources would be limited to policy development, regulation,
monitoring, and facilitation.
Legislation to support implementation of the 1998 Forest Policy is in the
process of being prepared. While new legislation will provide a stronger
legal basis for policy implementation, tremendous latitude for action is
possible within the existing framework (viz. the establishment of Nature
Reserves, the scope for village-based forest reserves and management,
improved performance with regard to revenue collection, the establishment
of specialized 'executive agencies,' and so on).
Following adoption of the Forest Policy, Government launched preparation
of the National Forest Program (NFP), which outlines a plan for
implementation of the policy. The National Forest Program outlines a
four-fold program of forest development in Tanzania:
forest resources conservation and management (in which both biodiversity
conservation and participatory forest management feature strongly);
institutional and human resources development;
legal and regulatory development; and
forest industries development.
The NFP provides the framework for future public expenditure in the
forestry sector, and outlines priorities for donor financing. It has been
envisaged that the principal financial delivery mechanism for the National
Forest Program is this Forest Conservation and Management Project (FCMP)
into which proposed GEF support has been fully-blended. As such, the FCMP
has been prepared in close collaboration with the preparation of the
National Forest Program, to ensure consistency in approach and objectives,
and ultimately, to focus on the strategic provision of resources to assist
in the implementation of the NFP. Additional bilateral support for
implementation of the NFP is in the process of being mobilized.
2. Objectives
Background: Forests and woodlands in Tanzania
Tanzania is covered extensively with woodlands and forests. The bulk of
these resources -- between 30 and 40 million hectares -- are comprised of
extensive dry woodlands, primarily of the miombo type, which provide
-3 -



critical wood resources and other forest products both to rural
communities and urban centers, and perform important services as watershed
catchments and as dry season grazing reserves. Miombo woodlands are
typically very resilient, and regenerate freely after disturbance if left
alone. Although rates of species diversity and endemicity in miombo
woodlands are relatively low, they do provide extensive large mammal
habitats (which, in part, support a valuable tourism industry) and are
recognized as one of WWF's 'Global 200' priority ecoregions.
In contrast, the country's tropical moist forests account for a relatively
small percentage of the total. The bulk of the country's forest
biodiversity is found in its mountain forests, and in a narrow strip of
forests along the coast which in total comprise less than 5 percent of the
total forest area. Amongst the most important of these are the Eastern
Arc forests, which cover an area of around 5,350 square kilometers spread
across 10 separate mountain blocks in Tanzania (and one in Kenya). The
Eastern Arc forests represent one of the oldest and most stable
terrestrial ecosystems on the continent and are recognized globally as one
of 25 biodiversity hotspots, which are characterized by high
concentrations of endemic species under considerable threat.
The Eastern Arc forests have the highest known number of plant and animal
species of any region in Tanzania. Approximately 27 percent of the plant
species, 63 percent of the linyphiid spider species, 43 percent of
butterfly species, 33 percent of amphibian species, 37 percent of the
reptile species, 37 percent of the bird species, and 34 percent of the
mammal species found in Tanzania occur in these forests. The Eastern Arc
is also characterized by high concentrations of endemic species. Indeed,
the Eastern Arc forests are known as one of the most important sites in
Africa for endemic birds, amphibians, reptiles, many groups of
invertebrates, and plants, and contains one of the highest proportions of
endemic species of any region worldwide. There are at least 16 endemic
plant genera in the Arc. Twenty of 21 African violet species (Saintpaulia
spp.) are endemic to the Arc. Of the known species occurring within the
Eastern Arc, approximately 23 percent of montane plant species, 82 percent
of linyphiid spider species, 39 percent of the butterflies species, 63
percent of forest dependent amphibian species, 68 percent of forest
dependent reptile species, 3 percent of the bird species, and 6 percent of
the mammal species are endemic. Patterns of species diversity and
endemism in the Eastern Arc have been the subject of extensive research.
The fragmentation of the Eastern Arc into multiple forest blocks has
contributed to enhancing its endemicity. Most mountain blocks are
comprised of a number of fragmented forest patches, which also differ in
their species assemblages. Because of its global biodiversity
significance, the Eastern Arc is expected to be proposed as a World
Heritage Site in the near future.
Tanzania's forests and woodlands are extremely important for mitigating
the impacts of rural poverty. Recent studies have shown that fully 40
percent of total household consumption in some rural areas is accounted
for by forest and woodland products such as firewood, construction
material, and wild fruit and other foods (a point noted in Tanzania's
Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper). In addition, woodlands are an
important source of dry season grazing, reducing households' exposure to
- 4 -



environmental risk. Rural households generally use a wide variety of
environmental resources from woodlands, and the sizeable aggregate value
of environmentally-derived income is made up of a fairly large number of
smaller individual income sources. In other studies from the region, it
has also been shown that there is a negative relationship between
aggregate environmental income share and total household income, that the
poor are more resource-dependent than the rich (though better off
households are, in quantitative terms, the most significant users of
environmental resources). There is considerable complexity in the factors
which determine levels of resource use: different households use different
resources for different reasons at different times. Still, the
conclusions are inescapable: the rural poor are heavily dependent on
resources derived from woodlands, and deforestation and forest degradation
poses a significant threat to rural livelihoods.
In addition to Tanzania's indigenous forests, there are an estimated
135,000 ha of industrial plantations, dominated by pine and cypress, of
which 80,000 ha are under Government control and management. These
plantations are a key resource for the production of industrial roundwood,
primarily to meet domestic demands.
In 1998, the export of forest products amounted to US$6.5 million while
imports totalled around US$4.2 million. Wood carvings, blackwood clarinet
sets, and logs from natural forests are the most important export
products, whereas imports are dominated by value-added products such as
paper, paperboard, fiberboard, plywood, and other panels, and high quality
sawnwood.
Like virtually every major forest area of global importance, Tanzania's
forests and woodlands are under growing pressures from population growth
and economic development, and because of the need for timber and forest
products. Many forested areas have no protected status. The absence of
protected status has meant that these forests may be converted, legally,
to other uses (primarily agriculture, which tends to be of very low
productivity). For forested areas which are under some sort of protected
status, there is often substantial political pressure to use them for new
settlement -- pressures which are amplified because of encroachment in
some areas. It is accepted that formal protection or reservation is no
panacea, though, and recent policy and legal changes have sought to
improve the context for locally-based village-level woodland management
and protection.
Large-scale timber extraction still occurs, albeit illegally because of a
moratorium on the felling of high forests established in the early 1990s.
Logging has been almost completely stopped in some areas (such as in the
East Usambaras). However, there are few incentives - or the capacity -
otherwise to reduce or even to monitor the rates of extraction. In
practice, District Forest Officers (who are accountable to the local
District Administration rather than to FBD) sometimes condone harvesting
in high forests. Many Districts make their own decisions about logging,
and some have even called for logging in their District forest management
plans, irrespective of national policy. Bans on the harvesting of timber
from dry woodlands are occasionally enforced, but only on an ad hoc
basis. The issue is far less critical in these woodlands because of their
resilience, regenerative capacity, and relatively low conservation value.
State-managed industrial plantations could ease some of the pressures on
- 5 -



indigenous forests, but these have been poorly and ineffectively managed.
There are sixteen state forest plantation areas. The bulk are found in
Sao Hill (41,600 ha), Meru/Usa, North Kilimanjaro, and West Kilimanjaro,
which collectively account for 72 percent of the total area under
plantations. The private sector currently operates 55,000 ha of
plantations including about 6,000 ha of wattle, teak and softwoods managed
by Tanganyika Wattle Company in Njombe District, Escarpment Forest Company
in Mufindi District, and Kilombero Valley Teak Company in Kilombero
District respectively.
The state plantation sector accounts for the bulk of all revenues
collected by the Forestry and Beekeeping Division (FBD) of the Ministry of
Natural Resources and Tourism (MNRT) -- around 46 percent in 1998 --
largely because only a small proportion of the revenue from natural
forests (which account for most domestically marketed forest products) is
collected.
In light of the large inefficiencies and relatively high costs of
continuing to manage the state plantation sector, there is a limited
economic rationale for continued Government involvement in the sector. It
has been estimated that the plantation labor force exceeds that which is
needed by 150 percent. Total employment in the Forestry and Beekeeping
Division is around 2,150 staff, of which 1,050 are employed in the
plantation sector. [In contrast, staffing in the entire Eastern Arc
forests, an area covering over 5,000 square kilometers, consists of 8
Forest Officers and 57 Assistant Forest Officers.]
The management and conservation of all of these forest resources is widely
agreed to be in the country's national interests, but not surprisingly has
proven to be an enormous challenge. Of the wooded area, around 10 million
ha are Central Government Reserves and 3 million ha are Local Government
Reserves. The balance, estimated at around 20 million ha, has no
protected status. A new category of reserved forest, the Village Forest
Reserve, poses much promise for legitimizing community-based woodland
management and conservation, but this tenure category has yet to be
formally legislated.
The Forestry and Beekeeping Division provides overall policy guidance for
the forestry sector, and some technical oversight and supervision. For
the most part, however, management and protection of all reserves has been
highly decentralized, and is primarily the responsibility of District
Forest Officers (DFOs) and their staff, who report to local district
administrations (with the exception of a number of major catchment
forests, which are under the management of FBD). The current
institutional structure has been problematic, and badly in need of
reform. The fundamental orientation of the institutional structure is
toward regulation and enforcement of forest legislation -- roles which
were largely appropriate in an earlier context when there were few needs
to mediate between the demands of rural people, the state, and the private
sector, but which are mostly inappropriate in contemporary Tanzania where
forest protection and management can no longer be undertaken independently
of the needs of rural communities.
In particular, Government has been aggressively searching for more
effective ways to support the involvement of communities in forest and
woodland management and protection, as the bulk of wooded areas are under
their ultimate control. The potential for the involvement of communities
in woodland management has been explored and supported through a series of
innovative pilots. These experiences have been captured in extensive
policy reforms, and legal mechanisms are being drafted which will
- 6 -



reinforce the role of communities in this respect.
Until recently, the institutional, policy, and legal framework provided
only limited scope for supporting forest biodiversity conservation. As a
signatory to the Convention on Biodiversity, Tanzania is increasingly
recognizing its important obligation to put in place sound mechanisms for
forest biodiversity conservation, but is ill-equipped to do so within the
prevailing institutional structure. Forest protection was undertaken in
the past only to meet the needs of the timber industry, and also for
watershed catchment protection. There is a very limited capacity to take
on the wider issues associated with biodiversity conservation within FBD,
and a widespread recognition that this constraint needs urgently to be
addressed.
Resources to finance the management of woodlands and forests are tightly
constrained, and the sector remains heavily dependent on donors. The more
effective collection of revenues from the felling of timber and other
forest products, coupled with greater protection from local and government
sources, could begin to address the problem. Poor governance in the
sector, and the lack of accountability and supervision in the field,
however, are constraints to doing so. Further, the ability to use these
limited resources to finance biodiversity conservation is limited, given
the low returns which can be anticipated from these investments.
Finally, although donor support has provided badly needed resources for
forest and biodiversity conservation and management, this support remains
highly fragmented and largely ineffective at addressing Tanzania's
national policy priorities. In 1996, it was estimated that the ratio of
donor support in the forestry sector to publicly-financed support for
forestry was 19 to 1 and that donor resources were largely not being
captured by the budget process. This disparity between donor and public
funding, and the inefficiencies which in some respect are driven by it,
suggests that it is extremely difficult for Government to address its own
policy priorities (rather than the donor community's) through the public
expenditure program.
Past Bank support for the sector
IDA's most recent past support for the sector (through the Forest
Resources Management Project, FRMP) was formulated as a first step in
addressing Tanzania's forest management challenges as articulated in the
1989 Tanzania Forestry Action Plan, and had three specific objectives: (a)
to strengthen institutions in charge of the development of forest policies
and natural resources information; (b) to support the development of rural
land policies, strengthen crucial governmental and non-governmental
organizations in charge of the implementation of these policies, and to
support the implementation and monitoring of government's policy of
village demarcation and titling; and (c) to strengthen regional and
district forestry institutions in Mwanza and Tabora Regions. This project
has now closed, and its modest successes provided important lessons and
insights about the possibilities and potential for improving forest
management.
In many respects, the forestry sector is at a critical turning point in
Tanzania. A new national Forestry policy was adopted by the Cabinet in
1998, and supporting legislation is being drafted. The policy is
innovative and provides substantial scope for developing alternative
forest management and conservation regimes and financing mechanisms.
- 7 -



Consistent with the on-going civil service reform program, policy
recognized the need for substantive institutional reforms in the forestry
sector, and has proposed the creation of a new Tanzania Forest Service
(TFS). With regard to biodiversity conservation, the new policy commits
government to establishing nature reserves in areas of high biodiversity
value. Most importantly, however, the policy argues that local
institutions and communities should have a central role in forest
conservation and management. Policy provided the framework for
preparation of the National Forest Program (NFP), which was approved by
Government in November 2001, and future Bank support is seen to be
entirely mainstreamed into the priorities outlined in the NFP.
Development objectives
Building on experience gained through FRMP, and responding to the
priorities outlined in the new Forest Policy and the National Forest
Program, the objectives of the proposed Forest Conservation and Management
Project (FCMP) are to provide the resources to assist Government in policy
implementation, in particular by developing a framework for the long-term
sustainable management and conservation of Tanzania's forest resources,
strengthening the role of individuals, communities, villages, and the
private sector in management and conservation of forests, and implementing
this framework on a pilot scale. The project's specific objectives are
to: (i) support the establishment of a new national forestry institutional
framework effectively to support the sustainable management and protection
of Tanzania's forest, woodland and industrial plantation resources; (ii)
establish the framework for involvement of the private sector in
industrial plantation development and management; and (iii) develop the
institutional capacity within the forestry sector for coordination,
financing, and management of biodiversity conservation interventions
within Tanzania's forests, in particular in the forests of the Eastern Arc
mountains. It is envisaged that this third objective will be implemented
in conjunction with support from the Global Environment Facility.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The involvement of the Bank would allow valuable lessons and initiatives
started under the previous FRMP and other donor projects to be put into
effect and a scaled-up approach to forest management and conservation
taken under FCMP. These include a more effective institutional approach
to forest management and conservation as well as the application of
improved participatory approaches to forest management and the involvement
of the private sector as the key manager in industrial plantations.
The participation of the GEF and the establishment of a sustainable
financing mechanism for ongoing conservation of the Eastern Arc Mountain
Forests, and, eventually, other endangered areas of biodiversity in
Tanzania makes it possible for an integrated and participatory
intervention to safeguard one of the world's most important ecosystems.
Added value from the Bank's perspective comes from its global experience
in the design, implementation and financing of biodiversity conservation
and GEF projects. The GEF involvement makes possible a conservation
program that would otherwise have been difficult to achieve.
4. Description
The Tanzania Forest Conservation and Management Project will have three
components.
-8-



Supporting institutional change and improving service delivery
This component will assist the government with the design and
establishment of the Tanzania Forest Service (TFS), as a specialized
'executive agency' as defined by the Executive Agencies Act (1997), and
consistent with the wider and on-going national program of civil service
reform. It is envisaged that the Tanzania Forest Service will, among
other things, have responsibility for bringing about improvements in the
protection and management of natural forests and the development and
management of industrial plantations (including promoting the private
sector to take on these tasks). The concept is that an agency with a
national mandate will eventually be established. Technical assistance
will be provided to work with FBD and the Civil Service Department (CSD)
and other relevant government agencies to design the structure and
functions of the agency and to draw up the necessary implementation plans
and guidelines for establishment of the agency, including the formulation
of business and staff recruitment plans. This component will also provide
support to build on experience from previous operations, and upon the
opportunities posed by the new Forest Policy, and planned legislation.
Three sub-components of this activity are envisaged:
(i) Establishment of the Tanzania Forest Service, focusing on the
phased-in introduction of the new executive agency, with clearly defined
roles, functions, performance standards, and monitoring. This
sub-component would provide resources to manage the change process, to
strengthen the capacity for administration and management, to rationalize
and to strengthen the capacity for tasks related to policy, planning, and
legislation (which would remain with the Ministry), and would support a
badly-needed program of investments in infrastructure, including
headquarter and field facilities for the TFS. Complementary support will
be provided by GEF to improve the capacity for the conservation and
management of forest biodiversity, particularly in the Eastern Arc forests
(described in the third project component).
(ii) Improving service-delivery mechanisms for participatory forest and
woodland management, in particular, support for the establishment of
Village Forest Reserves, woodland management by individuals and
communities (ngitiri), and Joint Forest Management, building on
experiences piloted in earlier operations. This sub-component which will
focus on facilitating the expansion of community based forest management
activities, is envisaged to be supported by the Government of Denmark.
(iii) Improving revenue collection from forests and woodlands, to meet the
dual objectives of improving the capacity of the TFS to become
self-financing, and of ensuring that revenues are reinvested at the local
level in forest protection and management through local institutions.
This component will develop alternative revenue collection mechanisms, and
monitoring systems to improve rates of collection.
A mid-term review would determine outstanding issues and provide
recommendations for improving the efficiency and effectiveness of the
TFS. A further evaluation will be undertaken prior to project completion
and, as well as determining the degree of achievement and success of the
TFS, will develop lessons for the future.
Private sector involvement in the management of industrial plantations
The project will provide resources to develop and implement a framework
for the involvement of the private sector in the management of existing
industrial plantations as well as to strengthen the potential for the
development and management of new plantations. This would include an
analysis of the technical and financial feasibility of the industrial
-9-



plantations with reference to existing and potential markets as well as
the formulation of steps and guidelines for the private sector's
involvement. Multiple mechanisms for the involvement of the private
sector will be developed and implemented on a pilot basis, and are
expected to include leasing or concession arrangements, joint forest
management, and co-management. Consistent with policy, the objective is
eventually to introduce fully commercial plantation management, building
on information and experience gained through project activities.
Four sub-components are envisaged:
(i) Improving the plantation resource information base and management
planning capacity. This sub-component will provide resources to develop
the information needed to allow for the identification and selection of
priority sites and for designing pilot activities. The sub-component will
finance aerial photography, interpretation, mapping, and indicative
inventories of around 40,000 ha of state-owned plantations; a rapid
socio-economic assessment which identifies key stakeholders, their
concerns, and expectations and any mitigating steps which might be needed;
the development of a plantation database for management purposes;
preparation of basic guidelines to guide plantation management and to
establish parameters for monitoring commercial plantation operations;
preparation of basic growth and yield tables for key species relying on
existing data; preliminary estimates of growing stock and allowable cut;
and capacity building of staff in selected areas to build capacity to
undertake these tasks.
(ii) Strengthening institutional support services for private sector
involvement. This sub-component will support the creation of an enabling
institutional and market environment for private sector involvement in
plantation development and management. It will provide resources for the
design and implementation of a communication strategy; the development of
a plan of action with agreed principles and clear objectives for private
sector involvement; strengthening the capacity within MRNT or within the
planned forest agency to handle PSI; the development of legal procedures
and instruments for tendering to ensure transparency and consistency with
Government guidelines and with social and environmental safeguards; the
preparation of model information memoranda, leases, model contracts, and
transparent bidding assessment procedures, as well as community and
environmental action plans where they are needed; prepare recommendations
on an improved log sales system; an action plant for improving forestry
taxation and the investment environment for plantation forestry; and study
tours and staff training to increase an understanding of the principles
surrounding private sector involvement.
(iii) Pilot alternative management of selected industrial plantations.
Three pilot activities are envisaged under this component: the development
of leasing or concession arrangements for involving the private sector in
plantation management; the development of co-management arrangements where
responsibility for plantation management is shared between Government and
a partner (for example, a village or a company); and designated community
management for a plantation area where responsibilities and control are
assumed by a village. The project will provide resources to establish
boundaries of each pilot area, to carry out rapid inventories or aerial
surveys as needed, to prepare legal documentation as needed, and to carry
out stakeholder surveys and assessments where communities will be involved
or otherwise affected by the program.
(iv) Monitoring and evaluation. The project will place a strong emphasis
on the monitoring and evaluation of performance under the pilot
- 10 -



operations. The project will provide resources to establish a mechanism
for monitoring and evaluation; to determine performance indicators for the
pilot operations; to implement a regular monitoring process which reports
against quantitative and qualitative performance indicators; and to
provide feedback to MNRT to modify mechanisms and procedures on the basis
of results from the pilot operations.
Eastern Arc forests conservation and management
This third component of the program, which is largely to be financed by
GEF (and possibly with bilateral sources) has been jointly developed and
implemented by the World Bank and UNDP working with Government and other
partners with interests in the forestry sector. This component will
support institutional reform, strategy development, pilot community-based
conservation, and the development of sustainable financing for tropical
high forest conservation in Tanzania.
The main global environmental objective of this GEF activity is to promote
the sustainable conservation and management of the Eastern Arc forests.
The GEF activity is expected to have four sub-components, the first two of
which will be implemented by the World Bank:
(i) Institutional reforms for forest biodiversity conservation, in
particular of the Eastern Arc forests at central, district and local
partnership levels to incorporate specific responsibilities for
biodiversity conservation, oversight, monitoring and coordination. Such
reforms will be linked with other reforms and institutional restructuring
proposed for the forestry sector as a whole, which are to be financed by
IDA. The GEF implementing agency for this sub-component would be the Bank;
(ii) Mechanisms for sustainable financing of biodiversity conservation,
will be developed including the establishment of the Eastern Arc Mountains
Conservation Endowment Fund (EAMCEF). It is envisaged that a pilot
endowment trust fund will be established by the project, with GEF
resources. The EAMCEF's initial operations and programs will be
co-financed by IDA. The GEF implementing agency for this sub-component
would be the Bank.
Two additional components are to be implemented by the UNDP and are
complementary to the Bank-implemented activities:
(iii) Development and preparation of an integrated Conservation Strategy
for the Eastern Arc Mountain Forests using a broad-based participatory
process, with a focus on institutional capacity building, and which
considers links to other sectoral activities, such as agriculture, water,
land, and energy. A wider dialogue on the impacts of sectoral activities
on forest biodiversity conservation in the Eastern Arc will be developed
amongst the key institutions involved in sectoral activities. Mapping and
baseline activities will be undertaken as part of the Strategy
development, and will include an assessment of the multiple tenure regimes
found in the forests of the Arc. The GEF implementing agency for this
sub-component would be UNDP.
(iv) A forest conservation intervention through government and community
partnership initiatives which will be undertaken at priority sites in the
Uluguru Mountains - one of the most important mountain forest blocks in
the arc. Firm linkages will be established with partners (other donors,
NGOs, Community-based organizations, government agencies, etc.) The GEF
implementing agency for this sub-component would be UNDP.
A Project Brief for the full GEF activity has been prepared and was
approved by the GEF Council in December 2001. GEF-financed activities
will be subsequently Appraised. IDA-financed activities, however, have
been Appraised.



Project Administration and Management
Finally, the project will finance the costs of administration and
management of the project components, in a manner consistent with World
Bank guidance with respect to accounting, financial management, and
procurement.
A. Supporting Institutional Change and Improving Service Delivery
1. Establishment of the Tanzania Forest Service
2. Improving revenue collection from forests and woodlands
3. Improving service delivery mechanisms for participatory forest and
woodland management
B. Private Sector Involvement in the Management of Industrial Plantations
C. Eastern Arc Forest Conservation and Management
1.   Eastern Arc Mountains Conservation Endowment Fund
2.   Improving Institutional Support Services for forest biodiversity
conservation
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
BORROWER/RECIPIENT $1.70
IBRD
IDA $31.10
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY $7.00
NON-GOVERNMENT ORGANIZATION (NGO) OF BORROWING COUNTRY $0.20
Total Project Cost $40.00
6. Implementation
Government of Tanzania
The National Forest Program provides the overall framework for project
implementation. The project is the primary mechanism for mobilizing
finance for implementation of the NFP, which will be complemented by other
donor initiatives which are in the process of being mobilized.
Three coordination mechanisms are envisaged:
Consistent with the objectives of developing a sector-wide approach toward
forestry investment, the National Forest Program Steering Committee will
have overall oversight for ensuring that project activities are
implemented in a manner which is consistent with the NFP. The members of
the Project Preparation Working Group (which provided oversight during
preparation) have been incorporated into the NFP Steering Committee, which
may choose to constitute a smaller FCMP working group more closely to
follow project implementation. The NFP Steering Committee is constituted
of representatives from MNRT, the Ministry of Finance, the President's
Office (Planning and Privatization), the Policy and Planning Division of
MNRT, the Division of Forestry and Beekeeping, and several donor
representatives. The Steering Committee has been broadened and includes
the President's Office (Regional Administration and Local Government), the
National Land use Planning Commission, the Vice President's Office
(Environment Division), Sokoine University of Agriculture, and the Private
Sector Foundation.
At the working level, project oversight and management will be the
responsibility of a Senior Forestry Officer, to be appointed by the
Permanent Secretary, and supported by procurement and financial management
specialists within the administrative framework of MNRT. FBD will be
responsible for implementing activities to be financed with IDA resources,
- 12 -



and has already put in place financial management and procurement systems
to assist in project implementation.
FBD already has extensive experience in these areas, through
implementation of FRMP. It is envisaged that FBD is currently not 'LACI
capable,' but that a time-bound plan for implementation of LACI
requirements will be prepared. Financial management and procurement
specialists will be fully engaged in the development of this plan as
members of the Quality Assurance Team.
The Forestry Advisory Group was established by FBD, consistent with its
policy objectives of ensuring better overall coordination at the national
level, and will be consulted in an advisory capacity about the scope and
objectives of the proposed investments. The Forestry Advisers Group is
comprised of representatives from the donor community with interests in
forest sector development, as well as the NGO and academic community.
Bilateral donors such as Danida (Denmark), DIDC (Finland), SIDA (Sweden),
GTZ (Germany) and NORAD (Norway) have been supporting various types of
pilot activities in the forestry sector at district level. In addition,
DIDC has supported the development of the NFP. Through the NFP Steering
Committee and the Forestry Advisory Group efforts will be made to make use
of the experience gained and to coordinate donor support related to the
NFP. The aim will be to gradually develop and strengthen a sector wide
approach in the forestry sector adapted to the specific needs and
complexities of the sector.
Coordination between GEF Implementing Agencies
The proposed Eastern Arc forest conservation and management component is
an unusual opportunity for collaboration between two GEF Implementing
Agencies. As such, UNDP and the World Bank have different comparative
advantages. The World Bank has been at the forefront as a financier of
Government's efforts at civil service reform, and will take the lead with
regard to financing and supervision of institutional activities, in
particular, the development and establishment of the TFS, and
institutional reforms leading to better forest conservation. In addition,
the Bank has a comparative advantage in the area of sustainable financing,
and will be responsible for these aspects of the GEF-financed activities.
UNDP's strengths are primarily in the area of capacity building and
technical assistance. In this role, UNDP will be responsible for
development of the Conservation Planning sub-component of the GEF financed
Eastern Arc activity, and of the pilot conservation activities in the
Uluguru Mountains.
In terms of financial arrangements for implementation of GEF activities,
the Implementing Agencies have presented a single joint GEF proposal to
the GEF Council, and, after Appraisal and Board presentation, will request
the GEF Secretariat to make two separate disbursements: through UNDP for
$5 million, and to the World Bank for $7 million. Thereafter the IAs will
follow their own internal project management processes. For example, UNDP
will prepare an Operational Project Document with TORs for key
consultancies and institutional contracts together with FBD and the UNDP
Country Office, with detailed budgets and a workplan. Following approval
by the GEF Council, Bank implemented activities will be Appraised and,
after Board approval, the Bank will prepare a GEF Grant Agreement which
clarifies the modalities for funds management (including arrangements for
procurement and disbursement) by Government. The Agencies will work
together through the NFP Steering Committee and will be responsible for
the preparation of joint reports setting out progress in project
- 13 -



preparation.
Financial Management
A financial management assessment was carried out during Appraisal mission
which indicated that the Ministry's Finance Department and staff have
adequate financial management systems which can provide, with reasonable
assurance, timely information on the status of the project as required by
the borrower and IDA. The government financial management system and
controls over public finances have recently been updated and strengthened
under the Integrated Financial Management System (IFMS) using computerized
accounting software (the so-called 'Platinum' system). A satisfactory
project Accounting and Financial Management Manual describing the
accounting system, procedures, internal controls, chart of accounts and
roles and responsibilities of the key staff responsible for IDA finances
has been prepared. The Ministry has wide experience in implementing IDA
projects and in managing IDA funds from the previous Forest Resources
Management Project and various PHRD, PPF, and GEF resources. Therefore,
the project financial management system is adequate for the project to be
presented to the Board.
A review of accounting and financial management systems concluded that,
while FBD has extensive experience in working with Bank procurement and
disbursement, it is currently not capable of complying with new Loan
Administration Change Initiative (LACI) Guidelines. An action plan was
agreed during Appraisal which should bring FBD to LACI compliance.
Agreed action plan:
Before the project is declared effective, an additional Ministry-qualified
accountant will be deployed on a full-time basis to assist the current
project accountant in the project financial matters; and
The project will be reassessed for LACI compliance when a LACI compatible
financial reporting format acceptable to the Bank has been prepared (based
on the revised LACI guidelines).
Provided the above steps are taken, it is envisaged that project should be
LACI compliant within 18 months from the date of project effectiveness.
The decision to adopt to the periodic report based disbursement
procedures will be made in consultation with a Bank Financial Management
Specialist who will:
review experience to date with the quality of withdrawal submissions,
operation of the Special Account, SOE submissions and documentation
retention in the field, and the general effectiveness of project
management and accounting staff;
ensure that the Special Account has been reconciled and any outstanding
issues resolved;
review supervision reports to assess implementation progress and issues;
review any available audit information, as well as any other financial
reports, with a view to forming an opinion on the reliability of project
accounts; and
review the PMR format designed to be used in conjunction with the Platinum
computerized accounting package.
Audited financial statements will be prepared and submitted within 6
months of the close of each Fiscal Year. The Terms of Reference for the
Audit are included in the Accounting and Financial Management Manual.
- 14 -



Audits remain the responsibility of the Controller and Auditor General.
Additional costs which must be incurred to complete the audit will be
covered by the proceeds from the Credit.
There are no deviations from standard disbursement arrangements regarding
eligibility, funds flow, disbursement percentages, nor are there any
special considerations regarding the use of Statements of Expenditure
(SOEs) or the Special Account. Annex 6 describes proposed Disbursement
Arrangements in greater detail.
7. Sustainability
The project's sustainability is dependent on four key elements:
(i) The successful establishment of a TFS. Success would include
effectively functioning forest/woodland management and protection
operations in forest reserves within designated districts and villages.
(ii) Adequate collection of forest revenues to sustain the TFS with
benefit sharing arrangements with Villages. There is considerable
potential to improve rates of revenue collection, well above current
levels (estimated at around 10 percent of the revenues which are due).
(iii) The development of a sustainable mechanism for financing
biodiversity conservation, including guidelines for the establishment and
management of trust funds and other financial mechanisms.
(iv) Acceptance by Government at the highest level of principles of
sustainable forest management and biodiversity conservation, to complement
village-based forest management. Such acceptance would need to be
translated into active support for the activities such as those under FCMP.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Preparation of this project was delayed until the Implementation
Completion Report for the Forest Resources Management Project was
completed, in order to incorporate lessons learned into project design. A
number of activities under FRMP were pilot activities, including those
related to Joint Forest Management, the participation of individuals and
communities in the management of woodlands, forestry extension, forest
revenue collection and monitoring, and regional planning and
administration of forestry activities. As the ICR notes, valuable lessons
were learnt during project implementation and were highlighted in several
evaluations undertaken prior to project completion. Lessons learnt from
FRMP and applied to the design of FCMP are as follows:
(i) the concept of strengthening traditional systems of woodland
management (ngitiri) is fundamentally sound and has good replication
potential throughout the country. The most important aspect of the
program has been the support it has given to people to act to halt the
disappearance of remaining woodland, and to bring as many pockets of
woodland as possible under rehabilitation. This has been accomplished by
working with villagers as the logical, long-term guardians of forest
resources to protect and conserve these resources themselves, at little
cost to government, and through socio-legal mechanisms which they
themselves control and maintain according to their own interests.
(ii) Community involvement in Joint Forest Management of government forest
reserves can lead to an improvement in the condition of reserves, and to a
sharp reduction in the threats they face. The approaches piloted by FRMP
could, however, be strengthened particularly in regard to more fully
transferring decision making responsibilities to the communities involved.
- 15 -



(iii) More generally, dry woodland management poses good opportunities
because of the resilience of the woodland to harvesting, the
cost-effectiveness of relying on natural regeneration with minimal
silvicultural treatments, and because of the few risks to the environment
posed by sustainable management of dry woodland ecosystems.
(iv) Farmers are apt at adopting simple technologies that are based on the
use of inexpensive local material, such as the improved wood stoves.
Higher-tech approaches are not needed and are difficult to disseminate
through extension.
(v) Project identification and preparation benefited from both the
resources which were put into the effort, but also from the longer term
iterative process of project design, and the linkages which were
established with sectoral strategies, such as the Tanzania Forestry Action
Plan. Indeed, experience with the project suggests that there can be
significant project implementation benefits when project identification
and preparation is bolstered by strategic studies, action-oriented
research, and ESW.
(vi) Weaknesses in project performance were often linked with inadequacies
in the prevailing institutional mechanisms for forest management in
Tanzania. These place responsibility for forest management within a
decentralized institutional structure, without adequate mechanisms for
ensuring there is technical, administrative, and management oversight.
Problems of governance in the sector are linked to these weaknesses, and
future investments will likely be jeopardized in the absence of
institutional reforms. The ICR noted that the problem is widely
recognized in Government, and that the Ministry has made a commitment to
launching a reform process which seeks to address these systemic
weaknesses.
(vii) Technical assistance may sometimes be delivered more effectively if
individual consultants are selected on the basis of professional
competence and experience. The packaging of consultancies into larger
packages during the tendering process limited Government's flexibility in
finding qualified individual consultants, though some efficiencies were
gained. However, consequent deficiencies in performance were difficult,
time consuming, and costly to rectify. Technical supervision of advisory
services needs to be strengthened and supported.
(viii) A Project Coordination Unit may facilitate implementation of
project activities, but may have little overall impact on increasing
institutional capacity. In the case of FRMP, a PCU was justified on the
basis of the need for coordination between multiple institutional
partners, but provided little scope for the technical oversight needed in
the sector. Payment of project allowances may encourage project staff to
work diligently. Given public spending constraints, this approach is not
sustainable in the long-term.
9. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues
10. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Nathalie Weier Johnson
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
- 16 -



Telephone: 202-473-3765
Fax: 202-473-8185
11. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
- 17 -



