                                             Documentof
                                          The World Bank

                                  FOROFFICIAL, USEONLY



                                                                                ReportNo:23901-TA




                                  PROJECTAPPRAISALDOCUMENT

                                                ONA

         PROPOSEDGRANTFROMTHEGLOBALENVIRONMENTFACILITY TRUSTFUND

                                 INTHEAMOUNTOFUS$7.0 MILLION

                                              TO THE

                                  UNITEDREPUBLICOF TANZANIA

                                              FORTHE

              EASTERNARC FORESTSCONSERVATIONAND MANAGEMENTPROJECT




                                            May28,2003




Environment and Social DevelopmentUnit
Africa Regional Office


This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only inthe performance of
theirofficial duties. Itscontentsmaynotbeotherwise disclosedwithout World Bank authorization.

                             CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                       (Exchange Rate Effective November 5,2002)
                            Currency Unit = Tanzania Shillings
                                 TSh 1000 = US$l.02
                                 US$l.OO = TSh980.50


                                    FISCAL YEAR
                                    July 1 -- June 30



                         ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAS    Country Assistance Strategy
CBO    Community BasedOrganization
CEPF   Critical Ecosystems Partnership Fund
CFAA   Country FinancialAccountability Assessment
CFP    Catchment Forest Project
CI     Conservation International
COP    Conference o fthe Parties
CSD    Civil Service Department
CTB    Central Tender Board
DANIDA anishInternationalDevelopment Assistance
DAWASA Dar es SalaamWater and Sewerage Authority
DFO    DistrictForest Officer
DIDC   Department o f InternationalDevelopment Cooperation
DOF    Danish Ornithological Foundation
DTB    District Tender Boards
EAMCEF Eastern Arc Mountains Conservation EndowmentFund
EC     European Commission
EIA    EnvironmentalImpact Assessment
EMP    EnvironmentalManagement Plan
ESW    Economic and Sector Work
EUCAMP East Usambara Conservation Area Management Project
FBD    Forestry and Beekeeping Divisionof the Ministryo fNatural Resourcesand Tourism
FCMP   Forest Conservation and Management Project
FRMP   Forest ResourcesManagement Project
GEF    Global Environment Facility
GOT    Government o f Tanzania




                          Vice President:    Callisto E.Madavo
                        Country Director:    JudyM.OConnor
                         Sector Manager:     RichardG. Scobey
                           Team Leader:      Nathalie W. Johnson

                                                         FOROFFICLALUSEONLY
             IAPSO      Inter-Agency Procurement
             ICR        ImplementationCompletion Report
             IDA        InternationalDevelopmentAssociation
             IDTB       Independent DepartmentTender Boards
             IFMS       IntegratedFinancial ManagementSystem
             IPG        InteragencyPlanningGroup on EnvironmentalFunds(Africa Working Group)
             JFM        Joint Forest Management
             LAC        Local Advisory Committee
             LAC1       LoanAdminstration ChangeInitiative       1


             LEAT       Lawyers EnvironmentalAction Trust
             LGATB      Local GovernmentAuthority Tender Boards
             LGRP       LocalGovernmentReform Program
             LKEMP      Lower KihansiEnvironmentalManagementProject
             MNRT       MinistryofNatural ResourcesandTourism
             MTB        Ministry Tender Boards
             NEMC       NationalEnvironmentManagement Council
             NEP        National EnvironmentalPolicy
             NFP        National ForestProgram
             NGO        Non-GovernmentalOrganization
             NORAD      NorwegianAgency for Developmentofthe Ministry of ForeignAffairs, Finland
             OP         GEF OperationalProgram
             PDF        Project DevelopmentFacility
             PFM        ParticipatoryForestManagement
             PFMSU      ParticipatoryForestManagementSupport Unit
             PHRI)      JapanPolicy and HumanResourcesDevelopmentFund
             PMR        Project Management Reports
             PPF        Project PreparationFacility
             PRSP       Poverty ReductionStrategy Paper
             PSI        Private Sector Developmentand Infrastructure
             PSRC       Parastatal Sector Reform Commission
             QTFCS      QueenslandTropical Forest ConservationStrategy
             RTB        RegionalTender Boards
             SOE        Statements of Expenditure
             SPM        Southern Paper Mills
             STAP       Science andTechnical Advisory Panelof the GEF
             SUA        Sokoine University of Agriculture
             TAF        Tanzania Associationof Foresters
             TAFORI     Tanzania ForestryResearchInstitute
             TANAPA     Tanzania National ParksAuthority
             TANESCO Tanzania Electricity SupplyCompany
             TFCG       Tanzania ForestConservationGroup
             TFS        Tanzania ForestService
             TRA        Tanzania RevenueAuthority
             UMADEP     Uluguru Mountain Agricultural DevelopmentProject
             UNDP       UnitedNations DevelopmentProgram
             VFR        Village Forest Reserve
             WB         World Bank
             WCST       Wiidlife Conservation Society of Tanzania
             WWF        World Wide Fundfor Nature



This document has arestricteddistributionandmay beusedby recipients only in
the performance of their official duties. I t s contents may not be otherwise disclosed
/withoutWorld Bank authorization.


                                             TANZANIA
        EASTERNARC FORESTSCONSERVATIONAND MANAGEMENT PROJECT


                                             CONTENTS




A. Project Development Objective                                                       Page

   1. Projectdevelopment objective                                                       2
   2. Key performance indicators                                                         6

B. Strategic Context

   1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported bythe project      6
   2. Mainsector issues and Government strategy                                          8
   3. Sector issuesto be addressedbythe project and strategic choices                    10

C.ProjectDescription Summary

   1. Project components                                                                 12
   2. Keypolicy and institutional reforms supportedbythe project                         16
   3. Benefits and target population                                                     16
   4. Institutional andimplementationarrangements                                        18

D.ProjectRationale

   1. Project alternatives consideredandreasonsfor rejection                             20
   2. Major relatedprojects financedbythe Bank and/or other development agencies         21
   3. Lessons learned andreflected inthe project design                                  21
   4. Indications ofborrower andrecipient commitment and ownership                       23
   5. Value added o f Bank and Global support inthis project                             23

E.Summary ProjectAnalysis

   1. Economic                                                                           23
   2. Financial                                                                          25
   3. Technical                                                                          26
   4. Institutional                                                                      26
   5. Environmental                                                                      28
   6. Social                                                                             31
   7. Safeguard Policies                                                                 32

F. SustainabilityandRisks

   1. Sustainability                                                                         32
   2. Critical risks                                                                         33
   3. Possible controversial aspects                                                         34


G. MainGrant Conditions

   1. Effectiveness Condition                                                                34
   2. Other                                                                                  34

H. Readinessfor Implementation                                                               35

I.CompliancewithBankPolicies                                                                 35


Annexes

Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                              36
Annex 2: DetailedProject Description                                                         ,39
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                             69
Annex 4: Economic and Financial Considerations                                               70
Annex 5: Financial Summary                                                                   81
Annex 6: Procurement andDisbursement Arrangements                                            82
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                         91
Annex 8: Documents inthe Project File                                                        93
Annex 9: Statement o f Loans andCredits                                                      94
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                                96
Annex 11:Environmental and Social Considerations                                             98
Annex 12: IncrementalCost Analysis                                                           109
Annex 13: Technical Review                                                                   120
Annex 14: Responseto STAP Review                                                             123
Annex 15: Threats and Root Causes of Biodiversity Loss and Mitigating Actions                125
Annex 16: Forest Biodiversity Value, Endemicity, Threats and Donor Support andEffectiveness  128
            inthe EasternArc
Annex 17: The Project Documentfor the UNDP Components                                        133
Annex 18: Letter o f Country Endorsement                                                     160
Annex 19: Map o fthe Eastern Arc MountainForests                                             161




MAP(S)
IBRD32235

                                                   TANZANIA
                            EasternArc ForestsConservationandManagement Project
                                     ProjectAppraisal Document
                                              Africa RegionalOffice
                                                     AFTES

Date: May 28,2003                                        Team Leader: Nathalie Weier Johnson
Sector Manager: RichardG. Scobey                         Sector(s): Forestry(96%), Central government
Country Director: Judy M.O'Connor                        administration(4%)
Project ID: PO57234                                      Theme(s): Environmentalpolicies andinstitutions (P),
Focal Area: B - Biodiversity                             Other environment andnaturalresources management(P),
                                                         Biodiversity (P), Civic engagement, participation and
                                                         community driven development(S)


  [ ] Loan      [ J Credit    [XI Grant      [ ] Guarantee      [ ] Other:
 For LoanslCreditslOthers:

                                urc
 BORROWEWRECIPIENT                                                        1.10   I       0.60     I         1.70
 IDA                                                                    19.70           11.40              31.10
 GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY                                              0.00           7.00               7.00
 UNDEVELOPMENTPROGRAMME                                                   0.00           5.00               5.00
 NON-GOVERNMENT ORGANIZATION (NGO) OF                                     0.20           0.00               0.20
 BORROWINGCOUNTRY
 Total:                                                                 21.00    I      24.00     1        45.00
  BorrowerlRecipient: GOVERNMENT OF TANZANIA
  Responsibleagency: MINISTRYOFNATURALRESOURCES& TOURISM
 Forestry andBeekeepingDivision
 Address: P.O. Box426, Dares Salaam, Tanzania
 ContactPerson: Prof. SaidIddi, Dr.Felician Kilahama
 Tel: 255-22-2111602               Fax: 255-22-2130091                 Email: tfcmp@intafrica.com
  Other Agency(ies):
 EasternArc Mountains ConservationEndowmentFund
 Address: P.O. Box40832, Dar es Salaam, Tanzania
  Contact Person: Vincent Shauri
  Tel: 255-22-2780859              Fax: 255-22-2780859                 Email:




ICumulative1
           I      0.00 I
                       I    0.00  I    0.00  I     7.00  1    7.00   1
  Project implementationperiod: 4 years
  Expectedeffectivenessdate: 0913012003 Expectedclosing date: 1213112007

A. ProjectDevelopmentObjective

1. Projectdevelopment objective: (see Annex 1)
The Global Environment Facility (GEF) financed Eastem Arc Forests Conservation andManagement
project is a component o fthe broader Forest Conservation and Management Project (P058706) which
was approved by the Boardon February 26,2002. The EasternArc component was appraised separately
from the mainproject due to timingo f the GEF approval process, which has necessitatedthe separate
processing o f the grant component.

Background: Forests and woodlands inTanzania

Tanzania is covered extensively with woodlands and forests. The bulko fthese resources between 30
                                                                                            --
and40 million hectares-- are comprised of extensive dry woodlands, primarilyofthemiombo type,
which provide criticalwood resourcesand other forest products bothto rural communities andurban
centers, andperformimportant services as watershed catchments and as dry season grazingreserves.
Miombo woodlands are typically very resilient, andregenerate freely after disturbance ifleft alone.
Althoughrates of species diversity and endemicity inmiombo woodlands are relatively low, they do
provide extensive large mammalhabitats (which, inpart, support a valuable tourism industry) and are
recognized as one o fWorldWide Fundfor Nature's (WWF) 'Global 200' priority ecoregions.

Incontrast, the country's tropicalmoist forests accountfor arelativelysmallpercentageofthe total. The
bulkofthe country's forest biodiversity is foundinits mountainforests, andinanarrow stripofforests
along the coast which intotal comprise less than 5 percent o fthe total forest area. Amongst the most
important o f these are the EasternArc forests, which cover an area o f around5,350 squarekilometers
spreadacross 10 separate mountainblocks inTanzania (and one inKenya). The Eastern Arc forests
represent one o fthe oldest andmost stable terrestrial ecosystems on the continent and are recognized
globally as one o f 25 biodiversity hotspots, which are characterized byhighconcentrations o f endemic
speciesunder considerable threat.

The EasternArc forests have the highest knownnumber o fplant and animal speciesof any regionin
Tanzania. Approximately 27 percent o f the plant species, 63 percent o f the linyphiidspider species, 43
percent o fbutterfly species, 33 percent o f amphibian species, 37 percent o fthe reptile species, 37 percent
o f the birdspecies, and34 percent o f the mammal species found inTanzania occur inthese forests. The
EasternArc is also characterized byhighconcentrations o fendemic species. Indeed, the EasternArc
forests are knownas one o f the most important sites inAfrica for endemic birds, amphibians, reptiles,
many groups of invertebrates, and plants, and contains one o f the highest proportions o f endemic species
of any regionworldwide. There are at least 16endemic plant generainthe Arc. Twenty o f 21 African
violet species ( ~ a i n ~ a u spp.)
                               l i a are endemic to the Arc. O fthe knownspecies occurring within the
EasternArc, approximately 23 percent o fmontane plant species, 82 percent o f linyphiidspider species,
39 percent o f the butterflies species, 63 percent o f forest dependent amphibian species, 68 percent o f
forest dependent reptile species, 3 percent o fthe birdspecies, and6 percent o fthe mammal species are
endemic. Patterns o f species diversity and endemism inthe Eastern Arc have been the subject o f
extensive research.

The fragmentation o fthe EasternArc into multipleforest blocks has contributed to enhancing its
endemicity. Most mountainblocks are comprised o f a number o f fragmented forest patches, which also
differ intheir speciesassemblages. Becauseo fits global biodiversity significance, the EasternArc is
expected to be proposed as a WorldHeritage Site inthe near future.




                                                       - 2 -

Tanzania's forests andwoodlands are extremely important for mitigating the impacts of rural poverty.
Recent studies have shown that fully 40 percent o f total householdconsumption insome rural areas i s
accounted for by forest and woodland products such as firewood, constructionmaterial, and wild h i t
andother foods (a pointnotedinTanzania'sPovertyReductionStrategy Paper). Inaddition, woodlands
are an important source of dry seasongrazing, reducinghouseholds' exposure to environmental risk.
Rural households generally use a wide variety o f environmental resources from woodlands, and the
sizeable aggregatevalue o f environmentally-derived income i s made up o f a fairly large number o f
smaller individualincome sources. Inother studies from the region, it has also beenshown that there i s a
negative relationship between aggregateenvironmental income share and total household income, that
the poor are more resource-dependentthan the rich(though better offhouseholds are, inquantitative
terms, the most significant userso f environmental resources). There is considerable complexity inthe
factors which determine levels o f resourceuse: different households use different resourcesfor different
reasons at different times. Still, the conclusions are inescapable: the ruralpoor are heavily dependent on
resources derived from woodlands, and deforestation and forest degradationposes a significant threat to
rural livelihoods.

Inadditionto Tanzania's indigenousforests, there areanestimated 135,000 haofindustrialplantations,
dominatedby pine and cypress, o f which 80,000 ha are under Government control and management.
These plantations are a key resource for the production o f industrialroundwood, primarilyto meet
domestic demands.

In1998, the export offorest products amountedto US$6.5 millionwhile importstotalled aroundUS$4.2
million. Wood carvings, blackwoodclarinet sets, and logs from natural forests are the most important
export products, whereas imports are dominated by value-added products such as paper, paperboard,
fiberboard, plywood, and other panels, and highquality sawnwood.

Like virtually every major forest areao f global importance, Tanzania's forests and woodlands are under
growingpressuresfrom populationgrowth and economic development, andbecauseof the need for
timber andforest products. Many forested areas have no protected status. The absence o fprotected
status has meant that these forests maybe converted, legally, to other uses (primarily agriculture, which
tends to be o fvery low productivity). For forested areas which are under some sort o f protected status,
there is often substantial politicalpressureto use them for new settlement -- pressureswhich are
amplifiedbecause o f encroachment insome areas. It i s acceptedthat formal protection or reservation i s
no panacea, though, andrecent policy and legal changes have sought to improve the context for
locally-based village-level woodland managementandprotection.

Large-scale timber extraction still occurs, albeit illegallybecauseo f a moratoriumon the felling o fhigh
forests established inthe early 1990s. Logginghasbeen almost completely stopped insome areas (such
as inthe East Usambaras). However, there are few incentives or the capacity -otherwise to reduce or
                                                                -
evento monitor the rates o f extraction. Inpractice, District Forest Officers (DFO) (who are accountable
to the localDistrict Administration rather than to FBD) sometimes condone harvesting inhighforests.
ManyDistricts make their owndecisions about logging, andsome haveevencalledfor loggingintheir
District forest managementplans, irrespective o fnational policy. Bans on the harvesting o f timber from
dry woodlands are occasionally enforced, but only on an ad hoc basis. The issue is far less critical in
these woodlands becauseo ftheir resilience, regenerative capacity, and relatively low conservation value.

 State-managedindustrialplantations couldease some o f the pressures on indigenous forests, but these
have beenpoorly and ineffectively managed. There are sixteen state forest plantation areas. The bulk
are found inSao Hill(41,600 ha), MeruAJsa, North Kilimanjaro, andWest Kilimanjaro, which
collectively account for 72 percent o fthe total area under plantations. The private sector currently


                                                      - 3 -

operates 55,000 ha o fplantations including about 6,000 ha o fwattle, teak and softwoods managedby
Tanganyika Wattle Company inNjombe District, Escarpment Forest Company inMufindiDistrict, and
KilomberoValley Teak Company inKilomberoDistrict respectively.

The state plantation sector accounts for the bulko f all revenues collected by the FBDo fthe Ministryo f
NaturalResourcesand Tourism (MNRT)         --around  46 percent in 1998 largely becauseonly a small
                                                                         --
proportion o fthe revenue from natural forests (which account for most domestically marketed forest
products) i s collected.

Inlightofthe large inefficiencies andrelatively highcostsofcontinuingto managethe state plantation
sector, there i s a limitedeconomic rationalefor continued Government involvement inthe sector. Ithas
beenestimated that the plantation labor force exceedsthat which is neededby 150percent. Total
employment inthe Forestry and Beekeeping Divisioni s around 2,150 staff, o fwhich 1,050 are employed
inthe plantationsector. [Incontrast, staffing inthe entire EasternArc forests, anareacoveringover
5,000 square kilometers, consists of 8 Forest Officers and 57 Assistant Forest Officers.]

The managementand conservation of all o fthese forest resourcesis widely agreedto be inthe country's
national interests, but not surprisingly has provento be an enormous challenge. O fthe wooded area,
around 10million ha are Central Government Reservesand 3 millionha are Local Government Reserves.
The balance, estimated at around 20 million ha, has no protected status. A new category o freserved
forest, the Village Forest Reserve, posesmuchpromise for legitimizing community-based woodland
management and conservation, but this tenure category has yet to be formally legislated.

The FBDprovides overall policy guidance for the forestry sector, and some technical oversight and
supervision. For the most part, however, managementandprotectiono f all reserveshas beenhighly
decentralized, andi s primarilythe responsibility o fDFOs and their staff, who report to local district
administrations (with the exception o f a number o f major catchment forests, which are under the
management o fFBD), The current institutional structure has beenproblematic, and badly inneed o f
reform. The fundamental orientation o fthe institutional structure is toward regulation andenforcement
o f forest legislation -roles which were largely appropriate inan earlier context when there were few
needsto mediate betweenthe demands of ruralpeople, the state, and the private sector, but which are
mostly inappropriate incontemporary Tanzania where forest protection and management canno longer
be undertaken independently o fthe needs o f rural communities.

Inparticular, Government hasbeenaggressively searchingfor moreeffectiveways to support the
involvement o f communities inforest andwoodland managementand protection, as the bulk o f wooded
areas are under their ultimate control. The potential for the involvement o f communities inwoodland
managementhas been exploredand supported through a series o f innovative pilots. These experiences
have been captured inextensive policy reforms, and legalmechanisms are being drafted which will
reinforce the role o f communities inthis respect.

Untilrecently, the institutionalpolicyandlegalframeworkprovidedonly limitedscopefor supporting
forest biodiversity conservation. As a signatory to the Conventionon Biodiversity, Tanzania i s
increasinglyrecognizing its important obligation to put inplace soundmechanisms for forest biodiversity
conservation, but i s ill-equipped to do so withinthe prevailing institutional structure. Forest protection
was undertaken inthe past only to meet the needso fthe timber industry, and also for watershed
catchment protection. There i s a very limited capacity to take on the wider issues associated with
biodiversity conservation within FBD, and a widespread recognition that this constraint needs urgently to
be addressed.



                                                     - 4 -

Resourcesto finance the management o f woodlands and forests are tightly constrained, and the sector
remains heavily dependent on donors. The more effective collection o f revenues from the felling o f
timber andother forest products, coupledwith greaterprotection from local and government sources,
couldbeginto address the problem. Poor governance inthe sector, and the lack o f accountability and
supervision inthe field, however, are constraints to doing so. Further, the ability to use these limited
resourcesto finance biodiversity conservation i s limited, given the low returns which can be anticipated
from these investments.

Finally, althoughdonor support has providedbadly neededresources for forest andbiodiversity
conservation andmanagement, this support remains highlyfragmented andlargely ineffective at
addressing Tanzania's national policy priorities. In1996, it was estimated that the ratio o fdonor support
inthe forestry sector to publicly-financed support for forestry was 19to 1andthat donor resourceswere
largely not beingcapturedby the budget process. This disparity between donor andpublic funding, and
the inefficiencies which insome respect are drivenby it, suggests that it i s extremely difficult for
Government to address its own policy priorities (rather than the donor community's) through the public
expenditure program.

Past Bank support for the sector

IDA'Smostrecent past support for the sector (through theForest ResourcesManagementProject
(FRMP)) was formulated as a first step inaddressingTanzania's forest management challenges as
articulatedinthe 1989 Tanzania Forestry Action Plan, and hadthree specific objectives: (a) to strengthen
institutions incharge o fthe development o f forest policies and natural resources information; (b) to
 support the development o frural landpolicies, strengthencrucial governmental and non-governmental
 organizations incharge ofthe implementationo f these policies, and to support the implementationand
monitoringo f government's policy o f village demarcation and titling; and (c) to strengthen regional and
 district forestry institutions inMwanza and Tabora Regions. This project has now closed, and its modest
 successes provided important lessonsand insights about the possibilities andpotentialfor improving
 forest management.

 Inmany respects, the forestry sector isat acriticalturningpointinTanzania. A newnationalForestry
 policy was adoptedby the Cabinet in 1998, andsupporting legislation is being drafted. The policy i s
 innovative and provides substantial scopefor developing alternative forest managementand conservation
 regimes and financing mechanisms. Consistent with the on-going civil service reformprogram, policy
 recognized the needfor substantive institutional reforms inthe forestry sector, and has proposed the
 creationo f a new Tanzania Forest Service (TFS). With regard to biodiversity conservation, the new
 policy commits government to establishing nature reservesinareas o f highbiodiversity value. Most
 importantly, however, the policy arguesthat local institutions and communities shouldhave a central role
 inforest conservation andmanagement. Policyprovidedthe framework for preparation oftheNational
 Forest Program(NFP), which was approved by Government inNovember 2001, and future Bank support
 is seento be entirely mainstreamed into the priorities outlined inthe NFP.

 Development objectives

  Buildingonexperience gained through FRMP, andrespondingto the prioritiesoutlined inthe new Forest
  Policy and the NationalForest Program, the objectives o fthe Forest Conservation andManagement
  Project (FCMP) are to provide the resources to assist Government inpolicy implementation, inparticular
  bydevelopinga framework for the long-termsustainablemanagementandconservation ofTanzania's
  forest resources, strengthening the role o f individuals, communities, villages, and the private sector in
  managementandconservation o f forests, and implementingthis framework on apilot scale. The


                                                       - 5 -

project's specific objectives are to: (i) the establishment o f a new national forestry institutional
                                          support
framework effectively to support the sustainablemanagementand protection o f Tanzania's forest,
woodland and industrialplantation resources; (ii)    establish the framework for involvement o f the private
sector inindustrial plantation development and management; and (iii)     develop the institutional capacity
withinthe forestry sector for coordination, financing, andmanagementofbiodiversity conservation
interventionswithinTanzania's forests, inparticular inthe forests of the EasternArc mountains. It is
envisagedthat this thirdobjective will be implemented inconjunction with support from the Global
Environment Facility.

2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
The success o f the project will be basedon the following key performance indicators:
        a functioning Tanzania Forest Service (TFS) is established with clearly defined service delivery
        functions andresponsibilities with regard to natural forests, woodlands, andindustrial plantations;

        significant areas o f natural forests and woodlands are under effective managementas an outcome
        o fpartnerships and initiatives with multiplepartners (primarily communities and local
        governments);
        a range o f mechanisms for improving revenue collection involvingpartners such as the Tanzania
        Revenue Authority andlor the private sector are tested and implemented; time-bound forest
        revenue collectiontargets are established and achieved; and effective mechanisms for sharing
        revenues with villages are put inplace;
        a framework for private sector participation inthe managemento f industrialplantations, i s
        established, including guidelines, incentives, and regulatory, monitoring, and control mechanisms;
        3 pilot operations are inplace andhave beenevaluated;
        an institutional framework consistent with overall civil service reforms is inplace which enables
        Government to undertake forest biodiversity conservation initiatives, inparticular inthe Eastern
        Arc Mountains; institutional capacity to do so i s strengthened;
        the modalities for the establishment o f a sustainable financial mechanism for conservation of the
        EasternArc mountain forests are developed and implemented; and
        the endowment has been capitalized andthe EAMCEF i s implementingthe proposed conservation
        program.

 B. Strategic Context
 1.Sector-related CountryAssistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported bythe project: (see Annex 1)
 Documentnumber: IDAJR2000-90               Date of latestCAS discussion: 0611512000

 The principal goal o f the CAS i s to help Government reduce poverty through the promotion o f higher
 growth, andthrough interventions that buildthe assets o fthe poor, reducetheir vulnerability, and
 promote better governance and accountability. The CAS fully recognizes Government's leadership in
 defining the development agenda, and its desire to enter into more productive relationships with its
 partners indoing so. The FCMP specifically addresses the CAS objectives o f supporting sustainable
 rural development and private sector development through the promotiono f off-farm activities and
 through the management o f woodlands and forests by communities andthrough the establishment o f a
 framework for the involvement o fthe private sector inindustrialplantationmanagement. The
 establishment o fthe TFS i s consistent with the CAS goal o f public sector reform and institution building,
 to increase the effectiveness o fpublic service delivery andimprove govemance.



                                                       - 6 -

la. Global Operational strategylprogram objective addressedby the project:
The Government o f Tanzania signed the Convention on BiologicalDiversity on June 12, 1992 and
ratifiedthe Conventionon August 3, 1996. Tanzania i s aparty to the African Convention on the
Conservation o fNature andNaturalResources, the Convention on the Protection o f World Cultural and
NaturalHeritage, the Conventionon InternationalTrade inEndangered Species (CITES), and the Ramsar
Convention onWetlands o f InternationalImportance. Government has placed a highpriority onthe
conservation o fbiological diversity, and, for example, maintains one o fthe largest systemso fprotected
areas inAfrica. Mucho fthe focus o f these efforts, however, has beenon wildlife habitat conservation
andnot on forest biodiversity conservation.

The proposed GEF activity i s consistent with the GEF Operational Strategy for Biodiversity
Conservation, and specifically with the objectives o f Operational Programs 3 and4 on Forest Ecosystems
andMountainEcosystems. Consistent with these objectives, GEF support will provide finance for the
creation and strengthening o fparticipatory and co-managementschemes to buildsupport and ownership
for biodiversity conservation, develop socio-economic activities to reconcile biodiversity conservation
with humanneeds, identifyprocesseswhich are likely to have significant adverse impacts onthe
conservation and sustainableuse o fbiodiversity, and support capacity buildingefforts while focusing
primarily on a mountain tropical forest ecosystemthat i s at risk.

Particular attentionwill be given to the demonstration and application o ftechniques to protect highly
threatened endemic species; in situ conservation o f wild relatives o f domesticated plants and animals for
the sustainable use of biodiversity; strengtheningconservation area networks; and development o f
sustainable use methods inforestry by combiningproduction, socio-economic, andbiodiversity goals. In
addition, GEF resourceswill seek to support sustainable agriculture and landuse practices on mountain
slopes adjacent to the forests inorder to protect representative habitats and to strengthen the network o f
representative conservation areas inmontane forest systems. Activities supported with GEF resources
are designed to be replicated, with successful outcomes and lessons learned documented and sharedwith
other GEF funded programs.

GEF support is consistent withArticle 8 ofthe ConventiononBiological Diversity, whichrelates to in
situ conservation, as it will support protection and managemento fprotected areas ina region o f globally
important biodiversity, promote environmentally sound and sustainableactivities inareas adjacent to
protectedareas. GEF support will promote the recovery o f threatened species through the development
and implementationof managementand ecosystemprotection strategies, andwill support maintenance o f
viable populations o f threatened and endangeredspecies within andbeyondprotectedareaboundaries.
GEFsupport is consistent with CoP3's emphasison intersectoral cooperation innaturalresource
biodiversity conservation, buildingcapacity inlocal institutions and communities, strengthening the
involvement o f localpeople, promotingenvironmental awareness, and improvingthe disseminationo f
information about sites o f global importance. GEF support will also help to achieve related goals of
reducingpoverty inforest dependentcommunities byprovidingalternatives to destruction o f biodiversity
habitat as a means o f securing a livelihood.

GEFsupport is consistent withguidance from the COPwith respectto conservation, management, and
sustainable use o f threatened andendangeredspecies; strengthening the involvement o f communities,
and buildingpartnerships at the local andnational levels; andpromotingcost effective measures to
conserve biodiversity, including economic incentives and alternative livelihoodopportunities for local
communities.




                                                     - 7 -

2. Main sector issues andGovernment strategy:
Main sector issues

Tanzania's 1998 Forest Policy characterizes the most importantpriorities and constraints with regardto
the sector as beingrelatedto the need to:

    managethe country's forest resourcesinrespect o f its various types (woodlands, highforests, coastal
    forests); uses (production andprotection forests); and legal status (reserved forests,
    forestslwoodlands within national parks, andnon-reserved forested land);
    manageforest industriesand other forest-based activities to contribute to national development and
    to the equitable sharing o fbenefits between stakeholders;

    conserve the country's unique ecosystems and biological diversity, consideringthe needs o f local
    populationsand appropriate methods o fmanagementand use; and
    adapt the institutional arrangementsandfinancial and human resource requirements to meet these
    objectives o f forest sector development.

More specifically, factors which constrain the effective managemento f Tanzania's forest and woodland
resources include:

    weak oversi&t for forest andwoodland management, rooted inproblems o f accountability and
    supervision inthe current institutional framework. As an outcome, forest exploitationhas, inmany
    instances, been subject to few controls or constraints, andhas resultedinthe movement and
    settlement o fpeople into reserved forests, and the unsustainable and illegal harvesting o f wood for
    commercialpurposes;
    an ineffective system o f decentralized forest administration, which separates the need for
    enforcement andregulation from the needso f ruralcommunities for forest andwoodland products;
    one outcome o f this is the limitedemuhasison the role o f forestry institutions in service delivery;

    inadequate systems o f revenue collection ina decentralized forestry administration, and inadequate
    mechanisms for ensuring that revenuescollectedare used, inturn, for forest managementor are
    otherwise returnedor sharedwith villages and communities with a stake inforest protection. Targets
    set for revenue collection are not clearly rationalized, and though it is estimated that less than 10
    percent o frevenues which are due from natural forests are actually collected, little thinkinghas
    focused on how andwith what objective shouldrevenues be collected. Lowrates o frevenue
    collection adversely affect recurrent fundingo f forestry activities, increase the potential for
    rent-seeking, and encouragerates o f consumption which are not consistent withthe economic costs
    o f forest exploitation;
    inadequate institutional mechanisms for forest biodiversity conservation specifically with the
    capacity to assess the need for, plan, coordinate, implement and monitor conservation activities;

    widely disuarate systems o ftenure over forested lands and relatedweak incentives to undertake
    community-based forest conservation, such as inthe EasternArc forests, with unclear opportunities
    for closer cooperation with villages to undertake these activities;

    limitedscope for Publiclv-financed forest biodiversity conservation (largely becausepublic revenue
    streamsfrom logginghave dried up since a loggingbanwas put inplace) and a heavy dependency on
    donor assistanceto provide irregular support for the sector;




                                                     - 8 -

     limited effectiveness o f the public expenditure programinthe forestry sector inmeetingnational
     forest policy obiectives, and highlydistortedfinancial and technical resource delivery from the donor
     community.

Government Strategv

Government's strategy for improvingthe managemento f the forest sector is captured inthree processes:
the forest policyprocess, which was completed in 1998; the legislative process, which i s underway, and
i s intendedto provide the basis for the implementationo fthe policy; and the process which has ledto the
preparationo f the National Forest Program, which prioritizes a programfor future action within the
already definedpolicy framework.

The overall goal o f Government's National Forest Policy i s to enhancethe contribution o fthe forest
sector to the sustainable development of Tanzania, and the conservation and managemento f its natural
resources for the benefit o fpresent and future generations. Consistent with this overall goal, the
government strategy for doingthis i s to:

      ensure sustainable supplies o f forest products and services by maintaining sufficient forest cover
      under effective management;

0     increase employment and foreign exchangeearnings through sustainable forest-based industrial
      development andtrade;

      ensure ecosystem stability through the conservation o f forest biodiversity, water catchments, and soil
      fertility; and

0     enhancenational capacity to manage and develop the forest sector incollaboration with other
      stakeholders.

Government intends to implement its strategy by relyingon a diverse set o f institutions, includingthe
private sector, localgovernment, specialized 'executive agencies', andcommunities or other organizations
o f people livingadjacent to forests. Decentralized forest managementwill be strengthenedand improved
byclarifyingthe role o fVillages inforest managementandprotection, by developingcoordination
mechanisms between central and local forest administrations, andby ensuringaccountability mechanisms
are incorporatedinto institutionalchange efforts. Functions which wouldbe retained by the Ministry
responsible for natural resourceswould be limitedto policy development, regulation, monitoring, and
facilitation.

Legislation to support implementationo fthe 1998 Forest Policy is inthe process o fbeingprepared.
While new legislationwill provide a stronger legalbasis for policy implementation, tremendous latitude
for action i s possible within the existing framework (viz. the establishment o fNature Reserves, the scope
for village-based forest reservesand management, improvedperformance with regardto revenue
 collection, the establishment o f specialized 'executive agencies', and so on).

 Followingadoption o fthe Forest Policy, Government launched preparation o f the National Forest
 Program (NFP), which outlines a plan for implementationo f the policy. The National Forest Program
 outlines a four-fold program o f forest development inTanzania:

      forest resources conservation and management(inwhich bothbiodiversity conservation and
      participatory forest managementfeature strongly);




                                                       - 9 -

    institutional andhuman resourcesdevelopment;

0   legal and regulatory development; and

0   forest industries development.

The NFPprovides the framework for future public expenditure inthe forestry sector, and outlines
priorities for donor financing. It has been envisaged that the principal financial delivery mechanism for
the NationalForest Programis this Forest Conservation and Management Project (FCMP) into which
proposed GEF support hasbeen fully-blended. As such, the FCMP has beenprepared inclose
collaboration with the preparation o fthe NationalForest Program, to ensure consistency inapproach and
objectives, andultimately, to focus on the strategic provision o f resourcesto assist inthe implementation
of the NFP. Additional bilateral support for implementationo fthe NFP is inthe process o fbeing
mobilized.

3. Sector issuesto be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
Sector issues addressed bv the project

Theproject is designedto address anumber ofpressing sectoral issues. Inparticular, the project will
support Government's efforts to move forward with:

    substantive institutional reformto reduce problems associatedwith the current institutional structure,
    buildingonthe strengths inherentindecentralization while strengtheningcentralized structures
    which canprovide important service delivery functions to districts requesting them. The new Forest
    Policy and the National Forest Programclearly articulate the problems posedby the current
    institutional structure, and pose a series o f options for addressing these institutional constraints,
    including the creation o f a service-oriented forest managementagency, the more active involvement
    o f the private sector inplantationmanagement, anda better-defined basis for community-based forest
    and woodland conservation andmanagement. Among other things, the project will focus on
    developing service-delivery standards, andon introducing the institutional tools and mechanisms for
    ensuring these standards can be met.
    Inparticular, the project will focus ondevelopingandimplementingservice standardsto support
    village-based forest andwoodlands managementand conservationbybuildingupon some of the
     initiatives pilotedbythe FRMP (as well as through other interventions), inparticular ngitiri
    management, Joint Forest Management, the establishment o fVillage Forest Reserves, and through
     several pilot initiatives focusing specifically on community-based forest conservation ina selected
    priority area o fthe EasternArc forests.
     Inaddition, institutionalreformsareexpected to focus, as well, onaddressingthe needfor an
     institutional framework for forest biodiversitv conservation. It is envisaged that the projectwill
    provide resourcesfor the establishment o f a capacity within the institutional structure for forest
     biodiversity conservation.
     improved financial and procurement management, particularly through revenue collection and
     monitoring, which focuses on the relationship between improvedrevenue collection and forest
     management. The basis for revenue collection will be rationalized, and mechanisms for revenue
     sharing at the village level will be defined andimplemented. Alternative institutional mechanisms
     for revenue collection, and the monitoring o f revenue flows, will be developed andimplemented.
     These activities will buildonthe revenue collectionpilots launchedby FRMP. There are important
     synergiesbetweenprospects for improvedrevenue collection andproposed institutional reform.



                                                       -10-

   Itis envisagedthat improvements infinancial andprocurement management will contribute
   substantively to developinga framework for longer term public expenditure, complemented by donor
   support, for the sector, with the idea that a credible institutionalframework with strong service
   delivery objectives will help bringabout a stronger sector-wide approach to forestry.
   Inaddition, the project intends to pilot, inpartwith GEFfinancing, a sustainable financing initiative
   which focuses on the generation o fresourcesto finance forest biodiversity conservation. Withinthe
   constrained fiscal framework inTanzania, there are almost nopublic sector resourcesto make these
   types o f investments inthe absence o f a financial return.

   fuller involvement o fthe private sector inindustrial plantation management is envisagedbothto
   improve efficiency, productivity, and revenuesfrom these particular resources, but also to reduce the
   fiscal burdeno f continuedpublic sector managemento f a sector which should be commercially
   viable onits own.
   improvingthe framework for planning andimplementationo fbiodiversitv conservation initiatives
   through the GEF-funded Conservation of the Eastern Arc MountainForests Component. Building
   this capacity will bedone inconjunction with other proposedinstitutionalreforms inthe forestry
    sector and result inforestry sector institutions at the central, district andpartnership levels having
    greater institutional capacity to provide oversight and monitoring o f the whole EasternArc
    ecosystem.

Stratepic choices

Government has already made a number of strategic choices which are laid out inpolicy andinthe
National Forest Program, particularly that the status quo with regardto forest management is not
acceptable. These choices form the basis for the proposed intervention, andindeedare widely regarded
as criticalto the outcome o fboththe project and the future o f forest management and conservation in
Tanzania:

    Government has decided to establish a specialized 'executive agency' with clearly definedroles and
    tasks, andwith a mandate for bringingabout improvements inforest and woodland management
    through multipleinstitutional and service delivery mechanisms. It is envisaged that the Tanzania
    Forest Service (TFS) will be constituted with specific service delivery functions and performance
    targets. Responsibilities for forest policy, legislation, and planning are to remainwith a sectoral
    department ofthe Ministryo fNatural ResourcesandTourism.
    Government has committeditselfto more fully involvingthe private sector inindustrialplantation
    management, andenvisagestheir eventual operation on a more commercialbasis through lease,
    concession, orjoint management arrangements, with the objective o f improvingfinancial and
    economic returns from plantations through more cost-effective operational management.

    Government is seeking to maximize the benefits o f forest andwoodland managementto the large
    ruralpopulations dependent on them, by creating and supporting tenure and localcontrol
    mechanisms which support village-based management.
    Consistent with its obligations as a signator to the Convention on Biodiversity, Government has
    integrated conservation objectives into its wider forest policy framework, and intends to implement
    these objectives through the institutionalmechanisms posedinpolicy (through Government
    institutions, villages, the private sector, or specialized agencies).




                                                     -11   -

C. Project DescriptionSummary
1. Project components(seeAnnex 2 for adetailed descriptionandAnnex 3 for adetailed cost
breakdown):

The Tanzania Forest Conservation andManagement Projectwill have three components. The first two
components, Supportinginstitutional change and improving service delivery, and Private sector
involvement inthe managemento f industrial plantations, were already approved onFebruary 26,2002
under P0.58706.

Supportinp institutional chanpe and improvinp service delivery

This component will assistthe government with the designand establishment o fthe Tanzania Forest
Service (TFS), as a specialized 'executive agency' as defined bythe ExecutiveAgencies Act (1997), and
consistent with the wider and on-going national program o f civil service reform. It is envisaged that the
Tanzania Forest Service will, among other things, have responsibility for bringingabout improvements in
the protection andmanagemento fnatural forests andthe development and managemento f industrial
plantations (including promoting the private sector to take on these tasks). The concept i s that an agency
with a national mandate will eventually be established. Technical assistancewill beprovided to work
with FBDandthe Civil Service Department (CSD) andother relevant government agenciesto designthe
structure andfunctions o fthe agency andto draw upthe necessaryimplementationplans and guidelines
for establishment o fthe agency, including the formulation o fbusiness and staff recruitmentplans. This
component will also provide support to buildon experience from previousoperations, and uponthe
opportunitiesposed by the new Forest Policy, and planned legislation.

Three sub-components o fthis activity are envisaged:

0)      Establishment of the Tanzania Forest Service, focusing on the phased-in introduction o f the
        new executive agency, with clearly definedroles, hnctions, performance standards, and
        monitoring. This sub-component would provide resourcesto managethe change process, to
        strengthen the capacity for administrationand management, to rationalize and to strengthen the
        capacity for tasks relatedto policy, planning, and legislation (which would remain with the
        Ministry),andwouldsupport abadly-neededprogramofinvestments ininfrastructure, including
        headquarter and field facilities for the TFS. Complementary support will be providedby GEFto
         improve the capacity for the conservation and managemento f forest biodiversity, particularly in
         the Eastern Arc forests (described inthe thirdproject component).
 (ii) Improvingservice-delivery mechanismsforparticipatoryforestandwoodland
         management, inparticular, support for the establishment o f Village Forest Reserves, woodland
         managementby individuals and communities (ngitiri),and Joint Forest Management, buildingon
         experiences pilotedinearlier operations. This sub-component which will focus on facilitating
         the expansion o f community basedforest managementactivities, is envisagedto be supported by
         the Government o f Denmark.
 (iii) Improvingrevenuecollectionfromforestsandwoodlands,tomeetthedualobjectivesof
         improvingthe capacity o f the TFS to become self-financing, and o f ensuring that revenues are
         reinvestedat the locallevel inforest protection and managementthrough local institutions. This
         component will develop alternative revenue collection mechanisms, and monitoring systems to
         improve rates o f collection.




                                                   -12-

A mid-termreview would determine outstanding issuesandproviderecommendations for improvingthe
efficiency andeffectiveness o fthe TFS. A further evaluation will beundertaken prior to project
completion and, as well as determiningthe degree o f achievement and success o fthe TFS, will develop
lessonsfor the future.

Private sector involvement inthe manapement of industrial plantations

The project will provide resourcesto develop and implement a framework for the involvement o f the
private sector inthe managemento f existing industrial plantations as well as to strengthen the potential
for the development and managemento fnewplantations. This would include an analysis o f the technical
and financial feasibility o f the industrial plantations with reference to existingandpotential markets as
well as the formulation o f steps andguidelines for the private sector's involvement. Multiple
mechanisms for the involvement o fthe private sector will be developed and implementedona pilot basis,
and are expected to include leasing or concession arrangements,joint forest management, and
co-management. Consistent with policy, the objective i s eventually to introduce fully commercial
plantation management, buildingon information and experience gainedthrough project activities.

Four sub-components are envisaged

(i)     Improvingthe plantation resource information base and management planningcapacity.
        This sub-component will provide resourcesto develop the information neededto allow for the
         identification and selection o f priority sites and for designing pilot activities. The
         sub-component will finance aerial photography, interpretation, mapping, and indcative
         inventories o f around 40,000 ha o f state-owned plantations; arapidsocio-economic assessment
         which identifies key stakeholders, their concerns, and expectations and any mitigatingsteps
         which mightbe needed; the development o f a plantation database for management purposes;
         preparationo fbasic guidelines to guide plantationmanagementand to establish parameters for
         monitoring commercialplantation operations; preparation o fbasic growthand yield tables for
         key speciesrelyingon existing data; preliminary estimates of growing stock and allowable cut;
         and capacity buildingo f staff inselected areas to buildcapacity to undertake these tasks.

 (ii) Strengtheninginstitutionalsupportservicesforprivatesectorinvolvement. This
         sub-component will support the creation o f an enabling institutional and market environment for
         private sector involvement inplantation development and management. Itwill provide resources
         for the design and implementationo f a communication strategy; the development o f a plano f
         action with agreedprinciples and clear objectives for private sector involvement; strengthening
         the capacity within MHRT or within the plannedforest agency to handle PSI; the development o f
         legal procedures and instruments for tendering to ensuretransparency and consistency with
         Government guidelines and with social and environmental safeguards; the preparationo f model
         information memoranda, leases, model contracts, and transparentbiddingassessment procedures,
         as well as community andenvironmental action plans where they are needed; prepare
         recommendations on an improvedlog sales system; an actionplant for improvingforestry
         taxation and the investment environment for plantation forestry; and study tours and staff
         training to increase anunderstanding o f the principles surrounding private sector involvement.

 (iii) Pilotalternativemanagementofselectedindustrialplantations. Threepilotactivitiesare
         envisagedunderthis component: the development o f leasing or concession arrangements for
          involvingthe private sector inplantation management; the development o f co-management
          arrangementswhere responsibility for plantation managementi s sharedbetween Government and


                                                       - 13-

         a partner (for example, a village or a company); anddesignated community management for a
         plantationareawhere responsibilities and control are assumedby a village. The project will
         provide resourcesto establishboundaries o feachpilot area, to carry out rapidinventories or
         aerial surveys as needed, to prepare legal documentation as needed, andto carry out stakeholder
         surveys and assessments where communities will be involvedor otherwise affectedby the
         program.

(iv)     Monitoring and evaluation. The project will place a strong emphasis on the monitoring and
         evaluationo fperformance under the pilot operations, The project will provide resources to
         establish a mechanism for monitoring and evaluation; to determine performance indicators for
         the pilot operations; to implement a regular monitoring process which reports against quantitative
         and qualitative performance indicators; andto provide feedback to MNRTto modify mechanisms
         and procedures on the basis o fresults from the pilot operations.

EasternArc Forests Conservation and Management

This thirdcomponent o fthe program, which is largely to be financed by GEF (andpossibly withbilateral
sources) hasbeenjointly developed andimplemented by the World Bank andUNDP working with
Government andother partners with interests inthe forestry sector. This component will support
institutional reform, strategy development, pilot community-based conservation, and the development o f
sustainable financing for tropical highforest conservation inTanzania.
The mainglobal environmentalobjective o f this GEF activity i s to promote the sustainable conservation
andmanagemento fthe EastemArc forests. The activity has four sub-components: subcomponent (i)
will be implementedbythe World Bankwith IDA resources; subcomponent (ii) also be implemented
                                                                                  will
bythe WorldBankwith GEF grant resources; sub-components(iii) (iv) will be implementedthrough
                                                                       and
UNDP with GEF grant resources.

(0       Institutionai reforms for forest biodiversity conservation, inparticular of the Eastern Arc
         forests at central, district andlocalpartnership levels to incorporate specific responsibilities for
         biodiversity conservation, oversight, monitoring andcoordination. Such reforms will be linked
         with other reforms and institutionalrestructuringproposed for the forestry sector as awhole,
         which are to be financedby IDA. The implementingagency for this sub-component would be
         the Bank.

(ii) Mechanismsforsustainablefinancingofbiodiversityconservationwillbedeveloped
         includingthe establishment o fthe Eastem Arc Mountains Conservation Endowment Fund
         (EAMCEF). It is envisagedthat a pilot endowment trust fundwill be established by the project,
         with GEF resources. The EAMCEF's initialoperations andprograms will be co-financed by
         IDA, The GEF implementingagency for this sub-component wouldbe the Bank.

Two additional components are to be implemented bythe UNDP and are complementary to the
Bank-implemented activities:

 (iii)    Development andpreparation of an integrated Conservation Strategy for the EasternArc
          Mountain Forests usinga broad-basedparticipatory process, with a focus on institutional
          capacity building,andwhich considers links to other sectoral activities, such as agriculture,
          water, land, and energy. A wider dialogue on the impacts o f sectoral activities on forest
          biodiversity conservation inthe Eastem Arc will be developed amongst the key institutions
          involvedinsectoral activities. Mappingand baseline activities will be undertaken as part o f the


                                                     -14-

          Strategy development, and will include an assessment o fthe multiple tenure regimes found inthe
          forests of the Arc. The GEF implementing agency for this sub-component would be UNDP.

 (iv)     A forest conservation interventionthrough government and community partnership
          initiatives which will beundertaken at priority sites inthe UluguruMountains - one o f the most
          important mountain forest blocks inthe arc. Firmlinkages will be established with partners
          (other donors, NGOs, Community-based organizations, government agencies, etc.). The GEF
          implementing agency for this sub-component would be UNDP.

 A Project Brieffor the full GEFactivity hasbeenpreparedandwas approvedbythe GEF Council in
 December 2001.

 Proiect Administration and Management

 Finally, the project will finance the costs o f administrationand managementof the project components,
 inamanner consistent withWorld Bank guidance with respectto accounting, financial management,and
 procurement.


                                                            Indicative                 Bank       % of
                                                              costs       % of       financing    Bank
                                                             (US$M)       Total       (USSM)    financing
                                                                              0.0                     0.0                   0.0
 ServiceDelivery
 1. Establishmentofthe TanzaniaForestService                    14.20        35.5      13.40        43.1        0.00        0.0
 2. Improvingrevenue collection from forests                     4.00        10.0       3.70         11.9       0.00        0.0
    and woodlands
 3. Improving service delivery mechanisms for                    8.40        21.0       8.10         26.0       0.00        0.0
    participatory forest andwoodland management

 B. Private SectorInvolvement intheManagement                    3.40         8.5       3.30         10.6       0.00        0.0
 o fIndustrial Plantations

 C. EasternArc ForestConservationand                                          0.0                     0.0                   0.0
 Management
 1. EasternArc Mountains Conservation                            9.00        22.5       2.00          6.4       7.00      100.0
    Endowment Fund
 2. ImprovingInstitutional SupportServices                       0.30         0.8       0.00          0.0        0.00       0.0
    for forest biodiversity

 D. ProjectAdministration andManagement                          0.70          1.8      0.60          1.9        0.00       0.0
                                   Total Project Cosb           40.00       100.0      31.10        100.0        7.00     100.0
                            Total FinancingRequirec             40.00       100.0      31.10        100.0        7.00     100.0
                                                                                               I


Notes: 1) Indicative costs exclude an estimated$4.5million inbilateral and other financing neededto support implementation of
         the Eastem Arc conservation component, most ofwhich will be requiredto establishand manage the Eastem Arc
         Mountains Conservation Endowment Fund. Costs to implement the UNDP componentsofthis activity are expectedto
         total $5 million, butthese are excluded from these estimates. ProposedBank financing incorporates$600,000 inProject
         PreparationFacilityresources.
      2) IDA financing for components A, B, and D is providedunderthe associatedForest Conservation and Management
         Project (P058706) approved on February 26,2002.




                                                             - 15-

2. Key policy and institutionalreforms supported by the project:
The project will directly support key policy reforms which have already been introducedthrough the new
Forest Policy. These include the creation o f a more effective forest managementagency, the more active
involvement o f the private sector inforest plantation management, greatly strengthened support for the
establishment o f local forest and woodland managementand protection regimes, andthe development o f
animproved capacity to undertake tropical highforest conservation andmanagement. With regardto the
latter, the policy explicitly recognizes the role Tanzanians shouldplay inthe conservation and
management o f forests and woodlands. The policy also spells out the needfor integrated strategic
processesfor forestry activities, including the implementationo f broad-basedconservation initiatives.
The project will support policy reforms through:

       The establishment o f a pilot, autonomous TFS that will be responsible for supporting and
       improvingindigenous forest managementand plantation management, including management o f
       public woodlands, by working with multiple stakeholders. This intervention i s also inline with
       Government objectives under the Civil Service ReformProgram. The TFS will have a strong
       service-delivery orientation, focusing on its role inencouraging individuals, communities, villages,
       and the private sector inundertakingwoodland and forest conservation andmanagement. The
       capacity to undertake financial and procurement managementwill be greatly strengthened, with the
       objective o f establishing amore transparent framework for public expenditure management;
       The development o f a framework to promote and oversee the involvement o f the private sector in
       industrialplantation development and management;

       Continuing efforts to foster and support more effective conservation and management o f
       community and private woodlands, the establishment o f Village Forest Reserves, as well as the
       management o f government woodlands by adjacent communities by ensuringthat direct benefits go
        to communities with managementandprotectionresponsibilities; and
       The involvement o f communities and other partners inthe conservation and management o f
        tropical highforests, inpartnership with key stakeholders with interests inbiodiversity
        conservation, as well as through support for the establishment o f a sustainable financing initiative
        which ensureslong-term accessto resourcesto invest inbiodiversity conservation.

 3. Benefits and target population:
 Proiect benefits

 Reform of Forestry inst~tution~
 The reformo fforest institutions inTanzania is expected to improve their capacity to functionas service
 delivery institutions, particularly to provide communities services related to the establishment o fVillage
 Forest Reserves, the strengthening o f traditional natural resource managementstrategies (such as ngitiri
 management), and the adoption o f locally appropriate tree cultivation and management strategies. In
 addition, these reforms are expected to complement     -- andto strengthen-- the role o flocal government
 byimprovingthe effectiveness offorest revenue collection, by strengthening localaccountability for
 natural resources, andby developing transparent mechanisms for sharing revenues with villages and
 communities. Finally, a more effective institutional structure will more generally contribute to the
 long-term sustainable managemento f forest and woodland resourcesinTanzania, with significant
 impacts on the poorest groups and communities because o f their heavy dependence on woodlands to meet
 demands for consumption. The establishment o f an 'executive agency' is expected inthe longer term to
 reduce the financial burden o f existing forestry institutions on the public budget.



                                                      - 16-

Private sector management of industrialplantations
The involvement o fthe private sector inindustrial plantationmanagement i s expected to reduce the
financial and institutional burdeno fplantations on the public sector, and is expected to leadto
improvements inthe efficiency o fproduction and management. A clearer longterm commitment to the
private sector with respect to plantation development will improve the climate for investment and
reinvestment inthe wood products andprocessing industry, and will leadto greater employment and
income generating opportunities.

Eastern Arcforests conservationand management
While the biodiversity o f the EasternArc Mountains i s o f extraordinary international significance and
locally i s o f great value for mitigatingthe impacts o fpoverty, the value o fthese forests to the national
economy, primarilythrough water and energy production, is o f great national importance. The Eastern
Arc forests cover several major catchmentswhich collectively provide water for all o f the nation's
coastal comunities (including Dar es Salaamwith its population o f 3 million). These mountain forests
feed more than22 rivers, includingthe Sigi, Ruvu, Ruaha, Kihansi, and Rufiji. The Ulugurucatchment,
for example, providesthe main source o f drinkingwater to both Morogoro town and Dar es Salaam.
Hydroelectric energy productioni s similarly heavily dependenton maintaining the integrity o fthese
forests. Nearly 70 percent o f Tanzania's electricity i s generatedfrom sources derivedfrom the Eastern
Arc forests.

The idea o f collecting environmentalrents, especially from the energy and water sectors, has been tabled
inageneral way anumberoftimes. Theseproposals,however, are somewhat disconnectedfroman
understanding ofthe tenuous - indeed, highlyprecarious -financial position o f service delivery
institutions such as the Tanzania Electricity Supply Company (Tanesco) and the Dar es SalaamWater
and Sewerage Authority (DAWASA). While the capturing o f environmental rents may seemto be a
good idea inthe abstract, the current public expenditure framework suggeststhat this would be
unrealistic inthe short term.

Other environmental services captured bythe macro-economy associatedwith the EasternArc forests
impact positively on agricultural production and also result from timber harvesting(both through the
legal and illegal felling o f trees used inconstruction and to make hmiture andcharcoal). More recently
a small ecotourismindustry has developed. There are some indications o f a growing trade inthreatened
 species of insects andreptiles. Accordingly, there i s a strongneed for sustainable use of forest products
 for these purposes andactivities such as tourism which maximize the non-destructive uses of forests.

 Proiect beneficiaries

 The project is primarilyintendedto benefit ruralhouseholds which are dependent on woodlands and
 forests to meet consumptive demands, andjob seekers who are able to findemployment ina revitalized
 forest industry(based on sustainable plantationproduction). The project i s expected to develop lessons
 from innovative pilot activities and as a result o f institutional development which will have potential
 benefits for the vast majority o fthe country's population. Direct benefits which will accrue to
 communities through the project include improvedconsumption and income through the use and sale of
 forest products obtained from sustainably managedresources, and an improved environment associated
 with enhancedforest conservation andprotection. National benefits ofbiodiversity conservation are
 expected to accrue as a result o fwatershed catchment protection, which inturn will yield significant
 benefits interms o f long-term hydroelectric energy productionandurbanwater supplies.



                                                       -17-

4. Institutionalandimplementationarrangements:

Governmentof Tanzania

The NationalForest Programprovides the overall framework for project implementation. The project i s
the primarymechanism for mobilizingfinance for implementationof the NFP, which will be
complemented by other donor initiatives which are inthe process o fbeingmobilized.

Three coordination mechanisms are envisaged:

    Consistent with the objectives o f developinga sector-wide approach toward forestry investment, the
    NationalForest ProgramSteering Committee will have overall oversight for ensuring that project
    activities are implementedina manner which is consistent with the NFP. The members o f the
    Project Preparation Working Group (which provided oversight duringpreparation) have been
    incorporatedinto the NFP Steering Committee, which may choose to constitute a smaller FCMP
    working group more closely to follow project implementation. The NFP Steering Committee is
    constitutedof representatives from MNRT, the Ministryo f Finance, the President's Office (Planning
     andPrivatization), the Policy and PlanningDivisiono f MNRT, the Division o f Forestry and
     Beekeeping, and several donor representatives. The Steering Committee has been broadened and
     includes the President's Office (Regional Administration and Local Government), the NationalLand
     Use PlanningCommission, the Vice President's Office (Environment Division), Sokoine University
     o f Agriculture, and the Private Sector Foundation.
     At the working level, project oversight and managementwill bethe responsibility o fa Senior
     Forestry Officer, to be appointed by the Permanent Secretary, and supportedby procurement and
     financial managementspecialists within the adrmnistrative framework o f MNRT. FBDwill be
     responsible for implementingactivities to be financedwith IDAresources, and has already put in
     place financial managementand procurement systems to assist inproject implementation.
     FBDalready has extensive experience intheseareas, throughimplementationofFRMP. Itis
     envisaged that FBDi s currently not 'LACI capable', but that a time-bound planfor implementation o f
     LACIrequirements will beprepared. Financialmanagementandprocurement specialists will be
     fully engagedinthe development ofthis planas members ofthe QualityAssurance Team.
     The Forestry Advisory Group was established by FBD, consistent with its policy objectives o f
     ensuring better overall coordinationat the national level, and will be consulted inan advisory
     capacity about the scope andobjectives o fthe proposed investments. The Forestry Advisers Group
     i s comprisedo frepresentatives from the donor community with interests inforest sector
     development, as well as the NGO andacademic community.

Bilateraldonors such as Danida (Denmark), DIDC (Finland), SIDA (Sweden), GTZ (Germany) and
NORAD(Norway) have been supporting various types o fpilot activities inthe forestry sector at district
level. Inaddition, DIDChas supported the development o fthe NFP. Through the NFP Steering
Committee andthe Forestry Advisory Group efforts will be made to make use o f the experience gained
andto coordinate donor support relatedto the NFP. The aimwill be to gradually develop and strengthen
a sector wide approach inthe forestry sector adaptedto the specific needs and complexities of the sector.

 CoordinationbetweenGEF ImplementinpAgencies

The proposed Eastern Arc forest conservation and management component i s anunusual opportunity for
 collaboration between two GEF ImplementingAgencies. As such, UNDP andthe World Bankhave


                                                    - 18-

different comparative advantages. The World Bankhas been at the forefront as a financier o f
Government's efforts at civil service reform, andwill take the leadwith regardto financing and
supervision o f institutional activities, inparticular, the development and establishment of the TFS, and
institutional reforms leadingto better forest conservation, Inaddition, the Bankhas a comparative
advantage inthe area o f sustainable financing, and will be responsible for these aspects o fthe
GEF-financedactivities. UNDP's strengths are primarily inthe area o f capacity buildingand technical
assistance. Inthis role, UNDP will be responsible for development o f the Conservation Planning
sub-component o fthe GEF financed EasternArc activity, and o fthe pilot conservation activities inthe
UluguruMountains.

The Eastern Arc Mountains Conservation Endowment Fund(EAMCEF) will implement the sustainable
financing initiativewith IDA and GEF resources. Underthe Forest Conservation and Management
Project US$2million has beencommitted for boththe institutional andprogrammaticestablishment o f
the EAMCEF. The EAMCEF is a Non-Governmental Organizationestablished by a deed o ftrust under
the Trustees' Incorporation Ordinance (Cap 375) which has beenregistered with the Administrator
General o f Trustees. An InauguralBoardhasbeen established and is comprised o f representatives o fthe
public sector, the private sector, and environmental NGOs. A subsidiary agreementwill be established
between the Government o f Tanzania and the EAMCEF, as well as a Project Agreement betweenthe
Bank andEAMCEF.

Financial ManaPement

A financial managementassessmentwas carriedout duringAppraisal missionwhich indicatedthat the
Ministry's Finance Department and staff have adequatefinancial management systems which can
provide, with reasonable assurance, timely information on the status o f the project as requiredbythe
borrower andIDA. The government financial managementsystem and controls over public finances
have recently beenupdated andstrengthenedunderthe Integrated Financial Management System (FMS)
usingcomputerized accounting software (the so-called`Platinum` system). A satisfactory project
Accounting and Financial Management Manual describing the accounting system, procedures, internal
 controls, chart o f accounts and roles and responsibilities o f the key staff responsible for IDA finances has
 beenprepared. The Ministryhaswide experience inimplementingIDA projects and inmanagingIDA
 funds fromthe previousForest ResourcesManagement Project andvarious PHRD, PPF, andGEF
 resources. Therefore, the project financial managementsystem i s adequatefor the project to be
presented to the Board.

 A review ofaccounting andfinancialmanagementsystemsconcluded that, while FBDhas extensive
 experience inworking with Bankprocurement and disbursement,it is currently not capable of complying
 withnew LoanAdministration ChangeInitiative(LACI) Guidelines. An actionplanwas agreedduring
 Appraisal which shouldbringFBDto LACIcompliance.

Agreed actionplan:

     Before the project i s declared effective, an additional Ministry-qualified accountant will be deployed
     on a full-timebasis to assistthe current project accountant intheproject financial matters; and
     The project will be reassessedfor LACIcompliance when a LACIcompatible financial reporting
     format acceptable to the Bank has beenprepared(based onthe revisedLACIguidelines).




                                                       - 19-

Provided the above steps are taken, it i s envisagedthat project shouldbe LAC1compliant within 18
months from the date o f project effectiveness. The decision to adopt to the periodic report based
disbursement procedures will be made inconsultation with a Bank Financial Management Specialist who
will:
    review experience to date with the quality o fwithdrawal submissions, operation o f the Special
    Account, SOE submissions and documentation retention inthe field, andthe general effectiveness o f
    project managementand accounting staff;
    ensure that the Special Account has been reconciledand any outstanding issues resolved;
    review supervision reports to assess implementationprogress and issues;
e   review any available audit information, as well as any other financial reports, with a view to forming
    an opinionon the reliability o f project accounts; and
    review the PMR format designed to be usedinconjunction with the Platinum computerized
    accounting package.

Audited financial statementswillbepreparedand submitted within 6 monthsofthe close of eachFiscal
Year. The Terms o f Reference for the Audit are included inthe Accounting and Financial Management
Manual. Audits remainthe responsibility o f the Controller and Auditor General. Additional costs which
mustbe incurredto complete the audit will be coveredbythe proceeds fromthe Credit.

There are no deviations from standarddisbursement arrangementsregarding eligibility, funds flow,
disbursement percentages, nor are there any special considerations regardingthe use o f Statementso f
Expenditure (SOEs) or the Special Account. Annex 6 describes proposed Disbursement Arrangements in
greater detail.

D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasonsfor rejection:
A follow-on project from the FRMP was considered, involvinga continuation o factivities relatedto
woodland management andcommunity forestry within Mwanza and Tabora regions with expansion to
other regions. However, it became apparent inthe last two years o f FRMP that forest management and
conservation, as well as village andcommunity-based forestry would not succeedwithin the existing
institutional structure andthat major institutional reforms were necessaryfor any future forestry
interventions to be successful. It hadbeenhoped that the piloting o f at least some aspects o f a forestry
executive agency could have been undertaken inthe latter stages o f FRMP, but proposed pilotswere
never implemented.

The original project concept also didnot include action onplantations. Itwas felt that any institutional
reformrelatedto forest management and conservation should include all forest resources, and the
adoptiono f specific policy guidance favoring the role of the private sector inplantation management
provided an excellent context for includingthis aspect into the project.

Incorporation o f a lands component, similar to that under FRMP was also considered. This was rejected
as it was felt that any further investment inlands shouldbe undertaken as a stand-alone project activity.

These choices were intensively discussedamongst various stakeholders. The project concept was
developed through a consultative process, and proposals for project preparationwere an outcome o f a
strategic planning workshop heldinJune 1999.


                                                     - 20 -

2. Major related projects financed by the Bank andlor other development agencies (completed,


                                                                           LatestSupervision
             Sector Issue                        Project                     (PSR) Ratings
                                                                       (Bank-finance irojectsonly)
                                                                      Implementation  Development
Bank-financed                                                          Progress(IP)  Objective(DO)

Forest and woodland management        Forest ResourcesManagement           S               S
                                      Project
Biodiversityconservation; lake        Lake Victoria Environmental           S              S
ecosystem management                  Management Project
Biodiversityconservation              Lower KihansiEnvironmental
                                      Management Project
Other developmentagencies
Catchment protectionand biodiversity East Usambaras Catchment
conservation                          Forestry Project (DIDC);
Forest sector planning                National Forest Program
                                       (DIDC);
 Catchment protection and             Natural Resources
 community-de\relopment; forest policy Management andBufferZone
 andlegislation                        Development Program(GTZ);

 Biodiversityconservation and          UdzungwaMountains Forest
 community development;                Management andBiodiversity
                                       Conservation Project (Danida);
 Village-based woodland management Community-based Natural
                                       Woodlands Management
                                       Project; UTUMI(Lindi)
                                       Woodland Management Projec1
                                       (Danida);
 Catchment protection                  Catchment Forestry Program
                                       (NOmaY);
Biodiversityconservation               ReducingBiodiversity Loss at
                                       Crossborder Sites inEast
                                       Africa (GEFAJNDP)




                                                -21 -

      the concept of strengthening traditional systemso f woodland management (ngitiri) is
      fundamentally sound and has good replicationpotential throughout the country. The most
      important aspect o f the program has beenthe support it has given to people to act to halt the
      disappearanceof remainingwoodland, and to bringas many pockets o fwoodland as possible
      under rehabilitation. This has beenaccomplished by working with villagers as the logical,
       long-term guardians of forest resources to protect andconservethese resources themselves, at
       little cost to government, andthrough socio-legal mechanisms which they themselves control and
      maintain according to their own interests.
(ii) CommunityinvolvementinJointForestManagementofgovenunentforestreservescanleadto
       an improvement inthe condition o freserves, and to a sharp reduction inthe threats they face.
       The approaches pilotedby FRMP could, however, be strengthenedparticularly inregardto more
       fully transferringdecisionmakingresponsibilities to the communities involved.
(iii) Moregenerally,drywoodlandmanagementposesgoodopportunitiesbecauseoftheresilienceof
       the woodland to harvesting, the cost-effectiveness o f relying on natural regeneration with
       minimal silvicultural treatments, andbecauseo f the few risks to the environmentposedby
       sustainable managemento f dry woodland ecosystems.

       Farmers are apt at adopting simple technologies that are basedon the use o f inexpensive local
       material, such as the improvedwood stoves. Higher-tech approaches are not needed and are
       difficult to disseminate through extension.

       Project identification and preparation benefitedfrom boththe resourceswhich were put into the
       effort, but also from the longer term iterative process o fproject design, and the linkageswhich
       were established with sectoral strategies, such as the Tanzania ForestryAction Plan. Indeed,
       experience with the project suggeststhat there can be significant project implementation benefits
       when project identification andpreparation i s bolstered by strategic studies, action-oriented
       research, and ESW.
       Weaknessesinproject performance were often linkedwith inadequacies inthe prevailing
        institutional mechanisms for forest managementinTanzania. These place responsibility for
        forest managementwithin a decentralized institutional structure, without adequatemechanisms
        for ensuring there i s technical, administrative, and managementoversight. Problems o f
        governance inthe sector are linked to these weaknesses, and future investments will likely be
       jeopardized inthe absence o f institutional reforms. The ICRnotedthat the problemi s widely
        recognized inGovernment, and that the Ministryhas made a commitment to launchinga reform
        process which seeks to addressthese systemic weaknesses.

(vii)   Technical assistancemay sometimes be delivered more effectively ifindividualconsultants are
        selected on the basis o f professional competence andexperience. The packagingof
        consultancies into larger packages duringthe tendering process limitedGovernment's flexibility
        infindingqualified individualconsultants, though someefficiencieswere gained. However,
        consequentdeficiencies inperformance were difficult, time consuming, and costly to rectify.
        Technical supervision o f advisory servicesneedsto be strengthenedand supported.

(viii)  A Project Coordination Unitmay facilitate implementationofproject activities, but may have
        little overall impact on increasing institutional capacity. Inthe case o f FRMP, a PCUwas
        justified onthe basis o f the needfor coordinationbetween multipleinstitutional partners, but
        provided little scope for the technical oversight neededinthe sector. Payment o fproject
         allowances may encourageproject staff to work diligently. Givenpublic spending constraints,
        this approach is not sustainable inthe long-term.



                                                     - 22 -

4. Indicationsof borrower andrecipientcommitmentandownership:
Since 1996 the Bank hasmaintaineda dialogue with MNRT and FBDon the conceptualization and
design o f a future forestry investmentsthat would buildon achievements and lessonsfrom FRMP, but
which would consider the forestry sector within Tanzania as a whole and addresscurrent important
issues. A letter requesting Bank support for a further forestry project was receivedby the Bank from
MNRT in 1998andthe Government's own concept paperwas completed andsentto the Bankin 1998,
following several discussions betweenthe government stakeholders and Bank officers. The project as
designed incorporates the Government concepts, but further preparation was delayeduntilthe ICRfor
FRMP was completed. Government has also seenthat any future project would require the support of a
new policy for forestry andto this end it has, over the last two years, vigorously pursued the formulation
andeventual adoptionofthe new ForestPolicy(March 1998)andis continuingto pushfor the required
legislative changesto support the newpolicy.

The overall framework for public expenditure anddonor support to the forestry sector is set out inthe
NationalForest Program, which has beenprepared to guide the implementationo f the new forest policy.
Boththe NFP and the National Forest Policyprovide important guidance inestablishing priorities which
will be captured inthe Biodiversity Strategy andAction Plan, which is under preparation. FCMP is the
principalfinancial delivery mechanism for the National Forest Program, andproposed GEF support has
been fully blended into this IDA operation. Additional bilateral support for implementation ofthe NFP i s
inthe processofbeingmobilized.

5. Value addedof BankandGlobalsupport inthis project:
The involvement o fthe Bankwould allow valuable lessons and initiatives started under the previous
FRMPandother donor projects to beput into effect anda scaled-up approach to forest managementand
conservation taken under FCMP. These include a more effective institutional approach to forest
management andconservation as well as the application o f improvedparticipatory approachesto forest
management and the involvement o fthe private sector as the key manager inindustrialplantations.

The participation o f the GEF and the establishment o f a sustainable financing mechanism for ongoing
conservation ofthe Eastern Arc MountainForests, and, eventually, other endangeredareas o f
biodiversity inTanzania makes it possible for an integrated and participatory intervention to safeguard
one o f the world's most important ecosystems. Added value from the Bank's perspective comes from its
global experience inthe design, implementationandfinancing ofbiodiversity conservation and GEF
projects. The GEF involvement makespossible a conservation programthat would otherwise have been
difficult to achieve.

 E. Summary ProjectAnalysis(Detailedassessmentsare inthe project file, see Annex 8)

,-
 1. Economic(see Annex 4):
  -' Cost benefit       NPV=US$ million; ERR= % (see Annex 4)
 F

I-   Cost effectiveness
     IncrementalCost
'r-i Other (specify)

 The institutional reforms which FCMP seeks to support through the NationalForest Programare
 intendedto help to establish a new institutional framework, which is primarilyorientedtowardimproving
 service delivery functions: facilitating villages to establish Village Forest Reserves, strengthening the
 capacity for the management o f strategic forest reserveswhich are beingmaintainedinthe national


                                                      - 23 -

interest, improvingthe financial sustainability o fforest managementinterventions, other local
conservation and protection measures, and strengthening the role o fthe private sector inindustrial
plantationmanagement.

The current constraints inthe forest sector inTanzania call for a comprehensive approach to the
development o f a sector-wide approach toward forest conservation andmanagement. Public financing o f
woodland and forest conservation andmanagementisjustified both from the perspective o ftheir role in
mitigatingthe impactsofpoverty as well as from the perspective ofthe environmentalvalue offorests
andwoodlands as watershed catchments, which maintainwater flows to urbanareas andto hydroelectric
generating facilities. Other environmental benefits from forest and woodland conservation and
management accrue becauseo fthe value o f carbonsequestration. An IncrementalCostAnalysishas
beenprepared for the GEF financed project component focusing on conservation o fEasternArc
Mountains forest biodiversity (see Annex 12).

A separateanalysis of the industrialtimber plantationsector was preparedwhich sought to estimate
the value o f the industrialtimber plantation resource, and the economics o f project interventions, and this
i s summarized inthe Annex.

Poverty impacts. Tanzania's woodland and forests are extremely important for mitigatingthe impacts o f
ruralpoverty. Recent studies have shown that hlly40 percent of total household consumptioninsome
rural areas is accounted for by forest andwoodland products such as honeyproduction, firewood,
constructionmaterial, and wild fruit andother foods (a point notedinTanzania's Poverty Reduction
Strategy Paper). Inaddition, forests and woodlands are an important source o f dry seasongrazing,
reducinghouseholds' exposure to environmental risk. Ruralhouseholds generally use a wide variety of
environmentalresources from woodlands, and the sizable aggregatevalue o fenviroi~eiitally~eri~ed
income is made up o f a fairly large number o f smaller individualincome sources. There is considerable
complexity inthe factors which determine levels o f resource use: different households use different
resources for different reasons at different times. Still, the conclusions are inescapable: the ruralpoor are
heavily dependent onresourcesderived from forests and woodlands, and deforestation and forest
degradation poses a significant threat to rural livelihoods.

FCMP i s designed inpart to increasethe capacity o f villages to managewoodlands. It derives from
experience with pilot and other operations acrossTanzania, which suggestedsignificant scope for
improvingthe effectiveness o f this approach toward village-based management. As such, FCMPis
seekingto facilitate the development o f local managementschemes through cost-effective interventions
which serve primarily to informvillages and communities o fpolicy andlegal changes which underpin
their rightsover localwoodland resources.

Environmental valuesand the national economy. While the biodwersity o fthe Tanzania's tropical high
forests i s o f extraordinaryinternational significance andlocally is o f great value for mitigatingthe
impacts o fpoverty, the value of these forests to the national economy, primarily through water and
energy production, is o f great national importance. The EasternArc forests, for example, cover several
major catchments which collectively provide water for all o fthe nation's coastal communities (including
Dar es Salaamwith its populationo f 3 million). These mountain forests feed more than 22 rivers,
includingthe Sigi, Ruvu, Ruaha, Kihansi, and Rufiji. The Ulugurucatchment, for example, provides the
main source o f drinkingwater to bothMorogoro town and Dar es Salaam. Hydroelectric energy
production is similarly heavily dependent on maintainingthe integrity o fthese forests. Total installed
 electric generating capacity inTanzania (maximum annual firmenergy) i s 1323 GWh(1:60 year
 reliability). Hydroelectricity accounts for 720 GWh (54 percent) o f the total. O fthe 6 hydroelectric



                                                      - 24 -

stations (Mtera, Kidatuand Lower Kihansiinthe RufijiBasin, andNyumbaya Mungu, Hale, andNew
Pangani Falls onthe Pangani River), only 2 (Mtera and Kidatu) have seasonal storage capacity. The rest
are `run-of-the-river' facilities which depend on more or less constant river flow, which, inturn, is
dependent on the integrity o fwatershed catchments andthe forests found there.

Other environmentalservices captured by the macro-economy associatedwithTanzania's forests impact
positively on agricultural production andalso result from timber harvesting (both through the legal and
illegal felling o f trees used inconstruction and to make furniture and charcoal). More recently a small
ecotourism industryhas developed. There are some indications o f a growing trade inthreatened species
o f insects and reptiles. Accordingly, there is a strong needfor sustainableuse o f forest products for these
purposes and activities such as tourismwhich maximize the non-destructive uses o f forests.

Carbonsequestra~ion.Simply becauseo f their very great extent inTanzania, miombo woodlands in
particular have great potential for adding to the growing carbon dioxide content o fthe atmosphere, or
helpingto reduce it. A well stocked hectare o f miombo woodland can sequester 200 to 300 tons o f
carbon. Various sourcesplace the economic value o f sequesteredcarbon at $5 to $10 per ton, andso
there are considerable benefits to be gained by conserving miombo, by increasing rates o f sequestration,
or by limitingfuture losses. For example, against miombo stocks o f around 30 millionha inTanzania,
stocked at a rate o f 150 tons o f carbon per hectare, an increase incarbon sequestration o f a tenth o f a
percent over the life o fthe project would yield around US$22million inglobal environmental benefits.

2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR= % (see Annex 4)

Consideringthe extent o f the asset, public fknding for forestry is generally inadequate and irregular.
Over the last 10years, budgets to the Forest and Beekeeping Divisionhave been increasinginnominal
terms  -- growing    four-fold from 1993194to 199912000 though have remained roughly constant when
                                                           --
inflation i s taken into account. In199912000FBD's recurrent expenditure was aroundTSh 2.3 billion
(US$2.9 millionat the then prevailing exchangerate). Out ofthis TSh 1.3 billion came from the
Treasury and covered staff salaries; TSh 980 million was from revenue collected andretainedbyFBD
and was used for forest operations. This sumi s intendedto provide for the management o f around 13
million ha (averaging about US$0.22 per ha). Outside o f specific donor-financed activities, development
and recurrent costs are partly financedbyretainedrevenues, which currently total around 56 percent o f
all revenues collectedfrom the sale o ftimber and other products from central government Forest
Reserves. For the most part, FBDrelies on District staff (rather than FBD staff) to collect revenues, with
the exceptiono fthe plantation sector, which accounts for around 40 percent o f total revenues collected.
In199912000,revenuesfromCentralGovernmentForestReserves(includingplantations) totalled
roughly TSh 2 billion (around US$2.5 million at the exchange rate which prevailed at the time). FBD
total recurrent anddevelopment expenditures in 199912000 (including a proportion of, butnot all,
donor-financed expenditure) totalled around TSh 5.6 billion.

Financing o f the forestry sector by the donor community peaked in 1991192,when donor spending
accounted for 90 percent o f all spending inthe forestry sector. Currently, it is estimated to account for
around 68 percent o f all spending inthe forestry sector. It i s difficult to compare the efficiency o fpublic
vs. donor spending because o fthe highlydistortedimpact o f heavy investments inrelativelyexpensive
technical assistanceto manage donor financed projects.

The bulko f donor assistance, however, is not mediated bythe budget process. As much as 60 percent o f
donor investments inforestry are not captured by the budget. Inthis environment, arguably, donor



                                                      - 25 -

resourcesare financing donor priorities, rather than the priorities outlined inTanzania's forest policy. It
i s widely agreedthat the donor community needsto focus its priorities ina manner which i s more
carefully aligned with Government's. The National Forest Program poses a mechanism for doing this,

The development o f a sector-wide approach to financing o f the forestry sector i s a longer term objective
o fFCMP. Investments inimproving financial management, procurement management, overall
institutional management, and inmeetingservice delivery standards are intendedto establish the
institutional framework for a sector-wide approach.

FiscalImpact:
Improvements inthe framework for royalty collection are expected to strengthen the overall financial
sustainability o f the Tanzania Forest Service. FCMP proposesto change the overall framework, and to
develop the means for returningrevenuesto villages and other forest managers.

3. Technical:

Miombo woodland managementoptions are beingdeveloped and tested by the Tanzania Forest Research
Institute (TAFORI), and some experience inthis area was also gained as a result o f FRMP. These
findings will be more fully developed, andresearchrecommendations to improve woodland regeneration
will be implementedthrough theproject. Lessonswith regardto the involvement of communities in
forest management, gained from FRMP and other donor-assisted efforts, have been incorporatedinto the
project's design. Collaboration with other researchinitiatives through the Center for International
Forestry Research, andwith WWF will be strengthened.

4. Institutional:

Institutional reform comprises a central element o f this project. The formation o fthe Tanzania Forest
 Service has already beenthrough initial processingwithin the context o fthe Civil Service Reform
Programandthe Executive Agency Program, and it has been recommendedthat the TFS be established
 as a `self-starter`, with the assistanceo fthe CSD.

 The structure, staffing, andfunctions, ofthe TFS, as well as links with the MNRT,FBDanddistrict
 administrations remainto be determined, and these planning steps will feature prominently duringproject
 implementation.

 4.1 Executingagencies:
 The project is to be executed bythe Ministryo fNatural Resourcesand Tourism. Close cooperation
 duringimplementationis expectedwiththe InstituteofResourcesAssessmentand its Tanzania Natural
 ResourcesInformation Center, Sokoine University o f Agriculture, the Civil Service Department, and
 TAFORI. Local government will also be a critical partner duringimplementation.

 The EAMCEFwill implement the sustainable financing initiative with IDA andGEF resources. Under
 the Forest Conservation andManagement Project US$2 million has beencommittedfor boththe
 institutional andprogrammaticestablishment o f the EAMCEF. The EAMCEFi s a Non-Governmental
 Organizationestablished by a deedo ftrust underthe Trustees' Incorporation Ordinance (Cap 375) which
 hasbeenregistered with the Administrator General o f Trustees. An InauguralBoardhas been
 established andis comprisedo f representatives of the public sector, the private sector, and environmental
 NGOs. A subsidiary agreementwill be establishedbetween the GOT andthe EAMCEF.



                                                    - 26 -

4.2 Projectmanagement:
Itisenvisagedthat FBDis currently not 'LACI capable', butthat atime-bound planfor implementationof
LACI requirements will be prepared. Financialmanagement and procurement specialists will be fully
engagedinthe development o f this plan as members o f the Quality Assurance Team.

Modalities for the managemento f the plannedEasternArc Mountains Conservation Endowment Fund
have beendeveloped and are included inthe Trust Administration Manual. Giventhat the Endowment
Fundis beingnewlycreated, the development ofthese modalities is likely to continue duringproject
implementation. It is not envisaged that the Trust will be fully operational untilthe thirdyear o f project
implementation.

4.3 Procurement issues:
Procurement andDisbursement issues are summarized inAnnex 6
4.4 Financial managementissues:
A FinancialManagement Capacity Assessmentwas completed inconjunctionwith the Appraisal Mission
and is inthe project files (Financial Management Assessment, Ministry of ~ a t u r aResources and
                                                                                      l
Tourism,October 25, 2001).

There are no significant financial managementrisks faced by Tanzania which are expectedto impact the
project. The recently completed Country Financial A c c ~ u n t a ~Assessment (CFAA) indicatedthat
                                                                        i l ~ ~
Government has established a sound financial managementand accounting systemto handle public
accounts. Already there has beenan on-going special training program inplace since July 2001 for
government accountants, auditors, Permanent SecretariesandMembers o fParliament on the control and
management o f government funds andproperties which i s basedon new legislation. The main issues o f
the existing public sector systemthat can be drawn from the CFAA which are relevant to the project
include: (i)non-compliance with statutory rules andregulations and recordmanagement; lack o f
sustainable technical capacity and Information Technology (IT) strategy to manageGovernment's
IntegratedFinancial Management System (IFMS); lack o f culture o f accountability and enforcement of
internal controls on the public finances; (ii) o f independency o fpublic national audit office;
                                              lack
ineffective internal auditing.

Inordertoaddresstheabovegaps,thereareon-going institutionalcapacitybuildingactivitiesunderway
to strengthen the public accounting system.

Withrespect to audit compliance and FBDIMNRTaudits for FRMP, these were consistently clean.
Audits for the PPF-financed activities andthe PHRD grants are up-to date, andclean. There are no audit
reports outstanding underthis sector.

There are no major financial risks for this project. The additional support o f a qualified accountant from
 the Ministryi s important to ensure that qualified financial staff are adequatefor handling project
 accounts, for ensuring there is capacity buildingwithin the Ministryinfinancial management.

 Buildingonpast experience with implementationofPHRDiGEFIPPF-financedactivities, banking
 arrangements are expected to be satisfactory.

 Audited financial statements (project, SOEs, and Special Account1PMR) will be prepared andsubmitted
 within 6 months o f the close o feach FiscalYear. The Terms o f Reference for the Audit are included in
 the Accounting and Financial Management Manual. Audits remain the responsibility o f the Controller


                                                     - 27 -

and Auditor General. Additional costs which may be incurred to complete the audit will be covered by
the project. Documentationwith respect to SOEPMRexpenditures will beretainedbythe Ministryat
the Ivory Rooms.

5. Environmental:                          Environmental Category: E (Partial Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessmentandEMPpreparation(including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues andtheir treatment emerging from this analysis.
The project has beenclassifiedas Category B with respect to its expected environmental impacts. The
project i s not expected to result inany significant negative environmental or social impacts.

An analysis o fEnvironmentaland Social issuesrelatedto the project was carriedout duringproject
preparationand is includedas Annex 11to this Project Appraisal Document. Preparation o f the analysis
was launched duringthe February 2001 stakeholder workshop convened inDar es Salaam which
reviewed the project formulation andthe key issueswhich were emerging duringthe preparationprocess.
The analysis was completed duringthe June 2001Technical Mission, where the preliminary findings
were discussedand agreedwith Government.

The key issuesrelatedto environmental and social safeguards are summarizedhere:

    Adequacy of implementing institutionsto address environmental management OPBP 4.01. -
    Althoughthere are significant shortcomings inthe national environmental management and
    regulatory framework have beenhighlighted, the forest sector has a strong assortment o f provisions
    to address virtually all potential environmental concerns that will arise as a result o f this project.
    These are specifically contained inthe relevant forest sector policy, NationalForest Program, and
    draft revisions to forestry legislation. Inaggregate, Tanzania's forest policy framework is one o fthe
    most constructive and forward looking inAfrica.

    Financing commercial logging operationsor thepurchase of logging equipmentfor use in
    primary tropical moistforests    - OP/GP   4.36. Consistent with the Bank's current Forest Policy, the
    project will not finance any activities which leadto the logging o f highforests. The project will be
     supportingcommercial operations &inplantation forests. These forests consist of eucalyptus,
     cypress, pine and teak -most o f which were established over the last 30 years. The current standing
     crop has a history going back decadeson landthat was never covered by tropical moist forest, but
     was primarily grassland. The sixteen plantation forest blocks covered bythe project will continue to
     undertake silvicultural practices including harvest andreplanting. Participatory forest management
     plans will allow for expansion o fvillage and community basedplantation woodlots, but only with
     management plans that ensureprotection o f sensitive, biologically important and watershed
     catchments.

     Use of a sector-wide approachfor forest management OP/GP4.36. The National Forest Policy,
                                                               -
     NationalForest Program, draft forestry legislation, and technical guidelines all constitute essential
     components o f a solid sector-wide approach to the forest sector inTanzania. A11o f the Bank's policy
     commitments inthis regardhave been addressedby GOT and include: adoption ofpolicies and a
     legal institutional framework for forest management; adoption o f an appropriate forestry
     conservation and development plan; use o f social, economic and environmental assessments of
     commercial forests; setting aside compensatory preservation forests; and establishment o f
     institutional capacity to implement and enforce these commitments.




                                                     - 28 -

e Protection of forest areas that are considered critical natural habitats andpreservation and
  sustainableuse of forests of high ecologicalvalue     - OP/GP   4.36, UPBP 4.04. The project
  proposes to support a numbero f activities within its three components that will adhereto forest
  sector provisions for identification, protectionand management o f criticalhabitats. These include, in
  particular, catchments and the Eastern Arc MountainForests. The sustainable management o f dry
  woodlands, however, i s expected to be an outcome o fproject implementation. Ultimately, the
  environmentalbenefits o f this approach are expected to be substantial, and will provide significant
  opportunities for increasing the viability o f managedmiombo woodlands. Miombo woodlands are
  unusual inthe extent to which they are extremely resilient to harvesting, and regenerate readily.
  Once miombo woodlands havebeen harvested, researchhas shown that regeneration i s actually
  enhancedbythe tillage o f soils, suggestingthat the management o f settlement inwoodland areas may
  be an effective woodland management strategy -- resultinginhigher yields andbetter overall
  productivity -- than outright miombo conservation or selective harvesting. Forest managementplans
  to be promotedby FBDwill contribute to increasing the viability o f these woodlands. The
  participatory forest managementapproach advocated inthe project also provides for local
  communities andforest users to identifyand manage ecologically important forest areas basedon
  their ownneeds.

e Stakeholder consultation including theprivate sector and localpeople inforest management         -
  OP/GP 4.36. Provisionsfor continuing stakeholder consultations are made inthe three project
  components. For National Forests, LocalAuthority Forests, Village and Community Forests, and
  Private Forests, the basic premise for future sustainable use is the development o f forest management
  plansthat are defined by a stakeholder involvedprocess. FCMPhas specifiedparticularprovisions
  for ensuring that all stakeholders, from the private sector to localpeople, are included inthe
  development o f forest managementplans.

  Avoid or minimize involuntary resettlementas it applies inparticular to encroachment inforest
  reserves  -OPBP    4.12. The problemofencroachment inreserved forests hasbeena long-standing
  one, and accompaniedthe move to a more open economy which took place inthe early 1990s.
  Government has put inplace various mechanismsto limit the problem o f encroachment, including
  boundary demarcation, increased patrols, voluntary resettlement, and the development o fbenefit
  sharing schemes for communities livinginbufferzones around reserved forests. Proactive strategies,
  such as the potential for the establishment of Village Forest Reservesoffer perhaps the best
  opportunities for bringingcommunities andpeople living inforested areas into forest protection and
  management schemes. Experience has shown that reservation as a Government forest, as such, i s
  amongst the most costly and least effective mechanisms for limitingdamageto woodlands and
  forests.

  MNRT has developed a set of detailedguidelines for community basedforest managementwhich
  define methods for defining forest reserve boundaries, identifyingencroachment problems,
  consulting with offenders andestablishing fines and provisions for getting such offenders off
  designated lands. The LandAct also contains specifications for ensuring that peoples rights are duly
  respectedandthat incases where landappropriationis required, due compensation i s provided.
  Measures for appeals and investigations are also defined.




                                                   - 29 -

   Government reiterated duringpreparation that involuntary resettlement would not be carried out in
   conjunction with any project implementationactivity. Government has also agreed that inthe
   unforeseen event that involuntary resettlement becomes necessaryinthe course o fproject
    implementation, a detailed resettlement planto be completedand subject to IDA review well in
    advance of any resettlement actions associatedwith any o fthe project components.

5.2 What are the mainfeatures o f the EMP and are they adequate?
The project's Category B rating does not require preparation o f an Environmental Management Plan. The
EnvironmentalAnalysis, however, recommends that an environmental andsocial safeguardschecklist
shouldbe incorporatedinto the Guidelines for the establishment of Village Forest Reserves, that detailed
socio-economic studies shouldbe carried out inthe pilot industrial plantation areas affected byprivate
sector involvement once these are identified, and that the impact o f the Participatory Forest Management
component and other project activities on the integrityo ftropical highforests shouldbe monitored.

5.3 For Category A and B projects, timelineand status o f EA:
                    Date o f receipt o f final draft: September 1,2001

The Environmental Analysis o f the project has been completedand i s includedas Annex 11to this
Project Appraisal Document.

5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage o f (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposedenvironment managementplan? Describe
mechanisms o f consultationthat were used and which groups were consulted?
The environmentalrating for the project was basedonthe results of consultations duringworkshops in
June 1999 and February 2001. The findings o fthe Environmental Analysis were discussedwith
Government and with key stakeholdersduringthe June 2001 Technical Mission.


5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact o f the project onthe
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives andresults o f the EMP?
The development o f an improvedinstitutional capacity to screenandmonitor projects relatedto the
forestry sector for their environmental impact i s expectedto be an outcome o f the proposed institutional
reforms, andthe establishment o f the Tanzania Forest Service. The project includes provisionfor
buildingthis capacity inthe proposedTFS.

A safeguard monitoring planhasbeendeveloped, andis outlinedinh e x 11, to ensurethat safeguard
provisions are adequately implemented and sustained. The monitoring programwill be further
developed, and will indicate how well each o fthe components is implementing the key provisions
definedpreviously. The monitoring planwill define indicators for measurement, methods to be used,
frequency of measurements, detection limits, andmonitoring responsibilities. The planwill be
implementedwithin the overall context o f institutional reforms inthe Forestry andBeekeeping Division.
The planwill include a descriptiono f how reviews o f selectedissues o f concern will be undertaken.

The safeguard indicators and monitoring plan will be incorporated into overall project monitoringand
evaluation. MNRT will be the ultimate GOT information focal point. The Bank will include inthe
project supervision planthe participationo f an environmental specialist inselectedmissions, the
Mid-Term Review and inthe ImplementationCompletionReport. This specialist will review progress in
implementation o f the project safeguardprovisions.



                                                       - 30 -

6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
The democratizing impact associatedwith the establishment o f Village Forest Reserveshas been
significant inTanzania, and will continue to be so duringthe course o fproject implementation. The
project will have social impacts as a result o fthe participationo f rural communities and families inthe
conservation andmanagemento fwoodlands as well as inthe development o f the forest conservation
strategy, and inthe implementationo fpilot activities, inthe Eastern Arc MountainForests. These
actions should yieldpositive social benefits. However, all this will require a highdegree o f social
interaction with the relevant communities, andproject managementwill needto be sensitive to this
requirements. The approaches to participatory managementof the woodlands should also take note o f
the recommendations from the evaluation o fjoint forest managementand ngitiri registration under
FRMP and from experiences inother projects with relatedactivities.

6.2 ParticipatoryApproach: How are key stakeholdersparticipating in the project?
Key stakeholders are primarily communities with interests inwoodland andforest conservation and
management. The central feature of the ParticipatoryForest Management sub-component o f the
Institutional reform component seeks to strengthen the involvement o f these stakeholders inforest and
woodland management.

With respectto the GEF component, preparation ofthe conservation strategy for the EasternArc will
require extensive consultationwith communities andlocal governments inorder to seek to develop a
consensus about conservation and managemento f the forests of the Arc. Implementation o f the Uluguru
Community-based conservation component will be carried out inconjunction with several strong local
NGOs. The Eastern Arc Mountains Conservation Endowment Fund(EAMCEF) has already been
constitutedas anNGO, and will be the primary implementingagency o fthe sustainable financing
subcomponent o f the project. Key partners working with the EAMCEF are represented on its Boardand
are prescribed inits Deedo fTrust. These include WWF Tanzania, the Wildlife ConservationSociety o f
Tanzania (WCST), Songas, and an academichesearch institution (to be identified).

6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaborationwithNGOs or other civil society
organizations?
Implementationo fthe Community-based pilot forest conservation activities and management o f the
EAMCEF will be undertaken inthe close cooperation withNGOs andother Civil Society organizations.
Potentialcollaborators may include CARE Tanzania, the Tanzania Forest Conservation Group (TFCG),
Tanzania Association o fForesters (TAF), WWF Tanzania, and WCST.

6.4 What institutional arrangementshave beenprovided to ensurethe project achieves its social
development outcomes?
Strong institutional support and capacity buildingwill feature inthe institutional reformprocess, with a
particular emphasis onbuildingthe capacity to undertake participatory forest management.

 6.5 How will the project monitor performance interms o f social development outcomes?
 Social development outcomes will be monitoredas a regular part o f the project supervisionprocess.




                                                     - 31-

7. Safeguard Policies:




   Pest Management(OP 4.09)                                                      Yes 0 No
   CulturalProperty(OPN 11.03)                                                   Yes    NO
   IndigenousPeoples(OD4.20)                                                     Yes 0  NO
   InvoluntaryResettlement(OPIBP4.12)                                            Yes 0NO
   SafetyofDams(OP 4.37, BP4.37)                                                 Yes 0 NO
   ProjectsinInternationalWaters (OP 7.50, BP7.50, GP 7.50)                  1   Yes I)NO
   ProjectsinDisputedAreas (OP 7.60, BP7.60, GP 7.60)*                        . IYes 0NO

7.2 Describe provisions madeby the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguardpolicies.
The project complies with the applicable safeguardspolicies. Compliance is reviewedinSection E.5.


F. Sustainabilityand Risks
1. Sustainability:
The project's sustainability is dependent on four key elements:
     The successful establishment o f a TFS. Successwould include effectively functioning
     forestlwoodland management andprotectionoperations inforest reserveswithin designated
     districts andvillages.
     Adequate collection o f forest revenuesto sustain the TFS with benefit sharing arrangementswith
     Villages. There is considerable potentialto improve rates o frevenue collection, well above current
     levels (estimated at around 10percent o fthe revenues which are due).
     The development o f a sustainable mechanism for financing biodiversity conservation, including
     guidelines for the establishment and managemento f trust funds andother financial mechanisms.
     Acceptance by Government at the highest level o fprinciples o f sustainable forest management and
     biodiversity conservation, to complement village-based forest management. Such acceptance
     would needto be translated into active support for the activities such as those under FCMP.


la. Replicability:
NIA




                                                   - 32 -

2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure o f critical assumptions found inthe fourth columi o f Annex 1):
                    Risk                           Risk Rating     1           Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputsto Objective
There i s continuedstrong support for                  M            Service delivery orientation i s incorporatedin
introducing institutional reforms which                             institutional change proposals. Performance
focus on service delivery functions and                             monitoringmechanisms are developed and
mechanisms.                                                         implemented.
The needfor revenue to sustain the                     M            The potential for revenue sharing is more fully
institutional structure can be balanced                             developed; project coordinates with fiscal
with the needfor communities to retain                              decentralization initiatives.
benefits from forest and woodland
management.
Encroachment issues are adequately                      S           Encroachment issueswere reviewedduring
considered.                                                         project preparation. GOT intends to address
                                                                    encroachment through participatory forestry,
                                                                    improved boundary marking, border patrols,
                                                                    and other initiatives.
Government maintains its commitment to                  M           Potentialrevenue benefits are expected to be
the involvement o f the private sector in                           significant.
industrial plantation production.
Biodiversityconservation remains a                      N           Catchment protection as an outcome o f forest
priority for Government action.                                     biodiversity conservation has significant
                                                                    national value.
 FromComponentsto Outputs
Management and staffo f sectoral                        S           Focus onperformance monitoring i s intended
 institutions internalize the change                                to buildnew institutional behaviors.
process.
 Service delivery mechanisms can be fullj               N            Project builds on pilot activities already
 articulated.                                                        completed inFRMP and through other
                                                                     interventions.
 Communities and individuals have                       M            Experience with pilot initiatives suggest
 interest andcapacity to undertake forest                            villages will have strong interests in
 andwoodlandmanagement.                                              community-based woodland and forest
                                                                     management. Land tenure reforms strongly
                                                                     supportive o f localnaturalresource
                                                                     management.
 Private sector has capacity to undertake                S           Risk assessmentswill be carried out as part of
 plantationmanagement, and markets can                               project preparation.
 support these investments.
 Community interests inbiodiversity                     N            Project design is intendedto focus on ensuring
 conservation can be tapped.                                         longterm sustainable use o f forests.
 Co-financing for sustainable financing                 M            Phasedimplementationo f Endowment Fund
 mechanisms can be mobilized.                                        depends on donor co-financing.
 Resistance to professionaland                           S           Project will work with established mechanisms
  institutional change limits effectiveness                          already inplace for institutional reformthrougl
  o freformprocess.                                                  the CSD.
  Overall Risk Rating                                   M
 Risk Rating H (High Risk), S (Substantial Ri
             -                                  , M (Modest Risk), N(Neg1igibleor Low Risk)



                                                       -33-

3. PossibleControversial Aspects:
Private sector involvement inplantation production, while mandated inpolicy, has not beenundertaken
inTanzania. Multiplestakeholderswith competinginterests requirethat adequateconsultations are
undertaken beforemoving forward with this component.

Village-based approaches to the conservation o f ecologically sensitive areas will require adequate
safeguardsto ensure that villages protect these habitats. There is considerable skepticism amongst
conservation NGOs that villages have the capacity to take on forest biodiversity conservation.


G. Main Grant Conditions
1. EffectivenessCondition

(1)   The Project Agreement has beendulyauthorized or ratifiedby EAMCEF.

(2)   The EAMCEF Subsidiary Agreement has been duly authorized or ratifiedby the Recipient and
      EAMCEF.

2. Other [classify according to covenant types used inthe Legal Agreements.]

(a)   The condition for the disbursement o f the Grant into the endowment fund is the successful
      achievement o fthe following eight indicators:
             successful establishment and functioning o f the Secretariat (i.e. key positions inthe
             Secretariat have been filled, audits have been completed and are clear, an acceptable 2-year
             work planis developed);
             finalization o f the Financial, Operations, and Manage~entManual which defines and
             clarifies procedures andoperations for the EAMCEF and its approval by the Bank,
             establishment and functioning o fthe Endowment FundBoard(i.e. regular Boardmeetings,
             appointment o f four new Boardmembers, application o f the procedures for Board
             members);
              development and launching o fthe fundraising strategy;
              grant making activities have begun (proposals solicited, competitive selection procedures
              followed, grants awarded and pilot activities are under implementation);
              at least one LocalAdvisory Committee hasbeen established;
              documented adherence to the policies, procedures and principles set forth inthe Deedof
              Trust; and
       (viii) documented significant co-financingfor the EAMCEF.

 (b)   Asset manager contract has been enteredbetween EAMCEF and the Asset Manager.




                                                    - 34 -

H. Readinessfor Implementation
r--
-1.a)Theengineeringdesigndocumentsforthefirstyear'sactivitiesarecompleteandreadyforthe

0 b)Not start ofproject implementation.
   1.        applicable.
-
-2.Theprocurementdocumentsforthefirstyear'sactivitiesarecompleteandreadyforthestartof
      project implementation.
il]3.TheProjectImplementationPlanhasbeenappraisedandfoundtoberealisticandofsatisfactory
- quality.

I  4. The following items are lacking and are discussedunder loanconditions (Section G):


I. Compliancewith Bank Policies
7
-1.ThisprojectcomplieswithallapplicableBankpolicies.
02.   The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies
      with all other applicable Bankpolicies.




Team Leader




                                                  - 35 -

                                        Annex 1: Project Design Summary
                 TANZANIA: EasternArc ForestsConservationand Management Project
I
II Sector-relatedCAS                    Key Performance
     Hierarchy of Objectives                                                                      Criti
                         Goal:      Sector Indicators:             Sector1country reports:      rromGoalto Bank Mission)
  Improving environmental           3etter woodland and forest     Forest sector ESW            Stabilizingforests and
  quality                           :onsetvation and management                                 improving livelihood sources
                                    ~ycommunities and                                           for localpeople help
                                    ndividuals                                                  alleviate poverty ina
                                                                                                significant way
   Promotingpoverty reduction       'ncreasedprivate sector        Baseline and monitoring      Private sector has capacity to
   through private sector growth    nvestments inforest            reports and ESW              manage forests, and markets
                                    nanagement and industry                                     are accessible
   Civil service reform             :mprovedperformance o f        Performance monitoring       Reforms are sustainable
                                    Yorestry institutions          reports
   GEF Operational Program:         3utcomeIImpact
                                    Indicators:
   Forest Ecosvstems
   ODerationalProgram
   Promoting in-situconservation Extent o fforests brought         Baseline and monitoring      Government maintains
   byrelying onthe involvement under community-based               reports                      commitment to principles o f
   o fcommunities                   conservation                                                Biodiversity Convention
   Promoting sustainable use        Forest cover loss is slowed    CIS and aerial surveys;
   mechanisms for biodiversity                                     household consumption
   conservation                                                    surveys
   Promoting cost-effective         Conservationmeasures are       Sectoral expenditure reviews
   conservation measures            financially sustainable


                                    Outcome IImpact                Project reports:             from Objective to Goal)
                                    Indicators:
   To assist Government in          Forest and woodland cover is   Quarterly monitoring reports  Government remains
    implementingits new policy,     brought under effective                                      committedto the objectives
   bydeveloping a framework for managementbycommunities            Household surveys             o fthe National Forest Policy
    the long-term sustainable       and individuals inproject                                    and o fthe National Forest
    management and conservation areas                               Supervision missionreports   Program
    o f Tanzania's forest resources,                                                             Government remains
    strengtheningthe role of        Private sector is involved in  Evaluation mission reports    committedto supporting
    individuals, communities,       plantation management           (mid-termand final)          participatoryforest
    villages, and the private sector                                                             conservation and
    inmanagement and                Mechanisms for forest                                        management
    conservation o f forests, and    biodiversityconservation are
    implementingthis framework       more fully established
    on a pilot scale




                                                                - 36 -

                                     Key Performance              Data Collection Strategy
       archv o                            Indicators                                         --  Crit                    S
Dutputfrom each                 Output Indicators:                'rojectreports:              'romOutputsto Objective)
2omponent:
The project is expected to:
j)establishanewnational         New institution is inplace        innualwork programs and      Continued strong support for
Yorestry institutional          with improved capacity for        onvard budgets               reforms which focus on
iamework effectively to         implementing policy                                            service delivery functions
jupport the sustainable         objectives, improved financial    'erformance monitoring       and mechanisms
nanagement and protection o f sustainability, and with a          eports and service delivery  Encroachment issues are
ranzania's forest, woodland     greater focus on service          urveys                       adequately resolved during
indindustrial plantation        delivery                                                       project design
resources;                                                        'roject supervision reports

:ii)establishtheframework       Private sector i s involved in                                 Continued commitment to
For involvement o f the private plantation development and                                     involvement o f the private
sector in industrial plantation management                                                     sector
levelopment and
management; and

(iii) develop the institutional Institutional structure and
capacity within the forestry    capacity is inplace, backedup
sector for coordination,        by sound consultative
financing, and management o f management planning, and
biodiversity conservation       financial mechanisms, to
interventions within            undertake community-based
Tanzania's forests, in          conservation o f forest
particular inthe forests o fthe ecosystems
Eastern Arc mountains.




                                                              - 37 -

                                                                                       C                       S  le
Project ComponentsI            iputs: (budgetforeach       roject reports:            *omComponentsto
Sub-components:                omponent)                                              utputs)
1. Reformofforestry            iS$25.2million (IDA)        -ogressand disbursement    vlanagement and staffo f
institutions                                               ports                      iectoral iiistitutions
a) Establishment o fthe                                                               ntemalize the change
   Tanzania Forest Service                                                            irocess
b) Improving revenue                                                                  Service delivery mechanisms
   collection from forests                                                            :an be fully articulated
   andwoodlands                                                                       Zommunities and individuals
c) Improving service delivery                                                         lave interest and capacity to
   mechanisms for                                                                     indertake forest and
   participatoryforest                                                                woodland management
   and woodland
   management

2. Private sector               JS$3.3 million (IDA)       rogress and disbursement   ?rivate sector has capacity to
management of industrial                                   :ports                     indertake plantation
plantations                                                                           nanagement and markets can
a) Improving the plantation                                                           iupport these investments
   resource informationbase
   and management planning
   capacity
b) Strengthening institutional
   support services for private
   sector involvement
 c) Pilot alternative
    management o f selected
    industrial plantations
 d) Monitoringand evaluation

 3. EasternArc forests          JS$12 million (GEF)        rogress and disbursement   Political support for
 conservation and               JS$2 million(IDA)          :ports                     biodiversity conservation is
 management                                                                           maintained
 a) Eastem Arc Mountains        JS$7million(GEFIWB)                                   Community interests in
     Conservation Endowment                                                           biodiversityconservation car
     Fund                                                                             be tapped
 b) Improving Institutional     JS$275,000 (IDA)                                      Co-financing for sustainable
     Support Services for                                                             financingmechanismscanb<
     forest Biodiversity                                                              mobilized
     conservation                                                                     Effective cooperation
 c) Developing Integrated                                                             between the involved GEF
     Conservation Strategy for  JS$5 million (GEFIUNDP)                               ImplementingAgencies
     EastemArc forests                                                                maintained
 d) Piloting communitybased
     forest conservation
     activities inUluguru
     Mountains.
 4. Proiect administration      JS$0.7 million (IDA)      I'rogress and disbursement  'roject activities are
 andmanapement                                            reports                     iainstreamed into the
                                                                                      lperations of the Ministry




                                                      - 38 -

                                  Annex 2: DetailedProject Description
             TANZANIA EasternArc Forests Conservation and Management Project

  This Annex is condensed from the Working Papers which describe each project component more
  fully, and which comprise part of the Project Implementation Plan. Project costs include IDA and
' GEF financing (where appropriate), and all contingencies and counterpart financing.
  By Component:

  Project Component 1   - US$26.70 million

  This component has already beenapproved onFebruary 26,2002, as part ofthe Forest Conservation and
  Management Project (PO58706).

  Suwortinp institutionalchange and improving:service delivery

  This component will assistthe government withthe design andestablishment ofthe Tanzania Forest
  Service (TFS), as a specialized 'executive agency' as defined bythe ExecutiveAgencies Act (1997), and
  consistent with the wider and on-going nationalprogramo f civil service reform. It is envisaged that the
  Tanzania Forest Service will, among other things, have responsibility for the protectionandmanagement
  o fnatural forests andthe development andmanagemento f industrial plantations (including promoting
  the private sector to take on these tasks). Initially, the agency will be established on a limitedbasis with
  clearly definedregional responsibilities and coverage, although the concept i s that an agency with a
  nationalmandate will eventually be established. Technical assistancewill be provided to work with FBD
  andthe Civil Service Department(CSD) and other relevant government agencies to designthe structure
  and functions o f the agency and to draw up the necessaryimplementationplans and guidelines for
  establishment o f the agency, including the formulation o f business and staff recruitmentplans. This
  component will also provide support to buildon experience from previous Bank-financedoperations, and
  uponthe opportunities posedby the new Forest Policy, and plannedlegislation.

  Three sub-components o f this activity are envisaged:

  (9     Establishment of the Tanzania Forest Service, focusing on the phased-in introduction o fthe new
         executive agency, with clearly defined roles, functions, performance standards, and monitoring.
         This sub-component wouldprovide resourcesto managethe changeprocess, to strengthen the
         capacity for administrationand management, to rationalize and to strengthen the capacity for tasks
         related to policy, planning, and legislation (which would remain with the Ministry),and would
         support a badly-needed program o f investment ininfrastructure.

  (ii) Improvingrevenuecollectionfromforestsandwoodlands,improvingthecapacityoftheTFS
         to become self-financing, and to ensure that revenues are reinvested at the local level inforest
         protectionandmanagementthrough localinstitutions. This component will develop alternative
         revenue collection mechanisms, and monitoring systems to improve rates o f collection.

   (iii) Improvingservice-deliverymechanismsforparticipatoryforestandwoodlandmanagement,
         inparticular, support for the establishment ofVillage Forest Reserves,woodlandmanagementby
         individuals andcommunities (ngitiri),and Joint Forest Management, buildingon experiences
         pilotedinearlier operations. This sub-component will be implemented inconjunction with
         community-based forest managementactivities which, it i s envisaged, will be supported by the
         Government o f Denmark.



                                                        - 39 -

A mid-termreview woulddetermine outstanding issuesandproviderecommendations for improvingthe
efficiency andeffectiveness of the TFS. A further evaluationwill beundertaken prior to project
completion and, as well as determiningthe degree o f achievement and success o f the TFS, will develop
lessonsfor the future. The three sub-components are described here infurther detail:

~stabli~hment the Tanzania Forest Service (USU4.2 million)
                of

The rationale for the establishment o f the Tanzania Forest Service has been clearly established bothin
policy and inthe National Forest Program(NFP). The project intends to finance a process which leads to
the establishment o f the TFS. The process o f establishing anAgency i s definedby guidelines and criteria
outlined bythe Civil Service Department. The design o f this subcomponent adheresclosely to these
criteria. Four sets o f activities will be financedunder this sub-component.

Change management

The project will provide resourcesto launchthe process o f change managementinFBD, includingthe
establishment and operation o f an ImplementationTeam, training to assist the Ministryinmanaging the
process o fchange, development o f an organizational structure consistent with the functions o f an Agency
which are envisaged inpolicy, and humanresource actions to ensure that staff deployment and
remunerationis consistent with broader principles o f the change process. Central to the process o f
change management will be a series o f stakeholder consultations with FBDstaff, as well as with the
private sector and local government to clarify the Agency's primary service delivery functions.

Cauacitvbuildingfor administrationandmanagement

Fragmented donor financing for the forestry sector, through stand-alone interventions with their own
support services andprocesses,has limitedtheir effectiveness inaddressing national forest policy
concerns. More effective deployment o f donor assistancethrough the Ministrywill depend onrobust
procurement and financial managementprocessesbeinginplace. The project will provide resourcesto
improve the capacity o f the Ministryandthe Agency to handle financial andprocurement management,
largely focusing on training inthe use andapplication o f new nationally acceptedprocurement processes
and financial managementpackages. Inaddition, the project will finance an assessment o f the Agency's
InformationTechnology requirements, and will prepare a programo f investment inimproving IT
services which respondto institutional needs andrequirements, including financial management.

Strengthening policy andulanning services

The Ministrywill retain core responsibilities for strategic planningandpolicy development. The project
will provide resourcesto improve this capacity, while providingscopefor wider stakeholder consultation
about policy formulation. Relatedto the process o f changemanagementis the question o fhow the
Ministry'sremainingfunctionswill be rationalized.

 Cauital investments ininfrastructure

 MinistrystaffinDares Salaamcurrently occupy multipleoffice premises, some ofwhichhavebeen
 occupiedfor as long as 40 years, with little new investment ininfrastructure. The delivery o f core
 services is constrained bythis fragmentation, and is compoundedby the problem o f shuttlingbetween
 offices and coordinating internal staff placement. The long standingneedfor improved infrastructure




                                                     - 40 -

was recognizedduringthe preparation o f FRMP, and though finance for civil works was providedunder
that project, delays inprocurement preventedthe constructiono f new facilities. FCMP will finance the
construction o f new office facilities for headquartersandMinistry staffto address these constraints.

Inaddition, the projectwill finance anassessmentofregionalanddistrict infrastructure needs, andwill
provide modest support for this infrastructure as an outcome o f this assessment. These investments are to
beundertaken inamanner consistent withthe wider mission ofthe TFS, as well as with the on-going
program o f local government reform.

Improving revenuecollectionfrom forests and woodlands(US$4.0million)

This sub-component will provide resourcesfor the design and implement a coherent forestry revenue
strategy to increase net revenues. These revenuesneedto be retainedand transferred ina way that
service provisionactivities and enforcement can be successfully implemented. Three sets of activities
are envisaged under this sub-component.

Improvingnon-tax revenue administration

The output o f this activity would be an improved non-tax revenue administration system. The activity
would support a redesign o f licenses or transitpasses to make forgery, multipleuse and other abuses
more difficult, a cleaningup o fthe fundstransfer system, an investigation into the use o f penalties and
informants, and several meetings to discuss the results. This component i s considered a "stop-gap''
approach to temporarily improve financial administrationuntilthe results o f the pilot reforms can be
incorporated.

The project would finance audits o frevenue collectionin25 keyDistricts which wouldbe carriedout by
external (local) auditors and auditors within FBD. The audits would collect information on the
accounting o f financial documents (registers, receipt books, licenses, andtransit passes) and would cover
checkpoints inan effort to reconcile originals and duplicates. Financialtransfers would be reconciled
withheadquartersrecords. The results ofthe Audits wouldbe written into a reporting framework, anda
presented at a workshop which would focus on key elements o f the systems' design and its strengths and
weaknesses. On the basis o f the workshop and the audit results, a system o f funds transfer wouldbe
designed, which would cover relevant informationwhich wouldbe submittedby districts. The
information would likely include (but i s unlikelyto be limitedto): revenue byproduct (charcoal,
registration fees, timber, etc.) andrevenue from each forest.

As anoutcome ofthe consultationprocess, key documents wouldbe redesigned to minimizeevasion,
fraud and forgery: felling licenses, Transit passes, and others. Penalties for non-compliance with the
regulatory framework would be reviewed and revised. Stricter deterrent penalties would be developed
and introduced. Studies would also assess estimated central government and district revenue losses due
to improper recordkeeping and study the feasibility o f intensified auditing. Based on results from the
 audits andworkshops, a simplified MIS would be developed which tracks forest royalties byproduct
 (charcoal, timber, fuelwood) and forest reserve.

 Redesigning a revenue collection system

 Fundamentally, however, the revenue collection systemrequires a complete overhaul andredesign to
 complement a production basedsystem o f taxation to either a transport or market based one. Experience
 has shownthat a new system, which shouldbe introducedon a pilot basis, shouldbe transport based, and



                                                    -41  -

royalties will be paidat the Regionalor District level for a "Transport License" or "Transport Time
Pass". Under this system, a parallel system o f "extraction fees" will exist andthese will be entirely
retainedbythe manager o f each forest. As best as possible, current royalty levels (rates) will be
maintained, butthis will require a breakdownbetween "extraction fees" and "transit fees". Two pilot
operations are envisaged: one inDar es Salaamwhich i s specific to a single product andmarket
(charcoal), anda secondinMwanza, which covers multiple products and product delivery systems.

Monitoring, seizure and confiscationmay be carried out byFBDbut also by other "partners" such as
TRA, Local Governments, and the traffic police. The cooperation o fthese partnersandthe terms ofthe
agreement will have to be worked out before the pilot can commence. Transit revenueswill have to be
sharedwith Local Authorities on an agreeduponbasis. New legislation (Rules) will have to be passed
dictating rates and coverage. An intensive promotional and informational campaign will be necessaryas
long as the penalties for non-compliance are high.

The pilots will address the following issues: penalties are substantially increased and are awarded to well
specified individuals; points o f taxation are substantially lowered; multiple taxation is reduced; the
system is simplifiedso that costs of compliance are minimized; other partners are involvedineither
monitoringor collection. The pilot will be implementedin2 stages. First, fixed transport licenses will
be designed and implementedinthe "catchment" area. Ifthe system i s successful, a second expansion
stage would be implemented.

Basedon anevaluationo f the pilot systems introduced inMwanza and Dar es Salaam, FBDwould holda
wide-ranging workshop to establish the parametersor framework o f the new system, and then would
introduce the new system.

Centralizingrevenue collection and accounting

Interms ofrevenue collection, the advantagesofworking within the structure ofthe Tanzania Forest
Service will be that revenue collectors can be better remunerated; revenue collectors (and supervisors)
will be more directly answerable to the TFS; and a system ofperformance targets, increased incentives
and improved contractingcanbe introduced.

Centralizingrevenue collection andseparating it from other service delivery functions o f the TFS will
have profoundcost implications. These are difficult to predict since they are contingent uponthe
ultimate revenue systemdesign, itself anunknownand an output o fthe project's other activities. With
these caveats inmind, followingthe informational stages o fthe pilot, a consultant will develop contracts,
incentives andperformance targets for revenue collectors duringthe pilot period. Cost implications, in
terms o f hiring(salaries) and equipment i s made and a budget i s preparedto move to a centralizedmode
o f hiringfor revenue collection. Duringthe planning stage, projectedbudget andrevenue targets will be
prepared basedonthe pilot exercise. The project will provide for the purchase o frequiredvehicles and
equipment to handle the new revenue collectionregime.

Inaddition, theprojectwill seekto develop mechanismsfor returningrevenuescollectedto communities.
This will be developed inconjunction withthe PFMcomponent ofthe project, which will monitorthe
 expansion o fVillage Forest Reserves.




                                                     -42-

Governance, information and social marketing

This activitywill focus onprovidingimprovedinformation about the objectives and approachestoward
improvingrevenue collection, to buildwider support for forest conservation andmanagement through
these types o f pricing interventions. Public awarenesso f the impacts o fthe revenue collection system
will be quite important. Inorder to improve public awareness, the project will finance various public
information activities gearedtowards developing wider-spread acceptanceo f the improved revenue
collection system.

The project will finance amedia service company to prepare informational material focused on the extent
o f the illegal forestry sector inTanzania, and the costs the sector i s imposing on the economy. The
activity shouldalso focus on buildingsupport for interventions throughkey entry points into the industry,
for example, through the army.

ImprovingSewice-delivery mechanismsfor participatory forest and woodlandmanagement (UXM.4
million)

Ithasbecome clear since the adoption offorest policyreforms inTanzania in1998,which laythe
framework for a new approach to forest conservation and management, that the institutional framework
for service delivery with respect to participatory forest managementi s extremelyweak. While the new
forest policy i s innovative andwill have far reachingimpacts, there i s limitedcapacity at the central,
district and local levels to deliver on its objectives inthis respect. One o fthe objectives o f the project,
then, i s to support an institutional reformprocess which buildsthe capacity for service delivery to extend
participatory forest management dramatically andto recover lost ground inactivities which have lacked
adequate facilitation and support. Activities supported by FCMP will be launched within the prevailing
institutional framework. Service delivery responsibilities will become a key feature o f the new
institutional framework which is to be introduced. FCMP will explore options for commencing financial
support to districts and villages through government channels, inthe spirit o fthe Local Government
ReformProgram.

The overall objective o f this sub-component o f the institutional reformactivity i s to providethe
framework to bringas muchunreservedforest and woodland as possible into the reserved category under
clear localowner-management and to assist adjacent communities inparticipatingdirectly inthe
management o fNational andLocal Authority Forest Reserves. This is designed greatly to enhance both
conservation andlocal levelempowerment and livelihoodsupport.

A core ParticipatoryForestry Management Support Unit(PFMSU) will be established within FBD, inthe
first instance, to form the institutional foundation and center of responsibility for ensuringthat services
are delivered. The unit will be headedby a Coordinator, assistedby a LeadFacilitator and a Resources
andMonitoringSpecialist. This small team will be supported by an adviser, recruitedby FBD. Indue
 course, should a service-oriented ExecutiveAgency be formed, then the PFMSUwould ideallymove into
that framework, inorder to gain from institutional and administrative efficiencies and the flexibility
which such agencies can provide. Inline with LGRP, the primary role o f the PFMSUwill be to promote
 and facilitate the adoption o f PFMbyregions, districts and forest-adjacent communities. Due to the
 magnitude o fthe task ahead(i.e. a large scale promotion o f PFM), the PFMSUwill only to a limited
 extent deliver services directly to local communities.

 The main strategy for achievingthe sub-component objective will be the `facilitation' (implyingthe
 provision o fa host o f services rangingfrom advice, guidance and technical assistance to training,
 extension and general capacity building,etc.) o fPFM, bothtowards the local governments andtowards


                                                      - 43 -

the forest adjacent communities deciding to enter into JFM arrangements or to set up and manageVFR's.
Facilitationo f PFMwill be done bythe PFMSU, assistedby different `assistant facilitators' at the
national, regional, district and locallevels, and incollaboration with andvia the regional and, in
particular, the district authorities. Itfollows that there will be different categories and levels o f
`facilitation' services adapted to different sets o f circumstances and levels.

Five sets o f activities are envisaged

Mobilization andsupport

The core o fthe programwillprovide support for existingPFMinitiatives, andwill develop the capacity
for rapidextension into new initiatives. The project will initially work with a limitednumber o f PFM
initiatives inselected districts. The initiatives anddistricts will be selected basedonthe probability for
creatingearly successes, which can be expected to boost the expansion o f the programand the adoption
o fPFMpractices by other communities and districts. A first activity will be to carry out an assessment
to determine where to focus service interventions. The service interventions to be offered will focus on
`facilitation' o f PFMthrough a range o f support activities aiming at buildingup local capacity to
facilitate introduction andimplementationo fPFMinvarious types o f forest reserves, inline with FBD's
recently published `Guidelines for ParticipatoryForest Management". Facilitation services will work
from a common menuof approachesbasedonanunderstanding ofthe evolving legal framework, and
tailored closely to fit local conditions and concerns.

The PFMSUwill use its own facilitator and a numbero f assistantfacilitators (individuals, institutions,
NGO's, CBO's, etc.) on short-task centered assignments, to work with district staff inhelpingthem
restructure or deliver PFMfacilitation inthe selectedvillages. Over time, the more successful o f these
district level staff (DFOs and DCFOs) andthe assistant facilitators deployedbythe program will add to
the growingcadre o f expert practitionersinTanzania, inturnable to provide facilitation support to less
experienced foresters.

As experience accumulates and capacity increasesthe programwill graduallybe expanded into other
districts. Priorities for the expansion will be set according to criteria such as demand by communities
and district authorities for PFM, district capacity (particularly regardingthe DFO's office), motivation,
districts targeted for local government reform, the urgency o f forest loss and degradation, and the
 existence o f appropriate bodies to assist inPFM facilitation (e.g. NGO's, CBO's, companies, institutions,
 individuals, etc.). Effortswill aimto help villagers put Village Forest Reserves inplace or to introduce
village-based approachesinto the managemento fNational and LocalAuthority Forest Reserves,
 including those earmarked for catchment protection.

 Facilitation will include assistanceto communities informulating formalby-laws based on informal
 community rules or through other mechanisms. As a national unit, PFMSUwill have a special role in
 ensuring clear procedures for registrationand for training o f district council staff to facilitate this. In
 other instances, communities will needto be assistedinrestructuringtheir management arrangements,
 developing forest use protocols, and inzoning andboundary marking methods, as well as in
 strengthening systems for accounting for income from fines and fees and so on. There will be cases
 where the PFMSUwill assistvillages directly but ingeneral the assistancewill be channelled through
 locallybased `assistant facilitators'.

 Bythe endofthe secondyear ofimplementationit is expectedthat foresters inaround 25 districtswill
 have their capacity to undertake PFM facilitation improved, through assisted `learning-by-doing' andthat
 their supporting District Councils will also have been successfully assistedbetter to plan androute at


                                                        -44-

least some level o f continuing support to PFM. Also bythe end o f the secondyear a number o f JMA's
(20 -30) will have beendeveloped inselectedLocalArea Forest Reserves andNationalForest Reserves.
With the enactment o f the new Forest Bill it is possible that this number couldincrease more rapidly than
currently foreseen. As far as Village, Community or Private Forests withinvillage lands are concerned a
significant number o f forest-adjacent villages andlor communities will have beenassistedto initiate,
consolidate, refine or expand efforts towards creating forest reservesand towards bringingtheir forests
undermanagement.

At the endo fthe program, capacity will have beenbuilt at various levels as aresultofPFMfacilitation.
At the regionalanddistrict levels a general capacity (primarily within the DFOs office but also extending
to other departments) to actively support forest adjacent communities inthe process o f establishing and
managingVFRs will have been created. The focal point for facilitation o f PFMingeneral will have been
shifted fromthe national to the regional, district and local levels, involving different types o f
`facilitators', such as local government officials, NGOs, CBOs, companies, institutions, organizations
and individuals. Furthermore, villages and community groups should be actively soliciting the assistance
o f these local `facilitators'.

At the village level, PFMis beingpracticedindifferenttypes o fForest Reservesinaccordancewiththe
spirit o fthe PFMguidelines byFBD. PFMbodies have been established withinthe village government
system and forest managers(whether individuals or community groups) are networking with eachother,
exchanging experiences, knowledge and ideas. There i s a basic understanding within communities
engagedinPFMo fthe principles, requirements and potentialbenefits to be derivedfrom the system, and
there i s general acceptance among the different groupings inthe local community o f the objectives o f and
approach to the management of the reserved forests.

The sub-component's other four sets o f activities will be gearedprimarilytoward providing support
 services for facilitation, for networkingand information sharing, and for monitoring.

Legal, technical andenvironmental guidance

 This activitywill backstop facilitators andnewvillage forest managerswiththe rightlegal, technical, and
 environmental guidance with respectto village-based forest and woodland management. Inparticular,
 strategies for dealingwith particular environmental and social concerns associatedwith PFM-- for
 example, incatchment forest areas, areas o fhighbiodiversity, or inareas where settlement may pose
 special problems   -- will be developed. The objective will be to find ways o fbalancingnational (and
 global) needs for environmental services with local needs for forest products.

 Legal aspects are being addressedat the overall level through the NFP where a imjor aim i s the
 harmonization o frules, procedures andregulations to facilitate the achievement o f the program
 objectives for the sector. Legal matters inconnection with the introduction and implementation o f PFM
 will therefore have to be seeninthe overall context o f the NFP. There will, however, be a needfor legal
 guidance and support to PFM specific issuesencountered onthe ground, inconnection with actual forest
 management by communities.

 Legalguidance will therefore include not only practical guidelines (pamphlets, radio programs etc.) but
 also legal support on the ground. Such direct legal support may take the form of e.g. contracting o f legal
 assistance and mediation aimed at ensuring villagers' rights to establish and managevarious types o f
 Forest Reserves. Cross-sectoral collaboration and training of key district officers from other departments
 (land use; planning etc) will be requiredto ensurethat landrightso f villagers are ensured. Particular
 attention will have to be madeto potential and actual conflicts over forest resourcese.g, betweensettled


                                                     -45-

farmers andpastoralists and to gender specific forest managementissues. An important function o fthe
PFMSUwill be to offer clear and reliable guidance about how people may act to secure and manage
forests o f interest to them infully sustainable ways. Inaddition, PFMSUwill have an important function
to play inensuring that all those involvedinfacilitating this development are quite clear as to the
technical options andlegalparameters available, and are fully able to access informationabout the best
ways to launch and sustain the process. They also needto know the kindo f issues that will likely need to
be addressedby boththemselves as facilitators andbynew village level forest managers.

Through the project, Guidelines will be produced which can be readily usedby all PFMactors. They
will designed to be action-oriented, short, sharp, clear and inKiswahili (as well as English). Fromtime
to time it will beproductive to prepare guidelines which target aparticular audience, for example, for
facilitators or for those designed to assist new local levelforest managers. Presentationwill vary
accordingly.

PFMi s an entirely voluntary. Although proposed forest legislation makes it clear that government is
obligedto provide good advice to assist inimplementing the approach, people are under no obligation to
accept this advice. There are, o f course, exceptions. The current Forest Ordinance andproposed forest
legislation set out parameters providingfor forest access anduse. Proposedlegislationdescribes the
procedures for how a community may declare and manage a Village LandForest Reserve or Community
Forest. Shoulda community wish to do this, it will needto follow the procedures for declaration and
regulation set out inlegislation. Localparticipationinmanagementof Government Forests i s byjoint
agreement, which i s also providedfor inproposedlegislation.

The production o ftraining material will be the responsibility ofthe Resourcesand Monitoring Specialist
working directly with the Facilitator. Guidelines will be derived directly from field experience and
through consultative processes, shapedas necessaryby silvicultural, biodiversity, marketing, financial
management, legal or other parameters as are appropriate. Particularly where there i s a range o f opinions
as to best ways forward, or where practitionershave found solutions difficult, the content o f guidelines
will be definedthroughbroadconsultative processeswith localactors.

Where special technical or legal issues arise, the PFMSUwill seek to develop the most appropriate
information for dissemination. Guidelines onplanting trees on farm, stimulatedby natural forest
protection, i s a likely demand. Management practices to stimulate productiono fpreferred species in
production forests may also be developed into Guidelines. Checklists andsteps towards identifying,
zoning and protecting areas o fhighbiodiversity value within forests, may be developed. Fromtime to
time the PFMSUwill produce and disseminate pamphlets that are producedjointly with other sector
interests or departments. This particularly includes drawing up guidelines onbeekeeping andthe
management o fwildlife inforested areas.

Local government caDacitvbuilding,

This activitywill be focused on working withthe localgovernment reformprocessto buildcapacity both
to managea wider program o f PFMthrough local government, to develop ways o f mediatingnational and
local concerns over the use o fwoodland andforest resources, and to strengthen local government
capacity for facilitating local environmental management initiatives. The immediate objectives o f this
 activity are to raise local awarenesso f PFMpolicies andopportunities; to provide a positive support
 environment inthe localgovernment sector; andto buildthe capacity o f District Forestry Officers and
 other relevant District Officers to facilitate and support villagers to become forest managers.




                                                      - 46 -

The project will prepare clear andsimplepublic information about PFM approachesand the
opportunities available for villages to be involved inthe protection and management and regulation o f
forests intheir areas. Different arrangementsavailable to them inrespect o fbothreserved areas (such as
National andLocal Authority Forest Reserves) and inrespect o funreserved forests within village areas
will be set out. Supportingnationalpolicy andlegalprovisions will be indicated. Informationwill be
presented inshort pamphlets inEnglishandKiswahili which will be distributed to information officers,
local authorities and other agencies. Press and radio services will be encouraged to produce articles and
programs on current developments.

Rurallocalgovernments (district councils) inparticular are regardedas the mainplatformfrom which
PFMwill be launched andsustained. DistrictForestry Officers are regarded as the key actors and
facilitators which require the support o ftheir ExecutiveDirectors, PlanningOfficers and Council bodies.

The project will provide resourcesfor a series o f workshops to which District Executive Directors,
Council Chairmen, PlanningOfficers and other keyplayers will be invited. Representatives from the
MinistryofLocalGovernment, the LocalGovernment Service CommissionandLocalGovernment
ReformProgramwill be closely involved. The objective will be to informthem fully o f forest policy and
national forest managementplans with respect to PFM; provide case studies and general guidelines
includingpresentations by one or two districts already practicing PFM; assist them inidentifyingin
broadterms the priority areas for action intheir respective districts; work through with them the levelo f
personnel and support implications; and to identifyand prioritize critical constraints to action and discuss
how these maybe overcome.

Service agreementswill be madebetween the FBDITFS andrespective districts specifying 1) obligations
andtargets o fthe district interms offorest andforest biodiversitymanagement and2) needsand
requirements for facilitation and support including proposed contracts for tendering and provision o f
services bythe TFS. The service agreementswill be basedpartly on district annual work plans and, at a
later stage, onDistrict Forest Plans (inaccordancewith the NFP).

Personnel andresource constraints are likely to be the most commonand severeconstraint identified.
Over the project periodandwith the assistanceo fthe DirectoriChief Executive Officer and Permanent
 Secretary, the project will work with the Local Government Reform Program, and with the Local
 Government and Civil Service Commissions to findways bywhich councils may be better staffed in
 these areas. As the LGRP is consolidated and expandedDistricts are also expected to have their access
 to other resources (apart from stafl) improved. The PFMSUwill work actively withthe CSD to identify
 ways inwhich the project can support ongoing efforts to strengthen local government capacities in
 support o fPFM.

 Coordination and exchange

 One o f the strengths o f recent efforts to support PFMhas come from efforts to exchange information and
 ideas amongst practitioners, as well as amongst villagers. The process o f establishing community-based
 or partnership forest management i s a highlydynamic development process involving changed
 institutional and government-people relationships. An annual meetingwill be convened to bringtogether
 PFMfacilitators andpractitionersto compare notes, learn from eachother, andto gain a sense o f support
 and sharedcommitment. This will also allow progress to be monitoredand consensusreachedas to
 priorities for PFMSUand other agencies. The project will also provide resourcesto enable facilitators to
 visit a range o fsites where PFMis underway.




                                                      -47-

At the village level, as well, muchhasbeengained already byexchanges facilitated betweenvillages.
Many new Village Forest Managers have suggestedthat they shouldbe assistedto form a Village Forest
Managers Association both as a mechanismo f disseminating and receiving information from each other
and as a forum through which their interests may be promoted. There has also beengreat interest in
beingable to meet together periodically. The project will provide resources for four activities inthis
regard: First, there will be an effort to make it possible for village forest managersto meet together
regularly to share experiences, learn from eachother and to prioritizeproblem areas and support needs.
This also offers an important opportunity for technical advisers andmonitoringstaff to collect first-hand
informationonprogress, problems, needsand impacts. Second, the project will assist inestablishing a
Village Forest Management Newsletter. Needs for local newsletters shouldbe considered. Third, the
project will provide resourcesto enable groups o f village levelforest managersto visit selected PFM
developments as an on-site learningactivity. This would likely be undertaken inconjunction with
facilitator cross visits. Fourth, the project will explore how village forest managersmay be assistedto
form themselves into a formal interest group association.

Finally, at the national level, the PFMSUwill develop the capacity to function as a clearing house and
contact point for PFMactivities throughout the country, providinga forum through which knowledge and
skills maybe productively sharedand utilized. Linkages with other activities will evolve initially
through cooperation inthe provision o f facilitation support from the first year o f the project, andthrough
other supportingactivities, such as those linkedto local Government capacity development to support
PFMdevelopment. Secondly, projects will be directly representedinthe annual practitioners conference.
More task-specific forums will be developed as necessary, often ledby one or other project (such as
RIPS, MEMA, LAMP, NRBZ, UTUMI, EUCAMP, CFP, HASH1andHADO.)

Further linkswill be established with the wildlife, beekeeping, environmental and other sectors o f
Government and NGOs inthe sector. Inlight o fthe commencement o fthe new landlaws o f Tanzania,
PFMSUwill establish close linkswith the Ministryo f Lands, Housingand Urban Developmentto assist
itto develop with pilotvillages, clear guidelines for tenure relatedaspectswhichdirectly support
creation o fVillage, Community and Private Forests.

Monitoring.and feedback

Inlightof the extensive investments whichareenvisagedinPFM, a strong monitoringcapacityneedsto
be more clearly established better to informpolicy andprogram development at national, district and
village levels. There will be aneedfor PFMSUto have up to date information on specific developments
andprogress ingeneral, and ina fully accessible form. Such information will be useful to other agencies,
includingvillages, but will be essential for forward planning and for devising fully appropriate guidelines
and support systems. To achieve this, the project will assist PFMSUto put inplace a simple system for
collecting and compilingsharply focused information about PFM developments throughout the country
to identify where centralresponsesor actions are needed. At the same time, neither time nor resources
shouldbe wasted on detailed studies andreports which have no links with actionneeds. A critical first
task o fthe ResourcesandMonitoring Specialist will be to establish a set o fminimuminformationpoints
and indicators which maybe developed for useby all local PFM actors. A time-efficient means o f
receiving this information will be to request participants to the annual working conference to complete
andbringwith them these simple f o m .

 At the macro level, Tanzania's extensive forest andwoodland resourcesclearly play a central role in
providing resources for rural andurbanhousehold consumption, andfor mitigating the impacts o f
poverty. PFM seeks more fully to integrate localforest and woodland managementefforts with local
 needs and concerns. The development o f abetter understanding o f the linkages between poverty and


                                                      - 4 8 -

natural resource managementwas highlightedinthe PRSP as a central issue o f concern. Although these
linkages are widely speculatedupon, the development o f analytically sound and empirically rigorous
household-based information is badly needed. The project will provide resources to support a five-year
program o f applied household monitoring and assessmentbetter to informpolicy about these linkages.

Withrespect to the specific impacts o fPFM, a criticalaspect offorest managementplanning and
implementation is to be able to know ifthe regime itself is working as planned and the effect it i s having
upon the localforest and uponlocal development systems, organization and local livelihood. The
Resourcesand Monitoring Specialist will work closely with other members o f the PFMSU team to refine
simplemonitoring indicatorsandprocesseswhich villagers can easily adopt anduse on a sustainedand
regular basis.

Monitoringactivities will also beusedto informFBDITFS managementabout how best a schemecan be
designed to ensurethat revenues collectedby FBDare returnedto villages which have undertaken new
woodland managementresponsibilities.

Usefulproject key performance indicatorswill have to be developed, includingboth indirect and direct
indicators. Indirect monitoring indicators are infact already routinely identifiedinthe preparationo f
village forest managementplans but on the whole there i s little systematic assessment o f these.
Therefore, such indicators shouldbe collectedand assessedina systematic manner betterto inform the
PFMprocess.

Direct keyperfomance indicatorswill have to be established duringthe inceptiono fthe PFM
component. Such indicators must relate directly to the level, type and magnitude o f capacity for PFM
facilitation (ina broad sense) that have beenbuilt at the local, district, regional and national levels.
Performance indicator targets will be, inter alia, the number o f `facilitators' (local government officers,
NGOs, CBOs, companies, institutions, individuals) capable of facilitating PFMand actively engagedin
 PFMprocesseswith villages and local communities; the degree to which the FBDguidelines onPFM are
beingadheredto and the degree to which field experience is being fed-back into the FBDITFS; the
 numberofVFRs being established or requestsbeingsubmitted to the district authorities for endorsement;
 andthe number o fJMAs being entered into.

 Project Component2 US$3.40 million
                       -

 This component has already been approved onFebruary 26,2002, as part ofthe Forest Conservation and
 Management Project (PO58706).

 Private sector involvement inindustrial plantation management

 The project will provideresourcesto develop and implementa framework for the involvement o fthe
 private sector inthe managemento f existing industrial plantations as well as to strengthen the potential
 for the development andmanagemento fnew plantations. This component will provide the resources to
 assess the technical and financial feasibility o fthe industrialplantations with reference to existing and
 potentialmarkets as well as the formulation o f steps and guidelines for the private sector's involvement.
 Multiplemechanismsfor the involvement ofthe private sector will be developedand implementedona
 pilot basis, and are expected to include leasing arrangements,joint forest management, and
 co-management. Four sub-components are envisaged:




                                                      -49-

Improving theplantation resourceinformation base and managementplanning capacity (US$0.3
million)

This sub-component willprovide resourcesto develop the information neededto allow for the
identification andselection o fpriority sites and for designingpilot activities. The sub-component will
finance aerial photography, interpretation, mapping, and indicative inventories o f around 40,000 ha o f
state-owned plantations; a rapidsocio-economic assessmentwhich identifies key stakeholders, their
concerns, and expectations; the development o f a plantation database for management purposes;
preparationo f basic guidelines to guide plantationmanagementand to establish parameters for
monitoringcommercial plantation operations; preparation o fbasic growth andyield tables for key
species relying on existing data; preliminary estimateso f growing stock andallowable cut; and capacity
buildingo fstaffinselectedareas to buildcapacity to undertake thesetasks. An exhaustive mappingand
inventory exercise is not envisaged.

Strengthening instit~tionalsupport servicesfor private sector involvement (US$1.3million)

This sub-component will support the creation of anenabling institutionalandmarket environment for
private sector involvement inplantation development andmanagement. It will provide resourcesfor the
design andimplementation o f a communicationstrategy; the development o f a plano f action with agree
principles andclear objectives for private sector involvement; the establishment o f a PSIunit within
MNRT; the development o f legalprocedures andinstrumentsfor tenderingto ensuretransparency and
consistency with Government guidelines; the preparation o fmodel informationmemoranda, leases,
model contracts, and transparent biddingassessmentprocedures, as well as community and
environmentalaction plans where they are needed; prepare recommendations on an improved log sales
system; an action planfor improving forestry taxation andthe investment environment for plantation
forestry; and studytours andstaff training to increaseanunderstanding o f the principles surrounding
private sector involvement.

Pilot alternative management of selected industrialplantations (US8I.6 million)

Three pilot activities are envisaged under this component: the development o f leasing arrangements for
involving the private sector inplantation management; the development o f co-management arrangements
where responsibility for plantation managementi s sharedbetween Government and a partner (for
example, a village or a company); and designated community managementfor a plantation areawhere
responsibilities and control are assumedby a village. The project will provide resources to establish
boundaries o f eachpilot area, to carry out rapidinventories or aerial surveys as needed, to prepare legal
 documentation as needed, and to carry out stakeholder surveys and assessments where communities will
be involvedor otherwise affected bythe program.

 Pilot private company involvement inplantation management

 Government has indicated that its preferredapproach toward involvingthe private sector inplantation
 management, is to develop the option o f leasing pilot plantation areas with either anupfront or part
 payment for the current crop. For these forests, an open biddingprocess i s recommended, whereby the
 private sector would be invitedto bid(following the preparation o f biddingcriteria andbidevaluation
 documentation), offeringeither their total offer price at the outset or an initial payment with a series o f
 deferred payments for the balance o fthe offer price. The Government would indocumentation for
 invitingbids, needto indicate itspreferences andhow itwill evaluate andrank bids. Assuminga
 successful biddingand negotiationprocess, managemento f these plantations will be progressively
 assumedby the private sector on a pilot basis.


                                                     - 50 -

The pilot will develop a gradual process o f transferringmanagement o f selected state plantations to
private company managementusingleasing mechanisms appropriate inthe Tanzanian conditions. Itwill
commence with a single pilot plantation (most probably Sao Hill)and then drawing from lessonslearned
duringthe pilot phase, moveonto hrtherplantations (possibly Mtibwa, Longuza andMedusa) ifthis is
judged to be appropriate. The purpose is to improve the productivity ofplantation management, increase
sustainable wood supply, andreduce the financial burdenon government.

The project will provide resourcesto demarcate and map plantationboundaries; to identifyandmap
areas to be excludedsuch as critical watersheds; to carry out a more detailed valuation o f the pilot areato
set a benchmark for tendering; to prepare for biddingltendering, includingconsultations, investment
informationmemorandums, and leaselcontract legal documents. Special attentionwill be given inthe
tenderingprocess to accommodate the needs o f small saw-millers, for example, byparcelling a portion(s)
into small enough tendering packages for a range o f small millers to bid, or byrequiringbidders to
otherwise be responsive to the needso f small processors. The project will provide resources to
undertake bidding, bidevaluation, contract negotiations andtransfer to the private sector.

Pilot co-management o f industrialplantation

Co-management refers to a partnership between the state, the private sector, and organized villagers for
the management o f a designatedplantationto supply wood to the market and sustain the flow ofbenefits
fairly sharedbythe managementpartners. The term "partnership" meansthat eachpartner has decisions
to make and execute, which shouldbe defined ina Joint Management Agreement. A Joint Management
Committee will be established to provide this forum. The Agreement will explicitly addressthe issue o f
benefit and cost sharing amongst the managementpartners, through a transparent and consultative
 decision makingandplanningprocess.

 Pilot co-management o f an industrialplantation shouldbe considered as an option inareas, where there is
 good commercial plantation potential, population pressure on landi s high, communities are already using
 the forest, andwhere inputs from communities can actually help inreducingplantation management costs
 andprotecting the plantation from fire and encroachment. Plantations such as North Kilimanjaro,
 ShumelMagamba, West Kilimanjaro, Kawetire and Buhindiare some o fthe candidates for piloting a
 co-management approach to commercial plantation management. ShumeirvIagambaalready has a pilot
 underway, from which lessonsmay be learnt.

 The project will provide resourcesto conduct consultations with all stakeholders to agree on issues and
 cooperation principles; to undertake participatory planning o f the co-managementconcept, including
 allocation o fmanagement and control rights,localconflict resolutionmanagementsystems as well as
 benefit and cost sharing arrangements; participatory preparationo f an action plan to proceedwith
 co-management andvillage organizingandcapacity strengthening as needed. The project will provide
 assistance to demarcate andmap plantationandvillage and sub-village boundaries and to divide the pilot
 plantation area into managementareas by village or sub-village.

 A detailedforest resource inventory will be undertakento provide the basis for a detailedvaluation o fthe
 plantation to set benchmarks for auctioningor tendering or other negotiations with a private sector
 partner.

 The project will provide assistanceinpreparing legal documents (possibly including biddingltendering,
 investment information memorandums,pro forma contracts, outlining conditions of co-management), and
 will support the development of contract mechanisms for transfer to a co-managementstructure. In
 addition, the project will provide assistanceinthe development o f forest managementsystems and


                                                    -51  -

related trainingloperationalmanuals, buildingas much as possible on already existing material, andwill
provide training for trainers, staffand villagers inorganizational, technical, financial and market aspects
o f co-management.

Pilot desimated community plantation management

This activity will develop andimplementcommunity-based plantationmanagement systemsfor apilot
plantationwhich cannot be managed commercially either byprivate companies or by the state but which
has potentialto provide benefits to local communities. Joint forest management has already been piloted
inparts ofRum(since 1998/99),Rubare, Ukaguru,Rondo, Kiwira, andMatogoro. FBDhasrecently
decided to turnMatogoro into a catchment forest so it cannot beused for production purposes inthe
future.

Designated managementrefers to recognition and empowerment o f organized villagers as managers o f a
plantationor part of aplantation inorder to sustain the flow o fmainly industrial wood but also fuelwood,
as well as other forest products andservices mainly to the benefit o f the villagers but also the rest o f the
country, basedon a long-term lease arrangement. Underthis concept, villages or sub-villages wouldbe
managingthe plantation reserve on a pilot basis on behalf o f Government inaccordance with a regulatory
framework and a contract. Rights andresponsibilities will be defined inaJoint Management Agreement,
which will be negotiated and entered into by the two parties to the agreement. The roles, functions and
responsibilitieso f eachpartner should be clearly defined inthe Agreement, includingwhat the
designated manager can independently decide andexecute, what needs approvalby the state, andhow the
benefits and costs shouldbe distributed. The need for mutual consultationand transparency should also
be specifiedtogether with monitoring and control as part o f the Agreement.

The adoption o f a designated managementmodel also implies certainresponsibilitiesand changes inthe
roles ofthe various stakeholders. Villagers are not tojust use the forests butthey are to manage it
sustainably, with guidance from a district forest officer. Some o f the most important roles and
responsibilitiesare: to protect the forest, to prepare a simple plan to manage the forest, manage the forest
accordinga managementplan or Village Assembly approved by-laws, enhance the value o f forest
through stand improvement andreforestation, fell and sell trees, collect non-timber forest products, and
pay all the necessaryfees (e.g. an annual lease fee). The forestry officers will have to become more
service-oriented and focus onfacilitation. Their main functions would be to provide a supportingpolicy
andregulatory framework and extension services to villagers; to facilitate and guide villagers intheir
forestry development activities; to assist inforest managementplanning; to approve the plans; to monitor
village forestry and be responsible for overall regulation.

The project is expectedto provide resourcesto conduct consultations with all stakeholders to agree on
key issues; facilitate participatory preparation of an actionplanand negotiation o f a management contract
based e.g. on long-term lease; strengthen village organizational capacity e.g. through Village
Management Committees based on existing village institutions (continuous activity or process);
undertake participatory demarcation andmapping o fthe plantation and village and sub-village
boundaries; undertake participatory forest resource assessment, including wood, environmental and other
resource services; introduce simple forest managementpractices buildingas much as possible on already
existing knowledge andaccumulated experience; train trainers, and villagers inorganizational, technical,
 financial andmarket aspectso f plantation managementand setting up a simple audit system; assist inthe
 development o f by-laws; assist villagers inthe preparation o f simple forest managementplan(s) and
 annual operationplans (by village or sub-village); support managementplanimplementationbyvillage or
 sub-village; develop participatory monitoring, evaluationand auditing; andprepare an action planfor
 expanding the (refined) co-managementmodelto other selectedplantations.


                                                     - 52 -

For forests where partial or full community involvementthrough co-management or full participatory
forest management arrangements, the choice o f mechanismwill follow the social assessment and social
action planningprocess plannedfor each forest,

Monitoring and evaluation (US$0.2m~llion~

The project will place a strong emphasisonthe monitoring and evaluationof performance under the pilot
operations. The project will provide resourcesto establish a mechanism for monitoring and evaluation;
to determine performance indicatorsfor the pilot operations; to implement a regular monitoringprocess
which reports against quantitative andqualitative performance indicators; andto provide feedback to
MNRTto modifymechanisms andprocedures onthe basiso fresults from the pilot operations. The
monitoringand evaluationsystem will focus specifically on determiningidentifiable performance
indicators for eachpilot operation; implement a regular and periodic monitoringprocess to report against
quantitative and qualitative performance indicators which consider boththe effectiveness o fprivate
sector management as well as the extent to which lease conditions are beingmet, and will provide
feedback information to managementto improve or otherwise modify the pilot approach.

Project Component3 US$9.20 million
                       -

Eastern Arc forests conservation and management

This thirdcomponent o fthe program, which is largely to be financedbyGEF (as well as with IDAand
bilateral sources) has beenjointly developed and implemented by the World Bank andUNDP working
with Government andother partners with interests inthe forestry sector. This component will support
institutional reform, strategy development, pilot community-based conservation, and the establishment
andoperation of a sustainable financing mechanismfor tropical highforest conservation inTanzania
through the EasternArc Mountains Conservation Endowment Fund(EAMCEF).

The mainglobal environmentalobjective o f this GEF activity is to promote the sustainable conservation
and managemento fthe EasternArc forests. The activity has four sub-components: subcomponent (i)
will be implementedbythe WorldBankwith IDAresources; subcomponent (ii) also be implemented
                                                                                    will
bythe World BankwithGEFgrant resources; sub-components (iii) (iv) will be implementedthrough
                                                                        and
UNDPwith GEFgrant resources.

(0     Institutional reforms for forest biodiversity conservation, inparticular of the Eastern Arc
       forests at central, district and localpartnership levels to incorporate specific responsibilities for
       biodiversity conservation, oversight, monitoring and coordination. Such reforms will be linked
       with other reforms andinstitutionalrestructuringproposed for the forestry sector as a whole, which
       are also to be financedby IDA.

(ii) Mechanismsforsustainablefinancingofbiodiversityconservation,willbedevelopedincluding
       the establishment o f an EasternArc Mountains Conservation Endowment Fund. It i s envisaged
       that anendowment trust fimdwill be established by the project, with GEF resources. The GEF
       implementingagency for this sub-component would be the Bank (GEF financing o fUS$7million)
       which will co-finance the establishment andinitial operations o f the EAMCEF (IDA financing o f
       US$2 million).




                                                     - 53 -

Two additional components are to be implemented bythe UNDP and are complementary to the
Bank-implementedactivities:

(iii) DevelopmentandpreparationofanintegratedConservationStrategyfortheEasternArc
      Mountain Forests usinga broad-basedparticipatory process, with a focus on institutional capacity
      building,andwhich considers linksto other sectoral activities, suchas agriculture, water, land, and
      energy. A wider dialogue onthe impacts o f sectoral activities on forest biodiversity conservation
      inthe EasternArc will bedeveloped amongstthe key institutions involvedinsectoral activities.
      Mapping and baseline activities will be undertaken as part o fthe Strategy development, and will
      include an assessment o f the multipletenure regimes found inthe forests o f the Arc. The GEF
      implementing agency for this sub-component would be UNDP.

(iv)  A forest conservation interventionthrough government and community partnership
      initiativeswhich will be undertakenat priority sites inthe UluguruMountains - one o fthe most
      important mountain forest blocks inthe arc. Firmlinkages will be established with partners (other
      donors, NGOs, Community-based organizations, government agencies, etc). The GEF
       implementing agency for this sub-component would be UNDP.

A Project Brieffor the full GEFactivity hasbeenpreparedjointly bythe BankandLJNDP. The Project
Briefwas approved bythe GEF Council duringthe December 2001Council meeting. While GEF
support will be integrated into the overall program o fIDA support to the forest sector inTanzania,
explicit IDA co-financing has beenprovidedfor the EAMCEF. The sub-components are described here
indetail:

Eastern Arc Mountains ConservationEndowment Fund (US$!?.0 miiiion)
The establishment o f the EAMCEF i s intendedto beginto addressthe need for a long-term sustainable
approach to fundingthe conservation o f forest biodiversity. EndowmentFundshave typically been
established when public resourcesfor biodiversity conservation are constrained, when other support has
beeninconsistent or irregular, andwhen there is a strong enablingframework for their establishment.

Inadequate andpoorly targeted public and donor resourcesfor forest biodiversity conservation inthe
Eastern Arc has meant that there i s a limitedview of long-tenn resource requirements and financing
needs. Most efforts to develop sound forest biodiversity conservation programs inthe EastemArc have
suffered from the 'feast-or-famine' five-year project cycle: a periodo f raised expectations and increased
resource flows followed by the departure o f staff, andconstrained finances. Eventhe best designed
initiatives have failed, ultimately, to create the mechanisms for longer-term financing. Indeed, ifthere i s
any single 'lesson learned' from donor financing, ithasbeenthat their impacts are muchmore likely to
be short term, rather than longterm.

The financial sustainability o f donor assistedforest biodiversity conservation projects has beena
longstandingconcern. Government ultimately pays the price when financial sustainability is not assured.
The EAMCEFprovides an important opportunity to buildon synergies indonor support.

Endowment Fundsrely on several sources o f financing: resourcesfor establishment and initial
operations; programmaticresources; and the capital endowment. GEF Guidelines require that the
institution responsible for the Endowment Fundshouldbe privately constituted, and that the capital
 endowment is managedoff-shore to meet certain investment standards. The revenues from the capital
 endowment are usedon a perpetual basis to finance programmatic and operational expenses. It is
 expectedthat GEF will finance the capital endowment ($7 million) once particular performance


                                                     - 54 -

benchmarks have been achieved. IDAresources (US$2 million) are requiredto finance establishment,
initial operations, and programmatic expenses. Additional bilateral and multilateral resourcesare inthe
process o fbeingmobilized.

Preoaratory work. A feasibility studywas prepared and concluded that the policy and institutional
framework would support the establishment o f anEndowment FundinTanzania, and couldbejustified
on the basis o f the biodiversity values found inthe Eastern Arc. The feasibility studyrecommended that
an Endowment Fundworking group shouldbe established, that a profile o f the fund shouldbe prepared,
and future work shouldfocus on further development o fthe design o f the fund and should support a
studytour to another endowment fundsite.

Because o f the proposednature o f the Endowment Fundas a privately-managed institution, the Bank
sought Government's agreement to support its establishment on these terms. MNRThas strongly
endorsed its establishment, has agreedthat its initial operations shouldbe co-financed with IDA
resources, andhas arguedthat it is consistent with the national policy objective o f seeking to involve a
wider group o f stakeholders inforest conservation and managementthrough a diverse range o f
approachesand instruments, outside o fthe influence o f the public sector.

An Endowment Fundspecialist was subsequently employed by FBDand resulted inthe formal
establishment o f the EAMCEF. A deed o f trust under the Trustees' Incorporation Ordinance (Cap 375)
has beenprepared andregistered with the Administrator General o f Trustees. As such, the EAMCEF has
now been legally constituted as aNon-Governmental Organization. An Inaugural Boardhas been
established and i s comprised o frepresentatives o f the public sector, the private sector, and environmental
NGOs.

The Deedo f Trust requires that the Boardo f Trustees is to be constituted ina manner so that there is
expertise inconservation inthe Eastern Arc Mountains, forestry, academialresearch, law, business and
financial matters, community development, and the work o f local and international conservation NGOs.
The FoundingBoardhasbeenconstituted of representatives from the Forestry andBeekeeping Division
o fthe MinistryofNaturalResourcesand Tourism, the National Environment Management Council
 (NEMC), the Lawyers EnvironmentalAction Trust (an environmental NGO), WWF Tanzania, and
 Songas(a private company with interests inoff-shore gas field development). Four additional members
 o fthe Boardare to be appointed according to terms specified inthe Deedo f Trust.

 The Deedrequires the appointment o f four additional Trustees who shall represent a reputable NGO
 which has the objective o f supporting community-based conservation andnatural resource management,
 a representative from the academiclresearch community from a national institution, and two members
 representing communities inthe areas of operation o fthe Endowment.

 The Deedalso provides for the establishment o f LocalAdvisory Committees (LACs) inthe areas o f
 EAMCEF operation, andthat these will be constituted o frepresentatives from Village Environmental
 Committees. LACs will be constituted to provide guidance and advice to the Board. Collectively, these
 various mechanisms provide for representation o f diverse interests inthe conservation and management
 o f the EasternArc.

 Thematic and IzeograDhic coverage. The preparatory work which underpinned the establishment o f the
 EAMCEF focused developingthe mechanisms for financing three key priorities: community-based
 conservation; applied biodiversity research; and protected areas management. The design o f the fundhas
 been responsive to these three priority areas.



                                                     - 55 -

Because o fthe great extent o fthe Eastern Arc and the concern that the EAMCEF shouldbe seen to have
a sustained impact inthe short term, the Fundi s expected to operate, inthe first instance, across a limited
geographic range, primarily intwo or three Mountainblocks o f the EasternArc forests. These were
established as an outcome o f the ranking exercise which was undertaken duringpreparation. Inthe first
instance, support is to be provided for activities inthe UluguruMountains, the Udzungwa Mountains,
and inthe East Usambara Mountains. Inthe mehum-term, once a track recordhas beenestablished for
operation o fthe EAMCEF inpriority sites, programs are expected to be extended into other mountain
blocks, such as the Malundwes, Mahenges, Rubehos, and Ukagurus, but this will depend on additional
(probably substantial) capitalization o f the fund, andits success indeliveringexpected outputs.

The EAMCEF is designed to support three types o f activities: community development and conservation
projects; research; and forest and reserve management. The EAMCEF is expected to dedicate at least
50% o f its available grant funding to support community-based development andconservation projects.
These projectswill be developed bythe communities or NGOsworking with communities with
assistance from the Secretariat. All proposals will be reviewedby the LocalAdvisory Committee and
then sent onthe Boardfor final approval. Researchprojects will be preparedby students or university
andresearchorganizations andwill be selectedonthe basis oftheir relevance to the conservation of
biodiversity inthe EasternArc Mountains. A researchcommittee comprised o f experts from established
research institutions will review all researchproposals. All Reserveand Forest Management and Project
proposals will be prepared bythe entity charged with managemento fthe forest or reserve area. Details
o fthe program activities, eligibility, proposal review and grant process are containedinthe EasternArc
Mountains Conservation Endowment FundFinancial, Operations and Management Manual.

PhasedSupport. Support for establishment and operation o fthe Fundwill be phased. PhaseI,which i s
expected to last two to three years, will buildthe capacity within the EAMCEF and its partners to carry
out their respective roles inthe managemento fthe Endowment Fundand the coordination and
implementation o f the activities described above. A modest unallocatedfund for technicalprograms will
allow EAMCEFto addressearly needsand to gain experience inprogramplanning and implementation.
At the end o fyear 2 or 3 depending, anassessment ofthe achievement ofthe agreed indicatorsof
institutional capacity andreadinesswill serve to trigger the releaseo f the endowment capital from GEF
into the Fund. Duringyears 3 and4, the endowment will earn interest and these funds will finance Phase
11,the implementationphase, whichwill beginat the start ofyear 5, or later ifthe originallyallocated$2
million from IDAhas not beenspent. Assistance from the GEF is requestedto provide the initial
endowment capital o f US$7million for the EAMCEF. Assistance from IDA i s required for the three
year start-up phase and for operational and programmatic support.

Financingi s neededto support 5 major activities (including capitalization o fthe Endowment Funditself).
 IDAsupport willbe providedto finance the first 4 ofthese activities (but will not beusedto capitalize
 the Endowment Fund).

 (a)   Endowment Administration. The Endowment FundSecretariat will be established inMorogoro
       andwill consist o f an Executive Director, three ProgramOfficers, an Accountant, a Secretary, and
       support staff. These individuals will be the only full-time employees o f EAMCEF. The Secretariat
       will be responsible for (i) developing the program content for each o f the three priority areas o f
       support (Community-based conservation, appliedbiodiversity research, andprotectedareas
       management); (ii)  working incollaborationwith FBDand suitable NGOsto implement activities in
       these three priority areas; (iii)submittingannual work plansandbudgets to the EAMCEFBoard
       for approval; (iv) disbursingapproved funds andensuring that proper disbursement, procurement
       and supervision procedures are followed; (v) maintaining financial records and



                                                     - 56 -

      accountingireporting; and (vi) ensuringongoing monitoringand evaluationo f all work receiving
      EAMCEF funding. Other activities which will be undertaken by the Secretariat include,
      communications and education andfundraising.

      Applied BiodiversityResearch. Under this component the EAMCEFwill support research which
      strengthens anunderstandmgo f the extent andvalue o f biodiversity andecosystemhealth in
      priority geographic sites, andwhich can help to reduce the impacts o fhumanpressureson the
      ecosystem and its biological resources. Researchwill be undertaken inthe context of overall
      efforts to improve the managemento fthe EasternArc forests ina way which maintains and
      increasestheir contribution to localand national economic development. Specific attentionwill be
      paidto ensurethat biodiversity conservation i s a clear focus o ftargeted researchinitiatives which
      are linkedwith forest managementand conservation, along with other important objectives such as
      maintaining water supplies and providingsustainable supplies o f valuable timber and non-timber
      products.

      Participatory Forest Conservation. The objective o f these activities i s to increase the share of
      the benefits from forest conservation and managementto local communities and to ensure that
      these continue on a sustainablebasis. These activities are fully consistent with Government's
      policy for participatory forest management(including co-management) o f forest reserves and
      forests on customary land. Fundswill support training, workshops and technical assistance to help
      mobilizethese stakeholders and enhance their knowledge and skills to become effective forest
      managementpartners.

      ProtectedForest Reserve Management activities should strengthen the capacity o f FBDor other
      institutions withjurisdictionover forest reserves. Improvingforest ecological and economic
      viability will be o fparamount importance. Priority forest management activities for fundingunder
      the Endowment Fundwould include improvement o f staffcapabilities (e.g. training, skills
      development o f reserve staff), forest managementand ecotourisminfrastructure (e.g.; trails, access
      roads, ranger stations, etc.), conservation education, managementplanning, and others. Where
      appropriate, activities shouldinclude a training component.

      Establishment of the Conservation Endowment Fund. The purpose o fthe Conservation
      Endowment Fundi s to provide sustainable in-country funding for biodiversity conservation o f the
      Eastern Arc Forests, inthe context o f ecologically sustainable development. The EAMCEF Fund
      will be established as the long-termfinancing mechanism to support these activities.

Inorderto assess progressinmeetingthe objectives ofIDAandGEFsupport, aMidtermReview willbe
carried out at the end o fthe secondor thirdproject year to assess performance with respect to meeting
particular benchmarks andindicators. Indicatorswhich will trigger releaseo f the EndowmentFundfrom
GEFinclude the following: (i)    successful establishment and functioning o f the Secretariat (i.e. key
positions inthe Secretariat have been filled, audits have beencompleted and are clear, an acceptable 2
year work plan i s developed); (ii)  finalization of the Financial, Operations, and ManagementManual
which defines andclarifies procedures andoperations for the EAMCEF andits approval by IDA; (iii)
establishment and functioning of the Endowment FundBoard(i.e. regularBoardmeetings, appointment
o f four new Boardmembers, application o fthe procedures for Boardmembers); (iv) development and
launching o f the fundraising strategy; (v) grant making activities have begun(proposals solicited,
competitive selection procedures followed, grants awarded andpilot activities are under
implementation); (vi) at least one LocalAdvisory Committee has been established; (vii) documented
adherenceto the policies, procedures andprinciples set forth inthe Deedo fTrust; (viii) documented



                                                      - 57 -

significant co-financing for the EAMCEF. The Asset Manager will be procuredfollowing Bank
guidelines andthe Bank will approve the process o f selection, and also the asset manager's contract. The
initial investment strategy for the endowment will be reviewed and approved bythe Bank. The spending
plan for the revenue generatedfor the year will be developed on an annual basis bythe EAMCEFBoard
o f Trustees andthe Endowment FundSecretariat. A subsidiary agreement will be prepared between
Government andthe EAMCEF which clarifies respective responsibilities for IDA and GEF funds and
project management.

ConservationStrategyfor the Eastern Arc Mountain Forests (US$2.0million)

This UNDP implemented sub-component includes nine activities coordinated towardpreparationan
implementation o f an overall integrated conservation strategy for EasternArc Mountains.

Rationale

With the EasternArc MountainForests situatedwithin 12districts inthe East ofTanzania, the
establishment and implementationo fprograms to conserve biodiversity inan effective andefficient
manner will be unusually challenging. The complex tenure regimes and the different objectives for the
Arc Mountainsthat come from the forest, agricultural, water andpower sectors exacerbate this challenge.
Inaddition, policychangesestablishedat the nationallevelthat are intendedto promoteconservation of
biodiversity require implementationthrough the many different local, regional, andnational authorities
that are responsible for managing the natural resourcesofthe arc. Accordingly, cross-sectoral strategies
that addressbiodiversity and that leadto a communally accepted goal andvision for the resources o f the
Arc, needto be devised and implemented at the regional level. Corresponding efforts are neededto
identify critical needsand establish priorities. The closest parallel to this is the Overall Conservationand
Management Strategy for the Forest Resourceso f Queensland, Australia. This Eastern Arc development
process benefitedfrom a lessonslearned seminar from the Queensland situation inthe arc. To be
effective, these strategies will needto be pursuedina participatory manner, with all stakeholders,
includinglocalcommunities, participating, and effective communicationand outreach activities
undertaken.

Strategies will of necessity be hierarchical, with an overall EasternArc strategy that i s basedon the
strategies agreedfor each o f the separateMountainBlocks. Incases where Blocks encompass more than
one District, then there is needto bringDistricts together to merge their interests (eg Udzungwa and
West Usambaras). The lowest level o f strategic planningwill be the Management Plans for the
component Protected Areas (National Parks, Nature Reserves, andForest Reserves). Cutting acrossthese
geographic plans and strategieswill be a set o f common thematic plans and strategies. For example the
pattern o f addressing how catchment forestry links to water sector interests shouldbe similar across the
Arc. So too shouldbe strategiesaddressing for example: the restoration o f degraded forest, sustainable
use regimes, biodiversity monitoring, and modalities for participatory forest management (PFM).

Then, once programs are underway, effective ecological and socio-economic monitoringprograms will
needto be put inplace to evaluate program effectiveness andprogress towards goals. Strategies and
management interventions mustbe adaptive, responding to such monitoring information. Strategies for
long-term sustainability, including financing and fee-based solutions will needto be explored and
 implemented.

 This first output for the EasternArc Projectis designedto address these needsthrough the development
 and implementation o f an integrated set of conservation strategies andmonitoring programs.
 Government authorities at all levels andacross sectorswill be engagedwithin the districts that comprise


                                                    - 58 -

the EasternArc Mountains. Linkages will be forgedwith national institutions and specific activities
undertaken to align on-ground resourceuse practices with biodiversity protection policies. The intent i s
to engageauthorities responsible for policy, planning, andmanagement inan integratedmanner to bring
biodiversity to the fore; and to engineer a set o f strategiesandpractices that will provide for protection
over the longrun. Strategies will focus on conserving existingforest ecosystems and implementing
sustainable use participatory managementstrategies. Core activities will involve methodologies to
remove threats andstrengthen institutions. This component also involves integrating with other sectors,
includingagriculture, poverty eradication, andwater, to achieve success.

This GEF investment is almost entirely incremental becausethe baseline has limited emphasis on
biodiversity (other than policy statements inthe national forest policy and program and limited field
activities). Consequently, strategies and policies today are largely designed to achieve other ends, which
incidentally may protect biodiversity, but have not yet done so ina sustainable fashion. Incremental
investment is vital to achievingthe GEF goal o fprotecting the biodiversity found throughout the Eastern
Arc Mountainforests. The strategy processesthat are laid out below are broad rangingand are designed
to meet both surface threats to forest conservation, as well as to address root causes. They encompass
lessonslearned from past conservation initiatives inTanzania andelsewhere.

This GEF component develops the strategy andplans, and seeks to leverage other donor and government
support to implement plans risingout o f the strategies. The UluguruMountains Component (the second
section below) is where pilot innovative interventions under the strategy can be tested inan integrated
andparticipatory way through GEF funding. The Strategy Activities are to be implementedbythree sets
o f interactive donor support: GEF (through this project), Danida,andthrough IDA financing to the forest
sector. Linkageswill be made withNGO activity. The lead agency is identifiedinthe activity lists that
follow  - withan    estimate o f financing. Danish andIDA inputsare co-finance to the GEF intervention.

The nine separateActivities withinthe Strategy Component are listed inthe Summary Table below, with
an indication o f donor leadership and extent of GEF support.

                           Summary Table: A Summary of Activitiesleadingto preparation of a
                                   ConservationStrategyfor the Eastern Arc Mountains
 Activity NameI Donor
 1.1 An overall Eastem Arc Conservation Strategy is developed and key elements o f it are implemented. (0.9 mill$).
 GEF-UNDP
 1.2 A set o fthematic strategies for biodiversity conservation are developed and implemented through both macro
 frameworks and individualmanagement ulanurocesses. (0.8 mill$). GEF-UNDP
 1.3 Socioeconomic monitoring programdeveloped that evaluates linkages betweenconservation, poverty and livelihoods.
 This strengthens the project ICDP linkages. (0.2 mill$). GEF-UNDP
 1.4 Public expenditure management and the financing o f forest biodiversity conservation (0. imill $)GEF-UNDP, This adds
 to overall Endowment Fundactivity o fGEF-WB, see below.
 1.5 Service fees and user charges for forest biodiversity - water fees linkages, from the major cities and power usersare
 exploredand started. Danida
 1.6 Participatory Forest Management strategies for biodiversity conservation are elaboratedand field-tested. This will
 incorporate the lessons from Output 3 (Institutional Reforms for ParticipatoryForest Management), andnot duplicate it.
 GEF-WB, IDA,andDanida
 1.7 Adaptive resource monitoring programs for forest biodiversity are developed and under implementation. Danida
 1.8 Catchment Management Strategies are elaborated, and under implementation. Financed and implemented byNORAD.
 1.9 Information. education and communicationstrategies IIEC) are develoued andunder imulementation. Danida




                                                              - 59 -

The specific tasks to be carried out within each o f these activities are detailedas follows:

Activity 1.1: An overall Eastern Arc Conservation Strategy, which addresses the Vision and Goal
for the Eastern Arc Mountains; is developed and under implementation

This activityis basedon lessonslearned fiom the Queensland Tropical Forest Conservation Strategy in
Australia. The QTFCS has great similarity to the EasternArc, where successful conservation i s
dependent on several independent stakeholders eachwith different tenure and access rights to the
resource. A commonly agreedvision and strategy provides a coordination framework for ALL
stakeholders to participate. This Activity develops a strategic planningprocess, buildingon that
established inthe PDF activity. The process involves several stages from individualreserve management
plans through district strategiesand individual mountain block strategies. Some mountainblocks cover
more than one District-e.g. the UdzungwaMountains have three Districts in two Regions. The
UluguruMountains incontrast fall inoneDistrict.

The Strategy processhas a number o f distinct component tasks. These include:

      Linkages from Forestry to Agriculture, Water and Energy sectors are maintained This
      builds onthe National Forest PolicyandNational Forest Programme directives. All sectorshave
      major roles and interests inthe easternarc mountains     - all have roles inthe strategy.

      Forestry sector develops capacity buildinglinkages to Districts. Districts will not have ability
      to do this alone, they will need guidelines, training, networking and support. This support will be
      into Local Government and between LocalGovernment, the Central Government, private sector
      and the NGOcommunity.

      The Forestry sector completes processesfor holistic participatory reserve management plans.
      These include Nature Reserves,Forest Reserves and Village and Private Forest Reserves. Forest
      Reserve managementplans are the basic buildingblocks around which strategies are developed.
      These plansmustbe broadbasedandput eachreserve inits overall development and community
      context. Forestry HQ must set guidelines as to boththe processandthe content for the holistic
      plans, and, after broad-basedapproval     - procedures for joint implementation. Plans must integrate
      the conservation (biodiversity andcatchment functions) with community demands for sustainable
      resource processes and increasedaccess and tenure. Plans musthave capability for adaptive
      responseto management, as shown by strong monitoring systems.

       District Conservation Strategies developed, integrating sector concerns and reserve plans.
       Strategies integrate the overall district development processeswith reserve conservation plans.
       These strategies addresslocal, national and global values, seeking sustainable benefit flows to all
       stakeholders. District ownership within guidelines from central government is essential.

       MountainBlock Conservation Strategies developed, integrating district plans. This will be an
       amalgamation of adjacent district plans, into a single mountainblock strategy -e.g. the East
       Usambaras (2 Districts), West Usambaras(2), and Udmngwas(3).

       World Heritage Site nomination developed and implemented for whole Eastern Arc. This is
       Tanzania affirming the global value o fthe Arc forests (just like Kilimanjaro, Ngorongoro, and
       Serengeti -which are already nominatedas WorldHeritage Sites). There i s a complex nomination
       process - includingsetting out conservation strategies. MAB status to be extended.



                                                      - 60 -

(g)   A suite of planningtools developed, andused, through national and district capacity. These
      tools will assist inearlier tasks, andwill include: threat reduction analysis, participatory planning
      procedures andmap-basedforest biodiversity planning & assessment tools.

Activity 1.2: A set of thematic strategies for biodiversity conservation are developed and
implemented, through macro frameworks and individual management plan processes

The overall strategy will have two main components, the first which i s geographic and cross-sectoral is
described in 1 above. The other (described here) will be a series o f thematic issues, which cut across all
the district and mountain strategies. These themes are listed below:

      Developing biodiversity conservation strategies and guidelines for implementation. This is a
      broadtopic and includes: Species conservation strategies, guidelines for ICDPprocessesand links
      to Participatory Forest Management, option setting for sustainable use versus stricter Nature
      Reserveprocesses, and the linkages between biodiversity and catchment conservation will be
      important. Guidelines will include optimum funding and staffing intensities, compartment / beat
      managementprocedures, etc. This strategy component will be a major part o fthe GEF - UNDP
      activity, butwill linkto other developingco-finance (eg the WWF-IUCN Forest Restoration
      Project, the USAID    - Sokoine  University Forest Health Project).

      Developing procedures for selecting, setting up andimplementing Nature Reserves. At
      present there is no national framework for Nature Reserves, despite their prominenceinthe
      NationalForest Policy andProgram. This activity will develop a national framework and set up a
      Nature Reserve system acrossthe EasternArc Forests that adequately covers the range of diversity.

      Fire management strategies. Fire i s a major threat to the arc forests inmost mountainblocks -
      there are no overall control or prevention strategies inplace. Again fire strategies needto be
      integrated into JFM agreements andbuffer zone managementpractices.

      Forest health strategies. The project will liaise with the US Forest Service Forest HealthProject
      to develop further strategies. Dealingwith invasive species (both plant and animal) will be a key
      issue here.

      Sustainable Use Strategies developed for forest periphery communities; includingsustainable
      collection o f e.g. chameleons, violets; sustainable wood product use (poles, fuelwood, carvings
      etc); Insect farming (mantises andstick insects as well as butterflies are increasingly collected from
      Arc forests). This i s a core concept inthe long-term conservation o f the arc forest, andlinksto the
      CBD as well as to Tanzania's Policies on Environment and Forestry. Sustainable Use links to
      income generation processes from forest products; and to community andjoint forest management
      initiatives. Strategies include micro-enterprise, resource assessment, marketingetc.

      Alternative Income Generation Strategies developed for forest edge communities; including:
      Agro-forestry inputs to sustainable agriculture, handicrafts, eco-tourism. The rationale here i s
      findingAIGactivity outside the forest, butlinkingsupport to conservation processes(the classic
      ICDP dilemma).

      Forest Restorationfor Biodiversity and Catchment Capacity. Large areas o f the Arc forests
      have been degradedover time, with considerable canopy opening and fires reducingregeneration.



                                                     -61  -

      Forest under-stories are no longer dense enough to allow many forest birds to pass or plants o f
      conservation interest to regenerate; and catchment values are impaired. There i s a needto have an
      overall restorationplan inplace    - for habitats and, where essential, key species.

Activity 1.3: A socio-economic monitoring program developed and under implementation

Nationaldevelopment goals see forestry supporting rural communities. Past conservation paradigms
have seen ruralpoverty as a major factor inresource degradation. There i s little understanding o f the
relationships between these factors, nor how to integrate sustainable use into anti-poverty processes.
This actionprovideslinkages to the national PRSPprocess, andmore especiallythe imperative to
integrate environmentalissues into the PRSP itself. Forestryhas several entry points, two o fwhich link
to the mainpriority areas for PRSP. These are links from forests as catchments to water, and from
forests to agricultural incomes. Inaddition PRSPrecognizes the importance o f direct forest incomes
inimpoverishedruralareas, andlastlythe needfor povertyenvironment indicators. The poverty to forest
conservation linkages need to be captured withinpolicy frameworks. There are three tasks.

      A suite of monitoringtools andprotocols developed around the people -forest interface.
       Whilst developingGEF documentation i s beginning to addressthe community perspective - and
       how to quantify dependence and responseto interventions, these have been little usedinAfrican
       forest situations. Goodtested field tools are needed, which can be usedwithin participatory
       situations.

       Baseline information on socio-economics collectedandanalyzedaroundkey forest sites. This
       buildsfrom task 3.1 above, andusesthe tools to collect baseline data, and continuemonitoringto
       show bothhoped for impact, and to show managementhow to adapt to community needs and
       pressures.

       Specific linkages to Poverty ReductionStrategy Paper (PRSP) process are developed,to
       better integrate or mainstream forest dependentpoverty processes into nationalplanning andto
       seek specific funding into this project poverty relatedactivity. At government levelPRSP activity
       i s the entry point to poverty reduction. PRSP- environment linkages have not been strong and
       needelaborationifboth sectors (forest conservation through PFM; andpoverty reduction through
       forest sustainable use o f forests) are to see benefit,

Activity 1.4: Public expenditure management and the financingof forest biodiversityconservation

This activity is intendedto complement the EndowmentFundActivity byputtingsustainable financing
into a broader context. There are two main tasks:

(r)    Royalty and fee basedstrategies based on biodiversity resources developed and inplace.
       Whilsttimber harvestingwill be ofminor importance inthe Arc forests, it is important that
       resource harvesting(violets, poles) does attract meaningful fees and levies. See for example the
       recent papers on forest valuation inEast Africa (from InnovationMagazine Nairobi {edLucy
       Emerton et all based on an IUCN-UNDP GEF project process).

(s)    Longterm donor support processescanvassed. The rationalehere i s that the EAMCEF should
       not be the endpoint o f all donor investment inthe arc. One o f the world's 25 top biodiversity sites
       needs longer-terminvestment. Investment is neededinto conservation directly, and into
       sustainable livelihoods and agriculture.



                                                       - 62 -

Activity 1.5: Forestconservation-water fee linkagesfrom towns are exploredandstarted

This activitywill be co-financed. This task is basedonthe comparative advantageof Danida program,
with their SustainableCities Program inthree EasternArc forest dependent cities: DSM, Morogoroand
Tanga. This will allow greater interactionbetween the sectors that use and supply water.

Activity 1.6: Overallcommunityconservationguidelinesdevelopedandunderimplementation

This activity is intended to incorporate the findingsofOutput 3 into the strategy with respect to
community-based forest biodiversity conservation guidelines, The task i s listedhere only to affirmthat
community interactions will be a major component o f conservation strategies for the Arc forests.

(t)    Information,educationandcommunicationstrategies(IEC) developed andimplemented.
       Overall framework for awarenessraisingdeveloped, with stakeholders1partners; Coinmunication
       and outreach -advocacy program developed; Information Technology support to IEC activity.

Activity 1.8: CatchmentManagementGuidelinesare elaboratedandunderimplementation

This task integrates the on-going catchment forestry managementactivity (fundedbyNORAD andGOT)
into this strategy process). Guidelines will be incorporated into broader strategy documents and specific
managementplans.

Activity 1.9: Adaptive monitoringprogramdevelopedandunderimplementation

This activity willbe co-financed. The rationalebehindthesetasks andtheir linkages to Danidais that
perhaps the greatest databaseon EasternArc biodiversity i s inCopenhagen, and that Danishfunds have
supported muchfield researchinthe Arc forests, Danida funding therefore has comparative advantage in
developing the following activities: A participatory M&Estrategy which i s accepted, and implementedin
sites; A Researchstrategy which is prioritized, including specieslcommunities recovery; A field research
programthat addresses priority issuesthrough innovative pilot studies,

Inaddition, suchresearchwill needa small fieldresearchstationto be setupinpriority site; plus
providingthe capacity to implement conservation biology researchlinonitoring; and developing a suite o f
monitoringtools for forest biodiversity at species and habitat levels.

Communily Based Forest Biodiversity Conservationin Uluguru~ o u n t ~ i n s     (US$3million)
This UNDP implementedsub-component consists of 5 activitiespilotinginnovative community based
forest biodiversity conservation inthe UlugurMountains.

Rationale

Annex 16stressesthe urgent needinthe UluguruMountainForestsofthe EasternArc Mountains, for
concerted and integrated action to protect the remainingforests from further encroachment and
degradation. Theirprotected status i s as Government Forest Reserves, andthere are few left on village
land. These forests, comprising approximately 210 squarekilometers, are among the most important in
the entire EasternArc interms o f species richness, with many rare species o fplants and animals, and
extremely highlevels o f species endemism. The UluguruMountains and their forests also provide the
main source o f fresh water for Dar es Salaam (via the RuvuRiver) as well as the town o f Morogoro.


                                                    - 63 -

Withpopulation growth, continuedexpansion ofcommercialand subsistenceagriculture, continued
illegal logging, as well as fires and other human activities, these forests and the endemic species within
themare highlythreatened.

Government officials andmany local community stakeholders are aware of these problems, but have
provennot to have the capacity to address the situationon their own. A Danida financedNGOproject
(DOF-WCST), which has conducted extensive researchand i s now beginningto work with local
communities on conservation i s ongoinginthe northernforests (North UluguruForest Reserve and tiny
BundukiForest Reserve) aboveMorogorotown. However, the scopeofthis activity relative to the need
i s quite small. The larger, less exploredand potentially richer South UluguruForest Reserveand patches
o f village forest are not included. Inaddition, the DOF-WCST effort primarily focuses on forest     -
community practices. Ithas not tackledthe complex governance issuesassociated with the forests.

GEFfundingis the cornerstone ofan expandedprogramto safeguardthe UluguruMountainforests
through an integrated conservation and development approach. This approach results from a nine-month
design process, involvingstakeholdersthrough workshops, meetings, and forums as well as field
research, analysis, and the application of lessons learned from other biodiversity conservation activities.
The GEFinvestment will specifically address the shortcomings ofthe baseline andwill be linkedwith
co-financing from partners to provide the resources, technology, and leadership neededto protect the
international interest inbiodiversity.

Inthe case o fthe Ulugurus,         biodiversity and water values g be maintainedthrough specific
actions to preserve the catchment forests. However, all the local communities adjacent to the forests
depend onthem to one degree or another for their livelihood. Thus the challenge o fthis activity will be
to balance the interests andneedso f all the different people that benefit directly or indirectly from the
 forests from the local level to the internationallevel. It i s a complex problem, but with recent changes
         -
 inthe government policy, newtechnology andapproachesto forest andlandmanagement,andfunding
 from GEF andother donors, there is a real opportunity to achieve change that can protect diversity, water
 values and address the needs o f the localpopulations. GEF support should achieve this change by
 simultaneously addressing the near term need for effective protection measureswhile layingthe
 foundation for a longer termmanagementstrategy which actively engages local stakeholders inforest
 managementand conservation. There are five component activities within this output. They are
 summarizedhere, indicating field partners andfundingrequirements.

 The Summary Table below describes activities that are plannedfor GEF support, inconjunction with
 expected inputsfrom key co-financing partners. Because o fthe critical needto ensure that long-term
 support is available for forest biodiversity conservation inthe Ulugurus, the development o f these
 activities will complement closely the proposedwork o f the Eastern Arc Mountains Conservation
 Endowment Fundinthe Ulugurus. These activitieswill be carried out inclose cooperation and
 interaction with eachother.




                                                     - 64 -

                                    Summary Table: Activitiesproposedfor GEF support
                   Associated with pilotcommunity-based forest conservationinthe UluguruMountains
Activity NameI Partner Institutions
2.1 Protected Area Management:Managementandprotection systems inthe South UlugumForestReserve improved, and
biodiversity and hydrological values sustained. Catchment Forestry andNORAD
2.2 Participatory ForestManagement: strategiesfor resourceuse and conservation are implemented. FBDand IDA-Danida
components
2.3 AgricultureiAgroforestry: communities with greater capacity for sustainableland usemanagement and small
enterpriseimarketing. Selected opportunities for income generationare developed, emphasizing sustainableuse of forest
resources. Basedon, and to continue the work by UMADEP
2.4 InfonnationiEducation: Conservation awarenessis increasedat all levels (through education campaigns addressing
politicians, schools, opinion leaders and local communities). Linkages to activity startedby WCST and DOF inthe northern
Forests
2.5 Institutional Development: Capacity o fpartners inplanningand management o fland, conservation, agriculture, forestry
andenvironment is enhanced. All partners


The activities are described indetail as follows:

Activity 2.1: ProtectedArea Management: Management and protection systems in the Uluguru
South Forest Reservesare substantially improved, and biodiversity and hydrological values better
understood

This is the core activity, ensuring adequateconservation ofthe mainforest blockonthe South Uluguru
Mountains, with community involvement. There are 5 maintasks:

(a)     Develop participatory managementplans for South UluguruFRaccording to guidelines developed
        under the EasternArc Conservation Strategy, including upgradingstatus, developingbuffer zone
         status and elaborating community rightsand roles.

(b)      Collect baseline data on keybiodiversity and hydrological values to support managementplan
         development, andallow later M&Eprocesses.

(c)     Implement the provisions of the managementplan, including sustainable use harvesting, zonation,
         eco-tourism, species conservation inputs andhabitat restoration.

(d)      Demarcate, maintain, and patrol forest boundaries to maintainreserve integrity andreduce illegal
         use.

(e)      Establish native speciesnurseries andpromote community restorationand species regeneration.

Activity 2.2: Participatory Forest Management: Participatory forest management and other
resource use arrangements are establishedto work with communities around the Ulugurus

This activity puts inplace the PFMprocessesaroundthe Reserve, including capacity building,
negotiating contracts, settingup sustainableuse regimes, and monitoring. There will be five maintasks:

 (a)     Develop awarenesso fparticipatory strategies and monitoring systems.

 (b)     Buildcapacity within collaboratingvillages, hamlets anduser groups.

 (c)     Negotiate PFMcontracts, around definedrightsroles and responsibilities.

 (d)     Develop sustainable use regimes with PFMpractitioners.

 (e)     Support monitoring and adaptive implementationprocesses.


                                                              - 65 -

Activity 2.3: SustainedLivelihoods through improved agriculturelagroforestry: and small
enterpriselmarketing. Selectedopportunities for income generation inthe Ulugurus are developed.
The capacity of local communities in sustainable landuse management is enhanced

This will be working with forest adjacent communities to incorporate ecologically sustainable livelihoods
into their agricultural practices and infurther use o f forest products. There are five tasks:

(a)   Identify and establish benchmark practices, and conduct marketingand feasibility studies on
      sustainable use o f forest resources.

(b)   Provide training: soil andwater conservation, bio-intensive gardening, agro-forestry, crop
      diversification, traditional irrigation systems.

(c)   Promote experimentation and extension activities.

(d)   Provide training andtechnical advice inincome generating activities, marketingproducts, and
      small enterprise management.

(e)   Monitor activity includingproduct use and impact on biodiversity byparticipants and feed back
      into integrated community development and managementprocesses.

Activity 2.4: InformatiodEducation: Conservation awareness is increased at all levels amongst
key stakeholders around the Ulugurus (through education campaigns addressing politicians,
schools, opinionleaders and localcommunities)

Thisbuildsonthe CommunicationInformationandEducationStrategy, and develops a set of awareness
tools and case studies. There are four main tasks:

(a)   Operationalize the communications, information, and education strategy

(b)   Conduct training workshops for awarenessfacilitators

(c)   Disseminate information through printedmaterials, radio, schools, wildlife clubs and other
       community basedgroups.

(d)    Monitor the impact o f awareness-where does it work? Where does it fail? How can it be
       improved?

 Activity 2.5: InstitutionaiDevelopment: Capacity of partners inplanningand management of
 land, resource consewation, agriculture, forestry and environment around the Ulugurus is
 enhanced

 The need for capacity cannot be overstated, and this applies at all levels. It will be especially important
 inconflictresolutionandnetworkingbetweenpartners. Partnersatvillage levelareespecially
 heterogeneous,a fact which implementationmust accept. There are four maintasks:

 (a)   Assess needsfor technical andmanagement skills and existingmanagementmechanisms

 (b)   Assist inestablishing community-based organizations (CBOs) andprovide linkages from CBOs to
       NGOsandgovemment.

 (c)   Provide training andskills as assessedabove.

 (d)   Monitor capacity and learn from experience.


                                                     - 66 -

Institutional reforms for EasternArc Mountainsforest biodiversityconservation (USU 75,000)

Rationale

Within the current institutionalframework, the Forestry andBeekeeping Divisionprovides overall policy
guidance for the forestry sector, and some technical oversight and supervision. For the most part,
however, management and protection o f all reserveshasbeenhighlydecentralized, and is primarily the
responsibility o f District Forest Officers (DFOs) and their staff, who report to local district
administrations (with the exception o fa number of major catchment forests, which are underthe
management o f FBD). The current institutional structure has been problematic, andbadly inneedo f
reform. The fundamental orientation o f the institutional structure i s toward regulation andenforcement
o f forest legislation-- roleswhich were largely appropriate inan earlier context when there were few
needs to mediate between the demandso fruralpeople, the state, and the private sector, but which are
mostly inappropriate incontemporary Tanzania where forest protectionand managementcan no longer
be undertaken independently o fthe needso f rural communities.

Untilrecently, the institutional, policy, andlegalframework providedonly limitedscopefor supporting
forest biodiversity conservation. As a signatory to the Convention on Biodiversity, Tanzania is
increasingly recognizing its important obligation to put inplace sound mechanisms for forest biodiversity
conservation, but is ill-equipped to do so withinthe prevailing institutional structure. Forest protection
was undertaken inthe past only to meet the needs o fthe timber industry, and also for watershed
catchment protection. There is a very limitedcapacity to take on the wider issues associatedwith
biodiversity conservation withinFBD.

Other institutions inTanzania also have a mandate for forest biodiversity conservation, such as training
centers, research organizations, and the NGO community. Inparticular, there is a needto develop further
clarity about the institutional role which i s expected o fthe Sokoine Universityo f Agriculture (SUA) and
Tafori indeveloping a programof relevant researchinthe EasternArc.

Within this context, there i s a widespread recognition inthe NationalForest Policy and the National
Forest Program that Tanzania's forest institutions as they are currently structured are not adequate for
meetingthe challenges o fconservation and managemento f Tanzania's forests andwoodlands.

Inorder to respondto this concern, Government haslaunchedaprocessofcivil service reformwhichis
 expected to transform Tanzania's forestry institutions. Government has proposed the establishment o f
 the Tanzania Forest Service (TFS) as a stand-alone `executive agency' with clearly defined roles and
tasks, and with a mandate for bringingabout improvements inforest and woodland managementthrough
multiple institutional andservice delivery mechanisms. Iti s envisaged that the TFS will be constituted
 with specific service delivery hnctions andperformance targets, while responsibilitiesfor forest policy,
 legislation, andplanning are to remain with a sectoral department o fthe Ministryo fNaturalResources
 and Tourism.

 The IDAsupport through FCMP will focus primarilyon improvingthe overall institutional framework,
 improvingfinancial andprocurement management, andsupporting participatory forest managementand
 the involvement o fthe private sector inplantation management.

 The principalrationalefor GEF support for this activity, is to provide incremental resourcesto strengthen
 the capacity o fthe new Tanzania Forest Service (TFS) to support, implement, and monitor forest
 biodiversity conservation activities.


                                                     - 67 -

The TFS is expectedto be a service delivery organization, rather than an institution primarilywith
regulatory or enforcement responsibilities. Supporting the development o f participatory forest
managementregimes will be one of its main service delivery roles. Inspite o f the fact that there has been
some support for participatory forest managementinTanzania, anunderstanding o fthe most effective
approacheswhich can support forest biodiversity conservationper se is limited. GEF support, then, will
be geared toward integrating forest biodiversity conservation into the participatory forest management
program. See, inparticular, Charumbira, op cit, which shouldbe readinconjunction with commitments
to forest biodiversity conservation inthe National Forest Policy and the NationalForest Program. See
also the review o f FBD's weak institutional capacity inthis area in, Ishengoma, R.C. (2001). Interim
report on humanresourcesdevelopment. Unpublished report, Dar es Salaam, Forest and Beekeeping
Division.

The activityunder this subcomponent i s described as follows:

Activity 3.1: Participatoryforest conservationguidelinesare developedand are under
implementation

(a)   GEF support will finance anevaluationofParticipatoryForest Management (PFM) activities and
      their impacts, with the objective o fpreparing a `best practice' evaluationo f PFM and forest
      biodiversity conservation.

(b)   Onthe basis ofthe findings ofthe `best practice' study, guidelines will be developedto expandthe
      existing Communi~-basedForest Management Guidelines,Ministryo fNatural Resources and
      Tourism (2001), Op cit, so that they incorporate forest biodiversity conservation as a key element
      o f PFM.

(c)   Inconjunction withthe PFMsub-component ofthe FCMP, capacity buildingandtrainingprograms
      to implement the revised Guidelineswill be developed andunder implementation.

Project Component4 US$0.70 million
                      -

This component has already beenapproved on February 26,2002, as part ofthe Forest Conservation and
Management Project (PO58706).

ProjectAdministrationandManagement

Finally, the project will finance the costs o f administrationand managemento fthe project components,
inamanner consistent withWorldBankguidance withrespectto accounting, financialmanagement,and
procurement.

                                         Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
          TANZANIA EasternArc ForestsConservation and ManagementProject

                                                                                                Local
                                                                                             US $million
A.       SupportingInstitutional Change and                                                       0.00                 0.00                   0.00
         ImprovingService Delivery
 1.      Establishment o fthe Tanzania Forest Service                                             6.50                 5.30                  11.80
 2.      ImprovingRevenue Collection from Forests                                                 2.20                  1.00                   3.20
         andWoodlands
 3.      ImprovingService Delivery Mechanisms for                                                 5.50                  1.60                   7.10
         Participatory Forest andWoodland Management
B.       Private Sector Involvement inthe Management                                              1.70                  1.20                   2.90
          of IndustrialPlantations
C.        EasternArc Forests Conservation andManagement                                           0.00                  0.00                   0.00
 1.       Eastern Arc Mountains Conservation                                                      2.10                  6.90                   9.00
          Endowment Fund
 2.       ImprovingInstitutional Support Service for Forest                                       0.20                  0.00                   0.20
          Biodiversity Conservation
D.        Project Administration and Management                                                   0.50                  0.10                   0.60
Total BaselineCost                                                                               18.70                 16.10                 34.80
 PhysicalContingencies                                                                            1.60                  0.80                   2.40
 Price Contingencies                                                                              1.80                  1.oo                   2.80
                                        Total ProiectCosts1                                      22.10                 17.90         1       40.00
                                 Total FinancingRequired                                         22.10                 17.90                 40.00




CivilWorks                                                                                           4.90                    1.30                  6.20
Goodsand Equipment                                                                                   2.00                    2.80                  4.80
Consultants'Services                                                                                 4.80                    4.40                  9.20
Training                                                                                             4.60                    2.50                  7.10
OperatingCosts                                                                                       5.80                    0.40                  6.20
ConservationEndowment Fund                                                                           0.00                    6.50                  6.50
                                                        Total ProjectCostsI                        22.10                   17.90                  40.00
                                                Total FinancingRequired                            22.10                   17.90                  40.00

Costs to implement the UNDP components of this activity are expected to total $5 million, but these are excluded from these
      estimates,
   1Idcntifiablc taxcs anddutics arc 0 (Ussin) andthc total projcct cost, nct of taxcs, is 45 (USSm). Thcrcforc, the project cost sharingratio is 84.67% of
  total project costnet of taxcs.




                                                                    - 69 -

                         Annex 4: Economicand FinancialConsiderations
          TANZANIA Eastern Arc ForestsConservation and ManagementProject

                                                  Summary

There i s an enormous disconnect between the policy objectives which are described inTanzania's 1998
~ u t ~ o n u Z
            Forest Policy,and the prevailing institutionalframework which i s supposedto deliver on these
objectives. The Policy framework (and the National Forest Programwhich was developed inresponse)
describes the role o f the public sector as one which i s primarily orientedtowardcost-effectively
deliveringservices to the country -- serviceswhich shouldfacilitate the role o fthe private sector,
communities, and other stakeholders inconserving and managing Tanzania's forest resources, or which
manageandprotect forests o f strategic national and global importance onbehalfo f the nation. The
existing andoutdated institutional framework removes most responsibility from stakeholders who are
most dependent on these resources, and places it inthe hands o f district governments which lack the
capacity for maintaining oversight or for managing forest resourceswith village (or national) interests in
mind. At the national level, the Forest andBeekeepingDivision's responsibilitiesare largely regulatory,
and it has limited specific service delivery functions.

The institutional reforms which FCMP seeksto support through the NationalForest Programare
intendedto help to establish a new institutional framework, which is primarily orientedtoward improving
service delivery functions: facilitating villages to establish Village Forest Reserves, strengthening the
capacity for the management o f strategic forest reserveswhich are being maintainedinthe national
interest, improvingthe financial sustainability o f forest management interventions, and other local
conservation and protectionmeasures.

                                          EconomicConsiderations

The current constraints inthe forest sector inTanzania call for a comprehensive approach to the
development o f a sector-wide approach toward forest conservation andmanagement. Public financing o f
woodland and forest conservation and managementisjustifiedboth from the perspective o f their role in
mitigatingthe impactsofpoverty as well as fromthe perspective o fthe environmentalvalueo fforests
and woodlands as watershed catchments, which maintain water flows to urban areas and to hydroelectric
generating facilities. Other environmental benefits from forest and woodland conservation and
management accrue becauseo f the value o f carbonsequestration.A separateIncrementalCost analysis
has beenprepared for those components o f the project which specifically focus on conservation o f
EasternArc Mountains forest biodiversity (to be financed by GEF), and this will be reviewed separately
whenthese activities are Appraised. Finally, the economic rationalefor involvingthe private sector in
industrialplantationmanagementis also reviewed.

Inadditiontoexaminingthiswiderrationaleforpublicfinancing, theForestConservationand
Management Project was also analyzed interms of its rationale for cost-effectiveness and financial
sustainability.

Poverty impacts

Tanzania's woodland and forests are extremely important for mitigating the impacts o f ruralpoverty.
 Recent studies (Monela et aZ, 1999) have shown that fully 40 percent o ftotal household consumptionin
 some rural areas i s accounted for by forest and woodland products such as honey production, firewood,
 constructionmaterial, andwild fruit and other foods (a point notedinTanzania's Poverty Reduction


                                                      - 70 -

Strategy Paper). Inaddition, forests and woodlands are an important source o fdry season grazing,
reducing households' exposure to environmental risk. Ruralhouseholds generally use a wide variety o f
environmentalresources from woodlands, andthe sizable aggregatevalue o f environmentally-derived
income i s made up o f a fairly large number o f smaller individualincome sources. Inother studies from
the region(cf. Cavendish, 1999),it has also been shown that there is a negative relationshipbetween
aggregateenvironmentalincome share andtotal household income, that the poor are more
resource-dependent than the rich(though better offhouseholds are, inquantitative terms, the most
significant users o f environmental resources). There i s considerable complexity inthe factors which
determine levels o fresource use: differenthouseholds use differentresources for different reasons at
different times. Still, the conclusions are inescapable: the rural poor are heavily dependent on resources
derived from forests and woodlands, and deforestation and forest degradation poses a significant threat to
rural livelihoods.

As such, forests andwoodlands are inextricably linkedto the social and economic fabric o fthe
communities living adjacent to them. Stakeholder processes and studies (undertaken duringproject
preparation) confirmed the importance o fthese forests to livelihoods andthe linkages between effective
forest management, conservation, and poverty reduction. These studies identified boththe benefits
associatedwith conservation (primarily relatedto water) andthe costs associatedwith changing current
practices. These costs include the potential loss of livelihood for residents engagedintimber felling,
charcoal production, and agriculture (taking place within forest boundaries) and potentialeconomic
adversity for current users o f those forest products - such as urban dwellers dependent on charcoal for
fuel andpoles for constructionandwomen engagedinlocalbrew making. Indeeddiscussions with
community groups, foresters, and government officials undertaken duringproject preparation
demonstrated convincingly that virtually all livelihoods inthe communities adjacent to forests are
dependent insome way and to varying degrees on forest resources. These findings underscore the
importance o f developing comprehensive strategiesto address socio-economic issues associatedwith
forest and woodland conservation andmanagementinTanzania.

FCMP i s designed inpart to increasethe capacity o f villages to managewoodlands. It derives from
experience with pilot and other operations across Tanzania, which suggestedsignificant scope for
improvingthe effectiveness o f this approach towardvillage-based management. As such, FCMP is
 seeking to facilitate the development o f local management schemes through cost-effective interventions
which serve primarilyto informvillages and communities o fpolicy andlegal changes which underpin
their rights over local woodland resources.

Environmental values and the national economy

While the biodiversity o f the Tanzania's tropical highforests is o f extraordinary international significance
 andlocally is of great value for mitigating the impacts o fpoverty, the value ofthese forests to the
 national economy, primarily through water and energy production, is o f extreme national importance.
 The EasternArc forests, for example, cover several major catchmentswhich collectively provide water
 for all o f the nation's coastal communities (including Dar es Salaamwith its population o f 3 million).
 These mountain forests feed morethan 22 rivers, includingthe Sigi, Rum, Ruaha, Kihansi, and Rufiji.
 The Ulugurucatchment, for example, provides the main source of drinkingwater to bothMorogorotown
 and Dar es Salaam.

 Hydroelectric energy productioni s similarlyheavily dependent on maintaining the integrity o f these
 forests. Total installedelectric generating capacity inTanzania (maximum annual firm energy) is 1323
 GWh(150 year reliability). Hydroelectricity accounts for 720 GWh(54 percent) o fthe total. O fthe 6
 hydroelectric stations (Mtera, KidatuandLower Kihansi inthe RufijiBasin, andNyumbaya Mungu,


                                                     -71  -

Hale, andNew Pangani Falls on the Pangani River), only 2 (Mtera andKidatu) have seasonal storage
capacity. The rest are `run-of-the-river' facilities which depend on more or less constant river flow,
which, inturn, i s dependent on the integrity o fwatershed catchments andthe forests found there.

Other environmentalservices capturedby the macro-economy associatedwith Tanzania's forests impact
positively on agricultural productionand also result from timber harvesting (both through the legal and
illegal felling o ftrees used inconstruction andto make furniture and charcoal). More recently a srnall
ecotourismindustryhas developed. There are some indications o f a growing trade inthreatened species
o f insects and reptiles. Accordingly, there is a strong need for sustainable use o f forest products for these
purposes and activities such as tourism which maximize the non-destructive uses o f forests.

The idea o f collecting environmental rents, especially from the energy andwater sectors, has been tabled
ina general way anumber oftimes. Theseproposals, however, are somewhat disconnectedfroman
understanding o f the tenuous -indeed, highlyprecarious -financial position o f service delivery
institutions such as the Tanzania ElectricitySupply Company (Tanesco) and the Dar es SalaamWater
and SewerageAuthority (DAWASA). While the capturing o f environmental rents may seemto be a
good idea inthe abstract, the current public expenditure framework suggests that this wouldbe
unrealistic inthe short term.

Carbonsequestration

Simply because o ftheir very great extent inTanzania, miombo woodlands inparticular have great
potential for adding to the growing carbon dioxide content o fthe atmosphere, or helpingto reduce it. In
the event that substantial areas of miombo are cleared for cereal crop production insouthern Africa, 6 to
10billionmetric tons o fcarbon could bereleased. If,on the other hand, woodlands are managedto
maximize carbon storage, a similar amount couldbe taken up. Ineither case, about half o f the change in
carbon stocks occurs inthe soil, andthe rest inabove-ground biomass.

Net annual primary production inmiombo woodlands is around 10tons per ha. The annual increment o f
woody biomass is usually no more than 3 to 4 percent inmature stands. These rates, which define the
upper limit o fthe strength o fthe sink, couldbe higher inan atmospherehigher incarbondioxide, but an
increase innet primary productivity o f greater than 15 percent is unlikely.

A well stockedhectareo fmiombo woodland can sequester200 to 300tons o fcarbon. Various sources
place the economic value o f sequesteredcarbon at $5 to $10per ton, andso there are considerable
benefits to be gained by conserving miombo, by increasing rates o f sequestration, or by limitingfuture
losses. For example, against miombo stocks o f around 30 million ha inTanzania, stocked at a rate o f 150
tons o f carbonperhectare, an increase incarbon sequestration o f a tenth o f a percent over the life o f the
project would yield around US$22 millioninglobal environmental benefits.

 The main techniques for increasing carbonuptake inmiombo is the reduction infire frequency.
 Experimentsinmanyparts o f Africa have shown that woody biomass and soil carbon both increase if
 fires are excluded. Permanent fire exclusion i s virtually impossible inthe strongly seasonalmiombo
 climate, but a reduction infrequency i s probably achievable at reasonablecost. This would
 simultaneously increase carbon dioxide uptake and decreasethe emission o f methane and ozone
 precursors. The carbon-storagebenefits o fmiombo managementcanbe extended by harvestingthe
 timber sustainably, andeither converting it to long-lived products such as furniture, or byusingit as an
 energy source inplace o f fossil fuels.




                                                      - 72 -

Industrialplantati~nproduction

The sixteen industrial forest plantations inTanzania are under the control o f the Forest and Beekeeping
Division. Plantations are organized as projects managedby Forest Project Managers, who report directly
to the Forest Development Divisiono fthe FBDinDar es Salaam. Organizationally plantationprojects
have little to do with the district andregional forestry organizations. The plantations are under central
FBDmanagementthat inthe pasthas also providedall the funds neededto operate the plantations.
Around 1,060 personswork inthe plantationprojects on FBDspayroll. Most plantation staff are forest
assistants. Many state forest plantationprojects are seriously overstaffed; e.g. inSao Hilland North
Kilimanjaro the labor force couldbe cut by 50 percent.

Inthe mid-1990s aforest revenueretentionschemewas introducedallowingthe MNRTto keep 70
percent o f its royalties and other forest revenue collectedfrom while 30 percent still need to be submitted
to the Treasury. MNRT retains 20 percent o f the 70 percent for financing its own administration, and 80
percent @e. 56 percent o f the original total revenue) is allocated to the FBDto use for managingcentral
government forest reserves, including plantations. The central govemnent, through Treasury, still pays
all the salaries o fplantation project staff. Eachyear Forest Project Manager mustprepare and submit an
Annual Plan o f Operationwith abudget to FBDthat allocates funds back to the field. Actual
disbursements from the central government to the projects have usually been 30-50 percent o fwhat has
beenbudgeted bythe plantation management. Despite this, plantationprojects are under-funded and
cannot fully take care o f their managementresponsibilities such as replanting, thinningand pruning.
Investing inthe upgrading o f machinery or expandingplantations i s for the most part out o f the question.

The total collectedrevenue from government plantations in 1999100 was TSh 945.0 million. Revenue
collection has more than doubled since 1995 innominal terms. The revenue increase is mainly due to the
increase inroyalty rates and other fees. It also reflects the fact that many plantations have reached
maturity increasing the annual allowable cut opportunities. The share ofplantation related revenue o f
total forest revenuewas 46.1 percent in 1999100. Unfortunately, it i s difficult to get reliable anddetailed
enough data on logremovals to allow assessingthe efficiency o frevenue collection from state
plantations.

Demandsfor sawnwood

The demand for domestic logs i s driven very muchby changes inthe domestic sawmilling sector because
 there i s only very little internationaltrade inlogs and sawnwood from Tanzania andthe Southern Paper
 Mills (SPM) has not been operating since 1997. Sawmilling representscurrently about 90 percent o f total
 industrial wood consumption. Most sawmills are very small, producing less than 1,000 m3 per year. In
the last 5-10 years the number o f mobile sawmills has mushroomed. Infact, due to their large number
their aggregatedproduction volume i s likely to equal, or even exceed, that o f traditional sawmills. In
 addition, pit sawing is still common insome areas, but there are no statistics about production levels.
 Mobile sawmills andpit sawyers supply to the local market and are increasinglyproducing sawnwood to
 regional markets and to Dar es Salaam, Mwanza and other major cities. Domestic prices for sawnwood
 range between TSh 60,000 andTSh 100,000 per m3 dependingon the qualityldimension and market.
 The demand for sawnwood i s expected to increasebetween 4 to 6 percent a year duringthe coming
 decade amounting to an average annual increase o f 12-16,000 m3. Sustainable long-termsupply of
 sawlogs from industrial plantations is estimated at about 540-600,000 m31year.




                                                      - 73 -

At present, there is a considerable surplus o fsawlogs, althoughlocally the industrialcapacity e.g. inthe
North can exceed the sustainable supply. InSao Hill,over-aged plantations have reached 3,300 ha,
which couldprovide, ifthe markets allowed, 1.3 million m3 o f logs (0.7 millionm3 sawlogs)
immediately to the market. Onthe other hand, due to a very uneven age structure o f plantations, the
long-term supplyo f sawlogs will decline unless new planting and replanting schemes are quickly
initiated. Most o fthe current log supply is o fnot very goodquality.

Rapidexpansion o f exports and domestic industrial expansion concentrating on more value-added
products may offer the only alternative to optimize the utilizationo f these valuable resources and avoid
wasting past investments. Investments into modernizing, and ina way, into restructuringthe forest
industrysector are desperately needed. Small, mobile sawmills canbequite efficient and definitely have
a role to play especially inproducing low-medium quality sawnwood for the localmarkets. However,
increasingreliance on small, mobile sawmill operators may devalue the forest plantations. These mills
are not interested inproducingquality products, value-added productionand exports, and neither do they
have the necessarycapital to invest into forest management.

Pulpwooddemand

Domestic demand for pulpwoodwill very muchdependon the future o f the Southern Paper Mills (SPM)
inMufindi. Itisanintegratedpulpandpaper millwitha capacity of60,000 tfyear. Itis the onlypaper
millofsizeable capacity inthe country. SPMconsumed 150,000m3 -200,000 m3 ofpulpwoodperyear
after it started operating inthe mid-1980s. At hllcapacity, its annual wood demand couldreach a
theoretical maximumo f 360,000 m3 although 300,000 m3 maybe a more realistic figure. However, it
has beenclosed since 1997 leaving considerable pulpwoodresourcesunutilized, and thus endangering
the financial viability o f the Sao Hillplantation and the past investments. SPM i s one o f the companies
inthe list ofcompaniestobeprivatizedbythe Presidential ParastatalReformCommission. Ifthe mill
were reopened it would greatly facilitate the marketing o fpine and eucalyptus, improve the profitability
 o f sawmilling, and thus enhancethe value o f the Sao Hillplantation. Privatization negotiations are going
 on with a foreign investor but no salehasbeenyet agreed.

 International markets for softwoods

 Export o f logs andsawnwood (both hardwoods and softwoods) from Tanzania to overseasmarkets has
 beenquite limited inthe past. In 1998199log and sawnwood exports were 3,897 m3 and 8,066 m3,
 respectively. Irrespective o f who will be managing the industrialplantations -be it private sector or state
 -itwillbeessentialtoexpandexportsfromthiscurrentlowlevel. Thisisnecessaryto:

a     Make use o f all available wood that cannot be absorbedbythe domestic market;
      Increase the value o fplantations by creating a market for quality wood;

a     Increase competition inthe roundwood market resultinginmore efficient pricing;

a     Generate foreign exchange as requiredby the new national Forest Policy.

 The key softwood lumber markets from a Tanzanian point o f view are Middle-East, Egypt, China and
 East Asian markets, including Vietnam. Egypt imports annual almost 2.5 million m3 o f sawn softwood,
 most o f it from Europe but also from fast-growing Pinus radiata plantations e.g. inChile. China due to
 its size, provides another important market. Rapideconomic growth, large annual increases inabsolute
 population combinedwith introduction o f logging restrictions, have causedChina to increasingly rely on
 imported wood andforest products to meet increasing demand.


                                                     - 74 -

Softwood lumber markets are very competitive, especially for commodity (structural andpackaging)
lumber, because o f rapidly increasing supply o f wood from fast growing plantations inNew Zealand,
Australia, South Africa and Chile. Increasingsupplyand competition i s anticipatedto keep markets
under ongoing price pressure. However, the size ofpineexport market i s so substantial that it shouldbe
possible for Tanzanian producers to expand exports if:

e   Prices are competitive;

e   Quality and dimensionrequirements are met;
e   New added value products are developed;
e   Consignments are large enough and regular supplies (long-tenn supply contracts) can be secured;
e   Local industries become more active intheir marketing efforts.

Markets for teak

The global teak supply i s projected to increase to some 10million m3lyear by 2030 from the current 4
million m3. Africa i s a growing source ofteak logs and lumber. The current teak plantationare in
Tanzania is estimated to at 5,000 ha, but by 2010 the total area coveredbyteak will be close to 15,000 ha
mainly becauseo fthe expansion o fplantations. The domestic market o fteak is limitedbut export
opportunities are good. Wood from thinnings and low quality sawlogs can be sold locally but all quality
sawlogs or sawnteak timber canpotentially be exported to the overseas market. The biggest future
markets for teak logs and sawn timber are expected to be India, Thailand, China andWestern Europe.
Vietnammay also offer export opportunities, The future market is that o f increasing supplies o f
plantation grown teak and decreasing supplyo fnatural teak. This i s likely to keep teak logprices
relatively stable but still high enough to provide attractive revenues. Prices for teak logs vary
considerably basedon quality. Plantationgrownteak fetches low prices relative to naturalteak from
Burma. Prices inIndia are US$400 - 700 per m3 for Indianand African plantation teak.

Potentialvalue o f Sao Hillplantations

 A series o fmodels were developedto evaluate the value ofthe Sao Hillplantations. Three different
 scenarios were calculated to estimate thepotential value o f Sao Hillusingthe following set o f
 assumptions:

 Scenario I: Market for pulpwoodassumed. The sales volume i s assumedto be maximum315,000 over
 bark (equalling to the maximum capacity o f the mill). Pulpwoodpriced at 14US$lm3 at mill gate.

 Scenario 2: No market for pulpwood. Only 50 percent o f the annually available pulpwoodi s utilized
 (mainly by small sawmill operators), who are assumedto pay a stumpage o f 5 US$lm3.

 Scenario 3: N o market for pulpwood. This is the current trend (business as usual scenario) that assumes
 no improvement inthe quality o fmanagement over time and that the prices obtained by the seller (i.e. the
 Government) are basedon current royalty and LMDAlevels.

 The estimates of plantation value range from USS2.3 million (Scenario 2) to US$12.5 million (Scenario
 2), indicating the great impact the future o fthe Southem PaperMillswill have on the plantation value.
 Plantation value in Scenario 1could be even higher, ifsawmills were able to sell slabs and other waste
 wood to the pulp andpaper mill and thus increasetheir profitabilityand wood paying capability. It is


                                                     - 75 -

important to note that valuation assumedthat markets can be found for most o f the sawlogs. This is not
realistic in short term, becauseo f inadequate domestic demand and inadequate experience inmeetingthe
needs o f export markets. The main conclusionthat can be derived from the valuation exercise is that the
management o f Sao Hillplantation canbe financially profitable and that the plantationhas a positivenet
present value. Another conclusion is that ~plantat~onwood is valued using existing royalties, SuoHill
would lose money (Scenario 3). The government has beenunderselling its assets over the years. The
current royalties, even combinedwith the LMDA,are so low that the government cannot recover all the
costs that it would have to incur ifit were to manageall the plantations efficiently and sustainably.

The main factors reducingthe value of Sao Hillare:

e    Remote location about 600 kmfrom the mainmarket and export port;

0    Difficulties infindingmarkets for pulpwood and waste from sawnwoodproduction;

0    Uncompetitive transportation systems;

0    Forest industrieswith inappropriate and outdated machinery, which reduces wood paying capability;

0    Domestic markets that do not pay attentionto quality.

Itneedsto emphasizedthat although the estimatedprices mayappear low, under the current situation
they should be regardedas m ~ i m u m     estimates. The lack o f competition inthe forestry sector and
political and other risks are likely to reduce the bidvalues. Whatever measures canbe taken to attract the
interest o f foreign investors is likely to increasethe value o f forest plantations.

Plantationvalue estimates were not found to be sensitive to variations inthe discount rate as i s normally
the case with plantation project with long gestation periods. This is explainedby the largevolume o f
mature logs immediately available for harvesting as longas there will be a market for all this wood.
UnderScenario 1the followingvalues were obtained: US$10.8 million (18 percent), US$12.5 million
 (15 percent) andUS$14.7 million (12 percent). The corresponding figures under Scenario 2 were
 US$2.1, US$2.3 and USS2.6 million.

 Sensitivity analysis indicates that plantation value depends crucially on the price o fwood. A 20 percent
 reduction inwoodprice would make Sao Hillfinancially unviable. All measures,which will reduce
 harvesting andtransport costs, can thus be expectedto enhanceplantation value. Maybe the best way o f
 maximizingthe value o f Sao Hilli s to improve marketing and concentrate on producingquality logs
 basedon differential production and pricing. At present, the wood prices are more or less the same
 irrespective o f quality: low quality wood dominates consumption, andonly small quantities are exported.

 Financial benefits of PSI

 Enhancedprivate sector involvement will bringa number o fbenefits, most o f themo f economic and
 fiscal ones. Many o fthe benefits will not be immediately realized, but will accrue over time through
 improvedefficiency inproductionandincreased investment by the private sector. It is difficult at this
 stage to precisely quantify the benefits. The actual benefits will dependvery much on the way the entire
 PSIprocess inthe plantation sector is handled and to what extent the Government can increase
 competition, e.g. through foreign investment, and improve the overall investment andmarket
 environment for forestry.




                                                      - 76 -

The implementationofthe proposedPSIprogramis expected to provide the following benefits:

    Easedbudgetary pressure on Government;

    Greater certainty o ftenure and wood supply to encourageboth new processing investment and
    investment innew plantation forests;

    Improvedmanagemento f plantationforests, including undertakingarrears o f silviculture;

    Better recognition o f the needs and aspirations o f local communities as stakeholders and futurejoint
    forest owners inplantations where landpressureis an issue;

    Liberalization o f forest product markets, through the elimination o f state subsidies and market price
    distortions through opening themup to greater competition;
    Greater certainty and new career options for staff currently employedbyFBD;
    Attraction o f possible foreign investment and technology to the sector;

    Increasedexport earnings;

    Reducedpressureon indigenous forests for the supply o f timber products;
    Revenue generation for Government duringthe divestment process.

The main financial benefits to the Government from implementing this component will the savings inthe
costs. At present the Government is not making any net profit out o fplantation managementbut it is
spending more than it is earning (especially ifyou include all the capital costs). Annual
plantation-related labor costs alone were estimated to be more than TSh 800 billion or US$1millionin
1998199. Duringthe same year anadditional TSh 263 million was allocated by FBD for operational
costs. Incontrast, the annual plantationrevenue duringthe same year was only TSh 681,445,550 or
US0.85 million.

There i s not enough data onthe forest plantation resources, managementcosts and forest product markets
to allow proper valuation o fplantations and to estimate the value private sector would be preparedto pay
for their management. Sao Hill,the most important plantation inthe country, was used as a case study to
derive initial benefits from privatization. A highreal discount rate o f 15 percent was adopted to allow
for the highcapital costs and investment risk inTanzania. Dependingon the market situation (especially
for the pulpwood, which again i s linked to the future o f the Southern Paper Mills),the estimated
economic value o f Sao Hill(32,300 o f established plantations) rangesbetween US$2.3 millionand 12.5
million. Ifthe Government were able to capture the lowest estimated value, Le. US$2.3 million, the total
sub-component investment cost o f 2.7 million would be almost entirelycovered. However, it mustbe,
accepted that transferring stateplantations under private managementwill take years, and full benefits
from it cannot thus be realizedimmediately.

Without any changes inthe logpricing, plantation managementwill not be financially viable. Sao Hill
would have a negative net present value under the existing royalty system and assuming that adequate
funds were invested inmaintainingthe growing stock. This is ahypotheticalcalculation, becausethe
FBDis actually not investing enoughinforest management,and consequently the growingstock is in
reality declining becauseo f neglect, fire damage, andinadequate replanting. The real "without a project"
scenario would include estimates o f current benefit and costflows as well as depreciation of forest
capital. This type of analysis was not possible given the existing data. However, an initial attempt was
made to estimate the "with and without" project scenarios, to be able to assess incrementalbenefits.



                                                    - 77 -

Benefits from imtxovedmanagement

Improvedresource information base and increasedprivate sector involvement will improve management
efficiency andplantationproductivity. An attempt was made to quantify the possible impacts o f these
improvements interms o f wood growing costs for new plantations. The (compounded) costs savings for
pinewere US$3-4per cubic meter, or 20-22 percent o ftotal costs, includingthe establishment, annual
maintenance andoverhead costs over the entire rotation. The savings are mainly due to reducedwastage
and improved yields. Under the current (business as usual scenario) costs were estimated at USS16-17
per m3 (over bark) andunder the new scenario US$13 per m3 at 15 percent, andUSS8 and US$11at 12
percent discount rate.

     Improved rent recovery. The introduction o fa more competitive log sales system will results in
     more efficient and fair pricing. Itwill result inmaximum 20 percent (see the above text) increase in
     revenue per harvested cubic meter. However, insome casesprices are expected to drop inrelation to
     current combined and LMDA levels. Assumingthat annual cut is 350,000 m3 andthat 250,000 m3
     o f that would be priced3 US$lm3 higher, and 100,000 m3 US33 lower per cubic meter, a net annual
     benefit estimate o f US$750,000 can be derived,

      Impact on poverty alleviationand employment. Plantationforests are locatedinrural areas, and
     provide thus benefits to the ruralpopulations. Villagers would continue enjoying the same benefits
      as before e.g. interms o f access to fuelwood. Improvingprofitability o f tree growing, better markets
      and increased private sector investment will inthe long term create new employment opportunities
      bothinthe plantations and the wood-based industries. EnhancedPSIinthe plantation sector can
      initially leadto increasedunemployment, because o f rationalizingthe existing labor force inthe
      sector andbecauseo f the lead-time for increased follow-on private sector investment.

      Impact on environment. Although it is acceptedthat plantation forests are generally planting exotic
      species on monocultural regimes, their impacts onthe environment will be positive. It i s plannedthat
      environmentally sensitive areas are excluded from the PSIprocess already duringthe planning stage.
      The environmental assessmentsduringthe planning stage will also concentrate on protecting any
      areas o f indigenous biodwersity; assessingharvesting, roadconstructionand management practices
      to ensure that soil erosion potential is minimized andwater values are enhanced; and ensuringthat
      any use o fchemicals inplantation managementi s inaccordancewith internationally accepted codes
      o fpractice.

Itis expectedthat certainplantations or parts ofaplantation willbe classifiedas catchment forests or
buffer zone forests basedon explicit criteria. The most criticalones will be entirely excluded from the
 PSIprocess. The possible dual function forests will have additional environmentalguidelines for their
 management.

 Overall the existing State ownedplantation forests area and any expansion o f such forests under private
 sector ownership will be small inrelation to the natural forest area (currently plantation forests cover
 160,000 ha to 200,000 ha comparedwith the 33.6 millha o f naturalforest). Their impact on construction
 wood supply however i s major, with the most recent survey estimating that plantation wood i s supplying
 over 50 percent o f constructiontimber inDar es Salaam and Arusha. Plantationforest wood supply, with
 its lower cost, continuitylcertainty o f supply, and increasing market acceptance, i s havingan important
 impact on eroding the market for illegally cut natural forest timbers and thus assisting inthe preservation
 o f natural forests.




                                                       - 78 -

                                          Financial Considerations

Financial issues with respect to the forestry sector were reviewedas part o f the Forest Resources
Management Project (FRMP, 1996), duringpreparation o f the NationalForest Program(Salmi, 2000),
and as part o fpreparation of this project (Kobb, 2001).

Public funding for forestry is generally inadequate andirregular. Over the last 10 years, budgets to the
Forest andBeekeeping Divisionhave beenincreasing innominal terms -- growingfour-fold from
1993194to 199912000, though have remained roughly constant when inflationi s taken into account. In
199912000, FBD'sbudget was around TSh 2.5 billion (US$3.2 million at the thenprevailing exchange
rate), but this only covered salaries and didnot finance either recurrent or development expenditures.
Outside o f specific donor-financed activities, development and recurrent costs are partly financedby
retainedrevenues, which currently total around 56 percent o fall revenues collectedfrom the sale o f
timber and other products from central government Forest Reserves. For the most part, FBDrelies o f
District staff(rather than FBD staff) to collect revenues, with the exception o f the plantation sector,
which accounts for around 40 percent of total revenuescollected. In 199912000, revenuesfrom Central
Government Forest Reserves (including plantations) totalled roughly TSh 2 billion(around US$2.6
million at the exchange rate which prevailed at the time). FBD expenditures from the budget allocation
plusrevenues retainedin 199912000totalledaround TSh 3.6 billion (US$4.7 million).

Financing o fthe forestry sector by the donor community peaked in 1991192, when donor spending
(estimated at US$24 million) accounted for 90 percent o f all spendinginthe forestry sector. Currently, it
is estimated to account for around 68 percent o f all spending inthe forestry sector. In199912000, donor
spending which was capturedbythe budget processtotalled TSh 7.75 billion (around US$lO million). It
i s difficult to compare the efficiency o fpublic vs. donor spending becauseo f the highly distortedimpact
o fheavy investments inrelatively expensive technical assistanceto manage donor financed projects.

The bulko fdonor assistance,however, is not mediatedbythe budget process. As muchas 60 percent o f
donor investments inforestry pass are not captured by the budget. Inthis environment, arguably, donor
resources are financing donor priorities, rather than the priorities outlined inTanzania's forest policy. It
i s widely agreed that the donor community needsto focus its priorities ina manner which is more
carefully aligned with Government's. The National Forest Program posesa mechanism for doingthis.

The development o f a sector-wide approach to financing o f the forestry sector i s a longer term objective
of FCMP. Investments inimproving financial management, procurement management, overall
institutional management, andinmeeting service delivery standards are intendedto establish the
institutional framework for a sector-wide approach.

Improvements inthe framework for royalty collection are expected to strengthen the overall financial
sustainability o fthe Tanzania Forest Service. FCMP proposes to change the overall framework, andto
develop the means for returningrevenuesto villages and other forest managers.




                                                      - 79 -

                                              References

Acres International (2000). Power SystemMaster Plan. 2000 Updateprepared for the Tanzania Electric
        Supply Company.

Cavendish, W. (1999). Poverty, inequality and environmental resources: quantitative analysis o f rural
       households. WorlclngPaper 1999.9. Oxford, Center for the Study o f African Economies,
        University o f Oxford.

FRMP(1996). Long-term financing o fforestry. Reportpreparedfor the Forest andBeekeeping
        Division.

Hartley, D.and Kaare, S. (2001). Institutional, Policy, and LivelihoodAnalysis o f Communities
        Adjacent to UluguruMountains Catchment Reserves, EasternArc Mountains. Dar es Salaam,
        CARE Tanzania.

Kobb, D. (2001). Improvingforestry revenue collection inTanzania. Report prepared for the World
        Bank.

Monela, G.C., G.C. Kajembe, A.R.S. KaonekaandG. Kowero. (1999). Household Livelihood Strategies
        in the Miombo woodlands of Tanzania: emerging trends. Report preparedfor the Center for
        InternationalForestry Research.

Ogle, A. andKatila, M. (2000). Involvement o fthe private sector inindustrial plantations development
        andmanagement. Report to the Forestry and Beekeeping Division.

Salmi, J. (2000). Study on financing inforestry. Report preparedfor the National Forest Program.

Scholes, R. (1996). Miombo woodlands andcarbon sequestration. In, Campbell, B. (1996). The
        Miombo in Transition: Woodlandsand Welfare in Africa. Bogor (Indonesia), Center for
        InternationalForestryResearch.

Wild, Robert (1998). A Framework for the Development o faholistic strategy for the Eastern Arc
        Mountains o f Tanzania. Dar es Salaam, CARE Tanzania.




                                                   - 80 -

                                    Annex 5: Financial Summary
           TANZANIA Eastern Arc Forests Conservation and Management Project
                                           Years Ending
                                             June 30

                          I  Year1    1 Year2     I  Year3     I  year4      I  Years      I  Year6     IYear 7
Total Financing Required
 Project Costs
  InvestmentCosts                 4.7        6.4          15.0          6.5            5.0
 RecurrentCosts                   0.2        0.4           0.5          0.6            0.7
Total Project Costs               4.9        6.8          15.5          7.1            5.7          0.0      0.0
Total Financing                   4.9        6.8          15.5          7.1            5.7          0.0      0.0
Financing
   IBRDllDA                       4.7        6.4           8.3          6.5            5.2
   Government                     0.1        0.3           0.3          0.2            0.1
      Central
      Provincial
   Co-financiers
Global EnvironmentFacility        0.0        0.0           7.0           0.0           0.0
Other                             0.0        0.0           0.3           0.3           0.3




 Total Project Financing          4.8         6.7         15.9           7.0           5.6         0.0       0.0
Mainassumptions:
Assumes that the Eastern Arc Mountains Conservation EndowmentFundis capitalized at the end ofthe
thirdproject year, andgeneratesrevenueswhichcanbeusedbythe EAMCEF Board.

 Costs to implement the UNDP components o fthis activity are expected to total $5 million, but these are
 excludedfrom these estimates.




                                                  -81 -

                    Annex 6: Procurementand DisbursementArrangements
         TANZANIA EasternArc ForestsConservationand Management Project

Procurement

General

Public procurement procedures inTanzania are inthe process o f reform. InFebruary 2001, new
procurement legislationwas passedby Parliament and was subsequently signed into law by the President
(The Public Procurement Act, No. 3 o f 2001). The Bank contributed substantially to the development of
the new legislation. Supporting regulations have been drafted and are under review by the Bank.

The new Act applies to all procurement undertakenbypublic institutions, except for financially
independent parastatal organizations and for defense procurement. The Act specifies several tender
boards with responsibility for procurement, tender evaluation, and contract awardinaccordancewith
pre-determined thresholds. The tender boards include: the Central Tender Board(CTB) under the
MinistryofFinance; Ministry Tender Boards (MTB)undereachministry; IndependentDepartment
Tender Boards (IDTB) under each independent department o f the government; Regional Tender Boards
(RTB) under eachregion; DistrictTender Boards (DTB) under eachdistrict; ParastatalTender Boards
for every governingbody of the parastatal organization; and Local Government Authority Tender Boards
(LGATB)under each council. Exceptfor LGATB,thresholds ofthe remainingtender boards are
prescribed inthe Regulations and subject to review on annual basis by the Minister responsible for
Finance ifneedarises. The Bank intends to provide assistance inimplementing the new procurement
legislationand regulations through the planned Accountability, Transparency and Integrity Project,

Procurement capacity

Procurement inthis project will be mainstreamed within the structure o f the Ministry o fNatural
Resources and Tourism. A Procurement Capacity Assessment was carried out and concluded that the
Overall Procurement Riski s Average. Inconjunction with this assessment, the Bankhas recommended,
and it was agreed, that: (i) the Ministry(Forestry andBeekeeping Division) shouldretainthe
Procurement Specialist currently contracted bythe Ministryor shouldrecruit a new one with equivalent
qualifications and experience or higher; (ii)the Ministryshouldprepare IntemalInstructions articulating
the new Regulations to assist procurement staffwho will deal with procurement for FCMP to enable
them to carry out procurement inan efficient manner; (iii) the Ministryshoulduse IDA's Standard
Bidding Documents andStandardForm of Evaluation for ICB andNCB (with modifications)
procurement; and(iv) the Ministryshoulduse IDA's StandardRequestfor Proposals and StandardForm
 ofEvaluation for the selection of Consultants.

 To ensurethat there i s continuedcapacity buildinginthe area o f procurement, the Procurement
 Specialist, the secretary to the MinistryTender Board(MTB), and other project procurement staff will
 receive further training inprocurement, inparticular, IDA procurement procedures, to enhance their
 skills.

 Procurement Plan

 MNRThasprepared anoverallprocurement planto cover the entire project period. The Ministryhas
 also prepared detailedprocurement plans for the first project year. The first year procurement plan
 includes relevant informationon all goods, works, and consulting services expected to be procured, and


                                                   - 82 -

their estimated cost; type o f contract; procurementlselection methodas well as timing inthe procurement
process, The procurement planwill be updated on annual basis inconjunctionwith preparationo f the
Annual Work ProgramandBudget.

ProcurementImplementationArrangements

Procurement will be carried out usingexisting MNRT structures. FBDwill be responsible for day to day
procurement. Procurement at the department level will be carried out by a Procurement Specialist
contracted bythe Ministry. The Procurement Specialist will be responsible for, among other things: (i)
preparationo fthe GPN; (ii)    preparation o f SPNs; (iii) biddingdocuments and RFPs; (iv) draft
                                                        draft
contract documents; and (v) contract administrationand management. Inrecruiting and employing
consultants, the unitor section inneed o fthe consultant will be responsible for drafting TORSand will
coordinate with the Procurement Specialist for further processing. The MNRT Director o f
Administration and Personnel (DAP), through the Supplies Officer Incharge will be responsible for
pre-screening all procurement documents prior to forwarding to the MTB for approval or awardo f
contracts. The Supplies Officer Incharge will be assistedby another Supplies Officer, who will be
assigned to the office o f the DAP specifically to deal with procurement o f activities relatedto this
project. A Procurement Evaluation Committee will be constituted on an ad hoc basis to evaluate bids
andproposals. The Procurement Specialist will be secretary and membero f the Committee.

Procurement financedunder the project will comprise the recruitment o f consultants services and
training, office equipment, vehicles, civil works, and operating costs. The Procurement Specialist, with
Ministryoversite, willberesponsible for ensuringthat procurement for works andgoods is carriedout in
accordance with the Bank's Guidelinesfor Procurement under I B mLoans and IDA Credits (dated
January 1995 andrevised inJanuary andAugust 1996, in September 1997, andJanuary 1999) and that
consultancy services financedby IDA are procuredinaccordancewith the Bank'sGuidelinesfor the
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bunk Borrowers (dated January 1997, and revised
September 1997 and January 1999).

A GeneralProcurementNotice hasbeenpublishedinUnitedNations Development Business (UNDB)and
includes a descriptionof requiredservices or goods, the client agency, andthe budgeted cost. This notice
will be updated every year duringthe executiono f the projectsuntilall contracts and assignments have
beenprocured. Inthe case of contracts which are expected to cost more than $200,000 equivalent,
Specific ProcurementNotices will be issued inUNDB, and will be advertised inthe national, regional,
andlor internationalpress.

To the extent possible, procurement arrangementshave been designed to respondto the needfor flexible
use o fprocurement methods. A detailedProcurement Plan, basedon the inputs identified inProject
Implementation Plan, has beenprepared, andwill be revisedannually duringpreparationo f the Annual
Work Programand Budget. Whenever possible, procurement items will be consolidated into
appropriately-scaled contracting packageswith a value of $150,000 and over.

To complement a L A C Icompatible financial management system, FBDwill also implement a
procurement management andmonitoring system. The system shouldbe designed inorder to: (i)
estimate cash forecasts for withdrawals under the LACIsystem, and to (ii) physical progress of
                                                                             monitor
 outputs against contracts committed.

 Most procurement of goods, works, andservices will be carried out by FBD. Procurement will be
 managedbythe Ministerial Tender Board, inline with the regulatoryframework established by recent
 legislation.


                                                     - 83 -

Aggregate values for NCB or other non-ICB procurement methods for goods and works are limitingand
cannot be exceededwithout the Bank's prior 'no objection'. The Ministrywill maintain a tracking system
to monitor such procurement inorder to alert the Bankina timely manner whenthis may occur. Prior
review thresholds are indicated inTable B ofthis Annex.

Civil Works

Civil works contracts will include infrastructure for Forest Department Headquarters, and minor civil
works andbuildingrehabilitationas required at regional and district levels. The Ministrywill first carry
out an infrastructure needsassessment before launchingregional and district infrastructure programs.
Civil works costing less that $50,000 per contract (up to aggregate total not exceeding $200,000) will be
procured on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) qualified domestic contractors inresponseto
a written invitation. The invitation shall include a detailed description o f the works, includingbasic
specifications, the required completion date, abasic fonn of agreementacceptable to the Association,
and relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the
lowest price quotation for the requiredwork, and who has the experience and resources to complete the
contract successfully. Civil works costing more than $50,000 but less than $150,000 (up to an aggregate
total not exceeding $250,000) will be procuredon the basis o fNCB. Civil work costing greater than
$150,000 will be procuredthrough ICB. Prequalificationwill be required for all ICB contracting.

The contract for constructiono f headquartersbuilding,estimated to cost about US$5.0 millionequivalent
will be awardedonthe basis o fInternationalCompetitive Bidding(ICB) usingBankGuidelines and
Bank StandardBidding Documentsfor Smaller Works,(January 1995, with corrigenda Nos. 1to 4) and
modified to meet project needs. Contracts for district infrastructure not exceeding US$150,000
equivalent will be awarded on the basis o fNational Competitive Bidding(NCB) procedures acceptable
to IDA. This would include advertising the works, public opening ofbids, clearly stated evaluation
criteria and awardof contract to the lowest evaluated bidder. Foreignbidders, ifinterested would not be
precluded from participation. The new Public Procurement Act provides for this requirement. The civil
works contracts will be supervised by consulting firms selectedinaccordancewith Bank Guidelines.

The Bank's StandardBidding Documentsfor Worksand Goods and the StandardBid Evaluation Forms
would be usedfor International Competitive Bidding(ICB) procurement. Since the govemment has not
prepared StandardBiddingDocuments that couldbe usedfor National Competitive Bidding(NCB) as
per the new Act, IDA'SStandardBidding Documentsfor Worksand Goodsand the StandardBid
Evaluation Forms would be used for NCB procurements as well with necessarymodifications.

 Goods

 Individualcontracts for goods with an estimated value of less than 530,000 will be procuredusinglocal
 or international shopping, for an aggregatenot to exceed $400,000 based on comparingprice quotations
 from at least three suppliers inresponseto written invitation. Individualcontracts for goods more than
 US$30,000 per contract and less than $150,000 per contract will be procuredthrough National
 Competitive Biddingprocedures for an aggregatenot to exceed $400,000. The first three o f these
 contracts will be subject to prior review. For contracts estimated to cost $150,000 andabove,
 International Competitive Biddingwill be used. Individualunits o f office equipment(individual fax
 machines, printers, and laptop computers) as well as individualvehicles may be purchasedthrough the
 Inter-Agency Procurement Services Office (IAPSO) o f the UnitedNations with an aggregatevalue not to
 exceed $300,000.



                                                     - 84 -

Consultants services and training
              '

Services for all components of the project, including studies, technical assistance, and the supervision o f
works, which require the recruitment o f consultingfirms or individualconsultants will be procured in
accordance with the Bank's Guidelinesfor the Selection and Employment of Consultants by WorldBank
Borrowers. The cost o f audits will also be financed by the Credit. The Bank's Standard Requestfor
Proposals; Forms of Contractsas needed(lump-sum,time based, andlor simplifiedcontracts for
short-term assignmentsand individual consultants); andSample Form of Evaluation Report for the
selection o f consultants would be used.

Individualconsultants contracts and consultingfirms contracts below the threshold o fUS$50,000 and
US$lOO,OOO respectivelymay be awarded on the basis o f qualifications and experience in accordance
with Bank guidelines. Forthese contracts, prior review willbe requiredof all TORS,proposedbudgets,
contracts, and consultant qualifications. Sole sourcing may be allowed on an exceptional basis andwith
the prior agreementwith IDA, subject to the conditions outlined inthe Guidelines. Prior review will also
be required o f all single-source consultancies, regardless o ftheir value. Contracts for individual
consultants below US$50,000, and for consulting firms below US$lOO,OOO, will be subject to
post-review. Prior review will be requiredfor individualcontracts above US$50,000 and above
US$lOO,OOO for firms.

Withregardto workshops, training, studytours and field expenses, prior review o fall activities will be
required, includingproposedbudget, agenda, participants, location o f training, and other relevant details.

Incremental operatingcosts

Incrementaloperatingcosts are definedto meanbuilding,equipment, and vehicle maintenance costs,
fuel, office supplies, buildingrental charges, utilities, and telecommunications costs, and the costs o f
Project support staff, but excluding salaries o f officials o fthe civil service (which are, inany event, not
eligible for IDA financing).

For most activities, however, prior review will be limitedto contracts above the thresholds stated above.
IDA mayrequest prior review ofbiddocuments, evaluationmethods andcontracts for which they require
more detailed information. Similarly, any request for no objection will be formally repliedby IDA.

Post review

Procurement actions not subject to prior review as described above will be subject to post-review. This
i s to allow for efficient disbursement o f funds while assuring transparency andconsistency with these
procedures. A 11documentation used for the procedures o f contracting ,recruitment of consulting
services, evaluationand award shall be retained for subsequent examinationby independent auditors and
IDA supervision missions.

Frequencyof procurementsupervisionmissions

Once every six (6) months (including special procurement supervision for post-reviewlaudits). The
overall procurement risk assessment i s rate average. The following steps are designed to mitigate
procurement r i s k

Ministry or recruit a new one with equal
qualifications and experience or high
Prepare InternalInstructions articulating the       Within one year o f                    Borrower
NewPublic Procurement Act and Regulations           implementation
 Training o f staff, who deal withprocurement       Prior to or at time o f Launching      IDkiBorrower
                                                    the project and continuous
                                                    thereafter
 Detailed draft ProcurementPlan for the first       Bynegotiations                         BorrowerlIDA
year
 IDA'Sprior reviewo fthe first three contracts       Early days o f implementation         IDA
below thresholds                                     stage
 Use o f IDA StandardBiddingDocuments for            Life o f the Project
 NCBprocurements                                                                          IBorrower




Procurementmethods (Table A)


                                   Table A: Prqiect Costs by ProcurementArraneements


  Expenditure
  Category

  A. CivilWorks

  B. Goods

  C.Consultants'
  Services
  D.Training/a

  D.Operating
  costs                                                             (5.4)                                           (5.4)
  E. Conservation                                                                                        7.0         7.0
  Endowment                                                                                             (0.0)      (0.0)
  FundI%
  Total Project           5.8          3.3             0.5           7.2        16.2        0.5          6.5        40.0
  Costs,by
  methodof
  Procurement
  .I. amounts            (5.3)        (3.0)           (0.4)         (6.2)      (15.8)       (0.4)        (0.0)     (31.1)
  financedby IDA                  I             I                I          I            I          I             I
  Figures inparen esis are the amounts to be financedbvthe IDA credit. All costs include contingencies.
                                                                                               I
  \a Includesworkshops, training, andstudy tours, as well as consultancieswhich are gearedtowardcapacity building.
  \b ComprisedofGEFfinancing.




                                                           - 86 -

Prior review thresholds (Table B)

                     Tab1 B: Thresholds for Pr
 Expenditure Category     Contract value        Procurementmethod               Contracts subject to
                                                                                prior review
 A. Civil Works la        <$50,000              Quotations(up to an aggregate   first three contracts
                                                value of $200,000), awardedon
                                                the basisof quotations obtained
                                                from three qualified national
                                                contractors
                          >=$50,000but          NCB for an aggregate not to     All
                          < $150,000            exceedS250,OOO
                          >=$150,000            ICB                             All
 B. Goods                 <$30,000              Local or International          None
                                                Shopping, for an aggregate not
                                                to exceed$400,000
                          >=S30,OOO but         NCB, for anaggregate not to     first three contracts subject
                          <$150,000             exceedS400,OOO                  to prior review
                          >=$150.000            ICB                             All
                           Individualunits of   IAPSO. Individualcontracts      none
                           oftice equipment,    not to exceed$30,000 for an
                           fumiture, vehicles   aggregatenot to exceed
                                                $300,000.
                           >=$50,000 for        IndividualQualifications. Sole  All
 andTraining (including    individuals          sourcingmay be allowed,
 Audits)                                        subiectto clauses 3.8 - 3.11 of
                                                Guidelines.
                           >=$ 100,000 for      QCBS                            All

                           <$50,000 for         IndividualQualifications. Sole  TORS,budget,
                           individuals or       sourcingmaybe allowed,          qualifications,contract
                           <$100,000 for firms  subiectto clauses 3.8 - 3.1Iof
                                                Guidelines.
                           Workshops, training, Acceptable national practice    All
                           studytours
                           All operatingcosts    Local shopping                 None
                           andfield expenses




                                                     - 87 -

Disbursement

Allocation of grant proceeds (Table C)
All disbursements o fIDA funds will be handledina manner which is consistent with the World Bank's
~i~bursementHandbook, and as described inthe Development Credit Agreement. Fundswill be
disbursed over 5 year period, plannedto begininJune, 2002. The Completion Date will be June 30,
2007 and the Closing Date will be December 31,2007.

As part o fproject preparation anAccounting andFinancial Management Manual was prepared, andhas
beenincorporatedinto the Project ImplementationManual. Fivedisbursement categories are envisaged:
civil works, goods and equipment, consulting services, training, and operating costs.


                                Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds

          ExpenditureCategory             Amount in US$million                FinancingPercentage
 1. Civilworks                                       5.10               100 percent o f foreign expenditures;
                                                                         90 percent o f localexpenditures
2. Goods                                             4.10            100 percent o f foreign expenditures;
                                                                       90 percent o f local expenditures
3. Consulting services andaudits                     8.50                         100percent
4. Training                                          6.00                         100 percent

6. Refundo f Project Preparation                     0.60                  Amount due pursuantto
Advance                                                              Section 2.02 (b) o f the Development
                                                                               Credit Agreement
17. Unallocated                          I           1.90            I                                        I
Total ProjectCosts                                   31.10
 Total                                              31.10


All disbursements ofthe GEF Grantwillbemade at one time intothe agreedendowment fund.
EAMCEF will establish the endowment fundto receive and manageUSS7.0 million from the GEF and
possible other donor funds. The GEF and any other funds will be managedby an asset manager selected
byEAMCEF following Bankprocurement guidelines andsatisfactory to the Bankandunder investment
guidelines andspending rules approved bythe Bank and detailed inthe Financial, Operations and
Management Manual o f the EAMCEF. The condition for the disbursemento f the grant into the
endowment fundi s the successful achievement o fthe following eight indicators: (i)   successful
establishment and functioning ofthe Secretariat (i.e. key positions inthe Secretariat have beenfilled,
audits have beencompleted andare clear, an acceptable 2-year work plani s developed); (ii)    finalization
o f the Finunciul, Operations, and Munuge~entMunuul which defines and clarifies procedures and
operations for the EAMCEFand its approval by the Bank, (iii)    establishment andfunctioning o fthe
Endowment FundBoard(Le. regular Boardmeetings, appointment o f four new Boardmembers,
application o f the procedures for Boardmembers); (iv) development and launching o f the fundraising
strategy; (v) grantmakingactivities have begun (proposals solicited, competitive selection procedures
followed, grants awarded andpilot activities are under implementation); (vi) at least one Local Advisory
Committee has beenestablished; (vii) documented adherenceto the policies, procedures andprinciples
set forth inthe Deedo f Trust; (viii) documented significant co-financing for the EAMCEF. The
investment strategy for the endowment will also have to be approved bythe Bankprior to disbursement.


                                                   - 88 -

                                Table C1: Allocation of Grant Proceeds


 1. EndowmentFund                                     7.00           I   100percent o f foreign expenditures


Summaryof the financialmanagementassessment:

A financial managementassessmentwas carriedout duringAppraisal missionwhichindicated that the
Ministry'sFinance Department andstaff have adequate financial managementsystemswhich can
provide, with reasonable assurance, timely information on the status o fthe project as requiredbythe
borrower and IDA. The government financial management systemand controls over public finances
have recently beenupdatedand strengthenedunder the Integrated FinancialManagement System (IFMS)
usingcomputerized accounting software (the so-called 'Platinum' system). A satisfactory project
Accounting and Financial Management Manual describingthe accounting system, procedures, intemal
controls, chart o f accounts androles and responsibilitieso fthe key staff responsible for IDA finances has
beendeveloped. The Ministryhas wide experience inimplementing IDAprojects and inmanagingIDA
fimds from the previous Forest ResourcesManagement project. Therefore, the project financial
management system i s adequatefor the project to be presentedto the Board and the project i s ready for
implementation.

A review ofaccounting and financial managementsystems concludedthat, while FBDhasextensive
experience inworking with Bankprocurement and disbursement, it is currently not capable o f complying
with new LoanAdministration ChangeInitiative(LACI) Guidelines. Two actions must be completedin
order to become LACI-compliant:

    Before the project is declared effective, an additional Ministry-qualified accountant shouldbe
    deployed on a full-time basis to assist the current project accountant inthe project financial matters;

0   The project will be reassessedfor LACIcompliance when a LACIcompatible financial reporting
    format acceptable to the Bank has been prepared (based on the Revised LACIguidelines).

Once FBDis assessedto be LACIcapable, the CreditAgreement will be amendedto reflect that
disbursements are to take place on the basis o f Project Management Reports thereafter. Inthis event, it
envisaged that the project will adopt streamlined disbursement procedures once LACI Guidelines have
beenmet. The decisionto adopt streamlined disbursement procedures will be made inconsultation with
a BankFinancialManagement Specialist who will:

    review experience to date with the quality o f withdrawal submissions, operationo f the Special
    Account, SOE submissions anddocumentation retention inthe field, and the general effectiveness o f
    project managementand accounting staff;
    ensure that the Special Account has beenreconciled and any outstanding issues resolved;
    review supervision reports to assess implementationprogress and issues;
    review any available audit information, as well as any other financial reports, with a view to forming
    an opinion onthe reliabilityo fproject accounts;
    review the PMRformat designed to be usedinconjunction with the Platinum computerized
    accounting package.


                                                    - 89 -

Audit arrangements:

Audited financial statements (project, SOEs, and Special Account/ PMR) will be prepared and submitted
within 6 months ofthe close o feachFiscal Year. The Terms o fReference for the Audit are includedin
the Accounting andFinancial ~ a n a g e ~ eManual. Audits remain the responsibility o f the Controller
                                               n t
and Auditor General. Additional costs which may be incurred to complete the audit will be covered by
the project. Documentationwith respect to SOEIPMR expenditures will be retainedby the Ministryat
the Ivory Rooms.

 Use of statementsof expenditures(SOEs):
 All applications to withdraw proceedsfromthe Credit will be fully documented, except for expenditures
for incrementaloperatingcosts, training costs, and contracts with a value o f $30,000 or less for goods
and equipment, $50,000 or less for civil works, $100,000 or less for consultants services (firms), $50,000
or less for consultants services (individuals), for which reimbursements or replenishments to the Special
Account may be made against Statements o fExpenditure (SOEs). Supporting documentation will be
retainedby the Government and will be available for inspectionand review as requested by IDA
SupervisionMissions andbyproject auditors.

 Special account:
Itis envisaged that a singleSpecial Account, acceptableto IDA,will be established. The authorized
allocation ofthis account will be US$l,OOO,OOO, though the balance will be maintained at $500,000 until
total disbursements have exceeded SDR 5 million. Requests for replenishment of the Special Account
will be submitted to IDA every monthuntilsubmissiono f quarterly PMRs commences. Each
replenishment request will accompanied by anup-to-date bank statementanda reconciliation statement.
The size of the authorizedallocation maybe revisedonce experience with LACI-compatible
disbursement and financial managementprocedures is gained.

                             Annex 7: Project ProcessingSchedule
        TANZANIA: EasternArc Forests Conservationand ManagementProject




IFirstBank mission(identification)                                                      0110112000
/Appraisalmission departure                     I1                              II      04/08/2002      II
 Negotiations                                                                           0411612003
 PlannedDate of Effectiveness                            0913012003

Preparedby:

The project was preparedby the Forestry and Beekeeping Divisiono f the Ministryo f Natural Resources
and Tourismunder the direction o f a Project Preparation Working Group. The PPWG comprised:

        Dr.FelicianKilahama, Assistant DirectorofForestry, Group Leader
        Mr.J. Musokwa, ProjectImplementationSpecialist
        Dr.G. Monela, Associate Professor ofForest Economics, SokoineUniversity of Agriculture
        Dr.P. Yanda, Director, Tanzania NaturalResourcesInformationCenter, UniversityofDares
        Salaam
        Dr.I. Forestry andBeekeepingDivision
              Aloo,
        Ms.Amina Akida, Forestry andBeekeepingDivision
        Ms. T. Mbaga, Forestry andBeekeepingDivision
        Mr.Matthew Mndolwa, Tanzania ForestResearchInstitute

The PPWGhas employedvarious consultants to provide assistanceduringpreparation. Thesehave
 included

        Prof. R. Ishengoma, HumanResources Development Specialist, Dean, Faculty o f Forestry,
                 Sokoine Universityo f Agriculture
        Alan Ogle, Private SectorForestry Specialist, Groome Poyry
        Marko Katila, Private Sector Forestry Specialist, Jaako Poyry
        Fortune Charumbira, Institutional Change Specialist, Consultant
        Ray Victurine, GEF Trust FundSpecialist, Cascadia Consulting
        Prof. R. Malimbwi, Forest Management Specialist, Professor o f Forest Mensuration and
                 Management, Faculty o f Forestry, Sokoine University o f Agriculture
        Liz Wily, Community-based Natural ResourcesManagement Specialist, Consultant
        Barney Laseko, Financial Management Specialist, Consultant
         O.Mkungu, Accountant
        N.G. Sem, Procurement Specialist

 Inaddition, the Bankprovidedfurther preparation assistance,

         Toshiftimi Serizawa (Natural ResourceManagement Specialist), SADC Food Security andRural
                 Development Hub, Harare
         DanKobb (Governance andRevenueSpecialist), Consultant
         K e nGreen, Social and Environmental Safeguards Specialist, Consultant


                                                  -91 -

         Marc Daudon, GEF Trust FundSpecialist, Cascadia Consulting
         Melissa Moye, GEF Trust FundSpecialist, Consultant
         KithinjiKiragu, Institutional ReformSpecialist

Assistance to prepare GEFAJNDP financedactivities was providedby a team with CAREiTanzania.

Preparation assistance:
The project was preparedwith resourcesmade available from a PPF, a Policy andHumanResources
Development Trust Fundand with a PDFiB Grant from the Global Environment Facility.

Bank staff who worked on the project ncluded:
         Name                                            Speciality
Nathalie W. Johnson                       Sr. Environmental Specialist, Team Leader
MartinFodor                               Environmental Specialist
Pascal Tegwa                              Procurement Specialist
Mercy Sabai                               Financial Management Specialist
EdithMwenda                               Counsel
Steve Gaginis                             Finance Officer
Marie Claire Li                           Progam Assistant


The Forest Conservation and Management Projectwas Appraised inOctober 2001. Inaddition to these
staff, the Bank's teamwas comprised o f

         KithinjiKiragu(Institutional ChangeSpecialist)
         Jyrki Salmi (Sector Program Specialist, Consultant to the NationalForest Program)
         Campbell Day (Forest Management Specialist, Consultant to Norad)
         Margrethe-Holm Anderson (Participatory Forest Management Specialist, Danida)
         Per Rasmussen(Participatory Forest Management Specialist, Consultant to Danida).

The Government o f Tanzania team was comprised of:

         Dr.FelicianKilahama(Forestry andBeekeepingDivision)
         George Mbonde (Assistant Director, Forest Development)
         G.P. Mashurano (Assistant Director, Forest Utilization)
         I.Y.Mnangwone (Assistant Director, Research, Training, and Statistics)
         D.Kihwele(Assistant Director, Beekeeping)
         StephenMariki (Coordinator, National Forest Program)

The EasternArc Forests Conservation and Management Project was appraised inApril 2002.




                                                   - 92 -

                           Annex 8: Documentsin the Project File*
         TANZANIA Eastern Arc ForestsConservationand ManagementProject


A. ProjectImplementationPlan
Project ImplementationManual
Annex 1. Improving Service Delivery through Institutional Reform: Establishment o fthe Tanzania
           Forest Service
Annex 2. ImprovingService Delivery for ParticipatoryForest Management
Annex 3. Improvingthe Financial Sustainability o f Forest and Woodland Management
Annex 4. Involvement of the Private Sector inthe Development andManagement ofIndustrial
           Plantations
Annex 5, EasternArc Mountains Conservation EndowmentFund,Financial, Operations, and
           Management Plan
Annex 6. Accounting and FinancialManagement Manual

6. BankStaffAssessments
Pascal Tegwa, Procurement Capacity Assessment, Ministry o fNatural Resources and Tourism, October
16,2001
Mercy Sabai, FinancialManagement Assessment, MinistryofNatural Resourcesand Tourism, October
25,2001

C. Other
MinistryofNaturalResourcesandTourism(1998), NationalForestPolicy
MinistryofNaturalResourcesandTourism (200l), ForestryProgram
                                                 National
Daniel Kobb, Improving Forestry Revenue Collectionin Tanzania, 20 February 2001
Marko Katila andAlan Ogle, Involvement of the Private Sector in theIndustrial Forest Plantation
        Development and ~anagement,16 February 2001
Wily, L.A. andP.A.Dewees. Fromusersto custodians: changing relationsbetween peopleandthe state
         inforest managementinTanzania. World BankPolicy ResearchWorking PaperNo. 2569.
         March2001
EasternArc Mountains Conservation Endowment Fund(2001). Trust Deedof the Eastern Arc
         Mountains Conservation Endowment Fund.March20, 2001
*Including electronicfiles




                                               - 93 -

                                         Annex 9: Statementof Loans and Credits
                  TANZANIA: EasternArc ForestsConservationand ManagementProject
                                                             21-May-2003
                                                                                                                   Difference betweenexpected
                                                                                                                            and actual
                                                                  OriginalAmount in US$ Millions                          disbursements'
Project ID  FY    Purpose                                      IBRD       IDA                      Cancel.  Undisb.       Orig   FrmRev'd
PO58706     2002 Forest Consewationand Management                 0.00    31.10                       0.00    33.06         2.79      0.00
PO02797     2002 TZ SONGOSONGOGAS DEV, & POWERGEN                 0.00    183.00                      0.00   179.20       117.98      0.00
PO71012     2002 Primary EducationDevelopmentProgram              0.00    150.00                      0.00   105.23       41.66       0.00
PO73397     2002 LowerKihansi Environmental Management            0.00     6.30                       0.00      5.98        1.59      0.00
PO47762     2002 RURALWATER SUPPLY                                0.00    26.00                       0.00    27.51         2.64      0.00
PO65372     2001 SOCIALACTIONFUNDPROJECT                          0.00    60.00                       0.00    29.00        -2.70      0.00
PO69982     2001 RegionalTrade Fac.Proj. -Tanzania                0.00     15.00                      0.00    11.91         2.98      0.00
PO50441     2000 RURAL&MICROFINSVC                                0.00     2.00                       0.00      1.09        1.06      1.06
PO57187     2000 FIDPH                                            0.00    27.50                       0.00    15.70        14.68      6.57
PO58627     2000 HealthSectorDevelopmentProgram                   0.00    22.00                       0.00      4.30       -6.30      0.00
PO60833     2000 PUBLIC SERV REFPROG                              0.00    41.20                       0.00    30.91       -10.17      0.00
PO02622     2000 TANZANIA PSACI                                   0.00    190.00                      0.00    81.21      -108.84      0.00
PO49838     2000 PRIVATIZATION                                    0.00     45.90                      0.00    32.77        22.63      0.00
PO47761     1999 TAX ADMINISTRATION                               0.00     40.00                      0.00    25.71        22.09      0.00
PO02804     1998 AGRIC RESEARCH                                   0.00     21.eo                      0.00      5.21        4.89      0.00
PO02789     1996 HUMANRESOURCEDEV 1                               0.00     20.90                      0.00      1.93        0.35      0.00
PO02753     1997 NAT EXT PROJ PH.11                               0.00     31.10                       0.00     2.12        4.51      -1.97
PO46837     1997 LAKEVICTORIA ENV.                                0.00     10.10                       0.00     3.40       -1.28       0.00
PO38570     1997 TZ:RIVER BASINMGMSMAL                            0.00     26.30                       0.00     4.43        6.38       0.00
PO02758     1996 URBANSECTOR REHAB                                0.00    105.00                       0.00    17.65       21.39       0.00

PO02770     1994 ROADS11                                          0.00    170.20                      63.53    36.25      106.13      34.73

                                                       Total:    0.00    1225.40                     63.53    654.55      244.48      40.39




                                                                   - 94 -

                                        TANZANIA
                                     STATEMENTOF LFC's
                                  HeldandDisbursedPortfolio
                                        Jun30 - 2002
                                      InMillions USDollars

                                                        Committed                       Disbursed
                                                     IFC                              IFC
F Y Approval    Company                        Loan    Equity    Quasi   Partic  Loan  Equity  Quasi  Partic
_,_-
1999            AEF Blue Bav                    1.45    0.00      0.00    0.00   1.45   0.00    0.00   0.00
2001            AEF Bound& Hi1                 0.20     0.00      0.00    0.00   0.20   0.00    0.00   0.00
1996            AEF Contiflora                 0.35     0.00      0.00    0.00   0.35   0.00    0.00   0.00
1998            AEF DropZanziba                0.32     0.00      0.00    0.00   0.32   0.00    0.00   0.00
1997            AEF Hort. Farms                0.19     0.00      0.00    0.00   0.19   0.00    0.00   0.00
1998            AEF Ma$ Masafi                 0.27     0.00      0.00    0.00   0.27   0.00    0.00   0.00
1996            AEF Milcafe                    0.18     0.00      0.00    0.00   0.18   0.00    0.00   0.00
1994            AEF Moshi Lthr                 0.00     0.19      0.00    0.00   0.00   0.19    0.00   0.00
1999            AEF Musoma Fish                 1.50    0.00      0.00    0.00   I.50   0.00    0.00   0.00
1997199         AEF Pallsons                   0.32     0.00      0.00    0.00   0.32   0.00    0.00   0.00
1995            AEF Tanbreed                   0.70     0.00      0.00    0.00   0.70   0.00    0.00   0.00
2000            AEF Zan Safari                 0.70     0.00      0.00     0.00  0.70   0.00    0.00   0.00
2002            EximBank                        2.50    0.00      0.00     0.00  0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00
1996            IHP                             0.82    0.60      0.00     0.00  0.82   0.60    0.00   0.00
2000            IOH                             2.50    0.00      0.00     0.00  2.50   0.00    0.00   0.00
2000            NBC                             0.00    10.00     0.00     0.00  0.00   3.44    0.00   0.00
1993            TPS (Tanzania)                  5.69     0.87      1.04    0.00  5.69   0.87     1.04  0.00
1991I97         TPS Zanzibar                    0.00     0.03     0.00     0.00  0.00    0.03   0.00   0.00
1994            Tanzania Brewery                0.00     6.00     0.00     0.00  0.00    6.00   0.00   0.00
1998            Tanzania Jubilee                0.00     0.29     0.00     0.00  0.00    0.29   0.00   0.00
1994            ULC Leasing                     0.00     0.38     0.00     0.00  0.00    0.38   0.00   0.00
2001            AEF 2000 Indust                 1.60     0.00     0.00     0.00  0.00    0.00   0.00   0.00
1996199         AEF A&K Tanzania                0.15     0.00     0.00     0.00  0.15    0.00   0.00   0.00
1997            AEF Aquva Ginner                0.68     0.00     0.00     0.00  0.68    0.00   0.00   0.00
                      Total Portfolio:         20.12    18.36      1.04    0.00  16.02   11.80   1.04   0.00



                                                    Auurovals Pending Commitment
F Y Approval    Company                           Loan      Equity     Quasi    Partic
2002            Exim Bank                          0.00       1.oo      0.00     0.00

                Total PendingCommitment:           0.00       1.oo      0.00     0.00




                                              - 95 -

                                                     Annex 10: Country at a Glance
           TANZANIA EasternArc ForestsConservationand Management Project
                                                                                  Sub-
POVERTYand SOCIAL                                                             Saharan        Low-
                                                                Tanzania         Africa   income            Developmentdiamond'
2001
Population,mid-year (millions)                                       34.5          674      2511
GN1percapita (Atlas method, US$)                                                                                           Lifeexpectancy
                                                                      210          470        430
GNI (Atlas method, US$billions)                                       9.4          317       1,069        I

Average annual growth, 1995-01
Population(%)                                                         2.5           2.5        1.9
Laborforce (%)                                                        2.5           2.6        2.3          GNI                                         Gross
                                                                                                                                                      primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available,1995-01)                                                        capita                                  enrollment
Poverty(77 ofpopulationbelownationalpovertyline)                       35
Urbanpopulation(% oftotalpopulation)                                   29            32         31
Life expectancyat birth(years)                                         44            47         59
Infantmortality(per 1,000livebirths)                                   93            91         76
Child malnutrition(% ofchildrenunder5)                                 29                                         Accessto improvedwater source
Access to an improvedwater source (% ofpopulation)                     54            55         76
Illiteracy(% ofpopulationage 15+)                                      24            37         37
Grossprimaryenrollment (% ofschool-age populafion)                     65            78         96                          Tanzania
    Male                                                               65            85        103                           Low-incomegroup
    Female                                                             65            12         86        I


KEY ECONOMICRATIOSand LONG-TERMTRENDS
                                                          1981       I991         2000       2001         1 Economicratios'
GDP (US$billions)                                            5.5       5.0          9.1        9.3
GrossdomesticinvestmentJGDP                                          26.3          11.6       15.8
Exportsof goods and serviceslGDP                           14.0       10.3         14.6       15.9                              Trade
Gross domesticsavingslGDP                                                                                                 -
                                                           13.5        3.0          9.2        1.0
GrossnationalsavingslGDP                                                                                  I
                                                           22.1        3.9           8.5       6.7                                 I

Currentaccount balancelGDP                                   0.0     -16.5         -9.1        -9.2
InterestpaymentslGDP                                         0.9       1.1           0.5        1.1         Domestic                                Investment
TotaldebtJGDP                                                0.0    132.3          81.9       66.2          savings

Totaldebt servicelexports                                  31.2       36.7         14.2       21.1
Presentvalueof debtJGD?                                                            28.9       43.2
Presentvalueof debtJexports                                                       189.1      137.0
                                                                                                                              Indebtedness
                                          1981-91 1991-01            2000          2001    2001-05
(average annualgrowth)
GDP                                                          3.4       5.2           5.6        5.8        i         --'- Tanzania
GDP per capita                                   ....        0.6       3.0           2.9        3.6                     -      Low-incomeorouo
EXDO~~Sof a d s and services
           -                                     .,          9.6      18.4         17.8         2.7
STRUCTUREof the ECONOMY
                                                           1981      1991          2000       2001          Growthof investmentand GDP (W)
(% of GDP)
Agriculture                                                45.4       48.1         45.0        44.8        120 -

Industry                                                   16.2       16.9         15.7        15.8
    Manufacturing                                          10.6        9.0           7.5        7.4
Services                                                   38.3       35.0         39.2        39.4

 Privateconsumption                                        13.8       18.1         84.3        83.4
Generalgovernment consumption                               12.7      18.9           6.5        9.6
 Importsof goods and services                              24.4       33.6         23.1        24.8                      -GDI              *GDP


                                                        1981-91 1991-01            2000       2001        1
 (average annualgrowth)                                                                                     Growth of exportsand imports(W)

 Agriculture                                                           3.4           3.4        5.4            T
 Industry                                                              4.1           7.3        6.5         40
    Manufacturing                                                      3.4           4.8        5.0        I20
 Services                                                              3.2           6.0        5.5          0

 Privateconsumption                                                    2.4          -0.9        3.1        1-20

 Generalgovernment consumption                                         3.6           5.0        6.6        -40 -
 Gross domesticinvestment                                              -0.9          1.5        5.8                   -        Exports    -+-Imports
 Importsof goods and sewices                                            1.3          0.1        8.1

 Note:2001 data are preliminaryestimates.
 *The diamondsshow four key indicators in the country (in bold)comparedwith itsincome-groupaverage, If data are missing,the diamondwill be incompiete.




                                                                               - 96 -

PRICESand GOVERNMENTFINANCE
                                        1981   1991   2000   2001
Domestic prices                                                    IInflation(~r.1                                      I
(?Achange)                                                            40 T                                              I
Consumer prices                         25.6   28.7     5.9    5.2    30
ImplicitGDP deflator                           28.1     7.4    6.7  /20
Government finance
(% of GDP,includescurrentgrants)                                      l 0oI-           ,  -   -     --
Currentrevenue                           19.2  12.3    10.6  11.4               96    97      98       99      00
Currentbudget balance                    -3.3   -0.2   -0.5   -0.7
Overallsurplusideficit                  -13.7   -1.7   -5.4   -4.2  I          w---GDP    deflator    -0-CPI


TRADE                                                                                                                   I
                                        1981   1991   2000   2001
(US$mi//ionsJ                                                          Exportand importlevels (US$ mill.)
Total exports(fob)                       562    394    663    772
 Coffee                                  165     77     84     57
 Cotton                                   78     63     38     33
 Manufactures                             60     70     34     56
Total imports(cif)                      1,111 1,276   1,592  1,726
 Food                                    104     32     176   169
 Fuel and energy                         261    1a9     95    106                                                       I
 Capital goods                           563    579    638    755
Exportprice index (1995=100J             103     75     130    136            95    96   97     ga     99     ao    01

Importprice index (1995=100)              93     98     90     100  I                 Exports         aImports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                112     77     143    136

BALANCEof PAYMENTS
                                        1981   1991   2000   2001
(US$ mi//ions)                                                        1 Current account balance to GDP(%)
Exportsof goods and services             572    529   1,330  1,487
Importsof goods and services            1,192 1,569   2,094  2,316
Resourcebalance                         -619  .1,040   -765  -829
Net income                                  0  -185     -83    -44
Netcurrenttransfers                      510    408      18     15
Currentaccountbalance                    -110  -818    -830  -858
Financingitems (net)                      94    825   1,179  1,058
Changes in net reserves                    16     -8   -348  -201     -25
Memo:
Reserves includinggold (US$mi//ions)            209     974  1,157
Conversionrate (DC, loca//US$J            8.2 219.2   800.4  876.3

EXTERNALDEBTand RESOURCEFLOWS                                                                                           II
                                        1981   1991   2000   2001
(US$mi//ionsJ                                                           Compositionof 2001 debt (US) mill.)
Total debtoutstandingand disbursed      5,822 6,558   7,440  6,185
  IBRD                                    210    208     11      a
  IDA                                     319  1,434  2,593  2,588                    G:475 A'8

Totaldebt service                         179    207    198    331
  IBRD                                     23     56      5      4
  IDA                                       3     17     52     57
Compositionof netresourceflows
  Ofiicialgrants                                  67    685    709
  Officialcreditors                       524    170    111    125
  Privatecreditors                         59     -9
  Foreigndirect investment                              193    203
  Portfolioequity                                                                                                       I
World Bank program
  Commitments                              91    334    329    360      A - IBRD                         E Bilateral
                                                                                                             ~

  Disbursements                            98    181    131     75      B IDA       D Othermultilateral
                                                                                     -                   F Private
  Principalrepayments                       8     43     37     40      C IMF
                                                                          --                             G Short-term
                                                                                                          --
  Netflows                                 89    137     94     35
  Interestpayments                         17    1oa
                                                  29     20     21
  Nettransfers                             72            74     14

ueveiopmenttconomics                                                                                             YI IYIUL




                                                    - 97 -

              Additional Annex 11: Environmentaland Social Considerations

          TANZANIA EasternArc ForestsConservation and ManagementProject


                                                   Introduction

The project has been classifiedas Category B with respect to its expected environmental and social
impacts. The project i s not expected to result insignificant negative environmentalor social impacts.
The project will support the implementationo f a series o fparticipatory forestry management activities,
which government has endorsedinits National Forest Program, which are intendedto bringabout the
proper managemento f Government Forest Reserves, industrialplantations, forests on village lands, and
community andprivate forests. As part o f this process, provisions will be made to bringabout sound
forest management, andwhen required, the preservation o f criticalbiodiversity habitats. Inparticular,
areas classified as catchment forest that are important for watershed protectionandthe EasternArc
Montane Forests will be targeted for priorityprotectionand conservation.

Environmental risks are associatedwith well-known and documented forest management constraints -
encroachment into forest reserves, difficulties inimplementing practical sustainable forest management
plans and sometimes ineffective traditional government forest managementpolices and regulatory
measures. Furthermore, the project will support Government initiatives more fully to involve the private
sector inthe management inindustrialforest plantations. Social and economic impacts will be assessed
for all plantation forests which are expected to be directly affectedby this component o f the project,
consultations will be undertakenwith all stakeholders. Special attentionwill be directed at small
sawmillers to ensure they are adequately protected duringproject implementation. An additional benefit
o f the involvement o f the private sector is that the creation o f an expanded investment climate could
introduce new sawmilling technologies including opportunities to use currently discarded millwaste.


     Legal and RegulatoryFramework for SocialDevelopment and EnvironmentalManagement

A nationalenvironmentalregulatoryandpolicy framework hasbeen evolving duringthe last several
years. Currently, two independent agencies oversee environmentalassessment andreview processes, the
National Environment Management Council (NEMC), a semi-autonomous statutory body, andthe
Division o f the Environment (DOE) o fthe Vice-president's Office. The National Environmental Policy
W P ) o f 1997provides guidance for environmental assessment procedures, includingEIA requirements.
These provisions are primarily concerned with development projects andtheir potential impacts on the
biologicalandphysical environment. However, it is important to point out that currently there is no
comprehensive legislationto implement the NEP policies and there is no empowerment o f NEMCor o f
DOEto make EIArequirements legally binding.

The national capacity for managementand implementationo f environmental assessment requirements is
still limited, particularly in light o f the nearly complete lack o f a regulatory framework. There are no
clearly defined institutional responsibilities for EIAreview, approval and enforcement, and an EIA
regulatory framework is usually only introducedon an ad hoc basis ina few protectedareas such inthe
nationalparks, marine parks and game reserves. Unfortunately, there is no effective co-ordination and
collaboration among environmental andsector agencies, such as FBD, inthis regard.




                                                       - 98 -

Policies and regulations with respect to environmental assessmentrelated to forest and biodiversity are
based onthe NationalForest Policy o f 1998 and the NationalForest Programo f 2001. There are plans to
formalize a regulatory framework inproposed changesto forestry legislation, These instruments will
provide GOT with a comprehensive sector framework with the objective o fbringingabout sustainable
forest management and protection, andwhich recognizes multipleuses andinterests inthese resources.


                                      TableAll. I: Objectivesofdraft Forest Legislation

      encourage andfacilitate the active citizen involvement inthe sustainableplanning, management, use and conservation
      o fforest resources through the development o f individual and community rights;
      ensure ecosystemstability through conservation of forest biodiversity, water catchmentsand soil fertility;
      delegate responsibility for the management of forest resources to the lowest possible level o f local management
      consistent withnational policies;
      ensure the sustainablesupply o f forest products and services by maintaining sufficient forest area under efficient,
      effective and economicalmanagement;
      enhancethe quality and improve the marketability o f forest products andregulate their export;
      promote coordination and cooperation betweenthe forest sector and other agencies and bodies inthe public and private
      sectors;
      facilitate greater public awarenesso fthe cultural, economic and social benefits of conserving and increasing sustainable
      forest cover by developingprograms intraining, research andpublic education; and
      enableTanzania to play a full part incontributingtowards and benefiting from international efforts andmeasuresto
      protect and enhance global biodiversity.
 Source: Ministry o fNatural ResourcesandTourism. Forest Bill (drafi). 2001



Draft forest legislation, which describes the objectives and instruments for managingforest lands,
outlines the need for a well defined and comprehensive forest managementplan for each forest reserve
and private forest. Such managementplans shouldinclude:

e   a description o fthe biological, environmental, economic, geological andcultural resources o fthe
    forest, and an inventory o fresource uses;
e   a statement o fthe economic, environmental and social objectives to be achieved inthe management
    o f the forest;
e   a descriptiono f the surrounding areas and villages and their interaction with the forest;
e   a description o f the areas o f landwithinthe forest reserve inwhich it is proposedto establish local
    user zones to facilitate local communities obtaining benefits from the forest reserve;
 e   a description of the local communities residinginthe vicinity o fthe forest andtheir relationship to
     the forest, includingtheir forest resource use;
 e   inrespect offorests other thanvillage landforest reserves, anfor the involvement ofthe communities
     and managemento fthe forest resources;
     provisions regulating commercial forest exploitation including afforestationand reforestation;
 e   provisions directed to forest conservation and preservation, includingwild animals and wildplants;
 e   proposals for forest includinga managementplan; and
 e   an identification o f financial andhuman resourcesneededto implement the management plan
     includingforest use charges and fees between the various authorities and persons likely to be
     involvedinthe management o f the forest.




                                                              - 99 -

A keyprovision o fthe draft forestry legislationaddressesEIArequirements for anyproposed
development inforest reserves, private forests, or sensitive forest areas including watersheds. The law
clarifies that all parties, persons, or organizations inthe public or private sector, must prepare andsubmit
to the FBDDirector an environmental impact assessment o f the proposed development from independent
consultants selected from a list approved by GOT.


                               TableA11.2: Classificationof Forestsin drap Forest Legislation
 Nationalforests
    forest reserves;
    nature forest reserves;
    forests on general land other than unoccupiedor unusedvillage landwhich are not reservedand o fwhich the right o f
    occupancy or a lease has notbeengranted to any personor body;

 Local authorityforests
    local authority forest reserves;
    forests on general land other than unoccupiedor unusedvillage landwhich are not reservedand o f which the right of
    occupancy or a lease or a licensehasbeen granted, to the local authority;

 Villageforests
    village land forest reserveswhich are declaredor gazetted;
    community forest reserves created out o fvillage forests;
    forests which are not reservedwhich are on village landand o fwhich the management is vested inthe village assembly;

 Privateforests
    forests on village landheld by one or more individuals under a customary right ofoccupancy;
    forests on general or village lando fwhich the right ofoccupancy or a lease has beengranted to a personor personsor a
    partnership or a corporate body or a Non-Governmental Organizationor any other body or organization.



The list o f development activities subject to environmental assessment includes:

    commercial loggingand forest industryexceeding five hectares;
    miningdevelopments;
    roadconstruction or the layingo fpipelines;
    the construction o f dams, power stations, electrical or telecommunication installations;
     the constructionof a buildingor group o fbuildings for purposes other than the management o f a
     forest reserve on an area o f landexceeding one hectare or such area as maybe prescribed; and
     agricultural, aquacultural or horticultural development on an area o f land exceeding five hectares or
     such area as may be prescribed.
                                            LandTenureand SocialIssues

Comprehensive revisions to Tanzania's landlegislation were recently enactedby Parliament, comprised
ofthe LandAct o f 1999andthe Village LandAct of 1999. These laws define modemconstructs o f
customary landrights and ifand how compensation i s to proceed when land is expropriated. Tanzanian
legislation i s emphatic indeclaringthat any person whose righto f occupancy, recognized long-standing
occupation, or customary use o f land is revoked or otherwise interfered with to their detrimentby the
State is entitled to compensation as definedby full and fair pay. Furthermore, the LandAct sets out
detailed terms for compensation under the following considerations: market value o f the realproperty,
disturbance allowance, transport allowance, loss o fprofits or accommodation, cost o f acquiring or
getting the subject land, any other cost loss or capital expenditure incurredto the development o fthe
subject land, and interest at the marketrate.


                                                             - 100-

A significant portionofthe Village LandAct details how peoplemay securetheir customary landrights.
The customary landrightmay be registered and titled to an individual, spouse, clan, group or to an entire
community. The process of adjudicating, registeringand issuingtitle deeds over village land is devolved
to the community, andelected Village Councils become the LandManager through an elected Land
Committee.

These modernforest and landlaws provide the framework for the rightso f citizens to create their own
reserves, to managecentral and local Government reserves and to sustain customary and granted access
and use rights. Within this regulatory framework are specific rights andprocessesavailable to
individuals andlor groups affected bythe declaration o f national forest or local forest reserves for proper
compensation basedonwell-defined consultationand investigationprocedures.

Other legislationprovides for mitigating social andeconomic impacts which might be an outcome o f the
loss o f employment by current employees o fFBD(a possible impact o f involvingthe private sector in
management o f industrialplantations). GOT has been engagedinnumerous privatization procedures
duringthe past decadeandhas establishedtransparent provisionsfor reducingthe civil service work
force under such initiatives. The Parastatal Sector ReformCommission (PSRC), responsible for these
undertakings, has establishednorms for determining what will happen to the work force, how many and
whatjobs would be redundant. At the same time, terms for retrenchment, separation and redeployment
are defined.

                               Environmental and Social Safeguard Issues

The key safeguard issues which require evaluationinthis project are summarized here. The applicable
safeguards are defined inOP/BP4.01 Environmental Assessment, OP/GP 4.36 Forestry, OPBP 4.12
Involuntary Resettlement and OP/BP4.04 Natural Habitats. This section summarizes the important
triggers and mechanisms inthe project for achieving these policy objectives.

The adequacy of implementing institutions to addressenvironmental management OP/BP 4.01 -

Although the shortcomings o f a national environmentalmanagement and regulatory framework have
beenhighlighted, the forest sector has a strong assortment o fprovisions to addressvirtually all potential
environmental concerns that which arise as a result o f this project. These are specifically containedin
the relevant forest sector policy, national program and draft law. Inaggregate, Tanzania's forest policy
framework i s one o f the most constructive and forward looking inAfrica.

Financing commercial logging operationsor thepurchase of logging equipmentfor use inprimary
tropical moistforests  - OP/GP   4.36

The project will not be financing any commercial logginginnatural forests. The project will be
supporting commercial operations o&      inplantationforests. Theseforests consist ofeucalyptus,
cypress, pine andteak -most o fwhich were established over the last 30 years. The current standing crop
has a history going back decades on land that was never coveredbytropical moist forest, but was
primarily grassland. The sixteen plantation forest blocks covered bythe project will continue to
undertake silvicultural practices includingharvest and replanting. Participatory forest management plans
will allow for expansion ofvillage andcommunity basedplantationwoodlots, butonly withmanagement
plans that ensureprotectionof sensitive, biologicallyimportant andwatershed catchments.




                                                  - 101  -

Useof a sector-wide approachfor forest management OP/GP 4.36
                                                          -

The NationalForest Policy, NationalForest Program, draft forestry legislation, andtechnical guidelines
all constitute essential components o f a solid sector-wide approach to the forest sector inTanzania. All
o f the Bankpolicy commitments have been addressedby GOT and include: adoption o f policies and a
legal institutional framework for forest management; adoption of an appropriate forestry conservation
anddevelopment plan; useofsocial, economic andenvironmental assessmentsofcommercial forests;
setting aside compensatory preservation forests; and establishment o f institutional capacity to implement
andenforce these commitments.

Protection of forest areas that are considered critical natural habitats andpreservation and
sustainableuseof forests of high ecologicalvalue      - OPEP  4-36, OPBP 4.04

The project proposes to support a number o f activities within its three components that will adhere to
forest sector provisions for identification, protection andmanagemento f critical habitats. These include,
inparticular, catchments andtheEasternArc Montane Forests. Miombowoodlands, animportant and
widely distributed andrelatively abundant forest ecosystem, and will continue supplyingwoodfuel and
other forest supplies to adjacent communities. Unlikeother more fragile forest types, miombo
woodlands are resilient to sustainable harvesting due to their regenerative capacity. Forest management
plansto bepromotedbyFBDwill contributeto increasing the viability o fthese woodlands. The
participatory forest management approach advocated inthe project also provides for local communities
and forest usersto identify and manage, basedon their own needs, ecologically important forest areas.

Stakeholder consultationincluding theprivate sector and localpeople inforest management OP/GP     -
4.36

Provisions for stakeholder consultations are evident across the three project components. ForNational
Forests, LocalAuthority Forests, Village and Community Forests, and Private Forests, the basic premise
for future sustainable use i s the development o f forest managementplans that are defined by a
stakeholder involvedprocess. FCMP has specifiedparticular provisions for ensuringthat all
stakeholders, from the private sector to localpeople, are included inthe development o f forest
managementplans.

Avoid or minimize involuntary resettlement as it applies inparticular to encroachmentinforest
reserves  -OP/BP    4.12

~ J ~ NhasTdeveloped a set of detailedguidelines for community basedforest managementwhich define
         R
methods for definingforest reserve boundaries, identifying encroachment problems, consulting with
offenders and establishing fines andprovisions for getting such offenders off designated lands. The Land
Act also contains specifications for ensuring that peoples rights are duly respected and that incases
where landappropriation is required, due compensation i s provided. Measures for appeals and
investigations are also defined.

 Lastly, the Government has reiterated that involuntary resettlement would not be carried out in
 conjunctionwith any project implementation activity. Government has also agreed that inthe unforeseen
 event that involuntary resettlement becomesnecessary inthe course o fproject implementation, a detailed
 resettlementplan (including any compensation for lost livelihood) would be completedand subject to
 IDAreview well inadvanceofany resettlement actions associatedwith any ofthe project components.



                                                     -102 -

Other issues

The project will finance the construction of a new HQbuildingfor FBD. The proposed construction site
i s a parkingarea under the immediate control and use o f the FBDat the so-called `Ivory Rooms' facility.
No resettlement is envisaged as an outcome, though a bus stop will be relocatedto an adjacent location to
allow access to the newbuilding.

                     Implementationof ProjectEnvironmentaland Social Safeguards

Participatory forest management

A national strategy andprogramfor participatory forest managementhasbeendeveloped which
addresses key safeguard issues. These measuresconstitute a comprehensive approach to sustainable
forest management andmultiple resource use, including preservation o f critical forest and special
biologically important areas. The emphasisinrecent GOT policy and legislation i s that central ministry
control i s no longer the only administrative process. Government decentralization has continued over the
years to the extent that localparticipationinmanagementand administration o f forest resources i s a
principalobjective. Overall, the essential ingredients of participatory forest management inTanzania are
that it:

0     reflects priorities within the sector for community basedforest management;
0     balances the needfor protection, resource extraction and sustainable use;
0     acknowledges that specific forest uses requires stakeholder inputs;
0     identifies critical forest habitats requiring strict protection;
0     provide for the community andother stakeholdersto undertake that protection;
0     makes provisions for national andlocalmanagement;
0     allows for joint forest managementbetween government andlocal communities incertain cases.

The project will support the enabling framework for the establishment ofVillage Forest Reservesunder
the management o f localVillage Councils (as well as other private andcommunity forest constructs as
defined inpolicy).

 Simply because o f their much greater extent, these Reserveswill be established primarily inmiombo
woodlands. Miombo is characterized by (among other things) its rapidregenerative capacity, andlow
biodiversity. Miombo tends to be found inrelatively flat areas, andvirtually all miombo inTanzania has
beenheavily modifiedbyhuman use. The literature suggests that the extensive areas which are now
miombo, incentral Tanzania, were under cultivation 150years ago, prior to the Ngoni invasions. Much
miombo which was cleared duringthe establishment o fUjamaa villages inthe 1960s is has beenrapidly
regenerating, and accounts for significant new areas o f woodland. The establishment o fVFRs in
miombo woodland areas is unlikelyto pose any significant environmental risk, or any risks which cannot
be mitigated through natural regeneration.

 The establishment o fVFRs inforests o fmore significant ecological important is consistent with the GEF
 Operational Strategy for Biodiversity Conservation, and specifically with the objectives o f GEF
 OperationalPrograms 3 and 4 on Forest Ecosystemsand MountainEcosystems. Consistent withthese
 objectives, the project will provide finance for the creation and strengthening o fparticipatory and
 co-management schemesto buildsupport and ownership for biodiversity conservation, develop
 socio-economic activities to reconcilebiodiversity conservation with human needs, identifyprocesses
 which are likely to have significant adverse impacts on the conservation and sustainable use o f


                                                        - 103-

biodiversity, andsupport capacity buildingefforts while focusing primarily on a mountaintropical forest
ecosystem that is at risk.

Government's Guidelines for the establishment o f VFRs emphasizethe needto raise awareness at the
local level about the potential for multipleresource use, provide guidance for the identificationo f
specific managementuse zones, recommend the development o f a protection process when it i s required,
clarify that VFRs will have legal status, and also outline conflict resolution procedures. Establishmento f
VFRs is a decisiontaken bythe village, and social impacts are determined bythe village, and
compensated withinthe framework o f the village's operation. Government i s responsible for providing
technical support for resourceuse zoning and mapping, andfor providinga generic safeguards checklist
for all new forest reserve areas-Village Forest Reserve, Community Forest Reserve, Village Forest
management Area- which are thought to contain critical ecosystems. The project will provide specific
support for implementationo f all o fthese measures.

Involvement of the private sector inindustrial plantation management

The large forests o fTanzania include natural forests and plantations which cover only a fraction o f the
total forest area o f 33.6 million hectares. The total area o f forest plantations i s relatively small and
comprises both state-managedindustrialplantations and village, farm andprivate company plantations.

State plantations are distributedwithin 16 plantation areas. Sao Hilli s the most important plantation
area, followed byMeruAJsa, NorthKilimanjaro and West Kilimanjaro plantations. These four plantation
areas cover altogether more than 80 percent o f the growing stock instate-managedplantations. Sao Hill
alone covers about 50 percent o f the total state plantation area.

Many individualforest plantations under state control were established without clear management
objectives. Inthe early 20th century andlater inthe 1950s trees were planted mainly to provide long
term timber supply, to act as bufferzones for natural forests and to protect watersheds. Plantations were
established for industrial purposesinthe 1950s and 1960sbut only on a small scale and without linking
management to the development o f forest industries. Larger scale industrial plantation development
started only inthe mid-1970s when the Sao Hillplantations were greatly expanded to provide raw
material for the proposed paper mill at Mufindi.

Farmer andcommunity tree plantinghas taken place throughout the country but particularly inCentral
and West Tanzania e.g. inNjombe andMufindidistricts. Forest plantation by the private sector i s a
relatively new development inthe country with several operations initiated inthe 1990s by the
Commonwealth Development Corporation and more recently byprivate Norwegian investors. Specific
measuresthat address safeguardconcerns are highlighted below.




                                                    -  104 -

              TableAII.3: Elements of the EIA Process.for Pluntutions in Envjronmentul~Important Habitats

 Objective:
     Ensure that environmentalissuesare consideredas part ofplantation nmnagementplan.
     Ensure that environmentalimpacts are reduced or minimized.
     Solicit feedbackfrom affected stakeholders

 Actions:
     Review the current biophysical status ofthe plantation.
     Assess the potential environmental impact to critical or sensitive habitats associated with the managementplan.
 e   Identifymitigation or protection measures.

 Party Responsible,for Mitigation:
     Leaseholder
 e   TFSwith Technical Support from regional Catchmentand Forestry Officers

  Yerifeation:
     Environmental Assessment Statemenu'Report
     Environmental audiu'inspectionby TFS



EIAsfor designatedplantations

The project proposes to support the involvement o f the private sector inindustrial plantationmanagement
through three pilot schemes(private management o f a selected industrial plantation, co-management of
an industrial plantation which brings an industrialplantation with multiple stakeholders under
commercial management, community-based plantation managementfor areas which cannot be managed
commercially either by private companies or by the state but which have potentialto provide benefits to
communities). Pilot areas are to be identified duringthe early stages o fproject implementation.

Proposedpilot areas will be inventories and map. The result will be the demarcation and establishment
of plantation boundaries, including identification andmapping of areasto be excludedfrom cutting such
as critical watershedsand areas containing important natural habitats. A standard assessmentand
documentation process will be developed to accomplish this objective. When appropriate, mitigationor
protectionmeasureswill be identified and implemented.

Socio-economic studies

There hasbeen some concern that the involvement o fthe private sector will have serious economic
impacts on small sawmillers and onplantation-adj acent communities. The sawmilling industryis an
important sourceo f employment and revenue generation for local communities. Woodproducts are sold
for buildmgmaterial, poles and other associatedenterprises such as furniture mahng. Eachpilot
plantationwill develop general socio-economic information to portray the social, economic and social
service instrumentswithin surrounding communities. The information to be collected will include:

    Communityivillage profiles that include populationstatistics, demographics, overview of labor force,
    employment opportunities and services;
    a description o f each small to medium sawmill including equipment, labor force, daily volume o f
    production, sources o fwood supply, clients and or end product markets;




                                                             - 105-

     a summary o f sawmill operator issues regarding supply and/or productionproblems, opportunities
     andpotential solutions; and
      an overview o f economic situationineachcommunity.

The informationwill be incorporatedinto any social impact mitigationplans, as relevant, for individual
plantation areas posed for PSI.

takeh holder partic~ationinplantation management

The project will support the adoption o fparticipatory plantationmanagement. This will require an
acceptanceo f certain responsibilities and changes inthe roles o f the various stakeholders inforest
management. The village, the state, and the private sector will have to cooperate andwork with each
other ifparticipatory or joint forest managementis to succeed. The following actions will be undertaken
to facilitate success:

e     clarify through contractual arrangement as appropriate the respective roles o f communities, state and
      industryinforest managementandprotection;
e     establish mechanisms to ensure that the expectations o f respective partners regardingplantation
      management i s understood by everyone;
e     strengthen the organizational and technical capacity o f villagers inresource management;
e     integrate plantationmanagementrelatedactivities with other village landuses and development
      activities;
      recognize traditional/custom~rightsand possible claims to landbasedon traditional village
      boundaries (ifsuch situations exist);
e     develop local conflict resolution mechanismsfor situations requiringconsideration o f different
      stakeholder objectives.

Encroachment in plantution or other reservedforest areas and issues with respect to involuntavy
resettlement

Government has established several mechanismsto reduce the problemo f encroachment inreserved
forest lands, includingboundary demarcation, patrols, voluntary resettlement andthe implementation o f
benefit sharing schemes for communities living inbuffer zones around the forests. Many o f these
measures have also beenappliedto plantation forests as well. However, a shift to having non-forest
Department staff involved insome o fthese sensitive matters will require establishing good lines o f
communicationbetweenthe plantation operators and local community stakeholders.

The Government has confirmedthat involuntary resettlement will not be carried out inconjunction with
 any activity inthis project, and suchpolicy is expected to be applied inthe plantation forest lands. Many
 o f the plantation forests have individuals living on the border, and at times, within the forest who as
 Forest Department employees serve as forest guards. Eachplantationmanagementplan will identify
 such individuals and indicate how these personswill be effectedduringthe privatization process.

 Production waste management

 An issue relatedto the development of industrial operations aroundplantation areas which could benefit
 from project activities relates to the accumulation o f commercial wood-based wastes. It is common
 practice inmany sawmill operations to dump andlor burnthese byproducts, resulting indeleterious
 environmental impacts and inefficient use o fwoody biomass. Use o f this biomass for alternative


                                                     - 106-

products such as blocks, he1and or other products is uncommon. Several operators expressedthe desire
for technical assistanceto help identify viable alternatives to these practices, and lookedto the project for
providingpossible solutions from experts outside the country.

EasternArc Conservation andManagement: catchment forests and critical and sensitive habitats

Specific activities will be undertaken, with GEF support, within the Ulugurumountains which are both
"catchment forests" as definedbyrecent legislation andhighmountainforests o f unique biodiversity
value. As such, this component o f the project will have the challenge o f applying the new GOTjoint
forest managementpolicy, which recognizes the involvement o f local communities or NGOs inthe
management and conservation o f forests and forest lands. The project will strive to meet the needs o f
different stakeholder groups inthis region through a combination o f initiatives that will ensure protection
o f the Catchment Forest Reserves, especially those areas with highbiodiversity and hydrological values.
Itis anticipatedthat somedegreeofresource usewill occur butthat this will bebalancedwith
conservation and protection.

Other issues
                                       Monitoringand Supervision

An outline safeguardmonitoring planhas beendeveloped to ensurethat safeguardprovisions are
adequately implementedand sustained. The monitoring program will be further developed, and will
indicate how well each o f the components is implementing the key provisions defined previously. The
monitoringplanwill define indicators for measurement,methods to be used, frequency o f measurements,
detection limits, andmonitoring responsibilities. The plan will be implementedwithinthe overall
context o f institutional reforms inthe Forest and Beekeeping Department. The plan will include a
description o fhow reviews of selected issues o f concern will beundertaken. A simple and pragmatic
collection o f monitoring indicators is providedbelow.

The safeguard indicators and monitoring planwill be incorporatedinto the overallproject monitoring
planas described inthe PAD. Consequently, the MNRT will be the ultimate GOT informationfocal
point. The Bank will include inthe project supervision planthe participation o f an environmental
specialist inselectedmissions, the Mid-TermReview and inthe ImplementationCompletion Report.
This specialist will review progressinimplementationo fthe project safeguardprovisions.




                                                    -107-

             TableA11.4: Monitoring Compliance with Environmental and Social Safeguards


Zomponent/            Safeguard Issue       MonitoringIndicator    Responsibility for Frequency
Yub-component                                                      Monitoring and
                                                                   Mitigation
Institutional reform:  Encroachment          Community             FBD                Annual survey/
Participatory Forest   problems in specific  complaints to FBD                        report
Management             forests               Claims filed against
                       Resource use and      FBD
                       extraction without    Legal actions against
                       stakeholder           citizens byFBD
                       consensus
[nvolvement o f the    FBDemployees not      Grievances filed      FBDmonitors        Annual survey
?rivate sector in      provided adequate     against FDB or mill   performance o f
industrialplantation   compensation          owner                 private sector     Parastatal Sector
management              Small milloperators  Millclosures,         partners           Reform
                        experience economic  worker layoffs, sale                     Commission
                        downturn             o f operations                           Reports
                        No logging o f high  Managementplans
                        forests              completed and                            Socio-economic
                                             reviewed                                 survey and
                                                                                      privatization
                                                                                      reports for pilot
                                                                                      plantations
Conservation and        Modification or      Numberof              FBDandNGO           Catchment Forestry
Management o f the      deforestation o f    unauthorized          partners           Project Reports
EasternArc              critical habitats    incursions into
Mountain forests                             protected forest                         UluguruMountains
                                             zones                                    Biodiversity
                                             Forest change as                          Conservation
                                             detected through                          ProjectReports
                                             aerial photography
                                             or other remote
                                             sensing




                                                 -108-

                        AdditionalAnnex 12: IncrementalCost Analysis

         TANZANIA EasternArc ForestsConservationand Management Project

Overview

The principalobjective of the GEF alternative is to provide resourcesto assistTanzania inconserving
the unique biologicalbiodiversity o fthe Eastern Arc Mountain forests and their ecosystems, which are
o f global importance, as well as vital to the livelihoods o fpeople livinginsurrounding areas. This
objective will be achieved through a combination o f capacity building,conservation activities,
strengthenedprotection, environmental education, and the development and implementationo f
participatory forest conservation managementstrategies. The GEF alternative will provide resources
for the development o f an EasternArc Mountains Conservation Strategy. The processby which this i s
prepared will seek to establish a common platformthrough which multiple stakeholders with interests in
the resources o fthe Arc can reach a consensusabout the most constructive approach toward its
Conservation. Resources will be providedto establish a series o f community-based conservation
initiatives inthe UluguruMountains, a priority site for action to reduce biodiversity loss, andwill assist
increatingaframework for incorporatingforest biodiversityconcerns intoparticipatory forest
managementprocesseswhich are to be supported by a new forest institution, the Tanzania Forest
Service.

The GEF alternative will also provide resourcesto enable the EasternArc Mountains Conservation
Endowment Fundto beginits operations, and to capitalize the Endowment to improvethe sustainable
flow o f resourcesto communities inthe Arc. The Endowment Fundi s expected to be capitalizedby
GEF at the endofthe secondproject year after aperiodo finstitutional capacity building,which will lay
the foundation for the EAMCEF andkey stakeholdersto implement a longer term operational
conservation program. Net income generatedby the fund, beginninginthe fourth project year, will
finance the following activities: trust fund admmistration, appliedbiodiversity research, forest
conservation and participatory forest management, and forestlnature reserve conservation.

Context and broad development goals

Tanzania is a developing country with a GDP per capita o f US$260. Between 1989 and 1999, average
annual GDP growth was 3 percent. Most social development indicators are below the means for
sub-SaharanAfrica. Recent social and economic development indicators are summarized inthe table on
the followingpage. Rates o f population growth tendto be highest inareas o f good agricultural
potential, which are primarily highland areas with good forest cover. About 68 percent o f the
population lives inrural areas, subsisting largely on agriculture and the use o f forest and woodland
resources for a variety o f timber and non-timber products. At the national level, agriculture contributes
to 45 percent o f GDP. Commercial tea andcoffee are significant export crops, as are tobacco and
cotton, and these are very important for rural income generation.

A primarydevelopment goal ofthe Government ofTanzania is to alleviate povertythroughthe
 sustainable management o f naturalresources, including the conservation o f biological diversity. Within
 this policy framework, the protection o fwatersheds is criticalto maintainingwater supplies for urban
 areas and for hydroelectric generation. Tanzania has the largest gross areaunder protectedstatus o f any
 country insub-SaharanAfrica (around 13.8 million ha under IUCNManagement Categories 1to 4). As
 a proportion o ftotal landarea, it has the secondhighest percentageunder protectedarea status (14.6
percent, compared with Botswana's 18percent) insub-SaharanAfrica. A very constructive policy



                                                      - 109-

framework seeks to capture this priority onthe conservation o f forest biodiversity, particularly through
the National Forest Policy, and its program for implementation, the National Forest Program.

Tanzania has abundant tree resources, and over a thirdo f the country (between 30 and 40 million ha) is
under forest andwoodland cover. A relatively small percentage o fthe country, however (less than2
percent), comprises closed tropical highforests, while the bulki s accounted for by open woodlands o f
the miombo type (dominated by Brachystegia species). About 40 percent o fTanzania's tropical high
forest area i s concentrated ina belto fgeologically ancient crystalline mountain formations knownas
the Eastern Arc Mountains.

Biophysical aspects of the Eastern Arc

The Eastern Arc Mountains stretch from southeast Kenya through south central Tanzania. They consist
o f the Taita Hills inKenya, and the Pare, Usambara,Nguru,Nguu,Ukaguru, Rubeho, Uluguru,
Mahenge, andUdzungwaMountains inTanzania. The mountains range inaltitude from 500m to
2,850m. Rainfall insomeblocks is as highas 3000 mmper year, but falls as low as 600 mminthe
western rain shadow. Formed 100million years ago, the EasternArc forests represent one o f the oldest
and most stable terrestrial ecosystemsonthe continent. Their age, geologic origin, andproximityto the
IndianOcean are features which separate them from other highlandregions inEast Africa.

Currently, the total area o f natural forest inthe Tanzanian Eastern Arc Mountains i s approximately
5,350 km2.Ithas been estimated that this is around a thirdo fwhat it was a century ago. Nearly
three-quarters o fthe remainingnatural forest inthe Eastern Arc i s open (and sometimes degraded)
forest -forest inwhich the canopy is not contiguous. The total area o f closed forest -forest inwhich
the canopy i s generally intact and contiguous -inthe EasternArc is slightlymorethan 1,45 1km2.

The EasternArc forests have the highest knownnumber ofplant and animal speciesof any regionin
Tanzania. The EastemArc i s also characterized by highconcentrations o f endemic species. The
EasternArc forests are known as one o fthe most important sites inAfrica for endemic birds,
amphibians, reptiles, many groups o f invertebrates, and plants. Indeed, the EasternArc contains one o f
the highest proportions o f endemic species o fany regionworldwide.

The EasternArc is also the habitat for the majority o f the globally critically endangered, endangered,
and vulnerable mammal, bird, and tree species found inmainlandTanzania. Eighty-sixpercent o f all
mammal species and 90 percent o f all birdspecies listed by IUCN(1996) as either critically
endangered, endangered, or vulnerable inmainland Tanzania are found inthe EasternArc forests.
Furthermore, approximately 52 percent o fthe globally threatened tree species occurring inTanzania are
found inthe EasternArc Mountains.

As aresult o fthe extensive threats facing the EasternArc forests andtheir exceptionally high
concentrations o f endemic species, the EasternArc andthe coastal forests o f Tanzania and southern
Kenya have beenidentifiedas one o f the 25 most threatened ecosystemsworldwide         - one o f the
 so-called `global biodiversity hot spots' -recognized by Conservation International, and are included in
WWF's listingof200 ecoregions ofcriticalglobal importance. The EasternArc Mountains andcoastal
 forests o f Tanzania andKenyahave the highest ratio o f endemic plant and vertebrate species per 100
 kmzofall 25 biodiversity hot spots.




                                                     -110-

Socio-economic characteristics of communities around the Eastern Arc

The Eastern Arc Mountains are scattered over an enormous area. Becauseo f the higher rainfall and
better soils which are found at higher elevations inTanzania, there are naturally much higher human
population densities inthe vicinities o f these forested areas. Perhapsas many as 4 millionpeople live
within 10 kmo f one o f the Arc's 11main forest blocks. Between40 and 50 percent o fthis population
lives below the poverty line. At least 80 percent o fthe population livinginthe vicinity o f the Eastern
Arc Mountains derive their principallivelihoods from agriculture and livestock husbandry, and many
are heavily dependent on forest products and environmental services. Because o f differences inrainfall
and altitude, there are widespread differences infarming systeins, and while there i s little evidence o f
significant food insecurity, farmers have consistently reportedthat yields have declined. Soil erosion
remains a serious problem insome areas.

Scope of analysis and assumptions

The analysis o fbaseline, GEF alternative, andincremental costsis focused onthe forests o fthe Eastern
Arc, andthe areas where proposed GEF support is to be targeted, as well as on the broader set o f
institutional and policy changeswhich are expected to impact on forest biodiversity conservation in
Tanzania. The benefits o fbiodiversity conservation within the forest reserve do extend further afield,
particularly with respect to the benefits from watershed catchment protectionwhich accrue interms o f
water andhydroelectric energy supplies. The analysis consider the fully 6 year implementationperiod
for the project.

Baseline Scenario

The baseline set o f actions which are being undertaken on a `business-as-usual' basis inthe Eastern Arc
includes the activities inthe forest andagricultural sector. Boththese sectors have significant linkages
to the water and energy sectors. The baseline largely comprises: forest sector planning; forest
catchment andprotected areas management; plannedforest institutionalreforms; biodiversity
conservation activities; and agricultural andrural development activities. We review as well the
activities and outputs financed with PDF resources. Inadditionto donor-financed activities i s the wage
bill for forest officers deployed byFBDand staff ofTANAPA inthe EasternArc, as well for
agricultural extension officers working on specific soil erosion and sustainable farming systems inthe
vicinity o fthe EasternArc.

Rural liyeli~oodsand ruralpoverty

The Eastern Arc forests are extremely important for mitigatingthe impacts o frural poverty. Recent
studies have shown that fully 40 percent o f total householdconsumption in some rural areas is
accounted for by forest and woodland products such as honey production, firewood, construction
material, andwild fruit andother foods (a point noted inTanzania's Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper).
Inaddition, forests andwoodlands are animportant source ofdry seasongrazing, reducinghouseholds`
 exposure to environmental risk. Ruralhouseholds generally use a wide variety o f environmental
 resources from woodlands, and the sizable aggregatevalue o f environmentally-derived income i s made
 upofa fairly largenumber ofsmaller individualincome sources. Inother studies fromthe region, ithas
 also been shown that there i s a negative relationshipbetweenaggregateenvironmentalincome share and
 total householdincome, that the poor are more resource-dependentthan the rich (thoughbetter off
 households are, inquantitative terms, the most significant users of environmental resources). There is
 considerable complexity inthe factors which determine levels o fresource use: different households use
 different resources for different reasons at different times. Still, the conclusions are inescapable: the


                                                     - 111-

ruralpoor are heavily dependent on resourcesderived from forests and woodlands, and deforestation
and forest degradation poses a significant threat to rural livelihoods.

The Eastern Arc Mountainforests are inextricably linkedto the social and economic fabric o fthe
communities livingadjacent to the forests. Indeed, these forests are important because they sustain
livelihoods and becauseo f the linkages between effective forest management, conservation, andpoverty
reduction. Studies have identified both the benefits associatedwith conservation (primarily related to
water) and the costs associatedwith changing current practices. These costs include the potentialloss
of livelihoodfor residents engagedintimber felling, charcoal production, and agriculture (taking place
within forest boundaries) andpotential economic adversity for current users o fthose forest products -
such as urban dwellers dependent on charcoal for fuel and poles for construction and women engagedin
localbrew making. Indeeddiscussions with community groups, foresters, and government officials
have demonstrated convincingly that virtually all livelihoods inthe communities adjacent to these
forests are dependent insome way and to varying degrees on forest resources. These findings
underscore the importance o f developing acceptedstrategies which address socio-economic issues
associatedwith developingand implementingbiodiversity conservation initiatives inthe EasternArc
Mountains.

Eastern Arcforests and the national economy

While the biodiversity o f the Eastern Arc Mountain forests i s o fextraordinary international significance
andlocally is o fgreat value for mitigating the impacts ofpoverty, the value o fthese forests to the
national economy, primarily through water andenergy production, is o f extreme national importance.
The Eastern Arc forests cover severalmajor catchmentswhich collectively provide water for all o fthe
nation's coastal communities (including Dar es Salaamwith its population o f 3 million). These
mountain forests feed more than 22 rivers, including the Sigi, Rum, Ruaha, Kihansi, and Rufiji. The
Ulugurucatchment, for example, providesthe mainsourceofdrinkingwater to bothMorogoro town
andDar es Salaam. Hydroelectric energy production is similarly heavily dependent onmaintainingthe
integrity o f these forests. Nearly 70 percent o f Tanzania's electricity is generatedfrom sources derived
from the EasternArc forests. Water from the EasternArc also supports river ecosystems, mangrove
forests, coastal ecosystems andcoral reefs. Inshort the value o f water derived from the EasternArc
forests cannot be overstated.

Other environmental services captured bythe macro-economy associatedwith the Eastern Arc forests
impact positively on agricultural production and also result from timber harvesting(both through the
legal and illegal felling o f trees usedinconstructionand to make furniture andcharcoal). More recently
a small ecotourismindustryhas developed. There are some indications o f a growing trade inthreatened
species o f insects andreptiles. Accordingly, there i s a strong need for sustainable use o f forest products
for these purposes andactivities such as tourism which maximizethe non-destructive uses o f forests.

The idea o f collecting environmental rents, especially from the energy andwater sectors, has been
tabled ina general way a number o f times. Theseproposals, however, are somewhat disconnected from
 an understanding o fthe tenuous -indeed, highlyprecarious -financial position o f service delivery
 institutions such as the Tanzania Electricity Supply Company (Tanesco) and the Dar es SalaamWater
 and Sewerage Authority (DAWASA). While the capturing o f environmentalrents may seem to be a
 good idea inthe abstract, the current public expenditure framework suggeststhat this would be
 unrealistic inthe short term.




                                                     -112-

Forestry sectorplanning

The National Forest Programprovides the overall planning framework which describes the needfor
interventions inthe forestry sector. The planwas the product o f extensive consultations and
consensus-building activities between government andcivil society. With respect to forest biodiversity
conservation andmanagement, the planproposes to launch steps to reduce forest biodiversity loss, to
promote village-based forest conservation, to identifyandprioritizethreatened forest ecosystems, to
propose and support implementationo f mitigationsteps, andto prepare management guidelines for
forest biodiversity conservation. The NFP Steering Committee hasbeenestablished to see through the
process o f implementation, andhas primaryresponsibility for ensuring that donor activities are
implementedina manner which is consistent with the NFP. (The NFP Steering Comnittee i s
comprisedo frepresentatives from MNRT, the Ministryo f Finance, the Planning Commission, the
MinistryofRegionalAdministration andLocalGovernment, theNational LandusePlanning
Commission, the Vice President'sOffice (Environment Division), Sokoine Universityo f Agriculture,
andthe Private Sector Foundation.) The principalfinancial delivery mechanism for the NationalForest
Program is the plannedUS$62.2 million Forest Conservation and Management Project (FCMP)
(comprised inpart o f $32.1 million inIDA financing) into which the proposed GEF financed alternative
hasbeen fully blended. The NFP Steering Committee has been given oversight for preparationo fthe
FCMP, andmonitoring o f its implementation. Additional bilateral support for implementation o f the
NFP is inthe process o f being mobilized.

Withrespect to the EasternArc forests, the NFP explicitly recognizes their global biodiversity values,
but also acknowledges that nationalresourcesto investintheir conservation are likely to beextremely
constrained. The NFP fails to establish a strategic framework for how forest biodiversity conservation
inthe EasternArc canbebroughtabout.

Forest catchment andprotected areas conservationand management

Almost the only highforests inTanzania over which Government has any immediate control are
classified as catchment forests, which are maintainedandprotected for their watershed catchment
values. Catchment managementis essential for national power generation, to provide urbanand rural
water supplies, and for existing andpotential irrigation. Linkagesbetween management o fthe forest
sector and the water and energy sectors are weak. N o water or power user fees revert to forest
managers, despite generalist suggestionsto do so. Water supplies inTanga, Morogoro and Dar es
Salaam have been severely affected by the lack o f a regulatory framework for water management.

As with many other areas, the policy framework for water managementhasimprovedconsiderably over
the last several years, andnational policy now places a priority on determining water rights partly on the
basis o f the needto maintain downstream environmental flows. The translation o fpolicy into effective
action to ensure upstreamcatchment protection maybe a longer term outcome. Similarly, catchment
protection remains critical for ensuringlongterm access to power, yet there i s something o f a
disconnect between the energy, forest, andwater sectors. Constrained installedhydroelectric generating
capacity has meant that the impacts ofreduced catchment flows as a result o fpoor landmanagement
practices are greatly amplified duringdrought periods.

The Forestry andBeekeeping Divisionhas deployed staff to managemajor catchment forests inthe
EasternArc, andthese are concentrated inthe UluguruNorth, UluguruSouth, andEast Usambara
Mountains. A total of 8 Forest Officers and57 Assistant Forest Officers have beendeployedbyFBDto
assist inmanagingcatchment forests inthese particular blocks. They are assistedwith support from the
Norwegian-financed Catchment Forestry Project as well as bythe German-financed NaturalResources


                                                   - 113-

Management andBufferZone Development Program. Additional staffhave been deployedbythe
Tanzania NationalParks Authority (TANAPA) to managementthe Udzungwa National Park.
TANAPA has beenpreparing(withWWF support) a managementplan for the UdzungwaNational
Park.

Plannedforest institutional reforms

Government intends to establish the Tanzania Forest Service as a specialized 'executive agency' as
defined bythe ExecutiveAgencies Act (1997), and consistent with the wider and on-going national
programo fcivil service reform. It is envisaged that the Tanzania Forest Service will, among other
things, have some responsibilitiesfor the protection andmanagemento fnatural forests. Establishment
o f the TFS i s being supported bythe WorldBank. Planned investments are intendedto focus on
improvinggovernance inthe sector, andto develop means o f ensuring that revenues collected from
forest management are reinvested at the local level inforest protection andmanagement through local
institutions. Inaddition, the TFS i s expectedto establishvastly improved service-delivery mechanisms
for participatory forest andwoodland management, inparticular, support for the establishment o f
Village Forest Reserves, forest and woodland conservation and managementby individuals and
communities, and Joint Forest Management, buildingonexperiences pilotedinearlier efforts.

With respect to the Eastern Arc, the capacity to plan, mobilize resources for, implement, andmonitor
biodiversity conservation initiatives i s lacking. For the TFS to have any national mandate for forest
biodiversity conservation, thesetypes o f skills will needto be upgraded and greatly enhanced. In
particular, the inclusion o f a particular focus onparticipatory forest biodiversity conservation inthe
emerging institutional framework i s a criticalneed. The Baseline provides no resources to enable this
kindofinstitutional strengthening.

Biodiversity conservationin theEastern Arc

The bulko f the most significant biodiversity conservation activities which are beingundertaken inthe
EasternArc are donor-financed. Donor support has been highlyfragmented and inconsistent, and has
primarilyaddressednationaland localneeds(important intheir own right), with very little focus on
globally significant biodiversity values. Some activities have providedmuchneeded research about
biodiversity inthe Arc, andits conservation. However, becauseo fthe multiplicity o f objectives,
approaches, and outcomes, donor support has not reflected any particular set o f strategic objectives.

Inaddition, donor support for work inthe EasternArc hasbeenirregular andinconsistent. Nationaland
local institutions are not able reliably to depend on long-term donor support for financing local
biodiversity conservation initiatives, and the sustainability o fmanydonor interventions i s open to
question. The certainty o f long-term financing for forest biodiversity conservation inTanzania remains
problematic. Indeed, long term financing needsto conserve the EasternArc are enonnous. One study
 concludedthat, inorder to addressprevailing forest biodiversity policy priorities, public expenditures
 totaling around $15 millionper year would be requiredinthe long-term - a five-fold increase over
 current total public financing levels. Subsequent efforts have sought to identifyhow the efficiency o f
 expenditures could be increased, and whether alternative resource delivery models would be more
 effective (i.e. financing communities directly to assist them inundertakingforest conservation, rather
 than financing Government).




                                                    - 114-

The extent o f future donor commitments to biodiversity conservation inthe EasternArc is not clear.
While the Eastem Arc has, for instance, beenidentified for eventual support from the Critical
Ecosystems Partnership Fund(CEPF), no specific commitments have been made, andthe timing and
scopeo ffuture support i s uncertain. Most donors view potential GEF support as an important catalyst
for their own actions, and are likelyto make new commitments as the outcomes from the proposed
EasternArc activitybecome clearer.

Agriculture and rural developmentactivities

For the most part, the EasternArc Mountains have reliable rainfall o fbetween2200 nunand 1000mm
per year. Despitetheir rather poor soils, population densities are high- up to 450 people per km2in
some areas. Agriculture consists o f commercialestates (mainly tea, some cinchona, increasing
horticulture) andintensive and extensive subsistence cultivation. Landshortages have forced
cultivation onto ever steeper slopes and onto streambanks, and have brought about the conversion o f
remainingforest land to agriculture. Erosioni s widespread, and has ledto soil andnutrientlosses,
decreasedcatchment capability, flash floods and landslides, andreservoir siltation. Poor farming
practices inmucho fthe EasternArc area accentuatespoverty and increases dependence on forest
resourcesfor alternative incomes.

Agricultural extension inTanzania is providedas an advisory service by District Agriculture Officers.
Inthefaceofpublicexpenditureconstraints, theseserviceshavebeenindecline. Donorand
government supported schemeshave sought to increase the areaunder tea inrecent years through
out-grower schemes, to integrate ago-forestry, to increasehorticulture, to encourage the adoption o f
stall fed cattle rearing. Pyrethrumis increasingly beingcultivated, as i s the cultivation o f spices.
Economic liberalizationinthe sectorhas greatly increasedthe incentive to expand agriculture, but
advisory services are not inplace adequately to address the increased demand.

GEFAlternative

Costs. The total cost o fthe Forest Conservation andManagement Project is estimated at US$62.2
million. Ofthis, US$50.4 million is expected to be forthcoming from GEF, IDA, and other co-financing
sources. The balance o f $11.75 million i s associatedfinancing which constitutes part o f the baseline,
andis funded from various sources. GEFIncremental costs are expected to total aroundUS$12million.
The proposed structure o fIncrementalcost financing i s outlined inthe Summary Table.

                       Table A12.1: Summary proposed financing ofIncrementalCosts (US$ million)

                                                   Baseline                 GEF IncrementalCosts

                                                            financing
    1. DevelopmentofanIntegrated               12.6            6.6       0.00      2.00        21.2
    EasternArc MountainBiodiversity
    Conservation Strategy
    2. Community-based conservationin          12.4            4.4       0.00      3.00         19.8
    the UluguruMountains
    3. Institutional reformsfor forest         8.3              0.7      0.00      0.00         9.0
    biodiversityconservation
    4. Establishment and operationof the       5.1              0.1      7.00       0.00        12.2
    EasternArc MountainsConservation




                                                       - 115-

Benefits. Implementationofthe GEFAlternative would enablebiodiversity conservation activities and
programs to occur that would not have been undertaken through current baseline activities, The
establishment o f a financial mechanism,the EAMCEF, will ensure long-term support for biodiversity
conservation activities inthe EasternArc. Under the GEF alternative, Tanzania will strengthen the
baseline scenario by contributing to the conservation o f this globally significant mountain forest
ecosystem, conserving rare and endangeredspecies, maintainingwatershed integrityandinternational
water flows, improving tourism values, andbuildingthe capacity o f communities (as well as national
institutions) to managethe Eastern Arc's natural resources.

Incrementalcosts. The difference betweenthe cost o fthe Baseline scenario (co-financingplus
associated financing which totals US$50.2 million) andthe cost o f the GEF Alternative (USS62.2
million) i s estimated at US$12 million. GEF resourcesare required to meet these incrementalcosts for
achieving long-termglobal environmental benefits as a result o f developingan integrated Conservation
Strategy for the EasternArc, undertakingcommunity-based conservation activities ina priority site in
the Arc (the Ulugurus), supporting institutional reforms which incorporate forest biodiversity
conservation objectives into participatory forest management strategies, and from establishing a
long-term sustainable financing mechanism for forest biodiversity conservation through the EAMCEF.

Co-financing. The EasternArc has already benefitedfrom US$373,000 inPDFIA and B resources
which have been usedto finance preparation costs. Co-financing andcounterpart financing has been
sought from a range o f donors and from Government, andthis totals an estimated US38.4 million.

                                     Table A12.2: IncrementalCosts Matrix

      Project                                          Domestic Benefit                  Global Benefit
    Component
 Developmentand                                   Limited capacity to           Nofocal point for biodiversity
 implementation o f                               implementnew forest,           conservation activities inthe
 an Integrated                                    water, and land policies in    region
 EasternArc                                       a mannerthat conserves
 Biodiversity                                     andprotects vital forest
 Conservation                                     resources and values,
 Strategy                                         including water and local
                                                  livelihoods.
                                                  No framework or other          No mechanismto integrate
                                                  approachto consider the        disparatepolicies, districts, and
                                                  EasternArc Mountains as        government agencies into a
                                                  an entire unit and             comprehensiveset o f strategies
                                  I               implement an integrated        for biodiversity.
                                                  set ofpolicies for
                                                  conservation.
                                                                                 Limited recognition that
                                                                                 biodiversity is an important
                                                                                 value to vrotect.
                     With GEF         21.18        Implementationof              Implementationo f strategiesto
                      Alternative                  strategies that serveto       conserve biodiversity
                                                   conservecatchment forests     throughout the region.
                                                   and improve the
                                                   socio-economic conditions
                                                   offorest dependent
                                                   communities.
                                                   Monitoring programsto         Adaptive monitoring and
                                                   provide feedbackon            evaluation to measure
                                                   effectiveness,change, and     biodiversity status andfield
                                                   threats to forest resources.  programimpacts.



                                                      - 116-

                                         Jew capacity at the           Potential new hnding strategies
                                         .ationaland regional level    that can finance conservation o f
                                         3 address Eastem Arc          forestswith maximum
                                         $suesas a whole.              biodiversitv.
                 Total           5.0
                 Incremental
                 Cost o fthe
                 GEF
                 Altemative
                 Incremental     3.0
                 providedby
                 leveraged
                 co-financing
                 Incremental     2.0
                 resources
                 required
                 from GEF
Community-based  Baseline        13.38   lapidloss o fUluguru          Loss ofbiodiversity,
conservation in                          vlountains catchment          specifically species endemic to
the Uluguru                              orests, which provide         the Ulugurusandmost seriously
Mountains                                water for severalmillion      species found inthe
                                         ieopleand support the         mid-mountain zone.
                                         ivelihoods o f
                                         brest-adjacent
                                         :ommunities.
               I                         iesearchand monitoring        Further fragmentation o f
                                         )fcatchmentforest             forests.
                                         .esources; development o f
                                         :apacity to conserve
                                         Forests.
                                                                        Collection o fdata on
                                                                        biodiversity values; pilot
                                                                        projects to establish boundaries
                                                                        and involve communities in
                                                                        conservation.
                                         New resourcesto                New resourcesto protect
                  Altemative             demarcate and protect          endemic species, through
                                         forest reserves; training      improved forest management,
                                         andassistanceinan              enforcement o fboundaries, and
                                         integrated set o factivities   participatory management
                                         to conserve forest             schemes.
                                         resourceswhile improving
                                         livelihoods.
                                         Use o fconservation            Leverageconservation capacity
                                         capacity developed inthe       already developed for global
                                         baseline.                      benefits.
                  Total           6.40
                  Incremental
                  Cost o fthe
                  GEF
                  Alternative
                  Incremental     3.40
                  provided by
                  leveraged
                  co-financing
                  Incremental     3.0
                  resources
                  required
                  from GEF
 Institutional    Baseline         8.3    Implementationof forest        No capacity inthe Eastem Arc


                                             - 117-

cforms for forest                          sector reformjust            Mountain districts to address
iiodiversity                               underwayat the national      biodiversity issues.
:onservation                               level.
                                           Commitment to                Limited capacity nationallyto
                                           Participatory Forest         address these issues.
                                           Management as an
                                           alternative approachto
                                           involve all stakeholdersin
                                           managingforests.
                  With GEF          9.3    New capacity within the      National and regional capacity
                  Alternative              EastemArc Mountain           to address and act on
                                           districts to implement       conservation o f globally
                                           reforms that are to leadto   significant biodiversity.
                                           improvedmanagement and
                                           protectiono fcatchment
                                           and other forests.
                  Total             1.os
                   Incremental
                   Cost o fthe
                  GEF
                   Altemative
                   Incremental      0.8
                   provided by
                   leveraged
                   co-financing
Establishment o f  Baseline         0.0    No long-term sustainable     No long-term sustainable
the EasternArc                             financing mechanismfor       financing mechanism for
Mountains                                  conservation inplace.        conservation in place.
Conservation
Endowment Fund
                   With GEF         11.9   EAMCEF endowment is          Ongoing long-term financing
                   Altemative              capitalized. Ongoing,        for projects that will conserve
                                           long-term financing for      the globally significant
                                            conservation projects that  biodiversity resource.
                                            will improvelivelihoods
                                            andpreservewater and
                                            energy values.
                   Total           11.90
                   Incremental
                   Cost o fthe
                   GEF
                    Alternative
                    Incremental     5.15
                    provided by
                    leveraged
                    co-financing
                    Incremental     6.75
                    resources
                    required
                    from GEF
 Totals             Baseline
                    Co-financing    38.4
                    Associated      11.8
                    financing
                    GEF             12.00
                    financing
                    Total GEF       62.2
                    Altemative




                                               -  118-

                           Table A12.3: Summary, Co-financing and GEFfinancing
                        EasternArc ForestsConservation andManagement(US$ million)

                                                                          I
                                         ndicative Co-finan
                                         iI:*
Activities              IDA   I                            @      5 millio
                                 IDA                        EC     GOT     OtherI Sub-total,
                    FCMP       LKEMP                                                              Costs
                                         ~                                       co-financing
1. Development ofan                                                 0.5
Integrated Eastern
Arc Mountain
Biodiversity
Conservation
Strategy
                       ~


2. Community-based                                                  1.1
                                                                          I
conservationinthe
Uluguru Mountains                                                                                I
3. Institutional                                                    0.2
reforms for forest     I
biodiversity
conservation                                                                    I
4. Establishmentand                                          1.1    0.1     1.0 I     5.1
operation of the
EasternArc
Mountains
Conservation
Endowment Fund                                             -
Total                                                      -1.1     1.9




                                                   - 119-

                            AdditionalAnnex 13: Technical Review

         TANZANIA EasternArc Forests Conservationand Management Project

                        byJohn Mugabe, African Center for Technology Studies

1. GeneralRemarks

IreadtheproposalontheConservationandManagementoftheEasternArcMountainForestsproject
prepared bythe World Bank and the UnitedNations Development Programme (UNDP) with great
interest. Itreads well and i s coherent. Analytical rigor andempirical materialhave beenbrought to the
effort. Ihavejust two general comments to make.

*   The proposalis unnecessarily too long; with repetitions.
.   There i s a tendency to makegeneral assertions   - essentially,some o f the statementsmade inthe
    proposalmay require clarificationlexplanation (see below for specifics).

Interms of scope, it covers abroadarray ofproblems, issues andhaswell sequencedactivities. For its
core objectives to be achieved it will require a strong inter-agency mechanism to ensurethat the proposed
activities are implementedina coherent or synergistic way.

2. Key Issues

Scientific and Technical Soundness

The proposalprovides a good descriptiono fthe ecological structure and socio-economic benefits o f the
Tanzanian EasternArc Mountainforests. Itadequately identifies andanalyses some o fthe root causes o f
the degradation and loss offorest biodiversity o f the EasternArc. Onthe whole, it i s scientifically and
technically sound. There are, however, a number o f comments Iwish to make on the conceptual
framework and analysis issues.

     First,the notionso f conservation, managementandprotection are sometimes usedinterchangeably
     and often loosely. Suchphrases as "the protection o f forest biodiversity conservation" (page 6,para
     23) are confusing.

.    Second, there are a numbero f strong assertions, with very little or no empirical evidence given. For
     example, what i s the basis forjudgingwhether Tanzania's policy for forest conservation is `very
     strong'? Compared to? Isuggestedthat the proposalavoids makingjudgment o f the
     adequacylstrength o fthe policy, particularly the National Forest Policy that i s relatively new. Its
     strengths can be effectively assessedduringits implementation.

 *   Third,the proposalstressesthe needto cast discussion of andsolutions of forest degradation andloss
     problems inTanzania generally andinthe EasternArc inthe overall wider policy reformcontext.
     However, the analysis is restrictedto the explicit newNational Forest Policy and some reference
     made to the draft nationalbiodiversity strategy and actionplan, water policy and agricultural policy.
     How are forests ingeneral and the Eastern Arc Mountainforests inparticular (as national economic
     wealth) addressedby the Tanzania's Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) that i s likely to be the
     framework andwith priorities for development assistanceand lendingto the country? What specific
     actions for betterlimproved forest management are outlined inthe PRSP apart from the mere


                                                    - 120-

    recognition o f the direct economic importance of forests (page 22, para 81). A discussion o f forest
    management (conservation and sustainable) issuesas addressedby the PRSP would be useful; and
    particularly give a context for the cluster of activities and outputs proposed under Activity 1.3 on
    page 22 as well as Activity 1.2 e andf.

.   Fourth, the long-term objective o f the proposedproject is show be clearly state as to
    accommodateiarticulate sustainableuse goals or imperatives. To address some of the
    socio-economic challenges faced inthe Arc, a strategy for forest conservation andprotectionper se
    would be limited. Para 63 last phrase i s confusinglunclear - "incorporate biodiversity conservation
    objectives more effectively into forest management". What are these objectives? Those inArticle 1
    o f the Convention on BiologicalDiversity? What isn't forest management biodiversity conservation?
    Are there specific biodiversity conservation not incorporated into forest management? Which ones?
    These are some o fthe questions that emerge from reading andreflecting on the long-term objective
    stated on page 16 (para 63).

.   Fifth,onthe institutional arrangementsfor forest management, the proposalrefersto reformsaimed
    at establish a `service-delivery mechanism'. Are there mechanismsbeingestablished for the
    regulatory and enforcement roles? Areiwill regulatory and enforcement functions integrated into the
    operation o fthe `service-delivery mechanism'?

IdentificationandArticulationof GlobalEnvironmentalBenefits

The proposaldoes not explicitly identifyandarticulate global environmentalbenefits that the project
would generate. There are such global environmental benefits as its potential contribution to the
management o fclimate change     - e.g.sinks for emissions and carbon sequestration, shouldbe described;
inadditionto what arelargelynationalbenefits outlined onpage68.

Coherencewith GEFGoalsandCouncilGuidance

The proposed project would contribute to the achievement o f overall GEF goals and inparticular to those
pertaining to the conservation and sustainableuse o f biodiversity. Its proposed activities are within the
GEF operational. It is beingproposedwith operational programmes 2 and3. Itis withinone o fthe
priority areas that were identified by the 5th Conference o f Parties to the Convention on Biological
Diversity, andthus GEF investment inthe project would be within the framework CBDiCOP decisions,
particularly Decision Vi13 that calls on the Facilityto support, as priority, projects that implement the
Convention's programme o fwork on forest biodiversity. Itwould contribute to the implementation o f
the elements o fthe programme o f work that focus on:

.   Holistic andinter-sectoral ecosystemapproachesthat integrate the conservation andsustainable use
    o fbiologicaldiversity,taking account o f social and cultural and economic considerations; and

.   Comprehensive analysis o fthe ways inwhichhuman activities, inparticular forest-management
    practices, influence biological diversity andassessment o fways to minimize or mitigate negative
    influences.

The proposed project would enableTanzania to engage inthe implementationo f several o fthe provisions
o fthe Convention on BiologicalDiversity(e.g. Articles 6, 8, 10, 11and 20). For example, it would
create incentives for local communities to engage inconservation o f forest biodiversity (Article 11 o f the
CBD).



                                                    -  121  -

Replicability of the Proposed Project

Problems associatedwith the conservation and sustainableuse o f the EasternArc Mountainforests are
common to many other forest ecosystemsinTanzania and elsewhere inAfrica. The role o f local
communities inthe conservation and sustainableuse o f forests, and the needto enlarge institutional
capacities as well as to ensurereliable, predictable and adequatefinancing o f conservation efforts are
issuesthat preoccupy nationalpolicy-makers andinternationalagencies. The proposedproject activities
are sequencedinsuch a way as to maximize learningduringthe life o f the project and make strategic
interventions to addressroot causes of the problems. A richbody o f informationandknowledge that
may be usedto establish similar activitiesiinterventions will be generatedby the proposed project. The
involvement o fNon-governmental Organizations (e.g. WCST and LEAT) and such donor agencies as
DANIDAoffers an opportunity to replicate the project inother parts ofthe Tanzania with similar
ecological andsocio-economic conditions and forest managementchallenges.

Sustainability of the Project

There is an explicitly recognitionto establish sustainability measuresfor the project. The proposed
endowment fundwould be a major source o f financial sustainability o f conservation and sustainable use
efforts that the project intends to stimulate. Inaddition, ifthe project succeedsinmobilizinglocal
communities and enlarging the range o f socio-economic opportunities available to them, it will have built
a constituency for conservation and sustainableuse ofthe ecosystem. This constituency together with
strong participationo f national public (central and localgovernments) institutions would manage
initiated processesandactivities at the end o f its plannedlifeiduration. Some o f the proposedproject
activities are aimed at transferringownership o fthe processesand outputs to local actors.

3. Secondary Issues

 1. Linkage to other focal areas- The proposedprojectlinkswell to climate change, internationalwaters,
     land degradation.
2. Linkages to other programmes and actionplans at regional or sub-regional The project has direct
                                                                                 -
     linkage to such initiatives as the GEF financed project `Reducing BiodiversityLoss at Cross-Boarder
     Sites inEast Africa'.
3. Degree o f involvement o f stakeholders - The proposedproject wouldbringtogether at least four
     groups o f stakeholders: localhouseholds living and interacting with forests inthe Arc; national
     policy-makers and conservation agencies; private sector; and internationaldonors. Itoffers relatively
     highopportunities ofmobilizingandengaging these groups. Itisbeingdeveloped with areasonable
     measure o f their participation.
 4. Capacity building   - The proposed project is largely about capacity buildingo f at least four types:
     institutional strengthening (centra1and local government authorities and localcommunity
     institutions), resource mobilization, environmental education for local communities, and
     improvement o f overall national and localpolicy contexts.




                                                    - 122-

                        Additional Annex 14: Responseto STAP Review

         TANZANIA: EasternArc Forests Conservationand ManagementProject

The STAP Technical Review confirms that the proposed GEF project support for the EasternArc
MountainForests would contribute to achievement o f overall GEF goals and inparticular to those
pertaining to the conservation and sustainableuse o fbiodiversity. Further the proposal i s consistent with
GEFOperational Programs, and the priorities identifiedbythe 5thCOP. The STAP review
acknowledges the elements o f sustainability which have beenincorporatedinto the project design, and
suggests that there i s good scope for replicability. Finally, the review confirms that the many linkages
across sectors, institutions, and among stakeholders are clearly articulatedand will contribute to meeting
the project's objectives.

The Technical Review makes several general andspecific points about the Project Brief. We respond to
several o f these issues insome detail:

Length of the proposal. The lengtho f the proposal i s an outcome o f the complexity o f the project, the
needfor clarity about institutional and implementationarrangements inlighto f this complexity, andthe
needfor anunderstanding o f how GEF support fits within the broader forest development framework in
Tanzania. The proposalhas beenpreparedto address the many and varied questions which have been
raisedinternally bybothIAs, and so the proposal representsa consensusbetweenthe Bank and UNDP
about the way forward. Muchinformation has beenmoved, from earlier drafts, to the Annexes.

A needto clarify certain assertions inthe Project Brief about the strength of the NationalForest
Policy inTanzania. This was a professional judgment, and was basedon experience with similar policy
processes andoutcomes elsewhere inAfrica. The fundamental question about the effectiveness o fpolicy
implementation i s a different question, andthis can only bejudged inthe mediumterm. We continue to
have the view that the policy framework for forest biodiversity conservation inTanzania is very strong.
This is incomparisonto the past forest policy (which was very out ofdate), and incomparison to other
naturalresource policies inthe easternAfrica Region. The forest policy itselfmakes explicit reference to
other policies - includingthat o f decentralization, as well as water and energy. That determined the
focus on the forest policy itself inthe analysis process.

W e agree the need for a continuing and wider discussion of the Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
and what it says about forest and woodland management. The PRSPwas preparedby Government and
publishedinOctober 2001. The PRSPrecognizes explicitlythat the poor inTanzania areaheavily
dependent onthe environment, and statesthat the poorest households insome areas are those most
dependent on forest and woodland resourcesfor income. The PRSPproposesto findways o f
incorporating environmental quality indicators into its poverty monitoring systeminaway which
captures these levels o f dependency. Future iterations o fthe PRSP andthe Medium-term Expenditure
Framework are expectedto capture more fully these linkages and to help define a more consistent
 framework for managing activities aimed at protecting the environment. The development ofthis Eastern
 Arc project established contact with PRSPprocesses seeking as to how to elicit further support from
 PRSP, andto linkthe monitoring o f enhancedlivelihoods to PRSPMand Emethods. This i s stated in
para 83 (p22). Further descriptionofprocess will be dealt with duringproject implementation.

 What are biodiversityconservation objectives? Why isbiodiversity conservationnot synonymous
 with forest management? They have certainly not been synonymous inthe past-which is a mainreason
 for the new policy. Biodiversity conservation focuses attention away from trees to all taxa and to all


                                                     -123-

products and services notjust woody products from trees. Definitions o f forest biodiversity do follow
from the CBD andthe CBD hasbeen a guidingforce inTanzania's National Forest Policy. Issues o f
sustainable use and equitable use are important. It is important to note that the Objective o f the project
(para 63) states ... to incorporate biodiversity conservation objectives MORE EFFECTIVELY into
                  "
forest management." Yes biodiversity is more integrated than inthe past, but the effectiveness o f this
integration i s not always obvious.

The Review states the need for clarity about the regulatorylenforcement mechanisms and revenue
collection that are to be introducedthrough the new institutional arrangements. These mechanisms are
under active development inTanzania at the moment, through a number o f field projects. Lessons
learnedare being sought - suitable for both forests o f highbiodiversity value and forests o f local
resource benefit. With respect to revenue collection (primarily royalty on logging) proposals are under
consideration that would remove muchresponsibility for revenue collection from District Forest Officers
andplace it inthe hands o fprivate sector contractors working on behalf o f Government, subject to
monitoringbythe Tanzania Revenue Authority. However logging bans continue for the EasternArc
Forests, andrevenues there are likely to be those through ecotourisin and NTFP collection, collected
through community forestry arrangements. New tenure arrangementswhich give primary responsibility
for forest managementto villagers are expected to provide the best form o f decentralized regulation over
forest use.

The STAP review statedthe needto identify other global benefits (inparticular carbon sequestration)
that the project would generate. The project is not intendedto addresscarbon sequestration issues, and
so little work has been carriedout onthe extent o fthese benefits. What little data there i s with respect to
the miombo woodlands o f Tanzania, (which comprise the largest woody cover type inthe country),
suggeststhat the greatest benefits from carbonsequestration can be accrued through better fire
management and reducedloss o f woody cover. Ingeneral, any conservation processthat reduces forest
loss and reduces annual cropping infavor o f woody crop agriculture will contribute positivelyto carbon
sequestration. We still do not see the needto develop detailed carbon models for the EasternArc.

The biodiversityglobal values are described insome detail for the EasternArc as a whole, andsome
level o f description given for some individualforest blocks. The UluguruMountains are a major field
 site for this project (see paragraphs 88 to 97). The UluguruMountainForests score highly for species
 endemism despite havinghadmost low altitude forest cleared for agriculture. The East Usambaras and
 Udzungwas do still have considerable low altitude forest -typically warmer andwetter. This emphasizes
 the extreme biodiversity values o f the higher altitude forests o f the Ulugurus,with extensive radiation in
 several genera o fthe Rubiaceaeplant family for example.




                                                     -124-

AdditionalAnnex 15: Threats and Root Causes of BiodiversityLossand Mitigating Actions

           TANZANIA EasternArc ForestsConservationand Management Project

 There are six main anthropogenic threats to the loss of biodiversity inthe Eastern Arc forests, namely a)
 commercial agriculture, b) subsistenceagriculture, c) intentionally set fires, d) commercial timber
 extraction, e) domestic timber extraction, and f) other householduses.

 (a)       Commercial agriculture. Highly diverse farming systems across the regionwhere the Eastern
 Arc forests are foundhave favored the emergence o fmultiplecoinmercial cropping strategies with
 varying impacts on forest cover. The four primary cash crops inTanzania are coffee, tobacco, tea, and
 cotton, but typically, these have not hada huge impact onhighforest cover loss inthe Arc. The main
 coffee producingareas o f Tanzania are mostly inthe Kilimanjaro and Kagera regions (away from the
 Eastern Arc), andtobacco and cotton are grownprimarilyindrier areas. Tea i s grown inIringa, Tanga,
  andKagera, mostly inlarge estates, andposes a modestly greater threat. The most significant threat,
 however, comes from the cultivation o fvegetables andcookingbananas for localmarkets, and, insome
 places, the cultivation o f cardamom andother spices under the forest cover. The former requires outright
  forest clearance o f cultivable areas, while the latter results inthe clearance o f the understory and
  cultivationfor several years before soils are depleted. This type o f commercial cultivationplays an
  extremely important role inrural livelihoods.

  (b)      Subsistenceagriculture. Subsistencefarming systems are characterized by very low
  productivity (less than Iton per ha for maize, which is the main subsistencecrop). This is inpart due to
  the lack o fbetter alternatives. Cultivation on steep slopes andslash and bumcultivation are common.
  Cropping practices are widely perceivedto have ledto a decline inalready low yields, and to
  deforestation, and soil erosion. Agriculture continues to expand into forested areas.

  (c)      Intentionally set fires. The burningo f fields and grasslandsis a key feature o f subsistence
  farming inTanzania, and posesanother riskto highforests inthe Arc. Honeyhunters are also widely
  blamedfor setting fires.

  (d)      Commercialtimber extraction. Large-scale timber extraction still occurs, albeit illegally
  because o f a moratoriumon the felling o fhighforests established inthe early 1990s. Logging has been
  almost completely stopped insome areas (such as inthe East Usambaras). However, there are few
  incentives -or the capacity -otherwise to reduce or even to monitor the rates o f extraction. Inpractice,
  District Forest Officers (who are accountable to the local District Administration rather than to FBD)
  sometimes condone harvesting inhighforests. Many Districts make their own decisions about logging,
  and some have even called for logging intheir District forest managementplans, irrespective o f national
  policy. Strong action is, therefore, required at the national level to clearly delineate logging policies as
  they apply to the EasternArc forests, andenforcement mechanismsneedto be implemented.
  Commercial extraction to meet charcoal and woodfuel market demands occurs, but is limitedto those
  few areas o f the Arc which are inthe vicinity of largerurban centers (primarily Morogoro and Tanga).

  (e)      Domestic timber extractionfor household construction also poses a threat to the highforests,
  particularly inareas o f recent settlement becauseo f the need for buildingmaterial. Most o f this
  extraction is carried out byrelatively low impact pitsawyers.




                                                       - 125-

non-extractive -the collection o fwild foods andfruits, the use o f forests for beekeeping, and livestock
(0        Other householdusesposeless ofathreat to the highforests ofthe Arc becausethey tendto be

grazing. These also play an extremely important role inmitigatingthe impacts ofpoverty.
Anthropogenic threats are the result o f a series o f root causes, which seldom act independently o f each
other, butwhich overlap, and mutually reinforce the nature o f the threat and its outcome inthe forests.


Root causesof the threats     Threatsassociated with   Raselineactionsto mitigate            4ctions to bejkancedby
 to biodiversityconservation  particular root causes   'mpactsof root causes                 SEF to mitigate impactsof
 in theEastern Arc            By letter referred to                                          *oat causes
Mountain Forests              zbove)
 1. Extensivepoverty               a, b, c, d, e, f    Ruralroads improvements,              2ommunity-based
 throughout the region                                 xonomic liberalization to improve     :onservation activities inthe
                                                       Functioningo f markets. Heavy         Jlugurus, andthose
                                                       nvestments inhealth and               'inanced bythe Endowment
                                                       :ducation. Forest management          jund, are intended to link
                                                       :ontributes significantly to          iiodiversity conservation
                                                       initigatingthe impacts of poverty,    Nithpoverty reduction in
                                                       Jut will likelydo little to increase  xitical ecosystems. The
                                                       rural incomes. Baseline               ievelopmento fa strategic
                                                       investments ininstitutional reform,   mdintegrated view of
                                                       focusing on strengthening             Conservationinthe Eastern
                                                       participatory forest management,      4rc will provide important
                                                       will contributeto mitigating          guidance about resolving
                                                       poverty.                              ievelopment and
                                                                                             oiodiversityconservation
                                                                                             needs.
                                        a, b, c        Agricultural extension activities,    Community-basedforest
 land-use practices                                    new landlegislation and support for   biodiversity conservation
                                                       its implementation, economic          activities seek to bring
                                                       liberalization to improve operation   improvedland-use practices
                                                       ofmarkets.                            into the agricultural
                                                                                             landscane.
                                                       Community basedwoodland                          -- ditto --
 awareness                                             management and biodiversity
                                                       conservation projects (Danida,
                                                       UMADEP). Forest sector planning
                                                       contributes to longer term view o f
                                                       increasedenvironmental awareness.
  4. Lack o f experienceand                                          -- ditto --                        -- ditto --
  incentivesto develop
  alternative resourceuse and
  conservation frameworks in
  communities and onprivate
  land
  5. Fewfora that promote                                             -- ditto -             UIugurusactivity,
  communal exchanges and                               FCMP will also invest in              preparation o fthe
  local networking                                     community exchanges,                  Conservation Strategy, and
                                                       farmer-to-farmer exchanges, and       operation o fthe Endowment
                                                       interactions to widen the group o f   Fund will provide a fora to
                                                       interestedparties inVFR               promote communal
                                                       establishmentand management.          exchanges and local
                                                       Development o fnetwork of             networking.
                                                       practitioners.
                                          d. e          Conservation programs in             GEF support will improve
  mechanismsfor controlling                             catchmentForest Reservesand in       institutional capacity to
  forest exploitation                                   other protectedareas beginto         undertakebiodiversity
                                                        addressthis problem. National        conservation activities, in
                                                        ForestPolicy and National Forest     part by focusing on local



                                                      - 126-

                                              Programintroduce new framework        :apacity to undertake forest
                                              For local control, and are inthe      :onservation and
                                              processofbeing implemented.           nanagement.
                                              Proposedinstitutionalreforms will
                                             also addressthis constraint.
                             a, b, c, d, e    NationalForest Programprovides        Preparationo f integrzted
                                              broad framework for action on         strategic conservation plan
                                              forest biodiversity conservation, but For the Eastem Arc will seek
                                              provides no specific guidancewith     :o establish a common
                                              respectto the EasternArc.             slatfonn for arangeo f
                                                                                    stakeholders to develop a
                                                                                    :onsensus about the
                                                                                    sriorities for conservation
                                                                                    m d management inthe
                                                                                    EastemArc.
8. Weak institutional           c, d, e       Framework for institutionalreform      Projectproposesto improve
capacity for forest                           is being developed.                    :apacity for forest
biodiversity conservation                                                            biodiversity conservation in
                                                                                     new institutional framework
                                                                                     through training and by
                                                                                     integratingforest
                                                                                     conservation initiatives into
                                                                                     the broader program o fthe
                                                                                    TFS.
9. Weak forest govemance                      Planned institutional reforms are
                                              partly intended to improve forest
                                              govemance
10. Inadequateandpoorly                       Donor resources and wage bill for      Longterm sustainable
targeted fiscal resources                     catchmentforests and National          financing for forest
                                              parks protection.                      biodiversity conservation
                                                                                    will bean outcome ofthe
                                              Move to a sector-wide approach         establishment o fthe Eastem
                                              supportedby the FCMP is intended       Arc Conservation
                                              to improve resource flows and          Endowment Fund.
                                              targeting.
1I.Limitedeffectivenesso f                    Alternative village-based              Community-based
protectionregimes                             management andprotectionregimes        conservation through the
                                               havebeen introduced inpolicy and      Ulugum component, as well
                                               are waiting ratification inthe legal  as supported bythe
                                               framework.                            Endowment Fund, should
                                                                                     provide important support
                                               The introductiono fvillage-based      to the establishment of
                                               forest managementand                  VFRs incriticalbiodiversig
                                               conservation schemes will be a key    catchments.
                                               focus o f the proposed Forest
                                               Conservation and Management
                                               oroiect.




                                            - 127-

Additional Annex 16: Forest BiodiversityValue, Endemicity,Threatsand Donor Supportand
                                      Effectiveness in the EasternArc

           TANZANIA EasternArc Forests Conservationand ManagementProject

  There i s a richand growing scientific literature about the extent o f forest biodiversity and endemism in
  Tanzania. Burgess et a1(2001) Burgess, N,Lovett, J. and Mhagama, S. (2001). Biodiversity
  conservation and sustainable forest managementinthe Eastern Arc Mountains. Unpublishedreport
  prepared for the GEF PDFB Eastern Arc Strategy Process, made an effort to rankdifferent blocks o f the
  Eastern Arc on the basis o frates o f endemism. The results from that assessment are suinmarized in
  Table A16.1.


      Table A16.1: Incidence of biodiversityendemism inthe forest blocks of the EasternArc mountainsforests, and area
                                           adjustedrankings ofbiodiversityvalues




   Uluguru                        13             27               20              60          2                1
   Malundwe       I    5   1       0              0               0                0         12
   Hill
    Mahenge            5           0              1               0                1          11              1o+
   Udzungwa          1017         13              18              25              56          3               4




                                                          - 128-

The fact that forest blocks occur inwidely disbursed fragments has contributedto the highrates o f
endemism found inthe Eastern Arc, but are increasinglya reflection ofthe threats which are posedto
their integrity. Table A16.2 summarizesinformation about fragmentation, makes an estimate o f the areas
which have been lost to deforestation, and the extent ofthe threat to future forest biodiversity loss.


                   Table A16.2: Estimated threats to forest biodiversity loss inthe Eastern Arc Mountains




 Source: derived from Burgesset a1(2001).




                                                            - 129-

Poverty and other social indicators inTanzania are extremely poor. Most data i s out o f date, andi s only
aggregatedat the regional level inthe first instance. Recent census information is not available. The
lack o f data makes it very difficult to draw any particular conclusions about the immediate incidence o f
poverty amongst communities livinginthe vicinity o fthe EasternArc and the pressuresthis poses.
Nonetheless, Table A16.3 makes an attempt to present some o fthe poverty andsocial welfare indicators
which are know for the 4 regions across which the Eastem Arc forests extend.

Accordingto these statistics, poverty indicators are the worst inTanga and Iringaregions, measuredboth
interms ofthe incidence ofpoverty as well as interms ofthe prevalence ofstuntingamongst children.
The statistics with respect to population pressureare almost meaningless becausepopulation data i s long
out of date, andbecauseregional aggregations fail to capture the fact that locally, population densities
around individualforest blocks can be extremelyhigh.

                        Table A16.3: Poverty and Social Welfare Indicators and the EasternArc Forests

    Eastern Arc          Forest        Location by      Incidenceof     Nutritional Status            Rural         Rural population
     Mountain           area (kmz)        Region        Poverty, by          of Children            population      per ion':of forest
                                                                                                                          area


                                                                                                                          3582

                                                                                                                          1209



                                                                                                                          602

  Rubeho              \    654      I
  Uluguru
  Malundwe Hill
 ,Mahenge                   5
  Udzungwa                 1017       Iringa                  42                 70.5                1,030,489            1013
  Tanzania, total                                             40                 43.4                16,948,27 1
 Sources: World Bank (2000). Agriculture in Tunzaniusince 1986.Washington, D.C. World Bank;
           World Bank (1994). TunzaniaAgriculture. Washinpton. D.C.
 The incidence o f poverty is basedon 1993data, and is the percentageo f householdswhere per capita expenditure is below the
 poverty line, defined at the 40th percentile nationally (TSh 43,773 for rural households). Other statistics suggest higher
 incidence, but this is a function of how the poverty line is defined. Nutritional status is indicatedby the percentageo f children
 below 2.5 s.d. o f the median height for age which exhibit moderatestunting. Populationdata which dates from 1988 is
 unreliable, and is only repeatedto give an indication of land pressuresacross various regions. Fromthis, one could conclude that
 populationpressures on forests are probably highest in Kilimanjaro Regionand lowest inMorogoro Region, but this fails to
 capture the distribution o f populations withinregions. Populationpressure around forests inMorogoro Regionare thought to be
 very high because o f the coincident limited availability of good agricultural land. Patternso f forest loss outlined inTable A16.2
  suggest this is the case.




                                                                - 130-

Withrespect to donor support for forest biodiversity conservation, andits effectiveness inthe Eastern
Arc, Table A16.4 summarizes some o fthe donor activities which are currently underway invarious
blocks, andranks their effectiveness (on the basis o f a great deal o f very subjective judgment) in
achieving longterm and sustainable outcomes.

               Table A16.4: Donor-financed forest biodiversity conservationactivities in the EasternArc


  Eastern Arc     ProjecVDonor       Extent of lxtent to which   Long term            Comments             Overall ratingof
   Mountain                          financial     project      prospectsfor                               the effectivenessof
  'orest Blocks                      support    interventions    sustainable                               donor supported
                                      (1to 5)    have hada       biodiversity                              forestbiodiversity
                                               majorimpact on   conservation                                conservationin
                                                   forest        activities?                                 achievinglong
                                                 biodiversity      (1 to 5)                                 term sustainable
                                                conservation                                                   outcomes

  lorthPare                                                                    Projectactivities in thc
                Forestry                                                       Pares an: arelatively
                ViaNORAD                                                       small sub-componcntof a
                                                                               wider initiatives
  iouthPare     Reducing
                Biodiversity Loss              ,
                 at Cross Bordcr
                Sites in East Africa

  Nest          NaturalResources                                               Project supportis part of           4
  Jsambara      Managementand                                                  awider program of land
                 Buffer Zone                                                   andforest managemcnt,
                 Development                                                   and doesn't havea
                 Program(GTZ)                                                  specific emphasis on
                                                                               hiodivcrsity conservation
                                                                               per se
  Cast                                                                         Longtcrm support has
  Usambaras      ConservationArea              114                             hada goodimpact on
                 Managemcnt                                                    biodiversity conservation,
                 Project(DIDC)                                                 but sustainable financing
                                                                               mechanismsarc not in
                                                                               place, andproject
                                                                               approach has resultcd in
                                                                               possibly serious conflicts
                                                                               with communities in
                                                                               forest adiacent areas.
  Yguu
  Yguru                                                                                                             4
  Ukaguru                                                                                                           3
  Rubeho                                               4       I                                                     5
  Uluguru                                                                      Projcct is a modest ncw
                                                                               initiativewith limited
                                                                               track record
                                                                               to datc.

                 DOF, UMADEP)
  Malundwe        InNationalPark         4             5               5        Basic protection
  Hill
  Mahenge         CF-N                   5                                                                           4
  Udzungwa        1 Udzungwa              2                                     Projecthas focuscd 1on
                  Mountains Forcst                                              the important forest arcas
                  Managementand                                                 that areoutsidethe park.
                  Biodiversity
                  Conservation                                                  Focuscsonthe National
                  Project(Danida)                                               Park only
                   2 UdzungwaNP
                  (WWF)




                                                           - 131-

Finally, inan effort to consolidate the information collectedand evaluated during the PDFIA andB
exercises with respect to the threats and their impacts on forest biodiversity loss inthe EasternArc, a
ranking exercise was undertakento establish priorities for fbture action. The results are summarized in
Table A16.5. The results are highlysubjective, but are thought to be an indication of the bestjudgment
o fthe many experts who were consulted duringthe PDFlA andB activities.


 Table A16.5: Summary Table, Rankingforest blocksin terms of priorities for actionto reduce threats to biodiversityloss
                                                        intheEasternArc




  Notes:
  Rankings are basedon the other Tables inthis Annex. Scoringis highly subjective, but representsthe best estimates o fexperts
  familiar with the challenges of forest biodiversity conservation inthe EasternArc. A low score means that the forest block is a
  highpriorityfor effective actioninreducingthreats to forestbiodiversityloss.
  Scoring was determined onthe basis of the following: Score =(~12)+(b/lO)~c/3)*0.~-(~5)




                                                                -132-

        Additional Annex 17: The Project Documentfor the UNDP Components

        TANZANIA EasternArc ForestsConservation and ManagementProject

Preamble

1.      After approval by GEF Secretariat ofthis combinedProject Documentwhich operationalises the
Project Briefthat was approvedby GEF Council, the UNDP component documentation andbudgets will
form a stand-alone Document for ease o f operations.
                                                       /
2.      The UNDP Project Documentwill have the Standard Cover Page for signature (see next page),
which will be followed by the full Project Brief. Then will follow six operational appendices, these are:

        1)   ImplementationModalities for the two UNDP components andorganigrams.
        2)   DetailedMand EandReportingFramework, the Legal Basis for this Project Document
             (Standard Text) andAudit Requirements.
        3)   DetailedImplementationModalities for the Strategy Component
        4)   Terms o f Reference for the MainInstitutional Structures andIndividuals Financedthrough
             UNDP/ GEF.
        5)   An InputBudgetinUNDP Terminology.
        6)   Initial Workplan for 2003 and indicative workplan for the project period.

These Operational Modalities and the draft GEF Project Document were discussed and approved
within a UNDP PAC (Project Appraisal Committee) heldinDar es Salaam onthe 26 November
2002. The PACwas co-chaired by Government (Forestry and Beekeeping Division) and U"DP,
andwas attendedby both Central andDistrictGovernment, Morogoro Forestry, World Bank,
NGOpartners (CARE Tanzania and Tanzania Forest ConservationGroup) and Danidaco-finance
throughthe WCST DOFproject.




                                                  - 133-

                           UNITED NATIONSDEVELOPMENTPROGRAMME
                                        GlobalEnvironmentFacility(GEF)
                                              PROJECTDOCUMENT

PROJECTNUMBER: URTiOliG3liA/1Gi99                                                     PIMSNUMBER:446

PROJECTTITLE: THE CONSERVATIONAND MANAGEMENT OF THE FORESTSOF THE
                       EASTERNARC MOUNTAINS OFTANZANIA

GEFFOCALAREA:                           ConservationofBiologicalDiversity

COUNTRY:                                UnitedRepublic ofTanzania
DURATION:                               60 Months
EST. STARTINGDATE:                      August 15th,2003

EST. ENDDATE:                           January 2008

ACC I UNDP SECTOR:                      NaturalResources
ACC I UNDPSUBSECTOR                     BiologicalResources

EXECUTINGAGENCY:                         GovernmentofTanzania,MinistryofNaturalResourcesandTourism

IMPLEMENTINGAGENCIES: TheForestandBeekeepingDivisionof Government

COOPERATINGAGENCIES:                     CARE(Tanzania): A NationalNGO
                                         The TanzaniaForestConservationGroup: A NationalNGO
                                         UNOPS-A UnitedNations ServiceAgency

 UNDPDirectFinancing




 Co-Finance:
 DANIDA                                    $4,500,000
 Government (in kind)                 I1   $2.500.000
                                              ,   I
 (Details inBrief)


  SUMMARY: The primary objective ofGEF support is to bringabout the long-termsustainableimplementation and
  financing of forest biodiversity conservation and community-based conservation and sustainabledevelopment activities in
  Tanzania's EasternArc Mountain forests. The World Bankprovides GEF assistance to two components: an endowment
  fund andinstitutional development inthe forest sector. UNDP provides GEF support to two components: A Conservation
  Strategy for the EasternArc as a whole, andto pilot field conservation activities in the UluguruMts, in Morogoro Region.
  This UNDP "Project Document" annexedto the overall submission to the GEF describes the implementationmodalities for
  the two UNDP components-the Conservation Strategyand the UluguruPilot Component.


 On behalfof:                            A) Signature                 B) Date              C) NamelTitle
 GovernmentofTanzania
 The ExecutingAgency
 UNDP



                                                           - 134-

                          Appendix 1: ImplementationModalities

D)      Implementationof the UNDPComponents

1)      The Project Briefapprovedby GEF Secretariat inJanuary 2002, outlinedthe broad
implementation strategy for the project. This stressedboth the oversight role o f the Tanzania National
Forest Programme (NFP) and the importance o fpartnership processes. The mandate o f the NFP was laid
out inthe NationalForest Policy o f 1998 and i s operationalised inthe NationalForest Act o f 2002 and
the Programme documentation o f 2001. The UNDP Components are part o f the overall EasternArc
Project; andthe whole EasternArc Project reports to the NFP. The NFP will set up a Biodiversity
Conservation Committee to oversee the Eastern Arc Project as well as other initiatives. This Committee
will have the mandate to seek coordinationand synergy betweenother donor initiatives.

2)      The Biodiversity CommitteeofNFP, together with UNDP, Treasury andDecentralised project
components will act as the formal Steering Committee and Tripartite Review mechanism for the UNDP
Components (TOR for such a function are attached at the end o f this Annex).

3)      The Biodiversity Committee o f TFMP acts as the National Steering Committee for bothUNDP
Components o f the EasternArc Project:
     ++ The EasternArc Conservation Strategy Component
        The Conservation and Management o f the UluguruMountainForest Component

However, these components have different implementation modalities and are described in detail in
sections B and C o f this appendix, below.

4)       Both components will be managedthroughNational ExecutionModalities @EX) with the
MinistryofNaturalResourcesandTourism, viathe ForestandBeekeepingDivision(FBD), or successor
agency, beingthe ExecutionAgency. A senior Tanzania Forester with bothproject managementand
conservation experience will be appointed as National Project Coordinator (NPC) to manageboth
components. TOR for the NPC are inAppendix 4 below. The NPCwill be funded through an
ImplementingAgency agreement, see section B o f this Appendix, below.

 5)      The NPC will have an office inMorogoro andbe supported by clerical staff and necessaryoffice
 equipment. The NPC will report to the Director o f Forestry and Beekeeping Division, andto the
 ImplementingAgency andSite Based Coordination Committees.

 6)      Several principles govern the use o fthese GEF funds within the EasternArc, including

    e    The principle o f capacity buildingand empowerment o f national and local institutions.
    e    The buildingofpartnership between government and civil society.
    e    The needto develop sustained impact on bothresourcesand on community livelihoods.
    e    Where necessaryto ensure the additionality o f GEF funding, the use o f short term advisory
         support, with a mandate bothto transfer skills andcapacity to national institutions, andto
         increase the global linkages between Tanzanian forestry anddeveloping internationalinitiatives
         inthe fieldofforest biodiversity.
    e    These implementationprinciples have been developedwith the Ministryand Forest and
         Beekeeping Division, and were agreedto by stakeholders at a localProject Advisory Committee
         (PAC) inDar es Salaam(26 November 2002).


                                                   -135-

E)       Implementationof the UluguruComponent

7)       The GEF-UNDP Projectmakes available US$ three millionfor a six year conservation and
management intervention inthe UluguruMountainForests. This Component i s to be implementedby an
NGO development partner incollaboration with Government Forestry Sector at national and local levels.
The NGOwill have experience inIntegrated Conservation and Development projects inthe forest sector,
and experience with community levellivelihood, and linkages between natural resources and poverty
processes. CARE Tanzania was selectedas that development partner.

8)       Government o f Tanzania, via the Ministryo fNatural Resources and Tourism as Executing
Agency will prepare a Memorandum o fUnderstanding which sets out the goals outputs and
responsibilities o f CARE Tanzania as Cooperating Agency. This MOUwill be signed byMinistry,
CARE and UNDP; and will provide, indetail, for services and activities to be provided by CARE, and
the funds to be providedby UNDP and GOT. This signedM O Ubecomes an integral part o fthe Project
Document.

9)       The CARE implementationpackage will include the salaryibenefits for the overall National
Project Coordinator, who will be a senior Tanzanian forester, either recruited directly or on secondment
from Government (see para 4 above).

10)       CARE will recruit advisory assistancethrough normal international searchprocesses,to provide
expert technical advice and support to the UluguruComponent for the first part o f the activity. The
principalfocus will be on linking forest values to community livelihoods. This external assistancewill
finishhalfway throughthe GEFfundingperiod, havingtransferred the necessaryslull sets.

11)       CARE will work inclose collaborationwith bothCentral and LocalGovernment and other
development partners intheir implementationo fthis project activity. The M O Uwill spell out clearly the
role o f CARE as a facilitating institution. The basic role o f CARE, and for GEF-UNDP finances passing
through CARE, is to assist existingorganisations with mandatesfor forest conservation and livelihood
support inthe fulfilment o ftheir tasks. Inthat regardCARE will subcontract such organisations as
appropriate, with the approval o fthe Steering Committee.

 12)      Ofparticular importance isthe maintenance of close co-operation with the ongoing DoFiWCST
project inthe UluguruMountains. The two projects provide "co-finance" to each other; and, inthe
Ulugurus, work towards a common goal. Coordinationbetweenthe two projects will bemaintainedby
Government creatingan UluguruMountainForest Coordination Committee(UMFCC). This Committee
will bringtogether bothconservation and development agencies at central, district andvillage level.

 13)      The GEF/UNDP andDoFiWest projects will, with Government facilitation, establish a common
 set o f working principles designedto reduce overlap and enhance synergies. An over-arching, but
 long-term, principle will be to work together inaprogramme approach to achieve cost effective and
 efficient implementation o f forest conservation goals. Inthe immediate short term the two projects will
 adopt a geographic separation o f project inputs; with DoF concentrating on the North UluguruForest
 Reserve and GEF on the South UluguruForest Reserve.




                                                   - 136-

14)      CARE will develop and support the UluguruComponent Project Management Unitinclose
co-operation with forestry authorities inMorogoro. The National Project Coordinator will leadthe
PMU. The P M Uwill establish an office, bank account and other operational activities. The details o f
this operational processandthe principles governingco-operation will be spelled out indetail ina
Project Inception Report preparedwithin four months o fNPCiTAbeing recruited.

15)      The InceptionReport will give detailedworkplans and a complete M& E framework.

16)      The Project Briefhada broad schedule o f outputs to be achieved and activities to be
implementedto reach such outputs. These activities are described inmore detail inAppendix Two; and
an InputBudget inUNDP format is set out inAppendix Five.

F)       Implementationofthe ConservationStrategy Component

17)      The Conservation Strategy Component o f the UNDP-GEF EasternArc Project is designed as a
national process, cutting acrossthe stakeholder sectors, five regions and seventeendistricts that make up
the EasternArc Mountains. As a national process, the development and eventual implementation o f the
strategy has to be ledby the Forest Division(or successor) agency within the Ministry.

18)      The Strategy i s a multi-faceted process, with ninesets of outputs. These outputs are broad, and
linkto the objectives ofthe Tanzania NationalForestProgramme ofthe nine. Six are to be implemented
byUNDP-GEF, one by DANIDA,onejointly by DANIDkrWB-IDA,andone byNORAD. The needfor
coordination and synergy between components i s thus o f great importance. The BiodiversityCommittee
o f the NationalForest Programme will provide such coordination.




     1    A holistic EastemArc Conservation Strategy, whichaddressesthe overall Vision for the
          EasternArc MountainForests, and is basedon individual mountainblock strategies and
          District strategies; i s developed, approved and under implementation.

    2     A set ofthematic strategiesfor biodiversity conservation are developedandimplemented-
          through bothmacro frameworks and individual managementplanprocesses.

    3     Sustainable financing strategies are developed and under implementation.

    4     Adaptive monitoring programmes developed andunder implementation.

     5    A socio-economic monitoringprogramme developedthat linksto the PRSP and livelihoods.
  I  6   1Information, education and communicationstrategies (IEC) developed and implemented.             I

 20)      The UNDP funded strategy processwill be executed throughNEX processes, ledby the
 MinistryofNatural ResourcesandTourism, andFBDor successor agency. Oversight andleadership
 will be providedthrough the NationalProject Coordinator described above, to the ForestryDepartment
 andthe Project Steering Committee.




                                                    - 137-

21)      O fthe six components four are to be implemented directly bythe Forest andBee-keeping
Division or successor agency. One component (number 5 above) on socio-economic monitoring and
linkages, has strong similarity to the UluguruMountainForest conservation activities implementedby
CARE Tanzania. CARE will implement component 5, under an MOUfrom Government, usinglessons
learned by the CAREUluguruactivity. Component 6 on Information, Education and Coinmunication
Strategies will be implementedthrough a Memorandumo f Understandingfrom FBDto an NGO with a
backgroundinEastern Arc Forest Conservation and awarenesseducation activity-the Tanzania Forest
Conservation Group (see Appendix 2).

22)      The Strategy component is an interactive process between central government and district
government, between the forestry sector and the other sectorsthat both dependuponand impact upon
forestry, andbetweengovernment and civil society. Buildingpartnerships, facilitation and coordination
are key aspectso fthe strategy process. Mechanisms for conflict resolution are thus o f importance, as
will be the role ofa steering committee that includes major stakeholder interests.

23)       The Strategy component i s primarilyabout developingan accepted strategy andplanthat is
tested andpilotedinsome circumstances. The Strategy component does not have the resourcesto
implement the prioritised actions at the present time. The strategy process needsto coordinate with other
sectors (agriculture, water, energy etc), other donors (andespecially those with programmes inthe
EasternArc) and agenciesto seek implementationfunding. O fparticular interesthere is the creation o f a
set o f international major fundingprogrammes that support global hotspots, such as the Critical
Ecosystem Partnership Fund(CEPF) through Conservation International (capitalised inthe order o f 150 -
300 milliondollars US-with Global Conservation Fundfinances).

24)       The strategy component will recruit internationaladvisory inputs with a specific mandate not
 only to move the conservation process forwards, but also to buildpartnership for implementationand
partnership with other largerfundingsources globally. Such expertise will be recruitedthrough UNDP
Dar es Salaam contractingUNOPS, and the appointee will report to the Director o f Forestrythrough the
NationalProject Coordinator. TOR for the inputs are inAppendix 4.

 25)      An inceptionreport to bepreparedbythe Strategy team (NPC, Advisor andpartners) will set out
 interaction processes, milestones andanMand Eframework ininore detail, within four months o f
 start-up. The InceptionReport will be presentedto and approvedby the Steering Committee.

 26)      The UNDP funded strategy component i s but one part o f a larger overall set o f strategies being
 developed bythe Forestry Sector. It is important that this strategy component builds solidlinkages
 betweenother such components, inparticular the World Bank and Danida financedParticipatory
 Forestryactivity, the ongoing Catchment Strategy, and the broader Poverty Reduction Strategy and
 DecentralisationStrategy processesgoing on inTanzania. Inaddition the strategy has immediate
 importance to the implementationof other GEF activities such as the Endowment Trust andthe Uluguru
 Mountains Conservation activity.




                                                   - 138-

These outline arrangementsare shown inthe two diagrams below:




                                                     i
                                                      3      -1




                                              - 139 -

    Appendix 2: DetailedReportingMonitoringandAudit Requirements

1.    Reporting. The Project Secretariat (NPC i TA) will prepare and submit the following reports to
      Government and UNDP.

(a)   Inception Report (tR)
      The inception report will be prepared by the NPCiTA with the assistance o f the project experts
      as relevant. The IRwill be preparedno later than three months after project start-up and will
      include a detailedWorkplan, Mand EFramework, first BudgetRevision for the duration o f the
      project, progress to date on project establishment, details o f start-up activities and any proposed
      amendmentsto project activities or approaches. The report will be circulatedto all the parties
      who will be given a period o f one calendar monthinwhich to respond with coimnents or queries.
      UNDP Country Office and UNDPiGEF will review the report to ensure consistency with the
      objectives and activities indicated inthe Project Document.

(21)  Annual ProjectReport (APR) and PtR
      The Annual Project Report (APR) is designed to obtain the independent views o f the main
      stakeholders o f a project on its relevance, performance and the likelihoodo f its success. The
      APR aims to: a) provide a ratingand textual assessineiit o f the progress o f a project inachieving
      its objectives; b) present stakeholders' insights into issuesaffecting the implementation o f a
      project andtheir proposals for addressingthose issues; and c) serve as a source o f inputsto the
      Tripartite Review (TPR). The mainproject stakeholdersparticipate in the preparationo f the
      APR. The APRs will detail activities undertaken since the last APR, milestones reached, key
      results and achievements, problems encountered and any other issuesthat needto be highlighted.
      The APR will use the format of the streamlined APWPIR provided by UNDP-GEF. Information
      from this document will beusedbythe Regional Coordinator o f UNDPiGEF to compile the PIR
      for GEFSEC.

(c)   PeriodicStatus Reports
      As andwhen calledfor bythe Government or UNDP, the NPCiTAwill prepare StatusReports,
      focusing on specific issues or areas o f activity as stipulated by the querant. The request for a
      Status Report will be inwritten form, and will clearly state the issueor activities that needto be
      reportedon. These reports can be usedas a form o f specific oversight inkey areas, or as
      troubleshooting exercises to evaluate and overcome obstacles and difficulties encountered. The
      parties are requested to minimise their requests for Status Reports, and when such are necessary
      will allow reasonable timeframes for the preparation o fthese Reports.

(d)    TechnicalReports
      Technical Reports are detailed documents covering specific areas o f analysis or scientific
       specialisations within the overall project. As part o fthe InceptionReport the NPCiTA will
      prepare a draft "Reports List", detailing the technical reports that are expected to be prepared by
      project staff and partners, on key areas o f activity duringthe course o f the Project, and tentative
       due dates. Where necessarythis Reports List will be revisedand updated, and included in
       subsequentAPRs. Technical Reportsmay also beprepared byconsultants as FinalReports for
       their technical inputs, and shouldbe comprehensive, specialised analyses o f clearly-defined areas
       o f researchwithin the framework o f the project and its sites.




                                                   - 140-

        ProjectPublications
         Project Publicationswill form a key methodo f disseminating the results and achievements o f the
         Project. Publicationswill be scientific or informational texts inthe form o fbooks, journal
         articles or multimedia publications. These Publications will form a visible public output o f the
         Project, andshouldbe preparedand presentedto the highest scientific and technical standards.

         Project TerminalReport
         Duringthe lastthree months ofthe project the NPCiTAwill prepare the ProjectTerminal Report,
         which will summarise all activities, achievements and outputs o fthe Project, lessonslearnt,
         objectives met and missed, structures and systems implemented, etc. This will be the definitive
         statement o f the Project's activities over the five-year duration, Itwill lay out recommendations
         for any further steps that mayneedto be taken to ensure sustainability and replicabilityo f the
         Project's activities.

         Other Publicationsand PublicityActivities
         Inorder to ensureinternationaldissemination ofproject results, a high-quali~publicationof
         results will beprepared, basedupon the Terminal Report andprevious Project Publications.

         Monitoring& Evaluation

TrbartiteReview (TPR)
The tripartite review (TPR) is the highest policy-level meetingofthe parties directly involvedinthe
implementation o f a project. The project will be subject to Tripartite Review(TPR) at least once every
twelve monthsby representatives o f the Government, the executing agency and UNDP. The first such
meetingwill be heldwithin the first twelve months o f the start o f full implementation. The Project
Managers will prepare an Annual Project Report (APR) to be ready two weeks prior to the TPR. The
APWPIR will be usedas one o fthe basic documents for discussions inthe TPR meeting. The Project
Leader presents the APR to the TPR, highlightingpolicy issues andrecommendations for the decision o f
the TPR participants.

Terminal TrbartiteReview (TTR)
The terminal tripartite review is heldinthe last montho fproject operations. The NPCiTA are
responsible inpreparingthe Terminal Project Report. It shall be prepared indraft sufficiently inadvance
to allow review and technical clearanceby the executing agency at least two months prior to the terminal
tripartite review. The Terminal Reportwill serve as the basis for discussions inthe TTR. The TTR
considers the implementation o f the project as a whole, paying particular attentionto whether the project
has achieved its immediate objectives andcontributedto the broader environmentalobjective, and
decides whether any actions are still necessary.

ProjectIm~lementationReview (PIR)
The PIR i s a major tool for monitoring the GEF portfolio and extracting lessons. The PIR has become an
essential management andmonitoring tool for project managersand offers the main vehicle for extracting
lessonsfrom ongoing projects. The PIR i s mandatory for all GEF projects that have beenunder
implementation for at least one year at the time that the exercise i s conducted. A project becomes legal
and implementation activities can beginwhen all parties have signedthe project document. The PIR
 questionnaire i s sent to the UNDP country office, usually around the beginningo f June. It i s the
responsibility o fthe NPCiTA to complete the PIRquestionnaire, together with the UNDP Country Office
 and Regional Coordinator (RC); and for the RCto forward the PIR to UNDP-GEF Headquarters.




                                                      - 141-

Mid-term Evaluation
An independent Mid-TermEvaluationwill beundertaken towards the middleofthe project period. The
Mid-Term Evaluationwill focus onthe effectiveness, efficiency andtimeliness o f project
implementation; will highlightissuesrequiringdecisions and actions; and will present initial lessons
learned about project design, implementationandmanagement. Findingso f this review will be
incorporatedas recommendations for enhancedimplementation duringthe final halfo f the project's
term. The organization, terms o freference and timing o f the mid-term evaluation will be decided after
consultationbetweenthe parties to the project document.

Final Evaluation
An independent FinalEvaluationwill take place three months prior to the terminal tripartite review
meeting. The final evaluation will look at early signs ofpotential impact and sustainability o fresults,
includingthe contribution to capacity development andthe achievement o f global environmental goals.
The Final Evaluationshould also provide recommendations for follow-up activities. The organization,
terms o freference andtimingo f the final evaluationwill be decided after consultationbetween the
parties to the project document.

Regular Monitoring and Evaluation
An environmentaland socio-economic baseline assessment will be carriedout from the start o fthe
project. Monitoringprogrammes for the project will be developed once the project team i s inplace, and
presented indetail within the Inception Report. M& Eprogrammes will be developed incollaboration
with relevantmonitoring activity beingdeveloped at national anddistrict levels for the EasternArc
Forests. Project performance will be monitoredaccordingto the indicators andbenchmarks defined in
the Logical Framework Analysis. Examples o f output indicators are givenbelow to guide this process.

ConservationImpact Outputs
1)       The EasternArc MountainForests are declared a World Heritage Site
2)       Area o f forest under ForestNature Reserve category i s more than doubled.
3)       The value o f EasternArc forest to the Tanzanian nation acceptedby all levels o f government in
         Tanzania, and by external agencies funding development inTanzania. This is measuredby
         increased funding flows.
4)       Increasedlevels o f sustainable funding for Endowment Fundinplace.
5)       Area o f forest cover onUluguruMountains stabilised, andforest corridors are established.

ConservationProcess Outputs
6)       The numbero f endemic species and their population trends measured.
7)       The area o f forest habitat andthe deforestation trends measured.
8)       A `State o fthe EasternArc' reporb`book is produced.
9)       AnUluguruOverview ReportI Bookproduced, with DANIDAIDOFpartners.
 10)     At least XX new Catchment Reservesproposedto cover non-gazetted forest patches.
 11)     At least XX forests are surveyed for biodiversity, boundary condition andforest condition.
 12)     At leastXX government staff andpolitical leadership inDistricts andRegions have greater
         appreciation o f the conservation value o f Eastern Arc Mountains.
 13)     At least XX staffmembers within FBDare trainedinaspectso fforest conservation.
 14)     Database o fproject activities developed for the Eastem Arc (conservation and development).




                                                     -142-

Learning and Knowledge Sharing

        To participate inUNDPiGEFnetworks, organized for Senior Personnel working onprojects that
        share common characteristics. UNDPiGEF shall establish a number o f networks, such as Forest
        Conservation from the year 2002, that will largely function on the basis o f an electronic platform.

        To identifyandparticipate inscientific, policy-based and/or any other networks, which may be
        o fbenefit to project implementationthough lessonslearned.

        To identify,analyze, share and communicate lessonslearned that may be beneficial inthe design
        and implementationo f similar future projects. The needto identify and analyse lessonslearned
        i s an on- going process, and the needto communicate such lessons i s on an as-neededbasis, but
        not less frequently than once every 12months. UNDPiGEF shall provide a format for
        categorizingand reporting lessonslearned withinthis and similar projects.

        To ensurethat the Termo fReference for consultants recruitedbythe project incorporate
        mechanisms that capture and share lessonslearned through their inputs to the project, and to
        ensure that the results are reflected inthe reporting format described above.


        Indicative W o r k d a n and Budpet for Monitorinp and Evaluation

                       Lead responsibleparty in bold             Budget              Time frame

 InceptionReport      ProjectImplementationTeam             Inreporting     At the beginningo fproject
                                                            lines           implementation
 APRiPIR              The Government, UNDPCountry           None          I Every year, at latest byJune o f
                      Office,ExecutingAgency, Project                       that year
                      Team, UNDPiGEF Task Manager,
                      and Target Groups
 TPR and TPR          The Govemment, UNDPCountry            None            Everyyear, upon receipt o f APR
 report               Office,Executing Agency, Project
                      Team, UNDPiGEF Task Manager,
                      and Target Grouus
  Progress reports    ProjectManager                        None            To be determined by Executing
                                                                            Agency
  Mid-term            Project team, UNDPlGEF HQ,            $30,000         At the mid-point o fproject
  External            UNDPlGEF Task Manager, UNDP                           implementation.
  Evaluation          Country Office, ExecutingAgency
  Final Extemal       Project team, UNDPlGEF HQ,            $30,000         At the end ofproject
  Evaluation          UNDPiGEF Task Manager, UNDP                           implementation, and
                      Country Office,                                       Ex-post: following project
                                                                            completion
  Terminal Report     UNDPCountryOffice,
                      UNDPlGEF Task Manager, Project        lines           endo fthe project
                      Team
  Audit               ExecutingAgency, UNDP Country          Average        Yearly
                      Office, Project Team                   $ 1 .OOO ua
  Visits to field     UNDPCountryOffice,Executing
  sites               Agency
  Lessons learnt      UNDP-GEF,GEFSEC, Project
                      Team, ExecutingAgency




                                                    - 143-

Legal Context

This project document shall be the instrument(therein referredto as a planof operation) envisaged in
Article 1Paragraph 2 ofthe Agreement (as paragraph2 of the Assistance Agreement) between individual
Governments andthe UnitedNational Development Programme concerningassistanceunder the Special
FundSector o fthe UnitedNational Development Programme, as signedbyTanzania on29 April 1977.

Audit Requirements

All funds disbursedthroughNEXand other execution modalities are subject to audit procedures.

    0   IncaseofNEXthey are subject to audit requirements ofthe Auditor General ofGOT.
    0   GOT will provide the UNDP CO with certified periodc audited financial statements.
        Incase ofimplementationbyNGO, accountsareinitially subject to audit procedures ofthe
        NGO, prior to reporting to Government. Copies of audit documents are to be returnedannually
        to UNDP andreportedto the SteeringCommittee via the APR.
    0   Auditprocedures are governedbyUNDP Rules andRegulations, as spelled out inthe UNDP
        Manuals, andUNDP reservesthe rightto carry out extra audit procedures as may be required.




                                                 - 144-

                Appendix 3: Integrated Conservation Strategy Component

Introduction

The Strategy Component for the EasternArc Forest Project has nine separatesub-components or outputs.
Some ofthese are specific to the Arc Forests; others have a broader use within conservation forestry in
Tanzania. Some components are new, other components are ongoing. Some are to be funded by GEF,
some by other donors -but all are necessaryparts o f a broad-based holistic strategy component. The
strategy takes its start from the National Forest Policy (1998), newly approved law -the Forest Act 2002,
andthe NationalForest Programme o f 2001.

Ofthe nine outputs within the strategy three areto be implementedoutside GEF fmancing. One is an
ongoing NORADsupported activity (catchment), one is a major initiativeonParticipatory Forest
Management, with sharedfinance through Danida at district levelandIDA credt at broader levels, and
one i s an ongoing Danida initiative addressing water inthe Sustainable Cities project. The other six are
to be fundedbyGEF inthe first instance. Itis expected that as the activities develop other donors will
buyinto the process, and integratethe activities intotheir own field programmes eg Udmngwa, East
Usambaras. These nine outputs are described below:

THE UNDP-GEFFUNDEDOUTPUTS.

1.        A holistic EasternArc Conservation Strategy is developed and under implementation. This
strategy addresses the overall Vision for the Eastern Arc Mountain Forests, and is based on
individual mountain block strategies and district strategies.

Rationale. This is based on lessons learnedfrom the Queensland TropicalForest Conservation Strategy
in Australia. The QTFCShas great similarity to the EasternArc, where successful consewation is
dependent on several independent stakeholders each with d8erent tenure and access rights. A
commonly agreed vision and strategy provides a coordinationframework for ALL stakeholders to
participate. This Output develops a strategicplanningprocess, building on that established in thePDF
activity. Theprocess involves a hierarchy of stagesfrom individual reserve man~gementplans through
district strategies and individual mountain block strategies'.

1 Note somemountain blocks involve morc than one District -eg thc UdzungwaMountains havethree Districts intwo Rcgions(Iringa and
Morogoro). Thc SouthPareMountains incontrast fall inonc District. The Ulugurus have becninonc District, but govcmment is planningto
createtwo districts (Morogoro RuralandMvomero).,


TheStrategy process has a number of distinct activities. Theseinclude:

 la)      Linkages from Forestry to Agriculture, Water and Energy sectors are built and maintained.
This builds on the National Forest Policy and National Forest Programme directives. All sectors have
major roles in the eastern arc -all have roles toplay in the overall strategy.

 lb)      The Forestry Sector develops capacity buildinglinkages to District level stakeholders.
Districts will not have the ability to develop strategies alone, they will needguidelines, training and
support. TheStrategy team will need toprovide that support and transfer capacity.




                                                                - 145-

1c)      The Forestry Sector develops holistic participatory reserve managementplanguidelines.
Forest Reserve Management Plans are the basic building blocks around whichstrategies are developed,
as is stressed in the Forest Act 2002. Theseplans must be broad based andput each reserve in its
overall development and community context. Forestry HQmust set guidelines as to both theprocess and
the contentfor the holistic plans -andproceduresfor joint implementation by relevant stakeholders.
Plans will address issues of revenue sharing and issues of responsibilitiesforJinancia1 support.

Id)      The linkages between forest resource use andruralpoverty are analysed andmonitored.
National development goals seeforestry supporting rural communities. Past conservationparadigms
saw rural poverty as a majorfactor in resource degradation. There is little understanding of the
relationships between thesefactors, nor how to integrate sustainable resource use regimes into
anti-poverty processes. This sub-component provides linkages to the national Poverty Reduction
Strategy (PRS) process, and more especially the imperative to integrate environ~enta~issues into the
PRS itse@ (See component 5).

le)      District Conservation Strategies developedthat integrate sector concerns andreserve plans,
District Forest Conservation Strategies integrate the overall district development processes withforest
reserve conservation plans. Thesestrategies address local, national and global values, seeking
sustainable beneJitflows to all stakeholders. TheDCS needs to be mainstreamed into district activity.
Again issues ofJinances (costs and revenue) will be addressed here. Thepriorityfocus will be Eastern
Arcforests, but it may be the case that a district has non-arcforests (eg Muheza with lowlandforests).
But where the utilisation of non-arcforests absorbspressure that could impact on the arc, then these
forests will be included. TheDistrict strategies will also identi& unreservedforests that should be
gazetted as Forests Reserves full, local authority or village reserves). This strategy activity will build in
the new Ministry policy of strengtheningdistrict linkages.

 1f)     MountainBlock Conservation Strategies developed, integratingdistrict plans.
 This will be an amalgamation of aGacent District Conservation Strategies (see above), into a single
mountain block strategy.

 lg)     WorldHeritage Site nomination developed andimplemented for whole Eastern Arc.
 This is Tanzaniaafirming the global value of theArcforests (just like Kilimanjaro, Ngorongoro, and
Serengeti). There is a complex nomination process -including setting out conservation strategies.

 lh)     A suite ofplanningtools developed andusedthrough increasednational anddistrict capacity.
These tools will include, amongst others:

         Threat ReductionAnalysis (as an input to the M&Eprocess see component 6), and subsequent
         threat reduction planning. This links with sectoral approaches2 c and 2 d.
         Participatoryplanningprocedures (which linkinto managementplans, District and Mountain
         Block Conservation Strategies),
         Map-based planning & assessment tools (which linkinto managementplans, District and
         MountainBlock Conservation Strategies).

 2.      A set ofthematic strategies for biodiversity conservation are developed and implemented,
 through macro frameworks and individual management plan processes:

 Rationale: Theoverall strategy will have two sets of core components. One is geographic (which is
 component I above -looking at issues across districts). A second is across sectors) (described here) will



                                                    - 146 -

be a series of thematic issues, which would be included within all the district and mountain strategies. A
corollary is that output one sets out theformat of Strategies and Plans, output two develops the content
of key chapters in those Strategies and Management Plans. Thesekey themes include:

2a)      Developing and implementing biodiversity conservation strategies; at species and community
level, as well as thematic concepts.
This is a broad topic and includesfor example guidelinesfor forest zonation, for ICDPprocesses, links
to Participatory Forest Management, option settingfor sustainable use versus stricter Nature Reserve
processes, understanding the linkages between biodiversity and catchment conservation, At species and
community level, this will includefor example Red Data Book analysesfor threatened species including
population studiesfor selected important speciesfor which data is inadequate; andplansfor example,
orchids,forest primates andforest birds. Timber species and otherplant species with a high use value
e.g. Prunus afiicana, Ocotea usambarensis will be included

2b)      Developingprocedures for selecting, settingup and implementingNature Reserves.
Apartfrom the strongprinciples within the National Forest Policy, there are no operationalframeworks
at national levelfor NatureReserves, despite their prominence in the National Forest Programme. This
activity will develop a nationalframework and set up a NatureReserve system across the Eastern Arc
Forests that adequately covers the range of biological diversity values.

2c)       Fire management strategies.
Fire is a major threat to the arcforests in most mountain blocks - there are no overall control or
prevention strategies inplace. This component woulddevelop a strategy and guidelines to assist
stakeholders to reduce the damage caused byfire.

2d)       Forest health strategies.
 Theproject will liaise with the USForest Service Forest Health Project to developfurther strategies to
deal withpests and invasive species.

2e)       Sustainable Use Strategiesdeveloped for forest periphery communities; including:

      e   Sustainable collection o fbiodiversity products eg: chameleons, African violets, bushmeat
      e   Sustainable non-timber wood-based resources(eg fuelwood, poles, possible oils, etc).
 This is a core concept in the long-term conservation of the arcforest, and links to the CBDas well as to
 Poverty Reduction initiatives through improved livelihoods (see 5 below).

 2f)      Alternative Incomeand ResourceUse Strategiesdeveloped for forest periphery communities.
          These could include:
          Ago-forestry inputs to sustainable agriculture and sustainable livelihoods (see 5).
          Butterfly farming and other product basedenterprise (see 2e above)
      e   Improvedwood-fuel use, sustainable fuel wood supplies and alternative fuels (Jatropha).
 Therehave been a series of locally based initiatives across the arc in thepastJive years (eg GEF Cross
 Borders with support to Jatropha oil as an alternative energy source). Theseneed to be analysed as to
 successstories and lessons learned applied across the arc in a more coherent and cost eflective strategy.
 Initiatives are beginning eg butterfly farming concept in the East Usambaras.




                                                    -147-

3.       Sustainablefinancingstrategiesare developedandunderimplementation:

Rationale: This is a relatively minor activity that complements the activities of the Eastern Arc
Endowment TrustFund. Three activities are envisaged:

3a)      Levies (royalties) and other fee basedstrategies basedon biodiversity resources are developed,
as per prescriptions inthe Forest Act 2002, This has obvious linkages to boththe Forest Fundas
specified inthe Forest Act 2002, and the GEF EndowmentTrust Fund.
Manyforest resources are treated asfree or greatly under-priced goods -from royalties onproduce to
thepotentialfor fund raisingfrom eco-tourism etc. This activity develops strategies to set realistic
pricingfor forest resource use.

3b)      Longterm enhancedgovemment and donor support for implementing the Arc Strategy.
This would be done through the NFP and FAG. There is considerable evidence that theforest sector has
been under~undedby government in thepast decades -as a result of inade~uateperceptions of the
value of forest resources in the overall national economy. Advocacy is needed to increase direct and
indirect fie the reduction of perverse incentives) support. The GEFProject Proposal discusses the need
to seek short-term and long-term donor supportfor theforests andfor sustainable livelihood initiatives
in the Eastern Arc Mo~nta~ns.Strategies to achieve that will be developed here,

3c)      Potential fundingthrough the newly established Global Hotspot Fundsi s sought (eg from the
Critical Ecosystem Partnership Fund(CEPF) of Conservation International (CI) etc).
CEPFand otherfunds have been created to support the world's GlobalBiodiversity Hotspots -which
include the Eastern Arc and CoastalForests of Tanzaniaand Kenya. Somefunds arefor Civil Society;
others arefor supporting long-term monitoring centres. Tanzanianeeds to establish patterns of access
to thesefunding sources.

4.       Adaptive monitoringandevaluationprogrammesdevelopedandimplemented.

Rationale: Whilst existing donors in the arc have their own M&Eframeworks there is no nationally
based set ofprocedures or norms. Tanzania as a member of SADC has agreed to a set of indicatorsfor
such M&E, but this has not been initiated. Themandatefor M&E processes is not clear, especially as
regards the need to monitor thepeopleforest interface (see 5 below). The Tanzaniaforest sector is
alone amongst East African nations in not having a GIscapability with which to use spatial monitoring
processes. Overall capacityfor M&E is weak. M&E is linked to targeted research -finding out how to
do certain things, continuing methodology testing. Whilst the Eastern Arcforests have had considerable
survey based documentation in thepast 20years, there are major gaps.

 Theeflective implementation of the M&E strategy will depend onpartnerships - nationally and globally.
Links to thosepartners must be consolidated (TAFOM, Universities,PRSP institutions, Copenhagen
 University (the most important repository of EA data), Kew Gardens, W F ' sEco-Region programme,
 CIandplansfor global hotspot monitoring; etc) Four activities are envisaged:

4a)       A participatory M& Estrategy for forest conservation is developedandaccepted, and
 implementedby stakeholders insites.
 This is the core activity, there is much experience to draw onfrom ongoing andpastprojects in the Arc
 and elsewhere. National leadership and donor -sector buy in will be needed.




                                                    - 148 -

4b)      A suite ofmonitoringand evaluationtools developedfor the M&Estrategy.
Activity 4a) suggests what should be done and by whom. Activity 4b) suggests HOW this can be done.
Guidelinesfor tools will include cost eflective andparticipatory approaches.

4c)      Capacity for M&Eprocesses is enhancedamongst key stakeholders.
This links to mandates, coordination between mandated bodies, and awareness /training within such
institutions. Particular attention will bepaid to setting up spatial monitoringprogrammes around
usefriendly GIsfacilities. Capacity will be built through hands-on experiences infor example GIs
monitoring of boundaries andforest cover parameters. GIS links with theplanning components of IC,l e
and If

4d)      A targetedresearch strategy for the EastemArc forests is outlined andprioritised.
This needs to be integrated into the Mand E strategy itself- seeking to411spatial infor~ationsurvey
and methodological andprocess gaps. Note that this links to the Eastern Arc Endowment Fund -
that has a mandate to support targeted research in and around the arcforests. This will also have
a capacity building component, linking to conservation biology processes. Coordination with
research processesproposed within the Kihansi Dam Project will be needed.

5.       A socio-economicmonitoringprogrammearoundthe people-forest interface is developed
andimplemented.

Rationale: This has obvious links to 4 above. Output 4 will address theforest parameters. This output
looks atpeople based and resource useparameters. Thereare linkages to thePFMprocessesof other
donors (see Output 9 below). There is a need to build integration mechanisms with the strengthening
environmental content of the PRSP and the anti-poverty - livelihood programmes.

5a)      A participatory strategy for such socio-economic M&Eis developed, tested andaccepted, and
then implementedby stakeholders insites.

5b)      A suite ofmonitoring tools andprotocols developed, including householdpoverty & forest
dependency assessmentprocesses.

 5c)     Capacity for socio-economic M&Eprocesses is enhancedamongst key stakeholders.
Again these link to mandates, coordination between mandated bodies, and awareness /training within
such institutions. Note that theforest sector has historically much less experience with suchpeople
 oriented systems. This needs to be very carefully linked to the McfEprocesses developing around the
PFMactivity. Danida (who support thePFMstrategy) has an interest in such collaboration.

 6.       Information,educationandcommunicationstrategies(IEC) developedand implemented.

Rationale: All of the gains that could be achieved within other outputs could be greatly reduced unless
 the successesare disseminated, and all stakeholders are aware of the successes,and the lessons learned
 in their implementation. Thestrategy, when implemented, is likely to necessitate some change in both
 land and resource use. This will require considerablepersuasion to achieve; requiring an investment in
 advocacy and awareness raising. Four distinct activities areplanned..

 6a)      Overall framework for awarenessraisingdeveloped, with stakeholderslpartners.
 This activity will learn lessonsfrom past conservation awareness and education initiatives and develop
 and implement aprogramme of awareness raising throughout the Arc. Theactivity capitalises on
 separateproject initiatives and develops new initiatives in the arc.


                                                   - 149-

6b)      Communication and outreach -advocacy programme developed.
This activity will demonstrate cost-effective methods to target specific policy and management leaders,
so as develop a successful advocacy programme.

6c)      InformationTechnology support to IEC activity.
Advocacy/Awareness programmes need to be substantiated by spatial information, and thepresentation
of scientific information in easily understandableformats. This will requiresupport in ~nformation
Technology.

6d)      A targeted flow of information onthe conservation o fEastern Arc resources is developed and
distributed. Feedback mechanisms are developedto ensure disseminationo f lessonslearned.
Newsletters, policy brief, videoprogrammes will beprepared. The impacts of these tools will be
assessed and tools strengthened accordingly.

B. ONE OUTPUT I S SUPPORTEDTHROUGHNORAD I GOT FINANCE

7.    CatchmentForestryActivity

This hasbeena longrunningprogramme inmost areas o fthe Arc districts (not IringaRegion) and other
forests inKilimanjaro and Arusha. There are many strong lessonsthat have been learned, and a large
body o f knowledge on catchment forest properties that needsconsolidation and dissemination. There
will be muchroomfor collaborationfor the NORAD financed economic analysis of four major forest
catchments inTanzania, ofwhich two will be inthe Arc areas.

C. TWO OUTPUTS ARE SUPPORTEDTHROUGHDANIDAFINANCE

8.       Forestconservation-water fees linkagesfor some major cities are explored.

This is based on comparative advantage of an ongoing DANIDAprogramme: the Sustainable Cities
Programme which is active in threeEastern Arcforest dependent cities: Iringa, Morogoro and Tanga.
No extrafunding is expected, inputs would be through the existingDanidaproject(s). A pilot example
(outside the Arc) is in theArusha Sustainable City Programme -which is starting to address water
catchment issues andpricingfrom Mount Meru Forests.

9.        Overallparticipatoryforest management(PFM) guidelinesdevelopedandunder
implementation. (Note this is linkedto the IDA componentof TFCMP).

Thereare obvious linkages to many otherparts of the overall strategy,for example:

          Community sustainable useprogrammes, (see outputs 1and 2).
          Communityparticipation in strategy and managementplan processes, (see output 1).
          Poverty -Livelihood assessmentprocesses, (see output 5).
          Alternative Income and Resource Use Strategies, (see output 2).
          Participatory M&E processes (see output 5).




                                                   - 150-

Costinpof Stratew Components1 6   -

1)    Components 5 and6 are implementedbyNGOs (See Appendix 1):-

      a) Component5. To CARE, Socio-economicM& E strategies andlinkto PRSPJLivelihoods,
          strategisingwhat CARE implements onthe UluguruMountains, costedat 160,000$.
      b) Component6. To TFCG for Communication,Awareness, Out Reach, costedat 140,000$.

2)    This leaves 1,700,000S for activities 1- 4. Ofthis some 550,000$ goes for core staff, training, M
andEfunctions, vehicles andequipmentetc. Weightings betweencomponents are:

        Component                                             $ Amount    $ Amount minusCore

  1     Geographic StrategyI Vision. Muchconsensus             400,000             290,000
        activity-andcapacitybuilding at district level.
  2     Thematic Strategy& Action Plans. Much                  650,000             410,000
        fieldwork.  Management plans, research,
        documentation.
  3     Global issues & financing, basedon contacts   -         50,000               40,000
        someworkshop traininglawareness     -a maintask
        of the TA
  4     M&E.Implementation& strategising.GIS                   600,O 00            410,000
        capacity; imagerybaselines & database. Training.
  5     Socio-Economic Monitoring                               160,000            160,000
  6     Information. EducationandCommunication                  140,000             140,000
       I                                          TOTALS    I 2,000,000  I        1,450,000




                                                 - 151 -

 Appendix 4: Eastern Arc Strategy Component: Specific Terms o f Reference

1.        The National Project Coordinator (NPC)

The NPCwill be a senior Tanzania Forester appointed by the Executing Agency to headthe
implementation process o fthe UNDP GEF Components. The position will be financed by GEF-UNDP
funding. TheNPCwill report to the Chairperson ofthe National Steering Committeethrough the
ExecutingAgency -the Ministryo f Natural Resourcesand Tourism. As per the reporting requirements
o f this project interms o ftechnical and financial reports the NPC reports to UNDPCountry Office inDar
es Salaam. The NPC will, interms o f the implementationmodalities o f the UluguruComponent, liaise
closely with the UluguruForest Conservation Coordination Committee.

The National Project Coordinator (NPC) will ensure:

 The overall coordination o fthe project, technically andfinancially.

          The recruitment o fnational consultants as foreseen inthe project document andworkplan.
          The contractingo fnational institutions as foreseen inthe project document andworkplan.
          Providing logistical andtechnical support to the consultants recruitedunder this project.
          Ensure timely delivery o f the consultant reports and arrange meetings to review them.
          Communication and reporting on matters relatingto project implementation to all stakeholders.
          Liaisingclosely with the districts and other stakeholdersto ensurecoordination.
          Organisingi facilitating stakeholder workshops as planned inthe workplan.
          Organisingand facilitating training courses for project stakeholders as indicated inworkplans.
          The preparation, incollaboration with the TA, of Project Inception and Terminal reports, Annual
          and Periodic Reports includingthe APWPIR as specified inthe Project Document.
          Organise Project Steering Committeemeetings and act as Secretariat to the meetings as required.

          The Conservation Strategy Advisor (CSA)

The CSA will be a senior internationalforest conservationist appointed byUNOPS onbehalfofUNDP
andthe Government of Tanzania. The position will be financedby GEF-UNDP funding as a 75% time
 inputspreadevenly over the three years. The CSA will work inclose collaboration withthe NPC onall
matters related to the project. The CSA reportsjointly to the UNDP Country Office Dar es Salaam and
the Chairperson o f the National Steering Committee through the ExecutingAgency the Ministryo f
                                                                                       -
Natural Resources andTourism. The CSA will, interms o f the implementationmodalities o f the
UluguruComponent, liaiseclosely withthe UluguruForestConservationCoordinationCommittee and
 CARE, and on the Strategy Component, liaise closely with CARE Tanzania andTFCG.

 The Conservation Strategy Advisor (CSA) will:

 a)       Provide advice on boththe development and implementationo f the conservation strategy for the
 EasternArc Mountains Forests through the project process. Provide support to colleagues and
 institutions, interms o fknowledge, awarenessand improvedcapacities, that are involved inthe
 management and utilisation ofEasternArc Resourcesacross all sectors fromagriculture, through biology
 to water andpower and finance.




                                                     -152-

b)      Inconsultationwiththe National ProjectCoordinator(NPC) andDirector FBDIFSA, the CSA
will have responsibility for the technical aspects o f strategy development. This is a more direct
responsibility for Strategy Components 1-4, andi s a more indirect responsibility, as set out inLetters o f
Agreement to contracting institutions, for Strategy Components 5 and6. This indirect responsibility
refers to oversight and monitoring functions.

c)      Be responsible for networking the strategy processto external interests inthe EasternArc
Forests. Specifically this includes developing and fostering linkages to:

        PotentialFundingPartners such as the CEPF o f Conservation International (CI).
        Monitoring& ResearchOrganisations, such as Overseas institutions. EgThe University o f
        Copenhagen, CI, Kew, MBG, WCS, WRI, andCIFOR; and Tanzanian institutions such as
        UDSM, TAFORI, UCLAS and Frontier.
        Forest policy & documentation processes(inTanzania and overseas).
        Conservation planning activities at eco-regionalilandscape scales, eg. WWF, CI, TNC, WCS.

d)       Provide facilitative networkingbetween the components o f the GEF Project; with particular
reference to linkages between the Strategy and the UlugurusMountains Component and the EasternArc
MountainForests Endowment Fund(EAMFEF). This networlung includes linkingthe components of
the strategy funded byUNDP-GEF and the components hnded and managed by other agencies. Increase
networking with other forest conservation project interventions inTanzania.

e)       Inconsultationwiththe NPC &Director FBD,provide technicalnetworkingbetween forestry
and other sectors o f government (particularly agriculture, energy andwater) and to private sector
interests inthe Eastern Arc. Such networlung i s o f great importance at district levels.

f)       Incollaboration with theNPCandFBDprovide support for designingand implementing an
in-service training programme for counterpart individuals and institutions involvedinthe conservation o f
the Eastern Arc.

g)       InconsultationwithNPCandDirectorFBD,to develop aTanzania basedEasternArc web page
that is coordinatedwith other inter-net awarenessactivities.

h)       Be responsible, with the NPC; for the timeliness and quality o f technical documentation from the
overall Strategy Activities o f the UNDP-GEF Project. Inparticular the CSA will ensure comprehensive
technical reporting on all four o fthe direct strategy components, and how they link with other
components andactivities. CSA withthe NPC will report annually on lessonslearned onproject
implementation.

i)       Be responsible, with the NPC, for providing linkages to and from the developing computer based
mapping unit and the field basedforest conservation needs inthe EastemArc.

j)       Assist FBDwith advice and input over the development o f other funding proposals for the
 long-term conservation o f the EasternArc Mountains.

 k)       Assist FBDto prepare the proposalo fthe EasternArc Mountains as a World Heritage Site.




                                                     - 153-

1)       Support FBDto ensurethat the Forest Reserves and Forest Nature Reserves o fthe EasternArc
are recognised as protected areas under the IUCNinternational Protected Areas System.

m)       Support FBDinundertakingeconomic analyses o f the local, national and global values of
forests.

n)       Support the NPC andFBD insettingup a detailedproject level Mand EFramework linkedto
Impact andProcessOutputs, and that i s nestedwithin the overall MandEFramework for the Eastern
Arc Forests (within Strategy Component 4).

3.   TERMS OF REFERENCE:NATION& PROJECTSTEERINGCOMMITTEE(PSC)

A NationalProject Steering Committee will ensure adequate oversight andintegration o fproject activity.


The NationalProject Co-ordinator andTechnical Advisor will be co-opted members o fthe NPSC and
provide the Secretariat to the Committee. The Project Steering Committee will meet at least twice a year
but couldmeet more frequentlyat the start ofthe project. Meetingsshouldbeheldfollowingmeetings of
the Advisory Committeewhenever possible, to avoid duplication and to reduce costs. The chairperson o f
the Project Steering Committee will call Steering Committee meetings. The committeemay invite other
institutions as the need arises.

The Project Steering Committee will have eight major objectives:

1.       To monitor project implementationinterms o f effectiveness and timeliness o f inputs and in
         terms o fthe success o fproject activities.
2.       To oversee andprovide guidance to project activities, ensure activities addressthe project
         objectives.
3.       To provide a forum for ensuringan integrated approachto project activities within allparts o fthe
         EasternArc Mountains.
4.       Provide a forum for, and linkto, the National MarineParks processes.
5.       Approve annual work-plans and broadbudgetary provisions, and consider changes as
         recommended.
 6.      InUNDPterminology: to performthe functionsofthe Tripartite Review (TPR) to consider and
         approve Annual Project Reports (APRS).
 7.      To review the TOR o fproject staff, and amend them as necessary.
 8.      To approve the proposed implementingagencies for theproject.

 Minutes of meetings will be kept. Decisions will be by consensus. The Project Steering Committee may
 constitute sub-committees and or task forces to discuss specialist topics or to review project activities.




                                                    -154-

Compositionof the ProjectSteeringCommittee

The Project Steering Committee will consist o f members from main stakeholders and the Implementing
Agencies. The Chairperson will be the Permanent Secretary to the Ministryo fNatural Resourcesand
Tourism, or his I her representative. Inaddition, members will be:

The Regional Administrative Secretary o f Morogoro representingthe UluguruMountains Stakeholders
The Director o f the Forest andBeekeeping Division
The Country Director CARETanzania (AnNGO-implementationpartner)
The Project Coordinator Tanzania Forest Conservation Group (AnNGO- implementation partner)
A representative ofthe MinistryofFinance
Representatives from village councils, from the UluguruMountains.
Two District Executive Directors from key District Partners.
The Executive Director o f the EasternArc Mountains Trust Fund
UNDP Country Office Dar es Salaam
UNDP GEF Regional Co-ordination Unit
The NationalProject Coordinator for the Project
The TeamLeader for the CARE Component inthe UluguruMountains
The Conservation Strategy Advisor to the Strategy Component.
Representatives from Co-Finance Partners.

Others maybe co-opted as the need arises.




                                                  - 155-

                     Appendix 5: Input Budget




-
19   COMPONENT TOTAL   994,000    303,000  363,000  292,000  2,000  2,000 32,000

20   CONTRACTS




                                - 156-

-
59   COMPONENT TOTAL      85,000      19,000    25,000    39,000        0      0   2,000

99   GRAND TOTAL       5,000,000    1,364,000 1,348,000 1,060,000 532,000 402,000 294,000




                                    - 157-

     Appendix 6: EasternArc UNDPStrategy ComponentWorkplans

BroadWorkplan2003-2005




                              -158-

IndicativeWorkplan2003




                          - 159 -

      AdditionalAnnex 18: Letter of Country Endorsement

TANZANIA EasternArc ForestsConservationand Management Project




                      Yours siiicercls.




                                 - 160-

           Additional Annex 19: Map of the EasternArc Mountain Forests

      TANZANIA EasternArc ForestsConservation and ManagementProject




                           Udzungwa
      Q
                                                  Mahenge



                                                         200 km
I




Map preparedbythe US ForestService, ForestHealthProject




                                                    - 161-

162-

MAP SECTION


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  IBRD 32235

                                         U    G    A    N32 D      A                                                         36                                                                40




                                                         BUKOBA

                                                                                             MUSOMA
                                                                                                                                                           K     E       N        Y      A                                                                 EASTERN ARC MOUNTAINS

                       RWANDA                                    L a k e                          MARA

                                                               Vi c t o r i a                                                                                                                                                                              CLOSED WOODLANDS, OPEN WOODLANDS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           AND NATURAL FORESTS
                                            KAGERA                              MWANZA
                                                                                                                                   Longido
                                                             MWANZA
                                                                                                                          W. KILIMANJARO                 N. KILIMANJARO                                                                                    MAIN INDUSTRIAL PLANTATION AREAS

                                                                                                                                MERU
                      BURUNDI                                                              SHINYANGA            Lake                               MOSHI
                                                                                                               Eyasi       Oldeani
                                                                                                                                            ARUSHA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS
                                          Kibondo                         SHINYANGA
                                                                                                                              Lake Manyara      Arusha
                                                                                                                                                 Chini  KILIMANJARO
                                                              Kahama                                               Mwadukani
4                                                                                                                                 ARUSHA                                                                        4                                        REGION CAPITALS

                                   KIGOMA                                           Nzega            Lake                    Babati                       Same
                                                                                                   Kitangiri

                               Kasulu                                                                                                                                  LUSHOTO                                                                             NATIONAL CAPITAL

                         KIGOMA                                                                    SINGIDA                                                                      LONGUZA
                                                                                                                          Kondoa
                      Ujiji        Uvinza                                                                                                                          TANGA
                                            Malagarasi   Kaliua               TABORA                         Mgori                                                                           WETE                                                          REGIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                                                                       Korogwe     TANGA

  OF                 L                                                                                                 Kalema                                                                   Pemba
                      a                                               TABORA                                                                             Handeni    Hale          Pangani       Island
    .                  k                                                                                                                    Kijungu
                        e                                                    Sikonge                                                                                                                                                                       INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                        DODOMA
     REP                                                                                                                                                       Mkata
                                                                                                     SINGIDA                                                                            Zanzibar
                                                                                                                            DODOMA                                                        Island
             CONGO                    Mpanda                                                                                                                                         ZANZIBAR
                                                                                                                                                                                                    I N D I A N
                                                                                                                               Mpwapwa                                           Bagamoyo

        DEM.                                                                                                                                                     Chalinze
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                               RUKWA                                                                                                                                DAR ES SALAAM                                      The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information shown
                                                                                          Rungwa                                          Kilosa                                    DAR ES SALAAM                                      on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank Group, any
                               T a                                                                                              Mtera                    MOROGORO                                                                      judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any endorsement or
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       acceptance of such boundaries.
                                  n                                                                                                                                                                  O C E A N
                                   g                                                                                                      Mikumi                         COAST
                                    a                                                                                                                                                  Kisiju
                                     n   Namanyere             Lake
                                                                                                                                                 Kidatu
                                      y                       Rukwa                   Kipembawe                     IRINGA                                                 Kibiti               Mafia
                                       i                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            DJIBOUTI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      C H A D
8                                      k                                                                                                                                                       Island
                                         a      SUMBAWANGA                          MBEYA                                                                            Ikwiriri                                    8                               S U D A N
                                                                                                                                            Ifakara                                                                                                                                 ETHIOPIA                SOMALIA
                                                Kasanga                                             SAO HILL
                                                                                       Chunya                                                                                                                                   CENTRAL
                                                                                                           Mufindi                 Mahenge                                                                                  AFRICAN REPUBLIC
                                                                                                                                                                                        Kilwa Kivinje
                                                                                MBEYA
                                                                                                                                                                           Kilwa Masoko
                                                                                Vwawa                                        MOROGORO
                   Z      A  M      B     I   A
                                                           32                         Tukuyu                Njombe                                                                                                                                              UGANDA
                                                                                                                                                                   LINDI                                                                                                           KENYA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       CONGO
                                                                                                                                                         Liwale                                                                                                      Lake
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 RWANDA            Victoria
                                            TANZANIA                                                                                                                                 LINDI                                      DEM. REP.        BURUNDI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         I N D I A N
  EASTERN ARC FORESTS CONSERVATION                                                                                                                                                                    MTWARA                  OF CONGO                         TANZANIA                                   O C E A N
                                                                                                                                                                Nachingwea                     Mikindani                                                             Dodoma
                   AND MANAGEMENT PROJECT                                                                                  SONGEA                                             Masasi MTWARA
                                                                                                                                      RUVUMA
                                                                                                                 Mbinga
                                                                                                                                                                              Newala
                                                                                                                                                       Tunduru                                                                                                                                          COMOROS
                           0           100           200         300                400 KILOMETERS                                                                                                                    A N G O L A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        MALAWI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Mayotte
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Z A M B I A                                                   (Fr)
                                                                                                                                                                 M O Z A M B I Q U E                                                                                             MOZAMBIQUE            MADAGASCAR
                                                                                                                12            36                                                               40            12
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 JANUARY 2003

