Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION               Report No. P-3376-YDR
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT EOUIVALENT TO US$7.0 MILLION
TO THE
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
FOR A
ROADS FLOOD RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
September 9, 1982
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World- Bank authorizati6n.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Calendar 1981             August, 1982
Currency Unit        =         Yemeni Dinars (YD)             YD
US$1        =            YD 0.345                   0.345
YDI         =            US$2.90                     2.90
Fiscal Year
April 1 to March 31           (prior to 1975)
April 1 to December 3L       (1975)
January 1 to December 31      (from 1976)
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
RA          -       Highway Authority
ICB         -      International Competitive Bidding
MCom.       -      Ministry of Communications
MOC         -      Ministry of Construction
MOP         -      Ministry of Planning
PDRY        -      People's Democratic Republic of Yemen
RRMU        -       Road Reconstruction and Maintenance Unit
UNDP        -      United Nations Development Program
USSR        -       Union of Soviet Socialist Republics
WFP         -      World Food Program
YAR         -       Yemen Arab Republic



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
ROADS FLOOD RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrowers            People's Democratic Republic of Yemen
Amount               SDRs 6.4 million (about US$7.0 million equivalent)
Terms                Standard
Project
Description;         The project would help restore normal traffic conditions
in the Abyan and Aden Governorates, following severe
damage caused by floods in March, 1982. This would permit
economic development to continue in these Governorates as
well as in the regions beyond. The project would also
help strengthen road maintenance and construction
capabilities and help identify a sound long-term economic
development strategy for the transport sector. The
project would consist of: i) the strengthening of
management, installations and equipment of the existing
(Abyan) Road Reconstruction and Maintenance Unit;
ii) reconstruction of (a) numerous damaged road sections
totalling about 40 km and damaged culverts and irish
crossings in Abyan Governorate; and (b) a damaged section
(about 1300m) on the Aden-Little Aden road and a damaged
section (about 1000m) and flood protection works near the
Aden international airport in the Aden Governorate;
iii) technical assistance to strengthen the Ministry of
Construction's project supervision and monitoring
capabilities; and iv) a transport sector study. The
project does not face any major risk.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated cost;l/
Local      Foreign        Total
…US $ Million ---------
Strengthening of (Abyan) Road
Reconstruction and Maintenance Unit           0.31          5.39        5.70
Direct Cost for Reconstruction of
Roads in Abyan and Aden Governorates          1.31          3.09        4.40
Technical Assistance and Transport              0.07          0.73        0.80
Sector Study
Base Cost                                       1.69          9.21       10.90
Physical Contingencies                          0.20          0.46        0.66
Price Contingencies                             0.17          0.70        0.87
Total Project Cost                              2.06         10.37       12.43
1/ Not including duties and taxes from which the project is exempt.
Financing Plan:                                  Local         Foreign    Total
-US$Million 
Government and Arab Fund          2.06          2.57        4.63
IDA                                             7.00        7.00
UNDP                                            0.80        0.80
Total                             2.06         10.37       12.43
Estimated Disbursements:                            FY83       FY84      FY85
------…US$ Million----
Annual                                4.0          2.5      0.5
Cumulative                            4.0         6.5       7.0
Estimated
Completion Date;           June 30, 1984
Rate of Return:            At least 20% on 80% of the prcject cost for
which benefits have been quantified.
Staff Appraisal Report:   No. 4061-YDR of September 9, 1982.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IDA
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT
CREDIT TO THE PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
FOR A ROADS FLOOD RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit of SDRs 6.4 million (about $7.0 million equivalent) on
standard IDA terms to the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen (PDRY) to help
finance a Roads Flood Reconstruction Project. The Government is discussing
with the Arab Fund the provision of up to $3.0 million equivalent and with the
UNDP the provision of up to $0.8 million under joint and parallel financing
arrangements to help finance the cost of the project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.       An economic report entitled "People's Democratic Republic of Yemen:
Economic Memorandum" (3570-YDR) dated January 29, 1982, was distributed to the
Executive Directors on February 10, 1982. A country data sheet is attached as
Annex I.
Development Objectives and Constraints
3.       Over the past decade, the Government of PDRY has consistently pursued
a strategy of developing the country within the context of a planned economic
system. The principal objectives of the Government have been: (a) to satisfy
the basic needs of the population for food, essential consumer goods, shelter,
employment, health care and other social services; (b) to develop the
production capacity of the economy, especially in agriculture, fisheries,
manufacturing, construction and minerals; (c) to strengthen the infrastructure
sectors, i.e., transport, power and telecommunications; (d) to raise education
standards, emphasizing technical and higher education; and (e) to increase
exports of domestic products.
4.       In pursuing these objectives, the Government relied primarily on
a strong public sector and on cooperatives. Major institutional reforms were
initiated with the nationalization of foreign properties in 1969 which brought
the bulk of the modern service activities in and around Aden (banking,
insurance, shipping, trading) under Government control. Subsequent investment
in manufacturing, power, construction and mineral exploration has given the
public sector a dominant influence over industrial activities.  Two agrarian
reform laws enacted in 1968 and 1970 have fundamentally changed the land
tenure conditions, breaking up large feudal holdings. Simultaneously, new
farm organizations--state farms and cooperatives--were created to facilitate
the introduction of modern cultivation and marketing techniques. Fishing
and consumer cooperatives were also established. More recently, two of the
remaining foreign-owned installations--the Aden Refinery (British Petroleum)
and an international communications facility (Cable and Wireless)--were
transferred by mutual consent to the Government of PDRY.



5.       Private enterprise was given a subsidiary role by the Government,
and was to be gradually replaced by public corporations and cooperatives.
But the private sector has proven to be resilient and appears to have re-
gained some strength in recent years. At present, it is estimated to account
for almost half of the nation's gross output of goods and services (excluding
government services). Private activity can be found in alimost every sector
ana is strongly represented in agricuilture, construction, trade and
transport. The volume of private investment--mainly in housing--has risen
sharply since the mid-1970s, partly at the expense of public investment.
Cooperation between public and privat'e capital is encouraged in some areas,
such as light industries, and a limited number of joint ventures are now
active. Foreign private investors have been invited to participate in oil
exploration and the fishing industry.. A new Investment Promotion Law has
recently been promulgated providing incentives to private investors and
encouraging foreign investment in other sectors such as tourism and
construction.
6.       Since the early 1970's the country has made significant progress in
a number of areas. Supplies of basic foodstuffs and other essential consumer
goods were increased largely through higher imports. School enrollment
rose sharply, adult literacy programs were introduced, and health services
improved. The transport network was strengthened, new power stations built,
and productive capacities in agriculture, fisheries and manufacturing
expanded. Substantial investments were made in mineral exploration while
more recently, there was an upsurge in private house construction. Rising
investments led to a rapid expansion of the local construction industry.
Overall economic expansion together with net emigration abroad not only
eliminated open unemployment but created some labor shortages.
7.       These developments were supported by substantial aid inflows, and
by a large increase of remittances sent by Yemenis working abroad (see para.
17). Exports on the other hand displayed little dynamism reflecting in large
part the low levels of capacity utilization especially in agriculture and
fisheries.  Notwithstanding large investments in these sectors, agricultural
and fish production have stagnated in the last 5-6 years. However, since an
increasing amount of product can be sold in the free market, the official
output statistics may increasingly understate the level of production and thus
the performance of the agriculture andi fisheries sectors.
8.       The Second Five-Year Plan continues to pursue the overall development
objectives outlined in para. 3 above. The Plan was originally envisaged to
cover the 1979-83 period. However, following a recommendation by the Council
on Arab Economic Unity asking Arab countries to synchronize their five-year
development plans, the Second Five-Year Plan commenced in 1981. The Plan
proposes a total investment of $1.47 billion (in 1980 prices) for 1981-85
of which 19 percent is to be spent for energy, 17 percent for agriculture
and fishing, 6 percent for manufacturing, 18 percent for transport and
communications, 8 percent for education and health and 18 percent for
housing. The Plan assumes that about $1.06 billion (72 percent) will be
financed through foreign capital, of which approximately $400 million had
already been committed at the beginning of the plan period. The production
targets are ambitious. They call for an overall rate of growth of 10 percent



-3-
per annum with sectoral growth targets of 13 percent for industry, 9 percent
for agriculture and 16 percent for fisheries, and 9 percent for transport and
communications. Production growth is to be achieved not only through new
investments but also through improved utilization of existing capacities.
9.       In implementing the Plan the Government faces a number of
constraints, the most important ones being limited natural resources,
shortages of manpower, especially in the construction sector, insufficient
technical and managerial skills, and low levels of productivity. A harsh
climate severely limits the area available for cultivation, although sub-
stantial increases in agricultural output could be achieved through higher
yields, and by substituting cash crops for subsistence agriculture. The
narrow domestic market and few known raw materials limit the scope for
industrial development. These constraints are compounded by the rugged
topography which creates severe difficulties for internal transportation
resulting in increased domestic transport cost.
10.      The Government has tried to ease the shortages of adequately
trained manpower with bilateral and multilateral technical assistance,
including assistance from UNDP which maintains a large program in PDRY.
In addition, again with foreign assistance (including IDA), a large education
and training program was launched and in recent years has become increasingly
technically oriented. Supported by scholarships for higher education abroad
and the establishment of technical training institutions in PDRY, the country
is now generating an increasing flow of technically trained people who could
gradually reduce the shortage of skilled manpower. Shortages of unskilled
labor exist mainly in the construction sector and could be eased through
joint ventures with foreign contractors.
11.      Low productivity in the public and cooperative sectors is one of
the principal problems faced by the Government. In addition to shortages
of trained manpower the reasons for this can be traced largely to inadequate
incentive systems including low Government procurement prices in agriculture
and fisheries, weak management, lack of spare parts, and poor maintenance.
These constraints are often compounded by excessive state control which causes
distortions and stifles initiative. No early solutions to these deep-seated
problems are in sight although the Government has recently started to pursue
a more flexible price policy to provide incentives for farmers and fishermen.
For example, state procurement prices for most agricultural crops and fish
have been substantially increased accompanied by measures permitting farmers
and fishermen, both as individuals and in cooperatives to sell a large portion
of their output on the free market at prices substantially above state
procurement prices.
Recent Economic Developments
12.      The Government's emphasis on the public sector has led to a rapid
increase in public spending. Priority was given to public investment which
increased from $57 million in 1974/75 to $166 million in 1977. In 1978,
however, public investment started to decline in real terms and in 1979, it
was some 20 percent lower than in 1977. The principal reason for this decline
was a growing shortage of construction workers many of whom preferred to work



-4-
in the private sector where much higher wages are being paid. In 1981
development expenditures increased substantially to $305 million reflecting
the special efforts of the Government to complete ongoing projects. Current
government expenditures for education, health and more recently defense,
continued to grow through 1981 both in nominal and real terms.
13.      During the past decade, high levels of public spending have accel-
erated the rate of economic growth. GDP at constant prices is estimated
to have grown at an annual average rate of about 6 percent during 1974-80,
compared with only 2 percent per annujm during 1970-73. The major growth
sectors were government services, construction, manufacturing and transport.
Agricultural output and fish production apparently stagnated. To some extent
the disappointing performance of agriculture and fisheries was the result of
labor migration from these sectors to higher paid jobs within the country
(i.e. construction) or abroad. But it also reflects the factors referred to
above (see para. 11).
14.      To sustain the massive increase in public spending, the Government
had to make a major effort in mobilizing financial resources. With a low per
capita income, there were severe limitations on raising domestic resources.
The principal instrument used in mobilizing domestic funds was taxation.
New taxes have been introduced and tax collection improved. In addition,
profits of public enterprises have been rising. As a result, total public
sector income rose from $68 million in 1974/75 to $362 million in 1981. This
still left a large overall deficit in the public sector amounting to $342
million in 1981.
15.      To supplement the insufficient domestic resources, the Government
turned for help to friendly nations and international agencies. Increasing
amounts of foreign aid were provided, largely by socialist countries and Arab
nations. In addition, PDRY received support from regional and international
organizations, including IDA.   Total foreign aid inflows rose from $66
million in 1974 to $131 million in 1978. In 1979 disbursements dropped
to $87 million due in part to the decline in public investments. However,
foreign aid inflows once again rose slharply in 1980 ($169 million) and again
in 1981 ($319 million).
16.      The overall expansion of economic activity, especially the growth
in investment, has induced a considerable flow of additional imports. Total
imports rose from $190 million in 1974 to $763 million in 11981. Most of the
increase was due to rising world prices, especially those for crude oil and
foodstuffs, reducing the growth of import volume to only one-fourth of the
nominal value. About 30 percent of imports represented foodl and beverages, 22
percent crude oil and petroleum products, and 20 percent machinery and
equipment. Rising import prices intensified inflationary pressures within
PDRY; these pressures were reinforced by substantial increases in wage levels
especially in the private constructioni sector, and by growing domestic bank
financing of public sector expenditures.
17.      Exports, mainly fish and cotton, have been able to cover only a
minor share of the import bill. In 1981, they were estimated to be about $28
million or some 4 percent of commodity imports. Much more important



- 5 -
than commodity exports are PDRY's invisible earnings which are dominated
by labor income and private transfers. The latter have risen rapidly since
the mid-1970s, increasing from $41 million in 1974 to $415 million in 1981.
This has been due to rising wage levels in the oil surplus countries, to
additional emigration, and to new incentives which liberalized "own exchange"
imports, allowed the construction of private dwellings, and offered higher
interest rates to non-resident bank depositors. Fast growing exchange
earnings and increasing disbursements from foreign aid have enabled PDRY in
recent years to cover its import requirements and to strengthen its foreign
reserves. The latter rose from $67 million at end 1974 to $255 million at
end 1981, equivalent to about 4 months of the imports.
Impact of Flood Damages
18.      In late March 1982, unusual floods caused extensive economic damage
in PDRY. Heavy rains fell continuously for about three days damaging arable
land, infrastructure and buildings throughout most of the country. In many
places, the rainfall exceeded 10 inches during the three day period and water
descended from the mountain slopes surrounding the area and swept away
villages causing substantial losses to agricultural areas and crops,
livestock, roads and bridges and equipment. The most seriously affected areas
are in Lahej, Abyan and Shabwah Governorates. Wadis in Lahej and Abyan
Governorates were seriously affected due to erosion of the wadi banks thus
washing away large tracts of agricultural lands and residential property.
Along the wadis, most feeder and on-farm roads have also been washed away.
Hence, much of PDRY's limited spate irrigated infrastructure is now in need of
rehabilitation, repair and probably in need of basic redesign and
reconstruction. The Zinjibar bridge in the Abyan Governorate has been totally
destroyed as have numerous sections of the main Aden Al Mukalla coastal road
linking the capital to other governorates and the branch to Wadi Ahwar in
Abyan Governorate. Thus, the disaster was reputedly the largest in recent
history. Official estimates list 500 people dead, 25,000 houses destroyed and
50,000 head of livestock lost with physical damage of between $300 million and
$1 billion in total cost.
19.      Preliminary surveys on the overall impact of the floods on the
economy indicate that a substantial portion of the seasonal crops viz cotton,
cereals, fruits and vegetables have been destroyed and prospects for
resumption of such crops in the affected areas in the near future are
uncertain. It would take up to 2 to 3 years before production could be
resumed. Similarly, the damage to highways and bridges is quite extensive and
although emergency works have already been completed, it will take about two
years to complete full reconstruction and rehabilitation. The Government has
already begun rehabilitation, repair and reconstruction works to avoid further
damage to wadi beds and agricultural land during the rest of flood season (up
to October, 1982). It has begun to place orders for imports of machinery and
equipment as well as building materials with assistance from multilateral and
bilateral donors.
20.      The damage to agricultural crops had a serious impact on the domestic
food supply and exports. Apart from the export losses, the economy has to
bear additional costs in the immediate period arising out of the necessity to



import substantial amounts of foodstuffs to replace lost agricultural output
and essential materials, machinery and spare parts to repair flood damaged
infrastructure. Hence, the additional balance of payments burden caused by
the floods during 1982 is tentatively estimated at between US$55-60 million.
The impact on the 1982 budget is expected to be substantial ranging up to YD
20 million or about 10 percent of total expenditures. Complete assessment of
the overall damage to the economy will take at least another 3 to 4 months and
emergency repair and reconstruction work is underway with the assistance from
multilateral agencies and donor countries. PDRY has already received about $6
million of emergency assistance from UN agencies and some external assistance
in the form of project loans. These cash and in-kind grants have so far been
for relief purposes and their magnitude is small. The need to import
additional food, construction materials and capital equipment to replace
losses will no doubt have a negative impact on PDRY's balance of payments in
the medium term. Hence, PDRY requires an increased flow of material and
financial assistance from the international community.
External Debt
21.      The large inflow of foreign loans led to a rapid accumulation of
PDRY's external public debt even though part of the aid was provided in the
form of grants. Total debt outstanding (including undisbursed) as of end 1981
amounted to $1,404 million, of which $651 million was disbursed. Bilateral
sources accounted for $1,009 million or 72 percent of total commitments with
the USSR providing the bulk ($591 million), followed by China ($149 million),
other Eastern European countries ($158 million), and Arab countries ($129
million). Multilateral flows amounteld to $395 million including $252 million
from Arab Funds, $108 million from IDA and $32 million from IMF. The terms of
all loans are highly concessionary. In addition, PDRY has received $398
million in grant assistance during 1974/81, mostly from Aralb countries.
22.      The soft terms of PDRY's external debt have resulted in relatively
small debt service obligations. Debt service payments in 1981 were $11
million or 3.4 percent of total foreign exchange earnings from exports of
goods and services. However, PDRY's debt service obligations have started
to rise and are projected to increase further in future years. This will
exert additional pressure on its balance of payments. Theresfore, in view
of the above, the Bank's assistance to PDRY should continue to be on IDA
terms. For the same reason, local cost financing by IDA is justified.
23.      In 1969, under Nationalization Law No. 37, the Government
nationalized most of the foreign-owned enterprises (para. 4). This law
provided for compensation in the form of 20-year Government bonds bearing
interest of 2 percent. Twenty-five percent of the net annual profits of
all the nationalized companies were to be used for servicing the bonds.  In
response, some of the foreign banks which were nationalized froze substantial
Yemeni deposits which they had transferred abroad. Immediately after the
promulgation of Law No. 37, the Government appointed a British firm of
accountants of international repute tco audit the accounts ol all the national-
ized companies and evaluate their assets. The audit report was submitted to
the Government in September 1971. Settlements were reached soon after with



-7-
three of the foreign banks involved. Agreements were finalized with three
additional banks in 1977, with the oil companies in late 1977, early 1978,
and in 1979, with a development finance company in mid-1978, and with a bank
in 1980. Dialogue with the one remaining claimant company of which IDA is
aware has however been very slow since there is still no agreement on a basis
on which to settle this claim. The Government professes its desire to reach
mutually acceptable settlements with all claimant companies, and has expressed
its willingness to consider such settlement outside the terms of the 1969
Nationalization Law.
PART II - WORLD BANK OPERATIONS
24.      IDA's lending program in PDRY supports the Government's long-range
economic objective of broadening the base of a service-oriented economy
centered around Aden, by developing the productive capacity of the other
sectors of the economy and promoting investments in the outlying regions.
Efforts have been directed towards projects in the transport sector, which
would not only help to integrate the disparate regions of PDRY, but, more
importantly, link production areas with the main markets. This will be
continued. IDA will also continue to assist in agriculture, including the
key fisheries subsector, education, water supply and sewerage, petroleum
exploration and power. In addition, new sectors being examined are industry
and health. Technical assistance and institution-building will continue to
be an integral feature of IDA projects in PDRY.
25.      PDRY joined the Bank in 1969 and IDA in 1970, but is not a member
of IFC. Assistance to PDRY commenced in 1971 and, after a pause of about two
years (February 1976 to February 1978) because IDA funds allocated to PDRY for
this period had been committed more rapidly than envisaged, resumed again in
1978. To date, IDA has had 21 operations in PDRY 1/, for a total commitment
of $127.7 million. Of this total, $32.8 million has assisted the transport
sector, $41.3 million the agriculture and fisheries sector, $21.5 million the
power and energy sector, $15.4 million the education sector, and $16.7 million
the water supply sub-sector. Project implementation in PDRY has suffered from
delays and in some cases cost overruns. Common causes of delay have included
the time required to arrange the required cofinancing, difficulties in re-
cruiting and retaining foreign advisors and in attracting foreign contractors,
inexperience in project mobilization, and in recent years shortages of both
skilled and unskilled manpower. But projects are in almost all cases being
properly implemented even if delayed. Disbursement performance under IDA
credits in PDRY has been consistently good during the past two years.  It
is superior to other countries in the Middle East and compares favorably with
some of the best performers in the Bank. This trend is expected to continue.
Lessons learned from experience with delays and cost overruns in earlier
projects are being taken into account in our follow-up projects. Annex II
contains a summary statement of IDA credits as of March 31, 1982, and notes on
the execution of ongoing projects.
1/   Including two engineering credits subsequently refinanced under Credits
560 and 1038.



- 8 -
26.      Future operations are both in the preparation and study stages.
Under preparation are a first health development project, and a follow-up
agricultural project in Wadi Hadramawt, which would include studies required
as a basis for longer term rehabilitation of irrigation infrastructure damaged
in the March 1982 floods (see paras. 18-20) in the areas of two earlier
IDA-assisted projects - Wadi Tuban (768-YDR) and Wadi Beihan (1145-YDR)
agricultural development projects. Project possibilities in agriculture,
fisheries, industry, transport, education and water supply are also under
consideration. As a result of the above studies, a future agricultural
project may include a component to help rehabilitate irrigation infrastructure
in Wadi Tuban and Wadi Beihan. As in the recent past, the costs of future
projects are expected to be substantially higher than the funds IDA can
provide to PDRY. Therefore, efforts will be continued to encourage other
development agencies to join IDA in t-he financing of suitable projects. From
FY71 through FY82, IDA has been successful in securing through its projects
about $139 million of cofinancing from other aid donors (UNDP $0.7 million;
Kuwait Fund $26 million; Arab Fund $46.2 million; Islamic D)evelopment Bank $11
million, Abu Dhabi Fund $16 million, OPEC Fund $22 million, IFAD $11 million
and EEC $6.4 million), thus helping to increase the inflow of development aid
to the country.
PART III - THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
The Economic Geography of PDRY
27.      Apart from the city of Aden (population 270,000), the 1.9 million
inhabitants of PDRY live in small connunities in a few widely scattered areas
where water is available, and are separated from one another by considerable
distances of empty desert and arid mountains. Cultivated areas account for
only 0.2 percent of the country's total land area. The standard of living is
low (per capita GNP in 1980 is estimated at $420 principally due to
remittances) and the rural population is to a large degree self-sufficient,
depending on small-scale agriculture where water is available.
28.      PDRY's transport system is limited, reflecting the country's severe
lack of resources and the limited economic development until recent years. At
independence in 1967 there were only about 400 kms of surfaced roads, mostly
in and around Aden. The rest of the country was served only by low-standard
tracks or by limited air services using unpaved airstrips. Traditional dhows
plied between Aden and Al Mukalla. Since then the Government has concentrated
a substantial part of the national development budget on providing transport
facilities to connect the nine principal populated areas which are also of
agricultural importance (see map). Roads have been the primary means to
connect these areas, since coastal shipping is handicapped by shallow coastal
waters and the lack of ports other than at Aden and Al Mukalla; railways are
impracticable due to the rugged terrain and low traffic volumes; and aviation
is relatively high cost.
29.      As a result of the expansion of the road network in recent years,
many parts of PDRY are becoming more accessible. Pending completion of
ongoing road projects, only the Shabwah Governorate (populaition 100,000) and
the Al Mahra Governorate (population 70,000) still face major transport
difficulties. Road transport accounts for about 90 percent of both total
passenger and freight traffic. Transport services are either state-owned or
under close government regulation.



- 9 -
Transport Policy, Planning and Coordination
30. The Government continues to attach considerable importance to the role
transport improvements can play in promoting the economic, social and
administrative integration of the widely scattered populated areas of the
country. The allocation to transport under the First Five-Year Plan (1974-78)
was YD58 million ($174 million) or 24 percent of the capital budget, and
transport projects actually absorbed YD 52 million ($151 million) or 27
percent of total development outlays. The transport sector allocation for the
second Five-Year Plan (1981-85) is about YD74 million ($215 million) which is
14.5 percent of total development expenditures. Of this about YD40 million
($116 million) are going to roads.
31.      Three ministries are responsible for the main aspects of the
transport system: Construction (MOC) for roads, Communications (MCom.)for
road transport services and shipping, and aviation, and Planning (MOP) for
coordinating the planning of investments in the sector. Issues of road
transport affecting both the Ministries of Construction and Communications are
adequately coordinated informally by officials of the two ministries concerned.
32.      Public sector organizations have primary responsibility for
developing transport services in shipping and civil aviation, and have taken
the lead in providing road transport services. As a general principle,
transport tariffs are set by the Government, including those to be charged by
privately owned trucks and taxis, at levels that will cover average operating
costs while assuring uniformity of rates and fares for like services.
Ports, Shipping and Civil Aviation
33.      The port of Aden handles almost all of PDRY's foreign trade.  General
cargo traffic, though modest in absolute terms, is growing rapidly after
several years of decline and has now reached pre-independence levels. In
1975, IDA and the Arab Fund financed the Aden Port Rehabilitation Project
(584-YDR) which is close to completion. The country's only other general
cargo port is Al Mukalla, where a new port is under construction with the help
of loans from the Arab Fund and the Kuwait Fund. Coastal shipping plays a
limited role because of the shallow beaches and lack of harbors as does air
traffic.
Highway Subsector
34.      The backbone of the PDRY highway network is the 620 km long coastal
road from Aden to Al Mukalla, which was started from Aden in the mid-1960s and
completed to Al Mukalla in 1977. Three other arterial roads are paved, the
Aden to Kersh (on the Yemen Arab Republic (YAR) border) road (about 65 km),
the Al Mukalla - Wadi Hadramawt road (350 km) and the Shuqra - Ahwar road
(116 km). The asphalt roads in and around Aden and other short stretches
mostly in the western governorates bring the total length of asphalted roads
in 1982 to about 1650 km, or 26 percent of the network. There are also some



- 10 -
255 km of cobblestone roads, mostly in the Wadi Hadramawt. The rest of the
network is made up of unsurfaced tracks, estimated at about 4,400 km. Many of
them are cut by flash floods and dune movements at different times of the
year, and with few exceptions are only passable by four-wheel drive passenger
vehicles and trucks.
35.      Traffic volumes at about 2,000 vehicles per day on paved roads in the
Aden area, between 300 and 1000 vehicles per day on other paved roads, and
less than 100 vehicles per day on the tracks, are generally low even on the
paved roads. They reflect the difficulties of terrain and the long distances
between communities.
Subsector Organization
36.      Responsibility for the road network is divided between the MOC in
charge of the construction and maintenance of the asphaltedl roads, and the
governorate authorities, who maintain the rest of the network and carry out
small-scale construction works. The MOC was reorganized in 1979 and comprises
four main departments: administration, engineering, the Highway Authority
(HA), and the General Directorate for Corporations (responsible for the
construction units). Road investment planning is carried out at two levels in
the MOC: (i) the Planning Unit, reporting directly to the Minister, which
advises on policy issues and is responsible for sectoral planning in the MOC
and for coordination with the MOP; and (ii) the Road Planning Unit of the
Highway Authority which is responsible for the more technical aspects of
project preparation and implementation.
37.      The MOC's engineering department carries out highway design on
smaller construction projects to the extent possible with its limited number
of qualified staff. In this task it has received valuable assistance from two
UNDP technical advisers. Major designs are carried out by consultants or a
bilateral aid team.  Consultants, financed under the Second Highway Project
(560-YDR), reviewed design standards and recommended that the maximum single
axle-load limit be raised from 8 to 13 tons, which is adequate for the
country's needs and in conformity with neighboring Saudi Arabia and YAR.  The
Government promulgated the appropriate regulations in 1980, and has enforced
these measures to ensure that the dimensions and axle loads of vehicles using
the roads do not exceed limits consistent with the road's design standards.
38.      The Government undertakes all road construction by its own
construction units under the supervision of the Ministry of Construction.
These construction units were set up following unsuccessful international
tenders with high bids. The main reasons for the high bids have been limited
prospects for continuing work in PDRY, more attractive work in richer
neighboring gulf states and difficult local working conditions. Furthermore,
the private sector contracting industry is small and cannot undertake major
road works, although there are a limited number of contractors who could
develop the capability to participate in the road construction and maintenance
program with small contracts in the long term. The construction units operate
independently, have their own accounting system and are assisted by bilateral
aid experts and management consultants for the more complex works. The
quality of construction is satisfactory and, as the units gain experience, it



- 11 -
can be expected to improve. The proposed project would assist in further
strengthening their construction capabilities. There are now five such
construction units. These construction units would also be entrusted at a
later stage with the construction of feeder roads and the maintenance of the
road network.
39.      Because of the shortage of domestically generated resources,
construction projects have had to be financed with extensive external
assistance, the Government often contributing less than 10 percent of total
project cost.  The People's Republic of China lent an estimated $20 million
towards the cost of the Aden-Al Mukalla road. The Al Mukalla-Wadi Hadramawt
road was jointly financed by IDA ($15.5 million) and the Kuwait Fund ($15.3
million) under IDA's Second Highway Project (Cr. 560-YDR), while the Aden-Taiz
road improvement was financed entirely by the Arab Fund at a cost of about $20
million for the section within PDRY (Aden to Kersh). The Naqabah - Nisab road
is the main component of the Third Highway Project (Cr. 1144-YDR) and is being
jointly financed by IDA ($12.5 million), the Kuwait Fund ($10.5 million) and
the OPEC Fund ($10.5 million). IDA has also financed the construction of
feeder roads under the Wadi Hadramawt Agricultural Development Project
(615-YDR). Other assistance has been received from the German Democratic
Republic, the USSR, Hungary and the World Food Program (WFP).
Maintenance
40.      As a result of a sustained effort over the last several years,
including a doubling in the allocation of funds for maintenance, the MOC is
now carrying out highway maintenance on the paved network at a generally
acceptable level. The paved network is all relatively new and deliberately
designed to keep maintenance to a minimum. Maintenance on the unpaved
network, where there are blockages from dune movements and infrequent
localized flash floods, is carried out on an 'ad hoc' basis by the individual
Governorates, with some funding from the World Food Program (WFP). Until
recently the MOC maintenance teams have been organized centrally, which
inhibited prompt action. However, as the paved network grows and the value of
maintenance is better understood, road maintenance needs to be systematically
approached. The MOC is considering entrusting maintenance operations on a
contract basis to the construction units under its General Directorate for
Corporations. The Government has indicated that it is interested in IDA
assistance in financing a road maintenance project, preparation of which is to
begin shortly.
41.      The MOC remains understaffed at all levels.  Useful on-the-job
training under the First Highway Project (240-YDR) (1971 to 1974) and
bilateral technical assistance addressed the needs of the mechanical
workshops, while IDA, under the Second Highway Project, UNDP and bilateral
sources have provided overseas fellowships for mid-level management and
specialized trade candidates. The results have been mixed because of language
difficulties and difficulties in finding suitably qualified candidates. In
1977 the Government established a construction industries training center
under the supervision of the MOC. The Third Highway Project (1144-YDR)
provides for continuation of training, particularly for construction and
maintenance supervisors and site managers, including some overseas fellowships.



- 12 -
Previous Transport Projects
42.      IDA has financed four projects in PDRY's transport sector to date:
the First Highway (240-YDR), Second Highway (560-YDR), Third Highway
(1144-YDR) and Aden Port Rehabilitation (584-YDR). The First Highway project
was completed in December 1975 and was reasonably successful in attaining its
objective of organizing the Highway Akuthority and providing technical
assistance. However completion was about two years late, due to delays in
procuring equipment, partly because the Government was unfamiliar with the
Bank's Procurement Guidelines. There were also shortages of qualified
counterpart staff. The Project Performance Audit Report (PPAR) (dated March
13, 1978) concluded that continued effort was required over several successive
projects for institution building. The status of the other three projects
which are being implemented satisfactorily are referred to in Annex II.
Implementation experience, discussed elsewhere in this chapter under the
relevant headings, has been generally satisfactory despite difficulties in
attracting foreign contractors and qualified internationally recruited
advisors. Delays have resulted but their impact has been mitigated by the
responsiveness of the Yemeni authorities responsible for implementation. The
lessons learned from previous transport projects have been taken into account
in the proposed project.  These include the need for substantial provisions
for technical assistance, carefully planned work programs, proper cost
accounting, good equipment maintenance, competitive and incentive wage rates
to attract skilled labor and so on.
Road Flood Damage
43.      Exceptionally severe rainfaLls, comparable to nornal whole year
volumes hit PDRY over a three-day period at the end of March 1982 (the very
beginning of the rainy season) damaging large areas of agricultural land,
houses, irrigation structures, roads and bridges and causing heavy loss of
human life, cattle and economic assets, and severely disrupting economic
activity (see paras. 18-20). Damage is most heavily concentrated in the Abyan
Governorate followed by Lahej and Shabwah, but all Governorates are affected.
Overall, about 40 to 45 km of paved road including many structures were
destroyed or damaged by the floods. The main Aden-Al Mukailla coastal road and
the branch to Wadi Ahwar in Abyan Governorate were the most severely hit. At
Zinjibar, about 40 km east of Aden on the main coastal road, a 230 m bridge --
the largest in PDRY-- was completely swept away. Damage to other main roads
was more localized, yet sufficient to close them to traffic. The Aden-Taiz
road was cut near the town of Lahej in the center of the populous and
agriculturally important Wadi Tuban. The Al Mukalla - Wadi Hadramawt road was
cut in its two most difficult escarpment sections. The main road between Aden
and the refinery at Little Aden and a section of road at Aden international
airport were also severely damaged. The latter section had to be cut in two
locations to divert flood waters and prevent serious damage to the airport.
There was also considerable damage to unpaved roads and tracks.



- 13 -
44.      Apart from the immediate damage to roads and bridges, the longer-term
consequences of the floods will strain the transport system for many years to
come. The additional imports of food and reconstruction inputs will pose a
burden for Aden port. Increased imports and reduced local production will
further exacerbate the imbalance of goods flows from and to Aden, taxing
existing road transport capacity and adding to road transport costs.
45. The MOC immediately started emergency road repair works to restore
traffic, which were substantially completed by the end of May 1982. However,
these works are unlikely to withstand even normal floods that almost certainly
will occur during the remainder of the 1982 rainy season lasting to about
October. As a result, distribution of foods and supplies and henceforth
economic recovery is expected to be disrupted to various degrees during the
reconstruction period which will last about two years.
46.      Although the estimated $22 million of damage to roads and bridges is
relatively small in comparison to total damage, it is concentrated on key
sections of the road network located in the economically most productive
regions of the country. Economic recovery is to a large extent dependent on
restoration of normal traffic conditions. The Government has designed a
two-year program to carry out the road reconstruction effort within the
ongoing maintenance and construction program of MOC. This approach minimizes
the impact of the reconstruction program on the implementation of other
ongoing road aevelopment projects. The program consists of: (i)
strengthening the Ministry's Highway Authority (HA) through minor revisions of
the technical assistance program included in the Third Highway Project
(1144-YDR); (ii) upgrading of the Al Mukalla maintenance department and
creation of a special unit to reconstruct the Zinjibar bridge on the main
Aden-Al Mukalla road with the assistance of the People's Republic of China;
(iii) extending the construction programs to include repair works of the
Aden-Taiz and Al Mukalla-Hadramawt road construction units with the assistance
of the Arab and Kuwait Funds; and (iv) strengthening an existing construction
unit in the Abyan Governorate to reconstruct the roads in this most severely
damaged Governorate as well as the Al Hiswah crossing on the Aden - Little
Aden road and the road section and flood protection works near the
international airport in the adjacent Aden Governorate. The total cost of the
program is estimated at about $22 million. As regards local roads, the
reconstruction efforts of local authorities are being supported by WFP through
a reallocation of resources under ongoing rural development projects and
additional funds provided under its emergency facility.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
47.      Following the March 1982 floods, Bank staff visited PDRY to obtain
some first hand information on their extent and impact. Following discussion
with the Government, the Bank decided that it could best assist the
reconstruction effort in the highways and agriculture sectors (see para. 26)
where it had extensive experience in PDRY and where it could bring technical
and financial assistance to bear quickly. The proposed project was identified
and appraised in May 1982 by a mission to PDRY which reviewed with the



- 14 -
Government its proposed roads reconstruction program and found it an
economically and technically feasible proposal to deal efficiently with the
reconstruction effort. Item (iv) of the reconstruction program (para. 46) is
the subject of this project . Negotiations were held in Washington, D.C. in
August 1982. The PDRY delegation was led by Mr. Dubba, Deputy Minister of
Construction. A report entitled "Staff Appraisal Report: PDRY Roads Flood
Reconstruction Project" (No. 4061-YDR, dated September 9, 1982) is being
circulated separately to the Executive Directors. A map showing the proposed
road reconstruction works is attached to this report. Special conditions in
the Credit Agreement are summarised in Annex III.
Project Objectives
48.      The proposed project would support the Government's effort to restore
traffic conaitions in the Abyan and Aden Governorates with minimal adverse
impact on other economic activity. The proposed project would also have a
longer term institutional building objective in strengthening the MOC's road
maintenance and construction capabilities. The project would also assist the
Government in identifying a sound long-term economic development strategy for
the transport sector.
Project Description
49.      The project would consist of: i) the strengthening of the existing
Road Reconstruction and Maintenance Unit (RRMU), based in the Abyan
Governorate, to carry out reconstruction of the roads in the Abyan and Aden
Governorates; ii) the reconstruction of the damaged road sections, bridges,
culverts and irish crossings in the Abyan Governorate and of the road section
at the Al Hiswah crossing on the Aden - Little Aden road and the road section
and flood protection works near Aden international airport in the Aden
Governorate; iii) technical assistance to strengthen the project supervision
and monitoring capability of the Highlway Authority (HA) of the MOC; and iv) a
transport sector study.
50.      The upgrading of the RRMU would comprise the improvement of existing
installations and construction of new workshops, stores, and accommodations,
the reconditioning of existing equipment and the purchase of new equipment.
The unit would be managed by internationally recruited engineering management
consultants, who began preparing the required work program for upgrading the
unit as well as for the reconstruction works in June 1982. The unit would
thus be able to carry out the road reconstruction works efificiently and
promptly. About 115 man-months of management consultant services would be
required for this purpose. Because of the limited extent of the
reconstruction works, about 50 percent of the value of the equipment to be
used will not be depreciated on the works. The Government agreed that upon
completion of the road reconstruction works under the project, this equipment
would be allocated to other road maintenance and construction operations in
accordance with a program to be agreed with IDA by December 31, 1983
(Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.04). The road reconstruction works
in Abyan Governorate would consist of the repair of numerous and scattered
damaged road sections totalling about 40 km, the reconstruction of 36 culverts



- 15 -
and the repair of 18 damaged culverts, and the reconstruction of 3700 meters
of destroyed irish crossings. In Aden Governorate, the 1,300 meter section of
the Aden-Little Aden road at Al Hiswah washed away during the floods would be
reconstructed and the 1,000 m section near Aden international airport that had
to be cut in two locations to divert flood water and prevent major damage to
the airport would in part be rebuilt on an embankment that would act as a dam
and protect the airport in the future. The works would be completed over an
18 month period commencing in November 1982. The detailed work program was
discussed and agreed with the Government during negotiations.
51.      Under the technical assistance component, about 33 manmonths of
technical assistance for two experts would help the project supervision and
monitoring unit in the HA in the supervision and programming of the
reconstruction works, in reviewing the RRMU's cost accounting system, in
introducing accounting and budgetting systems for road maintenance into the HA
and in devising procedures to make MOC's construction and maintenance
operations more cost effective than at present. The Government's agreement to
the draft UNDP project document for this component, which will be financed by
UNDP with IDA as executing agency, was confirmed at negotiations.
52.      The transport sector study would be carried out by the Ministry of
Communications (MCom.) with the assistance of consultants (30 manmonths) using
already available data. The study will assess the performance of all modes of
transport (roads, ports, air) and make recommendations for short and longer
term sector development. The Government's agreement to draft terms of
reference for the study was confirmed at negotiations. Also, this study is
expected to be financed by the UNDP, with IDA acting as executing agency.
Cost Estimates and Financing
53.      The total cost of the project, exclusive of duties and taxes, which
are not applicable to development projects in PDRY, is estimated at $12.43
million, including contingencies. The foreign exchange component is $10.37
million or 83 percent of the total. The cost estimates are based on the
detailed work program and equipment, materials and installations needs
prepared by the Government and its engineering management consultants. They
reflect August 1982 prices. The cost estimates were confirmed at
negotiations. The cost of technical assistance is based on average manmonth
rates of $9,000 for project supervision and monitoring, of $10,000 for the
transport sector study, and of $9,000 for the engineering management
consultants. These rates include salaries, social costs, overheads, fees,
overseas allowances, and international travel costs and are consistent with
current rates in PDRY. A physical contingency of 15 percent is estimated for
the direct costs of road reconstruction. No physical contingencies are
provided for the upgrading of the RRMU since the cost estimates are for a
clearly defined list of equipment and installations. Price contingencies on
foreign and local costs of upgrading RRMU and of the reconstruction program
have been estimated on the basis of anticipated rates of inflation of 10
percent in 1982 and 9 percent in 1983 and 1984. For the engineering
management services, the price adjustments provided for in the consultants'
draft contract of 20 percent in January 1983 and 10 percent in January 1984



-- 16 -
have been used. On the cost of the supervision and monitoring services and
the transport sector study, a total price contingency of 10 percent has been
allowed.
54.      The proposed IDA credit of $7 million equivalent wrould finance 100
percent of foreign exchange expenditures of equipment for the RRMU, foreign
exchange expenditures of the engineering management consultants to assist the
unit, and 50 percent of the direct costs of the road reconstruction program.
The Arab Fund indicated that about $1 million equivalent in savings from a
loan for an ongoing project could be used for the proposed project, which
amount would be applied toward the urgent upgrading of the RRMU's
installations. The Arab Fund also indicated its readiness to consider an
additional loan of about $2.0 million for the project, which would finance the
balance of RRMU's installations and jointly with the IDA credit, the direct
costs of the road reconstruction program. The UNDP financing of $0.8 million
would finance the foreign exchange costs of the project monitoring technical
assistance and of the consultants carrying out the transport sector study.
Based on an Arab Fund participation of $3.0 million equivalent, Government
would contribute about $1.63 million toward the local cost of the project.
Government is prepared to pre-finance the cost of upgrading RRMU's
installatiions and of the reconstruction works until the Arab Fund financing
becomes available. Also, in the unlikely event that the Arab Fund
cofinancing, for unforeseen reasons, does not materialize, Government would
meet the full balance of cost from its own resources.  During credit
negotiations, Government gave assurances that it will take all action
necessary to conclude an agreement with the Arab Fund within eight months of
the date of the IDA credit agreement or to make within that period alternative
arrangements to provide the $3.0 million equivalent, including through
budgetary allocations (Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.01(b)). The
signing of the UNDP Project Document f-or the provision of technical assistance
for project monitoring and supervision would be a condition of effectiveness
of the IDA credit agreement (Development Credit Agreement, Section 6.01).
Project Execution
55.      The MOC would be responsible for the reconstruction works, while the
Ministry of Communications would be responsible for the transport sector
study. The Highway Authority of the MOC, directly responsible for overseeing
execution, would be assisted by UNDP financed experts for the supervision and
monitoring of project execution. Consultants selected by IDA, as executing
agency for UNDP and satisfactory to the Government, would assist the Ministry
of Communications with the transport sector study. The reconstruction works
would be carried out by force account by the RRMU, a financially autonomous
unit under the MOC. By a Government resolution of July 10, 1982, the unit has
similar status to the other construction and maintenance units of the MOC in
that it may: i) hire internationally recruited and local staff at competitive
and incentive wage rates; and ii) import equipment, materials, spare parts and
vehicles as needed. The Government would maintain the unit's authority to do
this; would provide it with adequate working capital, and would ensure that
the unit is managed by competent managerial and technical experts whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment are



- 17 -
satisfactory to IDA (Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.03). The overall
status of project preparation is good. Some of RRMU's installations have
already been purchased and a contract with RRMU's management consultants has
been negotiated. Contracts for the additional installations and for the
equipment, are expected to be concluded in October and November 1982. The
reconstruction works are expected to start in November 1982. It is expected
that the project would be completed by June 30, 1984.
Accounting and Auditing
56.      MOC and the RRMU would keep separate accounts for the project which
by law are subject to auditing by the Government's Central Board of Audit.
The Central Board of Audit would carry out its audit of the project accounts
and forward certified copies of the project accounts as well as an annual
audit report to IDA within six months after the end of each fiscal year
(Development Credit Agreement, Section 4.01(c)).
Procurement and Disbursements
57.      For the management team for RRMU, the Government is expected to
conclude by September 1982 a contract negotiated with the engineering
management consultants currently working on the Third Highway (Naqabab-Nisab
road) Project (1144-YDR). Undertaking a full selection process with
subsequent mobilization would have required at least four to six months
longer. Furthermore, these consultants are assisting MOC with procurement of
equipment and installatiuons for the Third Highway Project. The arrangement
which is satisfactory would also ensure coordination and assistance between
the two construction units working in neighboring Governorates. The draft
contract was reviewed at negotiations and is satisfactory. Because of the
urgency of the works, procurement of new equipment would be concluded through
negotiated contracts with the suppliers selected after successful
international competitive bidding (ICB) for the Third Highway Project. This
tender took place in July 1981 and covered 65 equipment and 21 installation
items. Contracts for equipment and installations similar to those needed for
this reconstruction project, were concluded in March and April 1982 for
deliveries to be made between May and October 1982. The value of contracts
for equipment and installations concluded for the Third Highway Project is
$10.0 million, while required supplies for the reconstruction of the Abyan and
Aden roads would amount to about $4.8 million. Proceeding with ICB would
entail a minimum of four to ten months delay for deliveries and thus not be
practical. Furthermore, a certain standardization of equipment among the two
units, which are expected to closely coordinate equipment maintenance and
spare part purchases is technically and economically justified.  If contracts
cannot be negotiated with suppliers who provided the same kind of equipment
under the Third Highway Project, procurement would be done through limited
international bidding (LIB) in accordance with a shortlist of reliable
suppliers agreed at credit negotiations which includes those who previously
bid under the Third Highway Project. The contracts would be subject to IDA's
agreement. IDA would finance the cost of construction and other materials
only indirectly as part of the direct cost of construction. The materials



- 18 -
would be purchased through the Government's foreign trade organization which
uses procurement procedures satisfactory to IDA. Consultarncy services for the
monitoring unit and for the transport sector study would be carried out by
qualified and experienced consultants selected by IDA in accordance with the
Bank's Use of Consultants Guidelines.
58.      Disbursement from the credit account would be against normal
documentation except for the reconstruction works by force account for which
monthly statements of expenditures would be used. Disbursements would be made
on the basis of: 100 percent of the foreign exchange cost of equipment for
RRMU; 100 percent of the foreign exchange cost of engineering management
consultants' services to the RRMU; and 50 percent of the direct costs of the
road reconstruction program. Retroactive financing, for expenditures incurred
after June 1, 1982 and in an amount not exceeding $2.4 million equivalent,
would be allowed for equipment, engineering management consultants' services
and for the direct cost of reconstruction. The detailed equipment list has
been agreed between the Government and IDA.
Benefits and Risks
59.      The proposed project is designed to restore to appropriate standards
key sections of PDRY's road system damaged in the March, 1982 floods. This
would permit the road system as a whole to function effectively again. These
reconstruction investments account for about 80% of the total project cost.
The economic return of each major road section included in the project from
savings in transport cost alone is estimated to be more than 20 percent. In
addition the project would restore one of the necessary conditions for the
full recovery over time and then the continued economic development of
agriculture, industry and trade in the agriculturally important Governorates
of Abyan and Hadramawt as well as in Shabwah and Al Mahra. The section
by-passing Aden international airport would be rebuilt on an embankment to
prevent flooding of the airport at an extra cost of about 20 percent
(US$120,000). The section is economically well justified even at its
increased cost and not counting the benefits that will accrue from the added
protection of the airport. The key location of the road sections included in
the project would allow more than 80 percent of PDRY's 1.9 million population
to benefit from the restoration of transport services. The proposed design
standards for the reconstruction works are reasonable in relation to the
traffic they carry.
60.      The emergency road repairs that were made immediately following the
floods facilitate only very basic passage. Passenger car traffic is almost
completely suppressed as only four-wheel drive vehicles and trucks can handle
the damaged sections. Large trucks carry less than full load but are often
unable to climb the steep wadi gradients. These repairs are also vulnerable
and likely to be swept away by the regular floods during the monsoon season.
In order to keep the roads open, they may have to be repaired three or four
times a year. Thus, besides providing a very inadequate level of service,
maintaining the status-quo following the emergency repairs would be very
costly.



- 19 -
61.      Upon completion of the reconstruction works, about $2.5 million worth
of equipment and workshop installations would be available for use in
maintaining the 416 km of paved roads and gradually upgrading the 560 km of
tracks in Abyan Governorate. Detailed road maintenance and construction
programs for this purpose are being prepared under the Third Highway Project.
Since this equipment is in any case essential to carry out the roads flood
reconstruction works efficiently and expeditiously, and since the country
needs to build up its presently limited capacity to carry out road maintenance
and construction programs, the equipment and workshop investment is considered
economically justified. The technical assistance components of the proposed
project would continue IDA's institution building efforts in the transport
sector. The technical assistance for project supervision and monitoring would
complement similar efforts under the Third Highway Project (1144-YDR), and the
transport sector study would make a long term contribution to improving the
efficiency of transport operations and the allocation of resources both to and
within the sector. The risks to the project are considered small given the
advanced state of preparation, the proven methods of implementation and
supervision, the Government's commitment to the flood recovery efforts, and to
the transport sector study. No adverse environmental effects are expected.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
62.      The draft Development Credit Agreement between the People's
Democratic Republic of Yemen and the Association, and the Recommendation of
the Committee provided for in Article V, Section 1 (d) of the Articles of
Agreement of the Association are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately. Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. The signing of the UNDP Project Document for the provision of
technical assistance for project monitoring and supervision is an additional
condition of effectiveness of the proposed credit (Development Credit
Agreement, Section 6.01).
63.      I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
64.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
September 9, 1982
Washington, D.C.



-20 -                                                                         I
Page 1 of 5
TABLE 3A
YEMEN PDR - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
YEMEN FDR                            REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAffS
AREA (THOUSAND SQ . KM. )                                                                  - MST RECECrT  STIMATE) -
TOTAL            333.0 DMIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL      92. 7                                 HOST RECENT           WORTH AFRICA &          MIDDLE INCOM
1960  lb    1970 lb ESTI)ATE /b          MIDDLE EAST       LATIN AMERICA A CAR1B8ZA7.
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                                         420.0                1253.6                   1902.0
ENERGY CONSUHPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)      209.5        231.7     508.5                 713.5                   1259.9
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)  1209.0        1498.0    1907.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 28.0          32.1      36.9                  47.3                     65.i
PUPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                         3.1
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                           7.S
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                   2130
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KW.                         3.6          4.5       5.6                  35.8                     35.2
PER SQ. K0. AGRICULTURAL LAND      13.2         16.2      20.1,                420.9                     92.5
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          44.8         45.4      46.3                  44.3                     39.7
15-64 YRS.                          52.4         51.9      51.1                  52.4                     56.1
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    2.9          2.6       2.5                   3.3                      4.2
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               2.0          2.1/c     2.4/c                 2.8                      2.4
URBA'N                              6.0          3.5       3.8                   4.6                      3.8
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      50.4         48.6      46.1                  41.2                     31.4
CRULE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      28.8         24.2      19.8                  12.2                      8.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               3.4          3.4       3.3                   2.9                      2.1
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)        ..
USERS (PERCENT OF HARRIED WOMEN)    ..            ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)          100.0         92.0     101.0                 100.4                    110.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREHENTS)                    81.4        87.6       81.3/d               108.5                    108.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           49.4         50.5      60.27d                71.9                     66.0
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        17.7         15.4      22.97d                18.0                     34.0
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE      59.4         44.3      30.5                  15.1                      5.6
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    36.0          40.4      45.0                  56.9                     64.2
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                           209.5        177.4     145.9                 104.3                     64.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..           ..      24.0/e                59.1                     65.6
UtBAN                                ..           ..      30.OT.                83.1                     78.9
RURAL                                ..           ..       5.o7                 39.8                     43.9
ACCESS TO EYCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..           ..        ..                    ..                     59.3
URBAN                                ..           ..        ..                    ..                     75.3
RURAL                                ..           ..        ..                    .,                     30.0
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN          13285.7      34261.9    5967.0                4015.5                   1617.3
PUPULATION PER NURSING PERSON          ..           ..    1328.5                1802.2                   1063.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            1409.1        978.0/f   756.0                 641.7                    477.4
URBAN                                ..           ..        ..                 538.3                    679.8
RURAL                                ..           ..        ..                2403.3                   1903.4
ADMLISSIONS FER HOSPITAL BED           ..           ..      33.3/e                25.5                     27.3
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZS OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                ..           ..
URBAN                                ..           ..
RURAL                                ..           ..
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                ..           ..
URBAN                                ..           ..
RUKAL                                ..           ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRUCUCY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                ..           ..       2.0/
URBAN                                ..           ..      57.6/S
RURAL                                ..           ..       I.6'



ANNEX I
- 21 -                                              Page 2 of 5
TABLE 3A
YEMEN PDR - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
YEMEN PDR                           REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERA5ES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) -
MIDDLE INCOME
MOST RECENT          NORTH AFRICA &          MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTLMATE /b         MIDDLE EAST       LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRL'MAY:     TOTAL                13.0        57.0      70.0                 88.7                    104.3
MALE                 20.0        91.0      99.0                 104.5                   106.4
FEMALE                5.0        23.0      42.0                 72.0                    103.3
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                  5.0        10.0      31.0                 34.7                     41.3
MALE                  8.0        16.0      44.0                 49.3                     40.4
FEMALE                2.0         4.0      18.0                 29.0                    41.8
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (Z OF SECONDARY)  5.0          3.3       1.8/d                10.1                    33.7
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                           29.2        31.2      24.0                 34.1                     29.9
SECONDARY                         20.6        19.5      16.0                 23.7                     16.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         ..        27.1/h    40.0                  43.3                    79.1
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         7.8         6.8       8.2                 17.8                    42.8
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        49.6        52.1      53.7                131.3                   270.5
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         2.5/i      14.0      17.7                 44.1                    107.7
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   ..         1.0       6.4                 31.5                     63.7
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..         2.3       3.2/d                1.7                      2.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)      330.2       392.2     463.2
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   4.0         4.9       5.7                 10.6                     24.4
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)             70.0        65.0      45.0                 42.4                     31.3
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                15.0        17.0      15.0                 27.8                     23.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               27.3        26.2      24.3                  26.0                    33.6
MALE                                52.0        49.9      46.3                 46.2                     50.4
FEMALE                               2.2         2.5       2.8                  5.6                     16.8
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              1.7         1.8       2.0                  1.8                      1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS     ..          ..
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..          ..
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS     ..          ..
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS     ..          ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..        ..                279.2
RURAL                               ..          ..     140.0                178.6                    184.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..      90.0                403.6                    518.0
RURAL                               ..          ..      87.0                285.6                    371.1
ESTIMIATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                               ..          ..        ..                 22.1
RURAL                               ..          ..      20.0                 30.9
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a  The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means. Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1978 and 1980.
/c   Birth and death rates are crude estimates.  The natural rate of increase does not agree with observed
population growth rate; /d 1977; /e 1976; /f 1968; /g percent of population 1975 data; /h age 10 years
and over, for 1973; /i 1963.
Kay, 1982



-22 -                                                                                     ANNEX I
HEArua O SCL lIcn                                                                            Page  3 of5
Chalne, onah.I todosorio ordr. of    aited.  Ct ion..-          - cant. sd o .aCtrs   Ieet" so,.  tilh r.          heta..  coatle.6L-         hbl.  -           t-
othooaotcocy(etn o                      'sigh teat       Oil fa.ortoo" gS---* tt.,. 'ntt. [Mo   North Aftic.AP4a Riddle teat" it chow   tos. o   tree
aoclO-co.Sorol ifioitiol.  It Cf. neterete  trot   data t'W nae   e   tpa.to    egCd*Sta   ean. fo  *eah   oiersoe                                oly h
Lsonr   o f0 co2tie  o          o.q  bo  d.ta for titt Iadlcat-r   Sta-  th.  -overeg   of-cati               u    Ith.  oidit..t.  deptat  -a Mh  oiASlabIlty of data
ae  1  co,ol)n    -'aaio   oa  he oteeteo   Co rIC.iatgee e  of  -u  SOLditO-   toTMte,                   -e  -vrg.9  ore oly aaef  L. I.a -er g th  ttls  of
ARIA kth.utan  ela.                                                                                  PetattOre  hpta  lot - to tal,  ra.sdrt                       -PotlCo    tC
Tota1 - ZoCa1  -f-bc          cowet Io1..d  -ot  ea  Celtd ea...r; L979 det..                        obt  0    t..I  divided by Choir roeP-Ccv  ea6bu   of booitl1 Seto
orilerab     lotlsta   f           Iorcla  are   Le-d         -tari    or  aOottly           avial   io A Ill Out PrIvS g..a..            W0 eP_oiLtad  SoPlita  a.ddI
pO r ft,  OCoO...b.  o   eat bLct.he  grde.  or to I1. falSe.; 1979 data.                   htbCiittttog  -eaaa-    oatl  aeaalie.   P.ere-Ily attf,.d
by at leaet ee  pb,efcie.. .ataiiaasa   p_oridia  rt.oi1ptly   ..to
GOP PI~ CAPITA 11911 0- lOP  It captit :atCia   at.I ...ae I.-ka  oroc.                                d1Al  _aO  tre ear lea1ad.  gtrel toePlital. hot.-. SCo. at
19lo. at 19t0 dot..                                                                                   titL=`Ad.ieae.e, t--. eieifo. 5CC.) obOeS off., i-a  atac
dotiW. eat provid  a ICaitet rae of -di,aI faeiltte.frsa  o
ENCt10 CONtSL(WICTl  PER CAPITA -   -..1caaoCoof cra                   i  -Var    coltoiproe  aattetltI..ca  dEtw., Lro                                          Ipa/eaa   boaph:"
~od  lacite.yoCcIt,, ntura  aa  aa  Sydvo.  ntL      ar .. hecftre  alec-                  .edo.l hoopitolo,  acaI or         Iolbet.eAnt  -edi-a  tWe  -trnity
ncth)  0oictaa    f co  eotietpe   eito   1960. 1970, sod 1979                               ceet.Spaoiti ee  topitlel  eto  LItcoa   o-ly oed.toa
ft_ Z)toaitl  dii           by the tothy of  oda..
POPULATIOt AND VITAL STATISTICS
Tot)Ptoait,Rdst tt.caO   A. ef 1oif IL 1960. 1970. eat LMO                                      H009180
dicoto -    olotio   ofwo   ro    y aff-o  oofe-hilty of At                                         a  tei  r-te  -aIe.  A boa-de  or  bdo., ry otey cathe  rtldt  Sc
P0f   ctCie   1940, 1979, aol iW0 data,                                                             th  boohoi.d for etitclP.M---s.
lo    i.Ptycet  ac I birth ioteo   stS    -             Paty.,ptopt   to                 ceaC   lcrct  IrorLot  f ,...                eel - cAl.              -Aa.  n  coral1-
barel..td Ineal. lift  .ay-cooy etabiiiolog a  77.5 Yeate.  The pr-                              oneteld-aline  iC  alac,ltr1icIt  Solnc   toeea   sc aS.
focI  octyh  eIoatoda    fth    tiao  cStoaloa   f mrt.ltty                                 RLICATION
en   etlty tredsft  rrlatoep_I         eoa                                              Adibated faole t Ra So
Scticarooolelo  -It   SatCooa  yotta-.   ter 1m.5 to  roeth eS...                         Ptlear  Ocol-Ctl  aeodfel   -Icelcl   a.atfel
cca   iri tat i  oqol c  the Onto  rae     Wd  Il- the ago etoorr-                          etolen   o   l  ag.  ithepeayloe   srrceasO   reet
in cc. Yea  10th. oa  t sh  ret of dtli. of ft_illty Itao  toreloe                              tec-dern ech l -  otl.m.f00  feme   Cooteoaeaeose.; -ac-dar
at    _ boab                                                                                    d-lca-c r-quire  at.e.  foo   .ore of P-t.ve  priern  Sctt-  Ion
01t  111t  reocbe.                                                                              .Lalyof 12 to 17yarofgectoodoccoeeaegctll
PoOo,at Id,Idbo                                                                                                                        h.,cy  elclodo-d
P.0 00   a.-MI-cot  orla coo pro  eqc. llee   (SI  teer. o                                       OctitLy     d.tro ll.aee  (tte.c  dece.nt-rcceai n=tti
coobaro  194   90eA109dt.tcI. Ochla.tottia,o   te    rae  aIitoert   odpd
lot.lOtloO lAd Sntootort  prOnl-          Childrn  It-It. fe-). sean-g    15-                        pta,    an.d  -.adary lael   ividd by ntor   f  .-ah... 10 the
len),otreio    (9y ar.otanr   d  eocos f eid-,r P".o-                                      cvepodio  I.-eI..
.aecoo; 19000 1". .70an  IWO dt.l                                                               Atl  Itaec  rtebercec  -,Litrat. ad.1te  (ef,l. Ic red dad ovite
GIalti     h oo S it"' otet                             h oo       otltoe   Ioen  of total ai"d-  iaoprcoae  ftta dl  popolaIaa agd  1 y-oaa    rt
noolaio CoebRta .          tet      ra  (too-gaatats   of ..h. Por,-                           CL9,SIOPTloo
I.Ii... fnt 1910-40. 1960-70, atd 57-g                                                           ae rCore (to- theaad ...o. ai&tLn-Paegt  oo    oti    ao
-rde D-tht Rtot  (te    thto.-d) - Aaed  Ad-ee Par Chtto...d  of edty-et                          UaPIo teA..Ivee (Pet tnco-Ald opl           o   -Alt IIIsa of  -eole-  tot v.410
?yatc;1610. 1970   .,I 100  dast..                                                         So catogetlpbcPer thoate  of P.Pslta;eooe   o
Ion   orol cprofcclo  brio  if ehe                                                                    L.aisa    antaeeofcfr  eaoaI   flf..t; data for reee  y.r  -y to, he .oar-btaeItt
"l1ily ...t...  ...l in-lo  aatp                ddie  (. 1990. 1970. eat 1990.                     me     -coeti- etolbo-dt  ltcn WoR
of cctt-cotvc  leiceoonde aapiee   f -atottl fauly pboti..        rora.                 enra Prab- Licp   tcae ppotonOtbde  otliceoceg   V   -eci-
coa cf   -Wd111                                                                                      Co  e   aiyAi  i  apea.ft nanfot  itd ,   At
Ittoc of food NIFtOttO             Catt 16-71-1101  - 10400  f "ot capta  he                      CIoat  -atoa  atad      Its    apit. ret fear - ta.at o  tie cu-b-r
prldottot of all foo  cointCtiaa.(  Pv-dctia  -elodot to dst lest tad                                abate told dartg eha yoar. i-oldilg oda.i-av               to d,it-ie  ote-
Y0ceeco  Tt  odol.  C- 1dite  cover..  prietry  8o.ia  (e.g.  - togeca                  ea  mblle  -ier.
t      S 0   otdd.   'oveat  rot i-cetoet  f e-h c-oCo  Se booed  -0                 (oLO  no"
tcooovtPo pococs  PrIe   eia  1961-45. 1970. and 1940 date.                           Toa  ie   oc  (hoedl-OoOsthatorroec.lc.dc
potcooItoecoll  f colole-  (aran ofrotioae     - Cootd   roIad f                                      frcs  n  aely            t Stecolptotins   tdnt   h
sert   aiaato   a   od.pla    vial   ootty -PrcaIta                                              ovetagrarltaOe  f all otto.  hofioittoe-  to    L..a.ootIee
parlay   Ittieloooclle  ctt ds omeio  prato.i taIeentcer...bl.o; 1940. 1970 004 1990 dae.-
IoaotiIeO  oad Iafood toconc.. ad Loee   odi.ltri -ein    toire                             c   ae ant-   L.bor for- - e f-             ee     oreL..aia    d
metosr   teti-et-d by ?AD bus ..          pb.aloaalto               far e-r-e  ati-                  LIab   aprete    f toto1 l.ber forceL  I96d. L570 .5  1990 dat..
ct    dhoalikcnSai   eavIta-nS-              taot   Satfy -oht..ag                            tervb roc - LaheeU forc   C  eloitg    oercir   aoet
tonoofod 1t-el  1961-90, 1970 aat 1977 data.                                                        1960. 170 ot  SlO0 dota.
Fa.o'     l   f  od  o   ay    eteptyo  fo   e  aittC  00.do                                        otiit   aeateraeeta  tsl fe  tt(maelao oP                                 s0
qtiot=        for oIl codttia  setLsbd by 1514 provide f or siotat                                 tv-oe.ee  oftOa.  a    t  fatal. praaic   f a'll ase  reaetil_y;
oor oof Stga of Ltotl rtel. P.r daY 004 20 Vrm   f atial -ant1940, 1970.  ed1980 data.  Th-s  ars haet on tILe  p.rtidipoItio    t-ta
Pola   rtoo  of  beh 10 gra    0btld ha aettel protein.  The.-  .e-d-                             :e,oig   g-o  araoe  fte                 .otlta. .0   beg tI a- te-.  A
Pot e_tt PItoo uo .I         ca  tite ah t -Ild. P-P..tei by       pl  of1 fOO4d do-I                                                        " .1-            L    W6         
rAvl  ronutoal  ad pbaa 1  g   pe  dy;110.  1970 tn  1977 data.                  1OCT9  IlS   IIiblt
Lt ru   -n100   ocllroi  tS   e                              Iti.frts  dovoloiog co-           lrec  tichee   10aeeo.rret20 Prut  aid roove    40rtet
IrdITh                                                                    P000979~~~~~~~~~~~~EW T TAOiST GROUPS
orIo (OO. 170 and 1990 ott.                                                                 jod ehoold be  o-rpree   with  .oet  rhe to tt
boo    - trt -lc - ait   (ro   ttoaad( - --Ian  Oatho of  of-ot  oder oe   -a                 laIitmed Ahoo.P-cryjIc-o                  L.oe1 005! Pr ceeSa)  -b..ha L-d rura
jIoePar:000  lc    it.  1900. (970  bbi 1900 data.                                            Oelt   aet    omlvli  thorScL                  r I  eteLbebooir            li
bor of people (-ocl. -rho. aoA  ror..l) rith  -eat bohi   -ceetoet                                affordble.
haevo   taet    f..ot. z-,,,te  bneelo  anrL ga  as  atctryee ) oe                           t-..a    reloci-  poverty  boos  Inet ie  t--",Icd of    ..ee  par cat
(000b tof Lcarre ci_e   otilatSOC ,. I  a rh_b             ra  phi                         p.re.tL Icc's  If th  coanty.    vha l l,     ne I.. I   erSorId I ros ehe I... l
ootltOOCt hbit  litin  retorabl  tocse  f thet tote.         1- .   ooa   ra        eSutdPrlto   ol.Oebt   oee ...cee  .500   arrett                             , rio.
rooottlecrotavold  apy  hotth  hoset.t  o  etbse   f uSe ho....tWbd              00   oo   :-facoto   orltbn(rbto    oa)  to r4belt
do  Lo.in   c  br  0  iarnoto .t  .at.. te.                   y   eecho    h
(oily  0 aotet cred:o.                       1
th Iol.oto Wb, -   di.opn-n. nbA  on siat-o  ersow           * o      mor-
trot ...-OOO1   aeahraer ao  the oee of pit plirf.t  oatele-
l-otolotcoo r       PtcyouoLb  - yopolatta   dinidat if .-Ma  of ptcligphnet-                                                             euoc    totoa     Iat  Dm5100
botolattO   POt 000110  "ttsa    - Popa.l-to   dm14d4 by otneofrctetg                                                                                   a   19N2
caaot   t   rdc_t  coeo,  at -O     taea., Pfetitol  era 



- 23 -
ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5
PDRY: ECONOMIC INDICATORS
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
1980
USS mln          Z
GNP at market prices                             853         100
Gross Domestic Investment                        249          29
Gross National Savings                           -17          -2
Export ot goous ana NFS                           96          11      Annual Rate of Growth (2)
Imports ot goods and NFS                         696          81            (constant prices)
1974/79
GDP at factor cost                               570         100                    6
of wbich:
Agriculture 6 Fisheries                        74          13                   0
Industry                                       81          14                   9
Construction                                   78          13                  23
Transport                                      87          15                  12
Government Services                           140          23                  17
GOVELNMENT FINANCE
Prelimn.
(in millions Yemeni Dinars)                     1974/75      19751/        1976       1977         1978        1979        1980         1981
Total receipts 21                              23.6        16.9           32.1       43.4          56.0       68.0       107.2        124.8
Current expenditures                           27.6        25.6           39.2       47.4          61.4       76.2        96.0        137.5
Current deticit                                -4.0        -8.7           -7.1        -4.0        -5.4        -8.2        11.2        -12.7
Deveiopment expenditures                       19.6        18.9           39.2        57.3         59.7       52.0        74.2        105.1
Overall defLcit                               -23.6      -27.6          -46.3       -61.3        -65.1       -60.2       -63.0       -117.8
Burrowing from Banking System                  10.4        12.5           15.6        18.5         13.2       27.6        19.0         55.7
External Financing                             13.2        15.1           30.7       42.8         51.9        32.6        44.0         62.1
HONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES                        1974        1975             1976       1977        1978       1979         1980         1981
Y.D. million, end period
Money and quasi-money                          55          67             98        140          168         217         286          321
Bank credit to Government                      24         37             62          72           87         110         127          151
Bank credit to non-Government Sector3/         19         24             31          49           59          61          98          106
Increase in 1
Consumer prices                                24          12             4           5            6          10          10            4
1/    lhe fiscal year was April 1 - March 31 until March 31, 1975 when it became
April 1 - Decemoer 31, 1975 and thereafter is on a calendar year basis.
2/    Inciuues current and development revenues from domestic sources and self-financing
of public enterprises.
3/    Mostly public sector agencies.



- 24 -                                        ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS (US$ million) 1974   1975    1976    1977    1978    1979    1980   1981
Exports!/                               8        8      26       24       17      20      38       28
Imports!/                           -190    -17'8    -268    -365    -386   -411   -650    -763
Trade Deficit                       -182    -170    -242    -341    -369   -391   -612    -735
Non-factor Services, net              22       1.4      20       10       17      14      14       10
Factor Services, net                  48       1.8      43       76      111    142    176       199
Labor Income                      (41)    (15)    (37)    (69)   (Io3)'  (131)  (146)   (155)
Investment Income                  (7)      (3)      (6)      (7)     (8),  (11)   (30)    (44)
Current Account Deficit             -112    -1 38    -179    -255    -241   -235   -421    -526
Transters                               1      52      125      174      191    205    284       399
Official                           (1)    (10)    (46)    (55)        36)   (2)        3    (1)
Private 2/                         --      (42)    (79)   (119)   (155)  (182)  (201)   (255)
Official M and Lt Capital, net        65       311      73       70       94      59      76     171
Gross Disbursements                (65)    (32)    (75)    ()          (95)   (64)   (8)   (175)
Repayments                          (0)    (-1)    (-2)    (-1)    (-1)   (-5)  (-10)    (-4)
Other Capital (incl. E and 0)         38       42        4       29       45      -8     86        2
Changes in Official Reserves
(- = increase)                      8       1.3    -27      -18      -89    -22       25      -46
Memo Item:
Gross Official Reserves (end year) 67          54       81       99      188    210    235       255
MERCHANDISE EXPORTS                                   Average 1979-80
USs Million Percent
Fish and Fish Products                               15      47
Agricultural Products                                14      42
Other                                                 4       11
33     100
EXTERNAL DEBT (DECEMBER 31, 1981)                       USt Million
External Public Debt Outstanding                 1,404
of which:  Disbursed                             651
Debt Service Payments in 1981                        11
Debt Service Ratio (Exports of Goods
and Services)                              3.4 Percent
1/ Net of re-exports.
2/ Workers' remittances.
EM1DD
July 12, 1982



- 25 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 9 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
IN THE PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
A. Statement of IDA Credits
(As of March 31, 1982)
$ Million ----
Amount
Credit                                                              (less cancellations)
No.          Year    Borrower        Purpose                      IDA       Undisbursed
Three credits fully disbursed                                      6.7
494-  YDR       1975      PDRY       Education I                   5.4            0.2
560-  YDR       1975      PDRY       Highways II                  15.5            0.7
584-  YDR       1976      PDRY       Aden Port Rehabilitation    3.2              0.9
615-  YDR       1976      PDRY       Wadi Hadramawt Agric. Proj  7.0              0.9
768-  YDR       1978      PDRY       Wadi Tuban Agric. Proj        5.2            2.8
829-  YDR       1978      PDRY       Power I                       5.0            1.3
865-  YDR       1978      PDRY       Education II                  4.0            3.5
932-  YDR       1979      PDRY       Fisheries II                 10.0            6.8
1038- YDR       1980      PDRY       Aden Water Supply            13.2           11.9
1050- YDR       1980      PDRY       Petroleum Dev. Assistance   9.0              7.3
1144- YDR       1981      PDRY       Highways III                 12.5           12.5
1145- YDR       1981      PDRY       Wadi Beihan Agric. Proj.    8.0!_            8.0
1159- YDR       1981      PDRY       Al Mukalla Water Supply       3.5            3.5
Total                                 108.2 2/        60.30
of which has been repaid                  .02
Total now held by IDA                 108.18 3/
Total undisbursed                                     60.30
1/    Not yet effective (became effective April 29, 1982).
2/    Including two engineering credits subsequently refinanced under
Credits 560 and 1038. In addition a $6 million equivalent Credit for a
Third Education Project was approved by the Executive Directors on
April 1, 1982 and signed on May 25, 1982, a $7.5 million equivalent credit
for a Second Power Project was approved by the Executive Directors on
June 17, 1982 and signed on August 11, 1982, and a $6 million equivalent
credit for a Third Fisheries Project was approved by the Executive Directors
on June 24, 1982 and signed on August 11, 1982. None of these credits is
effective.
3/    Excluding exchange adjustments.



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 9 pages
C. Projects in Execution 1/
CR. No. 494-YDR       Education I Project:  $5.4 million Credit Approved July
12, 1974; Effectiveness Date: February 5, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
This credit is assisting the Government in making qualitative
improvements in the educational system and in meeting priority manpower
needs. Implementation is satisfactory although about two years behind
appraisal estimate due to (i) initial delays in declaring the credit effective
and in the negotiations of contracts with UNESCO and the consultant
architects; (ii) more recent delays arising from curricula revisions affecting
design completion; and (iii) shortages of labor and materials which have
delayed construction. Five of the ten institutions, including two previously
completed extensions, were ready for the 1980-81 academic year. The remaining
institutions were completed in mid 1981. The Credit was fully disbursed and
closed in May 1982.
CR. No. 560-YDR       Second Highway E'roject:  $15.5 million Credit of June 20,
1975; Effectiveness Date: September 17, 1975; Closing
Date: June 30, 1982.
This project is financed jointly with the Kuwait Fund for Arab
Economic Development. Since international competitive bidding for the
construction element of the project produced no responsible bids, arrangements
were made for the works to be carried out by a government construction unit
which is assisted by the UK Crown Agents. Because of the remoteness of the
project area and the concomitant logistic problems, the severe shortage of
domestic skilled manpower and the lower than expected output from construction
equipment due to particularly harsh construction conditions, implementation of
the civil works is about three years behind appraisal estimates. However,
considering these difficulties, construction of the road (:358 km) started in
March 1976 is making satisfactory progress and is approximately 80 percent
complete. Likewise, total project cost is now estimated to be about 67
percent over the appraisal estimate as a result of the extra quantities of
rock that had to be excavated, the adiditional drainage and protective works
needed because of floods and the genesral increase in the price of construction
equipment and materials. Construction and road maintenance equipment have
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 9 pages
been procured. Consultants (Dorsch-Germany) have completed the economic
studies and the final engineering of the Naqabah-Beihan roads. Consultants
(Sotechni-Italy) have completed the technical assistance component and the
overseas training program has been completed with six Yemeni engineers having
completed 9-12 months training courses (4 in the UK and 2 in West Germany).
The project is expected to be completed by December 1982. The Credit was
closed June 30, 1982 when 90 percent of the works were completed.
CR. No. 584-YDR       Aden Port Rehabilitation Project:  $3.2 million Credit of
September 8, 1975;  Effectiveness Date:  February 3,
1976; Closing Date: March 1, 1982
The project which is being cofinanced by the Arab Fund for Economic
and Social Development is assisting the PDRY Government in rehabilitating the
port of Aden to reattract traffic passing through the reopened Suez Canal.
The project provides for (a) the procurement of floating craft, cargo-
handling, workshop and navigation equipment, spares and stocks; (b)
rehabilitation of the slipway for the National Dockyard Company; and (c)
technical assistance. All equipment except some navigational items have been
received and most are already in use, although there has been a substantial
delay in the rehabilitation of the slipway. A cost accountant and a marine
engineer have been appointed. There was a savings of $850,000 in the purchase
of floating craft and IDA agreed that this can be used to purchase containers
handling equipment required for the port. This equipment has been delivered
and the project is substantially completed. The final withdrawal application
has been processed. An unused amount of about $46,000 was cancelled on
August 24, 1982.
CR. No. 615-YDR       Wadi Hadramawt Agricultural Project:  $7.0 million Credit
of April 22, 1976; Effectiveness Date: September 16,
1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project aims at increasing agricultural production on about 8,100
ha of irrigated land in the Wadi through the adoption of improved cultural
practices and the provision of agricultural equipment and supplies, cons-
truction of feeder roads and extension services. It also includes provision
for a date packing plant and a rural water supply component, and funds for a
hydrogeological survey and feasibility study for increased groundwater use.
The date packing plant has been completed, the rural road component is
progressing satisfactorily, but the pace of village water supply works has
been slow. The hydrogeological survey and feasibility study have since been
completed and form the basis for a second phase project aiming at intensi-
fication of irrigation on about 3,700 ha.
Initial problems, with staff recruitment and retention, delayed
execution of the project by about two years. The project was extended for one
year in July 1981. High cost of labor, inefficient tractor services,
marketing restrictions, and pricing policy of the agricultural produce have
been impediments to increased production. Government has recently taken steps



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 9 pages
to improve its agricultural pricing and subsidy policy, and a consultant's
study (financed under Credit No. 768- YDR/Wadi Tuban Agricultural Project) on
agricultural prices, taxation and subsidy has been completed and is under
disCussion with a view to improving these policies. The increased
availability of the agricultural machinery purchased under the project and
improvement in pricing and marketing policy of the agricultural produce would
assist in achieving the project's objectives.
CR. No. 768-YDR       Wadi Tuban Agricultural Project:  US$5.2 million Credit
of March 22, 1978; Effectiveness Date: April 25, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The project seeks to improve agricultural production on cooperatives
and state farms through an increased use of inputs, improved practices and the
construction of an improved groundwater irrigation network. Inputs and farm
machinery are to be provided through credit. A new expatriate project manager
has been appointed. All other technical assistance staff are already on
post.  A water management study and an agricultural prices, taxation and
subsidy policy study has been completed. Construction of a village water
supply scheme is well advanced and survey work for feeder roads was started.
The Arab Fund, which cofinances this project, approved its loan of $6.1
million in February 1980. With a toltal area of 7,000 ha, the project has
36,000 principal beneficiaries, whilie the water supply scheme would benefit
about 6,000 persons.
CR. No. 829-YDR       Wadi Hadramawt Power Project:  $5.0 million Credit of
July 14, 1978; Effectiveness Date: September 18, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The project is providing an impetus to agricultural development in
Wadi Hadramawt by electrifying irrigation water pumping in the Wadi through
the erection of a 16-MW diesel generating plant and the construction of about
1,000 km of related transmission and distribution networks.
Institution-building objectives would be achieved through technical assistance
comprising training of the power company's (PCEP) personnel, and consultants'
services for a tariff study. The contract for equipment and materials has
been awarded and the first 4 MW unit has been commissioned in March 1982. The
tariff study is completed and the Government increased tariffs by an average
39 percent between September 1, 1981 and January 1, 1982. The project is
expected to be completed by December 31, 1985.
CR. No. 865-YDR       Education II Project;  $4.0 million C'redit Approved
December 14, 1978; Effectiveness Date: June 18, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984.
The project will assist the Government in establishing three
vocational training centers (VTCs) which would be the forerunner of VTCs to be
constructed in other parts of the country to train urgentLy needed skilled and
semi-skilled workers. The project consists of construction of an industrial,



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 9 pages
an agricultural and a commercial training center, and the procurement of
furniture and equipment. Fellowships, financed from bilateral funds have been
completed. Construction of the commercial VTC in Mukalla started in June
1980, about 11 months behind the appraisal estimate due to delays in designs
and tender, and is now expected to be completed in Summer 1982. With IDA's
approval, two existing schools are being converted into agricultural and
industrial VTCs in lieu of constructing two new VTCs. The redesign work
caused a delay of approximately 15 months. These conversions should be
completed by mid-1983. Bids have been awarded on about 80 percent of the
furniture and equipment. Satisfactory curricula have been developed. Because
of the delays to this project, the Closing Date was extended to December 31,
1984.
CR. No. 932-YDR       Fisheries II Project:  $10.0 million Credit and $3
million EEC Special Action Credit of August 10, 1979;
Effectiveness Date: April 3, 1981; Closing Date: June
30, 1987
The project seeks to increase income and economic well being in the
Sixth Governorate, which is one of the poorest and most remote regions of
PDRY, and consists of the construction of a fisheries-cum-general cargo port
together with supporting infrastructure at Nishtun; the construction of fish
receiving, processing and storage facilities together with the development of
an efficient system for exploiting fish; and the construction of a 19 km road
to provide a link between the new port and the nine fishing villages which
would supply fish under the project. The project also includes technical
assistance comprising consultants' services to assist with project implemen-
tation and operation; experts to assist with cold store operations and export
marketing; and a national study to assess nutritional deficiencies for a
possible future IDA-financed project. The project was delayed two years
because of the difficulty in finding cofinanciers. This has resulted in a
cost overrun of about $11.5 million, which is being financed by the Arab Fund
for Economic and Social Development. The contract for the construction of the
port and related shore facilities has been awarded and construction has begun.
CR. No. 1038-YDR      Aden Water Supply Project:  $13.2 million Credit of July
11, 1980; Effectiveness Date: March 27, 1981; Closing
Date: December 31, 1985
The project, which constitutes the first construction stage of a
long-term water supply master plan, seeks to increase the critically short
supply of potable water, and meet the maximum demand up to 1987, in Aden, the
capital and largest urban area in PDRY, and to rehabilitate the existing
system which is fast deteriorating. It provides for the expansion of the
distribution network into the poorer districts of Greater Aden to allow
low-income residents to be directly connected to the public system. The
project also provides for technical assistance aimed at improving PWC's
management capability. Initial implementation proceeding satisfactorily.



-30-
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 9 pages
CR. No. 1050-YDR      Petroleum Development Assistance Project:  $9.0 million
Credit of July 11, 1980; Effectiveness Date: November
19, 1980; Closing Date: September 30, 1983
The project is supporting the Government's efforts to intensify the
search for indigenous oil/gas reserves and assist in improving its planning of
the petroleum subsector by strengthening the Petroleum Exploration
Department's (PED) capacity to carry out and supervise geophysical surveys and
interpret their results. It includes (a) a 15-month seismic survey to provide
a loose grid of key reconnaissance seismic profiles over a large portion of
the onshore area prospective for petroleum and natural gas in PDRY; and
(b) technical assistance to PED for project management services, data
evaluation to promote exploration acreage to foreign investors, and training
of PED's staff. The primary objective is to uncover prospects sufficiently
attractive to oil companies to undertake exploration in PDRY. The seismic
survey is underway and implementation is proceeding satisfactorily.
CR. No. 1144-YDR      Third Highways Project:  $12.5 million Credit of July 27,
1981; Effectiveness Date: December 23, 1981; Closing
Date: June 30, 1985.
The project is financing the construction of a twc-lane paved road
(92 km) from Naqabah to Nisab in the presently isolated Shabwah Governorate.
This road is expected to stimulate agricultural production in the vicinity of
these towns. It would also strengthen PDRY's road construction capabilities
(i) through about 130 manmonths of consultants assistance to the Ministry of
Construction (MOC) for improvement of project preparation capabilities,
management, and operations of the MOC's construction units, including the
independent construction unit (ICU) established under the project and (ii)
through training of MOC and ICU staff including about 90 manmonths of long
and short-term overseas fellowships. The IDA credit became effective
concurrently with the loans from the two cofinanciers, the Kuwait Fund and the
OPEC Fund. The management team of consultants have mobilized, consultants
have been appointed to provide technical and construction supervision
assistance to the Ministry of Construction, and bid evaluations for equipment
for the project unit are complete and contracts with suppliers have been
signed. Construction is expected to begin in September, 1982.
CR. No. 1145-YDR      Wadi Beihan Agricultural Development Project: $8 million
Credit of July 27, 1981; Effectiveness Date: April 29,
1982; Closing Date: December 31, 1987.
The project is designed to increase agricultural production and farm
income on about 4,000 ha. of mixed spate (flood) and well irrigated lands in
the Beihan subgovernorate by rehabilitating the spate irrigation network and
improving the groundwater irrigation system of Wadi Beihan and by providing
technical assistance, farm inputs and agricultural equipment for Wadi Beihan
and Wadi Ain. It would establish a program of hydrometeorological



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 9 pages
observations in Wadi Beihan for improving knowledge of its water resources and
ensuring their optimal utilization. In addition, it would improve access
between agricultural and population centers in Wadi Beihan by constructing
feeder roads, and improve the nutrition of the local population by increasing
production of fruits, vegetables and meat. Initial implementation is
proceeding satisfactorily, a project manager has been appointed and
recruitment of other key staff is underway, and bid documents for staff
housing are under preparation. A cofinancing loan agreement for $6 million
equivalent has been signed with the International Fund for Agricultural
Development (IFAD).
CR. No. 1159-YDR      Al Mukalla Water Supply Rehabilitation Project:  $3.5
million Credit of July 27, 1981; Effectiveness Date:
December 23, 1981; Closing Date: December 31, 1985.
The project will rehabilitate the existing water supply system of Al
Mukalla, the second largest city in PDRY and prepare detailed plans of new
water production facilities for this city. It provides for an immediate
increase in water production to meet water demands up to 1985 and for the
expansion of the water distribution network into the poorer sections of Al
Mukalla. The project also provides for the formulation and implementation of
a health education program designed to encourage the population in Al Mukalla
to improve health practices and sanitary conditions. It further includes:
hydrogeological studies needed for the design of the water production
facilities; an urban growth study to forecast the pace of urbanization in the
Al Mukalla area and to plan for the expansion of basic urban services in this
area. A total of 122 manmonths of consulting services is provided. The
project would provide substantial health and environmental benefits to the
population of Al Mukalla. Initial implementation is proceeding satisfactorily.
CR. No. 1222-YDR      Third Education Project:  $6.0 million Credit of May 25,
1982; Effectiveness Date: Not Yet Effective; Closing
Date: June 30, 1987.
The project will (a) help alleviate urgent manpower needs by
providing buildings and equipment for the training of skilled workers and
technicians and by improving the methods and data base available to manpower
planners; (b) upgrade the skills and knowledge of existing poorly qualified
teachers and increase the output of new primary teachers; and (c) improve the
quality of school buildings by establishing school building maintenance units
in two regional education directorates and by determining urgent school
furniture and equipment needs. The project will also help to strengthen both
male and female training and primary education in remote areas. Specifically,
the credit is financing construction, equipment and furniture for (i) a
commercial technical institute at Aden (750 places); (ii) an agricultural
technical institute at Saber (450 places); (iii) an in-service teacher
upgrading center at Aden (630 places), and (iv) a regional primary teacher
training institute at Seiyun (590 places). Two fully-equipped mobile building



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 9 pages
maintenance units and technical assistance for two studies are also being
financed by the credit. Technical assistance relating to the above project
items is being financed by the Government through bilateral sources under
ongoing programs. Initial implementaition is proceeding satisfactorily.
CR. No.  1268-YDR       Second Power Project: $7.5 million Credit of August 11,
1982; Effectiveness Date:  Not yet effective; Closing
Date: December 31, 1985.
The project will improve electric power supply to five small towns
and thirteen villages east of Al Mukalla, the second largest city in PDRY and
the capital of the Hadramawt Governorate.  The project area has a population
of about 150,000. The project consists of the supply, construction and
erection of a 6.6 MW (3 x 2.2 MW) central diesel power station at As Shihr
using residual fuel oil, 84 km of 33 kV and 11 km of 11 kV transmission lines
and about 51 km of 11 kV and 48 km of low voltage distribution lines and
substations, meters and service connections for about 7,300 new customers.  It
also includes equipment to transport material and for the erection of
transmission and distribution lines as well as consultants' services and
overseas training for PCEP staff.  The project will provide improved and
expanded electric power supply and help meet some of the demand for electric
power that is at present suppressed in the project area. The central
generating station will replace a large number of small ancl fuel inefficient
generating sets and provide electric power supply to an additional 7300
customers who are at present using costly kerosene for iighting. Existing
diesel-driven pumpsets will be electrified. The project supports the
Government's policy of bringing economic development and investment
opportunities to rural areas as well as providing them with social amenities.
Initial implementation is proceeding satisfactorily.
CR. No. 1274-YDR        Third Fisheries Project:  $6.0 million Credit of August
11, 1982; Effectiveness Date: Not yet effective; Closing
Date: June 30, 1988.
The project is designed to address two of the sector's most critical
constraints, the lack of adequately trained manpower at all levels and the
lack of facilities for the exploitati on of the substantial coastal fish
resources by the traditional coastal fisheries sub-sector. The project
consists of (i) the establishment of a Fisheries Manpower Development Center
(FMDC), a self-contained training facility to meet the fisheries sector's
trained manpower needs; (ii) financing of teaching equipment for the training
of refrigeration technicians; and (iii) a Fisheries Village Development
component consisting of the development of four existing fisheries
cooperatives comprising five villages by providing integrated fish landing,
handling, storage, marketing, transport and repair facilities to enable them



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 9 of 9 pages
to handle all fisheries-related activities from catch to final retail
marketing. The project also provides for technical assistance. The principal
beneficiaries are: fishermen in the five villages, whose incomes will rise by
80-105 percent as a result of project investments, employees of the Ministry
of Fish Wealth and Unity School graduates who will be trained at the FMDC, and
the 150,000 people in the project and surrounding area who will benefit from
an improved and stable supply of fresh fish. Initial implementation is
proceeding satisfactorily.



- 34 -
ANNEX III
Page I
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
ROADS FLOOD RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Project first presented to IDA:              April 1982
(b) Time taken by PDRY to prepare
the project:                               4 months (April-July, 1982)
(c) Agency which prepared the project:           Ministry of Construction (MOC)
(d) Departure of appraisal mission:              May 15, 1982
(e) Completion of negotiations:                  August 27, 1982
(f) Planned date of effectiveness:               By December 1982
Section II: Special IDA Implementation Action
None
Section III: Special Conditions
1. Condition of Effectiveness:
the signing of the UNDP Project Document for the provision of
technical assistance for project monitoring and supervision (para.
54).
2. Other Conditions. The Borrower would agree to:
a)   allocate the equipment used for reconstruction works to other road
maintenance and construction operations upon completion of the road
reconstruction works under the project in accordance with a program
to be agreed with IDA by December 31, 1983 (para. 50);
b)   take all action necessary to conclude an agreement with the Arab Fund
within eight months of the date of the IDA credit agreement or to
make within that period alternative arrangements to provide $3.0
million equivalent for the project, including through budgetary
allocations (para. 54);



- 35 -
ANNEX III
Page 2
c)   maintain the Road Reconstruction and Maintenance Unit's authority to
hire internationally recruited and local staff at competitive and
incentive wage rates, and to import equipment, materials, spare parts
and vehicles as needed; provide it with an adequate amount of working
capital; and ensure that the unit is managed by competent managerial
and technical experts whose qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment are satisfactory to IDA (para. 55); and
d)   submit audited project accounts to IDA within six months after the
end of each fiscal year (para. 56).






IB RD 16629
Tr~   'E                          r `-                    --               -                  8'                                                                                        ALCUt'T 19821
.7 ';  1-   to   -, ,  sPEOPLE'S  DEMOCRATIC  REPUBLIC  OF  YEMEN
ROADS FLOOD RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT                                                                                                     -,
Traffic Flows on Paved  Road  Network 1981
SAUDI ARAISA
SiDAIA I 
vi'                  -TO~ERS 0          00    1       51      200      2~C
0  M  A  N
C has                          '*                                                          /rw ew hf dzo
Sa'doh                                /                                 q~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Thorsod
g   Ire repor/ /o  h1Co 01 es  ott?Phed                                         <                                                                                        18 // 
}~~~ ~~~~ El Meor Eev NsrS 1n 
~\   8                                                                            z&  we x  /z   
1 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~  ~   ~  ~  ~   ~  ~  ~  ~   ~  ~  ~  ~  ~  ~  ~  ~  ~  ~ ~ ~ ~ -      AI-Glhetidolht5 H,,.  
REPUBLIC                                  7A,h;;YEMEN  / /  AlQor)      /     '      -- -  - -  - -                          '\l-Ghe-do_l
-! R,/udud
O- M-bA                                   H coro 
SANA'A                                     O 5
Al Ay( Y  Nuqob                                                                  :   -                        Primary Asphalt Roads
Hoddo \                                                                                                                 Qusoyir                  Main Tracks
ode,da                                     ;±nbeihan    q  .   eq                                                                               Asphalt Roads Under Construction
. r > N,sob          _, rhomer Al Mokollo           Riyas u                                   Gravel Roads Under Construction
As Saidc  .       Azzan          Burum_f4;                                         4     International Airports
Mu .kayr.3 /      >        4tXMelffos                                                               Airstrips Receiving Scheduled Flights
- 4°   X   >   r     . Mukuyras    >        Naqabah    g     f    v~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(4                           Harbor
2 _ ,/                    R / ov     ~ BirAli  TRAFFIC  FLOW  SCALE   ,              Harbor
D holo                                                                                                          IL     Minor Port
'   Thu  I                      f     rNumber of vehicles per day                                               ®      National Capitals
Ta,,             Noboi                                                   *                                                           Governorate Capitals
Mocha         Keish      DAers         Shuqie                                                         1000                             0      Other Towns
t .     Laheji         -,         .          G                                                                                   SS F OF AC1EA/  500  Governorate Boundaries
Zinilbor          Z F   OFA --EN50
T,rAll3ho       j                                                                                                                  -I  International Boundaries
'4., Koh                        46                               48                                50_



I



IBRD 15175R1
I TURKFy  EY         X          Us SR |                                                                                                   |                                                                                              JUNE 1982
S YRIAN R-                                                     PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC  REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
L E _                                       o 'R                                                                                                                                                                                              2 0 ' -
ISRAEL< RAC  RAN                                        IDA-ASSISTED  PROJECTS BY SECTOR
CT   &, L,RLWO\T                                                           PROJECTS
riAIA  p ~~4'                                        Ag..  ._- ...  grlcuI iure  
ARA  RANArilte
ARF          SAJDI    8  A                                             «.i~    F snorins                                                                                                                                . 
--   AR AR A       54/                                                 Petroies,m  Exploration  Assistance                                                                                               r'
SUDAN. r                                                                       Education
s!        -         . .                                        Highways                                                                                  <             _
JE        DJHOP sTA                                                       Power Stations                                                          2                               /
/DJIOUT, 
Transmission  _ines                                            R       , ' "                                                             -'      .   '
Woter Sijpply                                                .                                     /
Port Development                                                                                  /
EIF ISCALf                                                                                                               , 
PROJECT.                      YEAR APPROVED.
FISH LlIDES I                       1973                                              /                  I                          Thomud            A     z         M    A    H   R    A
EDUCATION L                         IS 7S9                                                                                                                                                         IItF_ /5    
HI G11WAYS TT                       1975                                  
AOEN FPOR HILHABILITATIEN           1976                                                                                        /
WAIN HADRAMAWT AGIRICULIURL         1976                                                                  H -   /  N  A   D   R  14-Av4 A   W    f   I
WADI IUBAN AGRICULTlIRE             1978                                                                              /
WADI HADRAMAAWT POWER               1978                                                                / J
WATER SUPPLY ENGINEERING &                                                                             1/  i                               S                                  -----L-_ Al   HAYDAH
A16'                    I ECHN I CAL ASSIS1 ANCE                                                    t 
EDUCATION Ul                       1879 .
FISHERIES If                        1979                          /                                                                                                                  N AYQ>n r   -lsh/on
PETROLEUM DEVLLOPMENT               1980                                                   /                    (        -
ASSISTANCE                                                                             /
ADEN WATER SUPRLY                   1880                                                        Hoor1             .
HIGHWAYSE[ ADO C     R              l                                                                                                                 >    ISoyn1t 
W'OOI EIHAN AGRIWLTURE             1981                                .\ho
MUJALLAWATLH SUPPLY                1981           Al         H   A    A   U   W   A                                                                                                  X     '  ,ETUE
ENGINEERIND                                      P                 7                                  K / f                                                                       EXISTING  FEATURES5
FnUCATION RI                         02            A                   
FISHERIES111                       49E.  BRe hon                     0Atoq                   -                                   A   Oh/sr                                          Govetno-rn. CoptIo
P(1WFR II                         1982   s i                                                                                    : NISAB O>er  X  _yA -OA R;Ash Sh,hr              ... Nationol Captol
N NISAB             /on                                         Ar R,yon
j-oe..  I At\11   J _A5S,  -  K    MUKALLA  ELEVATION M -tretl                  Ports
K~~~~~           ~    ~                         c= - .-  I  _. 'X                                       200U                           ; Prima ry RxoDsUnur
hsi:                  -                     'tC)loRob h                 N<' 1                                                                        R or, -ad Wadis
-.7                       r "             Lodo N.  ReDE                                        Alrw: 2000g-cfFPre9¢a Snonor   #Rhoadrs.>se'o'd)v
j ~~ T j t ~Ar,                                                  /YQoA                N                                              46  50-   J'Dovesnoros e   .1 hOundaties 
200~~~~~~~~10                                      0
11<   CA  /           >D            5ni.nn',~       ~~~~~~~~~~~ NAAv-' 50B'~-e
'~~~-S   0~~~~BA                                        0






I BRD 16628
C T UR. j ; r 4e, -~--                                 _8                                                          50)D -            -         u 2oS
TIJKL '2- 1 '    .   -   -      tAU,  
(X@'4,f>/lRAX  s  449    s E(jd                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC  REPUBLIC  OF YEMEN                                                              20°-
iTIlT:>  9s o9422/4ir    S                          ROADS FlOOD RECONSTRUCTION  PROJECT
< .A'D  .-.5oh\,    ,
5          o           \ > KliCMScS  t KOMETERS    00 1             20       2-0
Ur AN ~    ~        ~                                                                                                                                               O        A
MIB ,                                                                T ha .-150c \
A.
i :-                                  Ode                                                                    "-  -, -  - -.....                           . .. -.  -;  \ 
| ~~~FFl li Ara                                               1/'                       - \~    Gls T
'IT            - -P                                                                                                     I ;  t re aTy  -
/Di~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~or                                                                                 Qhsh
I  N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N
/   <   __.,> i < =    r    t>'S> s9et&ff0' ':t   >>>    /                                                                 \    ~~ ~~       ~~~0   M     A    N
N? jSspThomd
t   A    @ t 0 { },   ,  9  <  _ 2 < X  )   |   1   X~~~~~~~~~~~~~.-                                                                 Gh.da
T1y R-;Sy-                                                                          A  A   8 r  Gh.,If                              ArAibult   Aas
h ' ooe,d-     -~~It;                               j                               Sayul                 Ash Ghura                          Asphalt Ro-sndeCnstcion
I /,   Bu t Up A,.aas          !           j ,/                               g      Ru&du                                          A istrc
''1 \ ---L stl ct R-.d.y Bd                             - -- ,-   -u                                                                M     P -orts-
r   ,  z   5       ,                                                                                  : ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~sayhuo  -
i-   1r>^           \               A Ala Nb  J81r o   f                                  \>  Aawaze^              . .°OU-Oyl                  Agricultural Areas
Hode,d.            \k aeta    -)Ns\\A.                                                                ..AshS~h,hr                            Asphalt Roads Under Construction
t\i%>          \,  ~~~~YFMFN            .   N'srl         AKirTe                    IlMuk1,11     hu                                    Gravel Roads Under Construction
A R A B            ,          )As Said 0      A       z       a B-rumT4S                                           International Airports
#  <        g   ~~~~R E PUt B L. I C  guky 1s Alaqhfd         h             /                                                          Airstrips Receiving Scheduled Flights
F   '  S   i)   <~~~~~~~~~~~~~~>    Loyvder(<udE7   o       -srAh                                                      Horbor~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~()  aror14
0 a   J   f ODhala   y      Y ahhwrur    /                       Roads Flood Reconstruction Protect         ®      Notional Copital
t -~--  Other Roads/Flood Daimages              *          Governorate Capital
.ocha         Rersh         m 'Joho  -Shuqra                                            Third Highway Project                      °        Other Towns
> / tLahe/                                                     z; b 1. e  !  ~lr 'I ' F _ Primary Asphalt Roads  Governorate Boundaries
-- -uIa _   ~-  Main Tracks                      -    -    International Boundories
-44'-o Khorr-    '            DEN      46                              4ao                             5,0°                              52°



