Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 4061-YDR
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF
A ROADS FLOOD RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
September 9, 1982
Projects Department
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                           =  Yemeni Dinar (YD)
US$1.00                                =  YD 0.345
US$2.90                                =  YD 1.000
US$2.9 million                         =  YD 1 million
SYSTEM OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES: METRIC
Metric System                           British/US System
1 meter (m)                            =  3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)                       =  0.62 miles (mi)
1 sq kilometer (km2)                   =  0.386 sq miles (mi2)
1 hectare (ha)                         =  2.47 acres (ac)
1 metric ton (m ton)                   =  2.205 pounds (lb)
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
ADT                  - Average Daily Traffic
AFESD                - AraD Fund for Economic and Social
Development
ER                   - Economic Return
FAO                  - Food and Agricultural Organization
FFYP                 - First Five-Year Plan
HA                   - Highway Authority
IDA                  - International Development Association
KFAED                - Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic
Development
MOC                  - Ministry of Construction
MOP                  - Ministry of Planning
OPEC                 - Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries
PDRY                 - People's Democratic Republic of Yemen
PRC                  - People's Republic of China
RRMU                 - Road Reconstruction and Maintenance Unit
SDR                  - Special Drawing Rights
SFYP                 - Second Five-Year Plan
SOE                  - Statement of Expenditures
UNDP                 - United Nations Development Programme
USSR                 - Union of Soviet Socialist Republics
vpd                  - vehicles per day
WFP                  - World Food Programme
YAR                  - Yemen Arab Republic
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
APPRAISAL OF
A ROADS FLOOD RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page  No.
I.   THE  TRANSPORT  SECTOR  ...................................                                  1
A.   The  Setting .........................................                                 1
B.   Development  of Transport  System .....................                                1
C.   The  March  1982  Floods ...............................                               2
D.   Transport  Institutions,  Planning  and  Coordination...                               3
II.   THE  HIGHWAY  SUBSECTOR ...................................                                  6
A. The Network ................-                                                            6
B.   Administration,  Technical Assistance,  Training ......                                6
C.   Planning  and  Financing ..............................                                7
D.   Engineering .........................................                                  8
E.   Construction ........................................                                  9
F.   Maintenance .........................................                                  10
G.   Road  Flood  Damages  and Action  Program ...............                              11
III.   THE  PROJECT .............................................                                    13
A.  Genesis .............................................                                   13
B.   Objectives ..........................................                                  13
C.   Description .........................................                                  13
D.   Engineering .........................................                                  16
E.   Cost  Estimates ......................................                                 16
F.   Financing ...........................................                                  18
G.   Implementation ......................................                                  20
H.   Accounting  and  Auditing .............................                                22
I.   Monitoring ..........................................                                  22
J.   Disbursements .......................................                                  22
K.   Environmental  Impact ................................                                 23
IV. ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION                                     ..                                  24
A.   General .............................................                                  24
B.   Road  Reconstruction  Works ...........................                                24
C.  Additional Road Maintenance Capacity ................                                   25
D.   Technical Assistance  and  Transport  Sector  Study .....                              25
E.   Project  Risk .......................................                                  26
V. RECOMMENDATIONS.......... A                                                .......    27
The Roads Flood Reconstruction Project was identified and appraised by
Messrs. B. H. Van Waes (Engineer), and H. J. Schlechtriem (Economist), during
a mission in May 1982. The Transport Sector and Highway Subsector chapters
of this report are based on the Staff Appraisal Report for the Third Highway
Project (Report No. 2250a-YDR of April 24, 1981) and other Bank Reports.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (Continued)
Page No.
ANNEXES
1.    Previous Transport Projects
2.    Additional Installations and Equipment Needed by RRMU
3.    Project Implementation Schedule
4.    Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
5.    Selected Documents in the Project File
MAP S
IBRD 16628 - People's Democratic Republic of Yemen
Roads Flood Reconstruction Project
IBRD 16629 - People's Democratic Republic of Yemen
Traffic Flows on Paved Road Network 1981



I. The Transport Sector
A. The Setting
1.01      Of PDRY's total population of 1.9 million about 270,000 live in
Aden and about 210,000 live and work in neighboring oil-producing countr-
ies. The remainder is widely scattered in small towns and villages along
the long but narrow coastal strip and in isolated locations in the moun-
tainous and desertic hinterland wherever water is available. Except for
fish wealth off the 1200 km coastline, PDRY's natural resources are ex-
tremely limited. Only 0.2% of the country's landmass of 334,000 sq km is
cultivated, most being desert and wasteland. During the latter half of
the 1970's, remittances from Yemenis working abroad helped to raise the
generally low standard of living, bringing per capita GNP to about US$420
in 1980.
B. Development of Transport System
1.02      Since independence in 1967, Government pursued development
policies toward an egalitarian, socialist society with public control of
productive resources but has generally shown realism and pragmatism in
its approach. From the very beginning, prime objectives of Government
policy have been to integrate the country socially and economically and
to lessen the dependence of the economy on Aden port and refinery and
their trade and bunkering services by developing agriculture and fisher-
ies. The important supporting role of adequate communications for the
achievement of these objectives was recognized and intensive efforts were
made to build up a transport system, particularly roads, as well as in-
stitutions and policies to operate and maintain the system on a country--
wide basis. IDA was associated with these efforts through three highway
projects and a port project (Annex 1).
1.03      Considering the many obstacles hindering these efforts -- the
lack of managerial and technical talent and of skilled labor; the severe
shortage of domestic and foreign resources; the virtual, absence of a
domestic civil works capacity and the difficulties to attract foreign
contractors to work in PDRY at reasonable costs -- progress in building
up the transport system has been significant. The paved road network
grew from about 400 km in and around Aden 15 years ago to about 1,650 km
today, linking the capital with the most important population and produc-
tion centers and with neighboring Yemen Arab Republic (YAR). The air-
ports at Aden and Al Mukalla have been reconstructed and most of the five
airfields receiving scheduled services have had some improvements. The
national airline has been re-equipped to cut operating costs and to
handle the surge in air travel caused by migrant workers. The port of
Aden has been modernized to offer again bunkering and ship repair ser-
vices to international shipping lines after the reopening of the Suez
Canal in 1975 and to handle the country's foreign trade more efficiently.



- 2 -
In connection with fisheries development, a small general cargo port is
being built at Al Mukalla to cater for regional import needs and fuel
transshipments from Aden.
1.04     In step with the expansion of the road system, efforts were made
to develop agriculture and fisheries away from their traditional sub-
sistence orientation toward the production of marketable surpluses to
meet national needs and to contribute to exports. These efforts started
in Lahej (Wadi Tuban) and the Abyan Delta (Wadi Bena and Wadi Hassan)
which are close to Aden and had no accessibility problem. As the eastern
Governorates were opened up, major projects were undertaken with IDA sup-
port to develop fisheries in the Al Mukalla area (some 600 km east of
Aden) and agriculture in the Wadi Hadramawt (some 900 km away). Lately,
in parallel with road construction projects, development of agriculture
in Wadi Beihan and of fisheries in the far eastern Governorate of
Al Mahra has commenced also with IDA assistance. As a result of these
efforts, fish production increased significantly and fish has become
PDRY's principal export commodity. Results in agriculture to narrow the
grain gap and to gain self-sufficiency in fruit and vegetable production
have been less successful. While progress has been made, particularly in
the fruit and vegetable area, food imports still outweigh domestic
surpluses by a large margin and in fact have been increasing.
1.05     Traffic on the transport system reflects the dominating position
of Aden both as the country's gateway to abroad and as the principal
domestic distribution and consumption center. Dry cargo throughput at
Aden port in 1980 reached with 741,000 tons (90% of which was imports)
pre-independence levels. Aden airport handled in the same year about
300,000 passengers, a quarter of whom were on domestic trips. Roads have
emerged as the main means of internal transport both for goods and pas-
sengers. While road traffic volumes (para. 2.02) are generally not high,
they reflect significant increases in the exchange of goods and services
and in the mobility of people compared with the very modest amounts of
cabotage by sailing vessels and of air travel just 15 years back. How-
ever, as distances are normally long, transport even on paved roads, con-
tinues to be relatively costly and traffic volumes drop rapidly away from
Aden and other population concentrations. Furthermore, the imbalance of
goods flows from and to Aden (para. 1.04) results in long empty backhauls
for many trucks and further contributes to high transport costs.
C. The March 1982 Floods
1.06     At the very beginning of this year's monsoon season, PDRY was
hit with extraordinary rainfalls that within less than two days shed the
volume of water normally received during a whole year (ranging from about
300 mm in the highlands near the YAR border to some 50 mm in the coastal
areas). The resulting torrential run-off (of 4,000 to 6,000 m3/second
vs peaks of 500 to 1,000 m3/second during regular years) burst the
banks of wadis, flooding large areas of agricultural land and destroying



- 3 -
houses, irrigation structures and roads and bridges. Estimates of total
damage range from about US$300 million to US$1 billion. Damages are most
heavily concentrated in Abyan province followed by Lahej and Shabwah; the
far eastern Governorates of Hadramawt and Al Mahra were affected also.
Humanitarian aid has been obtained from international relief organiza-
tions and bilateral sources to provide food and shelter for the affected
population.
1.07     The damages to agriculture are still being assessed.  About half
of this year's production is believed to have been lost. An estimated
207 of the irrigated area has been eroded; another 25% of the agricul-
tural land and a third of all wells need to be rehabilitated before they
can be put to use again. Short-term repair works have commenced to avoid
further damages to wadi beds and fields and to make some use of the flood
waters during the remainder of the monsoon season. The Food and Agricul-
ture Organization (FAO) is assisting in drawing up reconstruction plans
for Abyan. IDA is doing the same for Lahej (Wadi Tuban) and Shabwah
(Wadi Beihan). Concurrently, Government is approaching donors to assist
in the reconstruction of dams, weirs and canals, work which is expected
to stretch over a period of about five years. The overall impact of the
disaster on the economy is as yet unclear. In the short term, the re-
duced agricultural production capacity will have to be made up by addi-
tional imports. To what extent the on-going Five-Year Development Plan
needs to be revised will only be known once more detailed reconstruction
plans are available.  While Government will aim at sustaining existing
development efforts to the greatest extent possible and carrying out the
reconstruction works concurrently with present Plan projects with minimum
disruption, substantial rephasing of Plan activities is bound to occur
because of physical disruption and lack of sufficient financial resources.
1.08     Damage to roads and bridges (totalling about US$22 million for
main roads; see paras. 2.18 to 2.20) is small in relation to total dam-
age, but is concentrated in key sections of the network with the result
that virtually all movement was stopped for three days. Emergency repair
works have since been carried out and traffic of essential goods and
services has resumed. Apart from these damages and related constraints,
the consequences of the floods will strain the transport system for many
years to come. The additional imports of food and reconstruction inputs
will pose a burden for Aden port. Increased imports and reduced local
production will further exacerbate the imbalance of goods flows from and
to Aden, taxing existing road transport capacity and adding to road
transport costs.
D. Transport Institutions, Planning and Coordination
1.09     Three ministries are mainly responsible for the development and
operation of the transport system: The Ministry of Construction (MOC)
for main roads, Communications for road transport services, shipping and
aviation, and Planning (MOP) for coordinating the planning of investments



-4-
in the sector. The MOP's director for transport cooperates with the
modal ministries in the preparation of new projects and advises on their
integration into the national investment plan. Local road construction
by the Ministry of Local Affairs is subject to the technical appraisal of
the MOC. Issues of road transport affecting both the Ministries of Con-
struction and Communications, such as vehicle axle load limits, are
adequately coordinated informally by officials of the two ministries
concerned.
1.10     Public sector organizations have primary responsibility for
developing transport services in shipping and civil aviat-on, and have
taken the lead in providing road transport services. As a general prin-
ciple, transport tariffs are set by the Government, including those to be
charged by privately owned trucks and taxis, at levels that will cover
average operating costs while assuring uniformity of rates and fares for
like services.
1.11     Investment allocations to transport (Table 1.1) reflect the
Government's concern to integrate the country. Under the 1974-78 First
Five-Year Plan (FFYP), transport investments accounted for as much as 27%
of total development expenditures. Under the current Second Five Year
Plan (SFYP), -- which was originally designed for the period 1979-83 but
later revised to cover the period 1981-85 in order to synchronize devel-
opment with that of other Arab countries, -- this percentage dropped to
14% mainly because of a very large increase in the total Plan investment.
Well over half of the transport allocation is absorbed by road and road
transport. The direct impact of the roads flood reconstruction program
of US$22 million (para. 2.20) on planned transport investment is rela-
tively small. Assuming all presently planned projects would be carried
out without change, the reconstruction program would add about 15% to the
roads subsector allocation of YD 49 million (US$142 millior equivalent)
or about 10% to the transport allocation of YD 74 million (US$215 million
equivalent). However, there may be other indirect consequences such as
the need to advance port investments and to increase trucking capacity
(para. 1.08). As is the case in other sectors, most transport invest-
ments are financed by external lenders. As a result, the realization of
plan projects greatly depends on the Government's ability to attract
foreign financing. However, the performance of the transport sector in
the past toward the achievement of set goals has been good and better
than for the Plan as a whole.
1.12     All major transport investment decisions have been based on
feasibility and engineering studies by foreign consultants. Investment
coordination between sectors, - e.g., between road and agricultural
projects -- and within transport - e.g., the recent deferral of an air-
port project in Wadi Hadramawt to await the effect of road construction
on air travel - has been done with prudence. However, with a basic
transport system now in place, investment planning and coordination
issues are bound to become more complex and there is a need for a more
integrated approach to system development. Furthermore, Government is



Table 1.1: Transport Investments
Actual FFYP            Original SFYP            Revised SFYP
1974 - 78               1979 - 83                1981 - 85
YD Million-L     %     YD Million.        %     YD Million>2      _
Roads                        29.9                   31.3
Road Transport                6.2                     6.2
Subtotal Roads           36.1        68.2        37.5        53.1          49.1       66.3
Airports                      2.1                    13.4
Aviation                      5.2                     4.4
Subtotal Aviation          7.3       13.8        17.8        25.2           8.4       11.4
Ports and Shipping            9.5        18.0        15.3       21.7           16.5      22.3
Total Transport
Investment                 51.8      100.0        70.6       100.0          74.0      100.0
Total Development
Expenditures              194.8                  370.0                     508.0
Transport Investment as
% of Development Exp.    27.1                     19.1                      14.5
I/  At current prices
2/ At constant 1977 prices
3/ At constant 1980 prices.
concerned that operational inadequacies may prevent the benefits of past
and future transport investments to fully accrue. Accordingly, Govern-
ment is anxious to embark on a comprehensive transport sector study to
review and make recommendations for improving the institutional and
policy framework in which the sector operates; regulatory policies,
including user charges and subsidies; the efficiency of the operating
agencies and ways to mitigate the widespread staffing problems; and
investment proposals in roads, civil aviation and ports. The Ministry of
Communications would have the overall responsibility for the study; the
MOC would cooperate taking into account IDA's Third Highway Project which
already addresses some of the issues in the road subsector (para. 2.05
and 2.06). The study would take the additional transport needs resulting
from the recent floods into account. The study has been included under
this project (para. 3.10).



- 6 -
II. THE HIGHWAY SUBSECTOR
A. The Network
2.01     The backbone of the PDRY road network is the 620 km long coastal
road from Aden to Al Mukalla, which was started from Aden in the mid-1960s
and completed to Al Mukalla in 1977. Construction of a 350 km branch
linking the Wadi Hadramawt with Al Mukalla started with IDA assistance
under the Second Highway Project in 1975 and is virtually complete.
Another 116 km branch connecting the Wadi Ahwar agricultural area with
the main coastal road at Shuqrah was built between 1975 and 1981. One
other arterial road is paved, that from Aden to Taiz in YAR (about 100
km); the 65 km of this road on PDRY territory were reconstructed between
1978 and 1982. The asphalt roads in and around Aden and other short
stretches mostly in the western governorates, bring the total length of
asphalted roads to about 1,650 km. There are also 255 km of cobblestone
roads, mostly in the Wadi Hadramawt, some of them built in the 1930s and
some in more recent years. The rest of the network is made up of about
4,400 km of tracks, most of which are not engineered but merely shaped by
the vehicles themselves along wadi beds, across the desert, or along the
beach. Many of these tracks are cut by flash floods and dune movements
at different times of the year, and with few exceptions are only passable
by four-wheel drive passenger vehicles and trucks.
2.02     Traffic on the paved road network is highest around Aden (about
2000 vehicles per day (vpd)) and, in the Wadi Hadramawt (about 1500 vpd).
Outside the main populated areas, volumes vary between 300 and 1000 vpd.
Unpaved roads generally carry less than 100 vpd. The proportion of
trucks in interurban traffic is consistently high, normally close to 50%.
B. Administration, Technical Assistance, Training
2.03     Responsibility for the road network is divided between the MOC,
which is in charge of the construction and maintenance of the asphalted
roads, and the governorate authorities, under the supervision of the
Ministry of Local Affairs, who maintain the rest of the network and carry
out small-scale construction works, subject to technical approval of MOC.
2.04     The MOC was reorganized in 1979 as a result of studies in
1978-79 to review functions and internal work relations. The MOC now
comprises four main directorates: (i) administration, (ii) engineering,
(iii) the Highway Authority (HA), and (iv) corporations. The HA is res-
ponsible for construction and maintenance of roads, while the directorate
for corporations supervises semi-autonomous public sector entities res-
ponsible for road construction, industrial installations, carpentry, ship
building, housing and buildings. The supervision of the Directorate for
Corporations covers investment programs, review of contracts, procurement
of equipment and materials and labor hiring.



- 7 -
2.05     Technical assistance consultants under the Third Highway
Project, amongst other things, will assist the MOC to set up long-term
programs for road construction and maintenance, advise on appropriate
implementation arrangements and policies based on a detailed review of
existing implementation capacity and performance, and identify the staff-
ing and other needs in the MOC required for an effective management and
administration of the road system.
2.06     Like other agencies in PDRY, the MOC is chronically short of
qualified staff at all levels and has a continuing substantial need for
staff training in order to cope with its increasing responsibilities.
All previous IDA financed highway projects addressed training needs by
the way of counterpart training, on-the-job training or through provision
of fellowships. Additionally, UNDP, Arab Fund and bilateral donors sup-
ported training of MOC staff. IDA's recent Third Highway Project pro-
vides: (i) fellowships for post-graduate studies of MOC engineers and
other professionals in specialized fields; (ii) an in-house training pro-
gram to be devised by Consultants for technicians, tradesmen and skilled
laborers; and (iii) in-situ training courses at the construction site for
staff of the Independent Construction Unit (which is building the
Naqabah-Nisab road financed under the Project).
C. Planning and Financing
2.07     Road investment planning is carried out at two levels in the
MOC: (i) the Planning Unit, reporting directly to the Minister, advises
on policy issues, is responsible for sectoral planning in the MOC and
provides coordination with the Ministry of Planning; and (ii) the Road
Planning Unit of the HA, responsible for the more technical aspects of
project preparation including organizing traffic counts and liaising with
consultants carrying out feasibility and detailed engineering studies.
2.08     Under the Second Highway Project consultants assisted the HA in
traffic counting and feasibility studies in preparation of the current
SFYP. Ongoing road construction and projects to be started during the
plan are listed in Table 2.1.



-8-
Table 2.1: New Roads Planned or Under Construction
Expected    Principal
Length   Cost (YD   Starting   Completion   Financing
Road                      (km)    Million)        Date          Date        Agency
Under Construction
As Shihr-Sayhut               204      14.0          1980         1984        PR China
Sayhut-Nishtun (Low
cost earth roads)           150        0.4         1976          1983       Government
Naqabah-Nisab                  92       8.0         1982          1984        IDA, OPEC
Fund,Kuwait
Fund
Total                   446      22.4
Planned
Sayun-Rudud                   42        2.2         1982          1984       Government
Wadi Douan                     30       2.1          1982         1984        Government
Miscellaneous                  21       3.2          1981         1984        Government
Total                    94       7.5
Grand Total             540      29.9
2.09      Road construction expenditures, in current terms, averaged YD 5.5
(US$15.8) million per year during the FFYP. Under the present SFYP road
investments are expected to proceed at a level of YD 6-7 (US$17-20) million
per year. Expenditures for road administration and maintenance were just
over YD 1 (US$3) million at the beginning of the FFYP but exceeded YD 2
(US$6) million at the end. Because of the shortage of domestically
generated resources, both construction and maintenance programs received
substantial external assistance. IDA, the Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic
Development (KFAED), the Arab Fund for Social and Economic Development
(AFSED), the OPEC Fund for International Development and the People's
Republic of China (PRC) were the major donors. Furthermore. the World Food
Program (WFP) supports road works in a significant way through its "food
for work" projects.
D. Engineering
2.10      The MOC's engineering department carries out highway design on
small construction projects to the extent possible with its limited
qualified staff. Major designs such as the Al Mukalla-Wadi Hadramawt and



- 9 -
Naqabah-Nisab-Beihan roads are carried out by consultants. Following the
guidelines prepared under IDA's First Highway Project, the Government aims
for the following standards for national roads:
Class 1,       7 m asphalt pavement for roads with average daily
traffic above 1000 vehicles; and
Class II,      6 m asphalt pavement, which is the predominant category,
making up 90% of the current asphalted system with more
than 300 vpd.
However, design standards are frequently lowered during preparation and
implementation and tailored to the economic and social needs and to
financial means.
2.11     Under the provisions of the Second Highway Project, and with the
assistance of Consultants provided under that Project, Government reviewed
its regulations of weights and dimensions of vehicles using the national
road system. In 1980 upon recommendations by the consultants, the Govern-
ment adopted a 13-ton axle load limit in conformity with neighboring Saudi
Arabia and YAR. Pavement design for all roads under construction takes
account of this 13-ton limit. Under the Third Highway Project and again
under this project, Government gave assurances that it will take, in
conformity with its regulations, all measures necessary to ensure at all
times that the dimensions and axle loads of vehicles using its roads do not
exceed limits consistent with the design standards of such roads.  Aden
Port which is the largest traffic generator is cooperating in the
enforcement of the loading limits and there is no evidence of any
significant overloading of trucks on the roads.
E. Construction
2.12     Since 1974, when intensive road improvement programs started, the
Government has attempted to implement its road investment programs with the
assistance of foreign contractors. These attempts until now have failed
because bids received from foreign contractors under international competi-
tive bidding consistently were unrealistically high.  The lack of suffi-
cient construction programs to ensure continuity of work, as perceived by
foreign contractors, combined with the country's isolation, the harsh
physical conditions and the low productivity of the labor force, appear to
be the main reasons for the high bids. The contractors, furthermore, are
attracted to the richer neighboring countries, where high construction
costs are acceptable if combined with high quality work and tight schedules.
Because of the limited financial means of PDRY, as for any country in
similar conditions, the Government cannot afford to hire these foreign con-
tractors for the implementation of its investment programs and therefore
has taken the only realistic alternative available, namely to develop its
own construction capacity. Some exceptions have occurred and foreign con-
tractors have operated in PDRY, namely a West German contractor for the Al
Mukalla port and an Indian contractor for the Riyan airport. The German



- 10 -
contractor, however, went bankrupt in 1979. A contract for the construc-
tion of Nishtun port in Al Mahra Governorate under IDA's Second Fisheries
Project (Credit 932-YDR) was awarded last year to a Danish contractor after
international competitive bidding, for about double the appraisal cost
estimate.
2.13     As a result of the unsuccessful tenders for road construction and
because negotiations with the contractors to reduce costs were unsuccess-
ful, the Government, in agreement with the various donors, has set up on an
ad hoc basis road construction units, under various organizational arrange-
ments. There are now five construction units that work or worked on the Al
Mukalla-Wadi Hadramawt, Aden-YAR border, Shuqrah-Ahwar, Ash Shihr-Sayhut
and Naqabah-Nisab roads. These construction units of which that under the
aegis of IDA for the Hadramawt road was the prototype operate independently
under the supervision of the Directorate for Corporations (para. 2.04).
The quality of construction is generally satisfactory and, as the units
gain practical experience, it is improving. Some of the construction units
are managed by expatriate management consultants and they are the most
productive and have shown adequate results: an increase in productivity
over the years and generally good quality of work and satisfactory cost
accounting practices. The construction units have built over 1,000 km of
roads since 1974. Apart from the IDA financed projects, some of these
units have been operating on a force-account basis, but the Government has
recently decided, in view of the continued high bids by foreign contractors
that the construction units should work as regular contractors in order to
establish and strengthen permanent construction capabilities for implement-
ing the road investment and maintenance programs in an efficient and eco-
nomical manner, as well as any other civil work programs proposed by the
regions covered by each of these construction units.
2.14     In recent years, mainly as a result of an increase in building
activity financed from worker remittances, a vigorous and energetic private
sector contracting industry has emerged. Most of these contractors are
small (with 5 employees or less), but some 15 to 20 are of medium size and
can undertake contracts of up to US$500,000 equivalent. They work predomi-
nantly for private interests although public sector agencies use them
increasingly to carry out their projects. None of them can undertake roads
works in any major way, and as most are over-committed, they are unable to
develop road capabilities in the near future. However, in the longer run,
the larger ones may participate in the road maintenance and construction
programs with small contracts and thus ease the pressures on the Government                 A
construction resources.
F.  Maintenance
2.15     Under the First Highway Project, the Government more than doubled
its allocation of funds to maintenance, and IDA assisted with maintenance
equipment, spare parts and technical assistance. Further assistance in the
form of maintenance equipment and spare parts was provided by the Kuwait
Fund under the Second Highway Project. MOC has been carrying out highway
(routine) maintenance at a level of about US$500 equivalent per km per year
on the asphalt system and amounts varying from year to year between US$300



- 11 -
and US$500 equivalent per km on the rest of the network (including minor
improvements). These expenditures have been generally adequate for the
traffic needs and type of construction applied in PDRY in relation to total
resources. However, with the expansion of the paved road system, the in-
creasing age of some sections and growing traffic, particularly trucks,
there is a need for a more systematic approach to road maintenance (para.
2.17).
2.16     Most of the unpaved network has little or no engineering and most
of the maintenance effort is carried out on an ad hoc basis by governorate
forces, funded by the WFP.
2.17     The MOC is preparing for the decentralization of the maintenance
process, once the paved network will reach the targets set for the mid-
1980's.  MOC is considering to entrust maintenance operations on a con-
tract basis to the construction units, established in the various governo-
rates. During credit negotiations of the Third Highway Project, the
Government expressed interest in IDA's participation in the preparation of
a road maintenance project. Accordingly, terms of reference for a road
maintenance study to be undertaken by MOC with help of the technical
assistance consultants under the Third Highway Project have been discussed
and agreed. The study would devise programs both for routine and periodic
maintenance and recommend detailed implementation arrangements.
G. Road Flood Damages and Action Program
2.18     Overall, about 40 to 45 km of paved road including many structures
were destroyed and damaged by the floods. The main coastal road and the
branch to Wadi Ahwar in Abyan Governorate were most severely hit. At
Zinjibar, about 40 km east of Aden, a 230 m bridge -- the largest in
PDRY -- was completely swept away. Damage to other main roads was more
localized, yet sufficient to render them inoperative. The Aden-Taiz road
was cut near the town of Lahej in the center of the populous and agricul-
turally rich Wadi Tuban. The Al Mukalla-Wadi Hadramawt road was cut in its
two most difficult escarpment sections. Lastly, the entrances into Aden
from the refinery at Little Aden and from the Lahej road at Aden interna-
tional airport were disrupted. There was also considerable damage to
unpaved roads and tracks.
2.19     Immediately following the floods, emergency repair works were
carried out on the main roads to make them passable again. These works
mainly consisted of recreating embankments in the smaller wadi beds with
temporary drainage facilities to handle minor floods and gabion structures
with steel plate carriageways in the larger wadis. Temporary earth side
drains replaced eroded pitched drains and pavements were temporarily filled
with selected materials. These largely make-shift repairs will not be able
to withstand the normal floods that almost certainly will occur during the
remainder of the monsoon season (lasting to about October). Therefore, and



- 12 -
also in view of the increased importance of transport for the distribution
of imported food and supplies and for the reconstruction effort, Government
is anxious to commence permanent restoration works so that further disrup-
tions will be reduced.
2.20     Taking account of the urgency of the situation, Government has
designed a two-year program to absorb the road reconstruction effort within
the maintenance and construction program of MOC. This approach minimizes
the impact of the reconstruction program on the implementation of other
ongoing road development projects. Based on a review of existing construc-
tion capacity available in the country, the program consists of: (i)
strengthening the Ministry's HA through minor revisions of the technical
assistance under the Third Highway Project; (ii) upgrading of the Al Mukalla
maintenance department and creation of a special unit to reconstruct the
Zinjibar bridge with the assistance of the PRC; (iii) extending the con-
struction programs to include repair works of the Aden-Taiz and Al Mukalla-
Wadi Hadramawt roads by the relevant construction units with the assistance
of the Arab Fund and Kuwait Fund respectively; and (iv) strengthening of
the existing (Abyan) Road Reconstruction and Maintenance Unit (RRMU) to
reconstruct the roads in most severely damaged Abyan Governorate and the
Al-Hiswa crossing on the Aden-Little Aden road and a section near the
international airport in the Aden Governorate. The total cost of the pro-
gram is estimated at about US$22 million. As regards local roads, the re-
construction efforts of local authorities are being supported by WFP through
reallocation of resources under ongoing rural development projects and
additional funds provided under its emergency facility.



- 13 -
III. The Project
A. Genesis
3.01     Following a reconnaissance visit by the Regional Projects
Director in April 1982 soon after the floods, a highway mission visited
Aden in May 1982 to review with the Government the proposed roads recon-
struction program (para. 2.20) and found it an economically and techni-
cally feasible proposal to deal efficiently with the reconstruction
effort. The mission identified item (iv) of this program as the most
suitable for preparation of a project for financing by IDA and other
international agencies. The MOC immediately started on the preparation
of a detailed work program, initiated discussions with potential sup-
pliers of services and goods, and requested financial assistance from
IDA, the Arab Fund and UNDP for the project. The following is based on
the detailed road reconstruction program which is available in the
project file.
B. Objectives
3.02     The proposed project would support the Government's effort to
expeditiously restore traffic conditions with minimal adverse impact on
other economic activities. It would also have longer term institutional
benefits in strengthening the Government's capabilities for road mainte-
nance and construction and overall transportation planning.
C. Description
3.03     The project components are:
(a)  strengthening of the RRMU based in Abyan Governorate to
enable it to expediously carry out reconstruction of
roads in the Abyan and Aden Governorates;
(b) reconstruction of: (i) damaged road sections and
bridges, totalling about 40 km, in the Abyan Governorate;
and (ii) the road section (about 1300 m) at the Al-Hiswa
crossing on tne Aden-Little Aden road and the road
section (about 1000 m) and flood protection works near
the international airport, in the Aden Governorate;
(c) technical assistance to strengthen the HA for project
supervision and monitoring; and
(d) a transport sector study.



- 14 -
(a) Strengthening of RRMU
3.04     In 1976, the Government established the Shuqrah-Ahwar construc-
tion unit to build the Shuqrah-Ahwar road (116 km). The road was sub-
stantially completed in early 1982, but severely damaged by the March
1982 floods. The unit's base is in Shuqrah, centrally located for the
road network in the Abyan Governorate and adjacent Aden Governorate. The
unit has a staff of about 300 including one civil engineer, foremen,
accountants, mechanics, skilled laborors and support staff and could
function as an independent construction unit similar to other such units
currently operating in the Shabwah, Al Mukalla, Hadramawt, Lahej and Al
Mahra Governorates. However, its management, installations, equipment
and facilities require substantial upgrading and renewal for the unit to
expeditiously and efficiently undertake the reconstruction program.
3.05     To strengthen its management, the Government proposed to employ
and integrate engineering and management consultants into the unit which
would operate as a decentralized construction entity with appropriate
cost accounting abilities under the supervision of the MOC. About 115
man-months of consulting services would be needed. The engineering and
management consultants would report to the manager of RRMU. The upgrad-
ing of the unit would consist of: (i) improvement of existing installa-
tions and construction of new workshops, stores, accommodations, etc.;
(ii) reconditioning of existing equipment; and (iii) purchase of new
equipment. Lists of total installation and equipment requirements and of
the existing items are available in the project file; the additional
installations and equipment needed by RRMU are shown in Annex 2. The
lists are included in the unit's work program agreed with the Government
during credit negotiations. The management consultants selected by the
Government started the preparation of upgrading and reconditioning pro-
grams for RRMU in June 1982 together with the reconstruction work program.
3.06     Because of the limited extent but urgent nature of the works,
about 50% of the value of the equipment needed for the reconstruction
will not be depreciated on the works. The residual value of the equip-
ment would be applied to other economically justified works including
maintenance of the roads in the Abyan governorate. During credit nego-
tiations, assurances were obtained from the Government that upon comple-
tion of the reconstruction works, the physical assets of RRMU derived
from the credit would be allocated to other road maintenance and con-
struction operations in accordance with a program to be agreed with IDA
by December 31, 1983.
(b) Reconstruction Program
3.07     The main damage and traffic disruption in the Abyan Governorate
occurred on the Aden-Al Mahfidh and Shuqrah-Ahwar roads which have a
total length of 416 km. Sections totalling about 40 km were damaged,
thirty-six culverts were washed away and eighteen damaged, and 3690 meters
of Irish crossing with 20,000 square meters of gabions and 2,700 cubic
meters of concrete walls for protection were destroyed. The damaged road



- 15 -
sections will be rebuilt to the original standards and the culverts and
Irish crossings with protection works will be rebuilt on the basis of
revised improved designs prepared by a Swiss funded engineering team that
visited the sites immediately following the floods. These designs which
will be used country-wide in the future provide for upstream protection
works to avoid scour and down-stream anti-erosion fillings with boulders.
These proposed designs are more elaborate and henceforth more costly than
currently used designs but also more resistant to the flood conditions
likely to occur. The designs are being tested in laboratory conditions
in Switzerland and following the tests, the Government will decide on the
final designs to be implemented in consultation with IDA.
3.08     The Aden-Little Aden road (about 25 km) was washed away over a
1300 m section at the Al-Hiswa crossing. Simultaneously, a road section
of about 1000 m and flood protection works for the international airport
were damaged and the road had to be cut in two locations to divert the
flood water away from the airport to prevent serious damage. Reconstruc-
tion and improvement of these road sections is urgently needed to avoid
further disruption and damage by minor floods which occur annually during
the rainy season. The reconstruction of the Al Hiswa crossing would be
done according to the improved design (para. 3.07). The works near the
airport would consist of reconstructing the road on a higher embankment
and adding enlarged drainage structures in concrete and gabions. Con-
sultants, currently managing the construction of the Naqabah-Nisab road
under the Third Highway Project have prepared a detailed work program for
the reconstruction of the roads in the Abyan and Aden governorates. The
work program which was discussed and agreed at credit negotiations calls
for a reconstruction period of eighteen months starting in November 1982
following the strengthening of RRMU.
(c) Technical Assistance
3.09     To assist the HA in some of its critical staffing needs on pro-
ject supervision, monitoring and cost accounting, the project includes
the provision of 33 man-months of technical assistance for HA's employ-
ment of two advisors over a twenty-one month period. These advisors
would be integrated into a project supervision and monitoring unit,
managed by a local engineer, and appointed by the HA. They would assist
in overall monitoring, supervision and programming of the reconstruction
works, review cost accounting of RRMU, and progress reporting, and
preparation of the project completion report. In addition they would
assist the HA in establishing on the basis of experience with RRMU,
proper accounting and budgetting systems to be used for highway
maintenance related opera- tions. These services would be financed by
UNDP in accordance with a project document (available in the project
file) agreed between the Government and IDA during credit negotiations.
IDA would act as execut- ing agency for UNDP. This arrangement was
confirmed during credit negotiations.



- 16 -
(d) Transport Sector Study
3.10     Although not an integral part of the flood reconstruction
project, the Government proposed to take this opportunity to undertake a
transport sector study. To this end, consultants would review the trans-
port sector using already available data in order to assess current per-
formance of the sector and to make recommendations for short- and long-
term sector development. The study (requiring about 30 man-months of
consulting services) will cover the entire country and all modes of
transport. Draft terms of reference for the study were agreed at credit
negotiations and are available in the project file. The Consultant's
services would be financed by UNDP with IDA as executing agency. A draft
project document is being prepared and will be agreed with the Govern-
ment, UNDP and IDA. The study is scheduled to start in February 1983 and
to extend to the end of 1983.
D. Engineering
3.11     Following the Government's appeal for international assistance,
the Swiss government dispatched an engineering team from its Disaster
Relief Unit to assess damages to the roads and bridges and make proposals
for the reconstruction of the Zinjibar Bridge and for river and wadi
crossings. The Zinjibar bridge will be rebuilt with the assistance of
the People's Republic of China which had also helped to construct and
finance the original structure. For the river and wadi crossings the
team proposed improved designs which are being tested in laboratory con-
ditions in Switzerland. Information on the proposed designs is available
in the project file. MOC with the assistance of regional offices, the
construction units and consultants, has prepared a geneial program for
the reconstruction of the roads. The management consultants selected for
RRMU have prepared a detailed work program for the Abyan and Aden roads
which was agreed with the Government during credit negotiations. Detailed
designs for individual sections will be prepared during the start-up
period of the project within the framework of the agreed work plan.
E. Cost Estimates
3.12     The estimated cost of the project is US$12.43 million, the
details of which are shown in Table 3.1 below.



- 17 -
Table 3.1: Project Cost Estimates
Local   Foreign   Total    Local   Foreign   Total          Foreign as
--- YD Million ------    ------US$Million-------             of Total
(a) Capital Costs for Strengthening RRMU
(i)    Installations                            0.02       0.47    0.49       0.07      1.38      1.45        95
(ii)   Equipment                                0.05       1.04    1.09        0.16     3.04      3.20        95
(iii)  Management services                      0.03       0.33    0.36        0.08     0.97      1.05        92
Subtotal                             0.10       1.84    1.94        0.31      5.39     5.70         94
(b)  Direct Costs for Reconstruction of
roads in Abyan and Aden Governorates
(i)    Labor                                    0.37       -        0.37       1.08     -         1.08         0
(ii)   Materials                                0.08       0.87    0.95       0.23      2.57      2.80        92
(iii)  Spare Parts                               .         0.18    0.18       -.        0.52      0.52       100
Subtotal                             0.45       1.05    1.50        1.31     3.09      4.40        70
(c) Technical Assistance
(i)    Project Supervision and Monitoring   0.01           0.13    0.14       0.02      0.38      0.40        95
(ii)   Transport Sector Study                   0.01       0.12    0.13       0.05      0.35      0.40        95
Subtotal                             0.02       0.25    0.27        0.07     0.73      0.80
Base Cost                               0.57       3.14    3.71        1.69      9.21    10.90         84
(d) Contingencies
(i)    Physicall/ on Item (b) at 15%            0.06       0.16    0.22       0.20      0.46      0.66
(ii)   Price 2/                                 0.06       0.23    0.29       0.17      0.70      0.87
Subtotal Contingencies               0.12       0.39    0.51       0.37      1.16      1.53
Total Expected Project Cost3/                          0.69       3.53    4.22       2.06    10.37    12.43
1/  No physical contingencies on capital costs which have already been clearly defined in the
implementation program prepared by the management consultants. No physical contingencies on UNDP
financed technical assistance.
2/  Price contingencies are based on the assumption that upgrading of RRMU would take place in 1982
and reconstruction works from November 1982 - May 1984 and on the following: (a) Contracts for
equipment and installations would be let in October/November 1982 a 3% price escalation is
estimated since July 1982 on both local and foreign costs; (b) Actual price adjustment per
management contract:  20% in January 1983, 10% in January 1984; (c) Direct costs:  Local and
foreign 10% in 1982/3, 9.0% for 1983/4; and (d) studies and monitoring 10% total price contingency.
3/  Project cost as of August 1982 with $US1 = YD 0.34



- 18 -
3.13     The costs of items (a) and (b) in Table 3.1 are based on actual
contract prices negotiated by the Government early 1982 for similar suppl-
ies and on the list of the needs prepared by the Government. These cost
estimates were updated and confirmed during credit negotiations. The cost
of technical assistance (item (c)) is based on individual consultant's fees
of about US$9,000 per man-month for project supervision and monitoring; on
consultant's rates of US$10,000 per man-month for the transport sector
study; and US$9,000 per man-month for the management consultants. These
rates include salaries, social costs, overheads and fees, overseas allow-
ances, travel costs and per diem, consistent with currently applied rates
in PDRY.
3.14     A 15% physical contingency is estimated on item (b) in (Table 3.1)
to take account of uncertainties in the details of the work program. No
physical contingencies are provided for the strengthening of the unit,
since the amount provided for in the cost estimates relates to a clearly
defined list of equipment, and installations. Contingency allowances for
price escalation are based on anticipated average inflation rates. Base
cost estimates reflect prices as of August 1982.
F. Financing
3.15     The total cost of the project is estimated at US$12.43 million
equivalent, comprising a foreign exchange component of US$10.37 million and
a local component of US$2.06 million. The proposed IDA credit of US$7.0
million equivalent and the UNDP contribution of US$0.8 million would fin-
ance 67% and 8% respectively of the foreign cost of the project. Govern-
ment has approached the Arab Fund to participate in the project with about
US$3.0 million equivalent, including a US$1.0 million reallocation from an
ongoing loan, to meet the remainder of the foreign cost and some of the
local cost. On that basis, the Government would contribute US$1.63 million
toward the local cost of the project.
3.16     The proposed project financing plan which was confirmed at credit
negotiations is set out in Table 3.2.



- 19 -
Table 3.2:  Project Financin/
(US$ million equivalent)
GOVT/
IDA      UNDP   ARAB FUND   TOTAL
(a) Capital Costs of
Strengthening RRMU:
(i) Installations                    -         -          1.49       1.49
(ii) Equipment                        3.12      -          0.18       3.30
(iii) Management                       1.14      -          0.09       1.23
(b) Direct Costs of Reconstruction        2.74     -          2.78       5.52
(c) Technical Assistance
(i) Supervision                      -         0.40       0.04      0.44
(ii) Transport Study                  -         0.40       0.04       0.44
Total                        7.00     0.80       4.62      12.42
a/ Contingencies are added to each component. Small discrepancies between
the cost table and the financing table are due to rounding.
3.17     The proposed IDA credit would finance (i) 100% of the foreign ex-
change cost of equipment for RRMU; (ii) the total foreign exchange cost of
the management consultants; and (iii) 50% of the direct costs of recon-
struction. The US$1.0 million equivalent which the Arab Fund indicated
could be reallocated from an ongoing loan to this reconstruction project,
would be used for financing of the upgrading of installations since these
are the most urgent actions before RRMU can become operational. The new
Arab Fund Loan for the project expected to be for about US$2 million equi-
valent is recommended to be allocated towards the balance of cost of
installations and the direct cost of reconstruction. For the technical
assistance for project monitoring and for the transport sector study, the
Government is seeking UNDP financing with IDA as executing agency.
3.18     IDA and the Arab Fund would finance in parallel equipment and
installations for RRMU and jointly the direct costs for reconstruction.
The Government indicated at credit negotiations that it had purchased part
of the installations and that it intended to purchase the remainder fin-
anced from its own recources to be reimbursed by the Arab Fund upon satis-
factory completion of the negotiations on the use of the savings under an
ongoing loan (para. 3.17). The Government indicated that it could prefin-
ance the Arab Fund's additional contribution. Also, if the Arab Fund co-
financing, for some unforeseen reason, does not materialize, Government
would meet the full balance of project cost from its own resources. During
credit negotiations, Government gave assurances that it will take all



- 20 -
action necessary to conclude an agreement with the Arab Fund within 8
months after the signing of IDA's credit agreement or to make within that
period alternative arrangements to provide the US$3.0 million, including
through budgetary allocations. The technical assistance for project moni-
toring should be available in January 1983. However, to achieve this, the
signing of the UNDP project document should take place in September. IDA
credit effectiveness would be linked to this signing. Since the transport
sector study is independent of the other project components no such effec-
tiveness condition would be needed.
G. Implementation
(a) Responsibility for Project Implementation
3.19     The MOC would be responsible for the reconstruction works, while
the Ministry of Communications would be responsible for the transport
sector study. The HA of MOC, directly responsible for execution would be
assisted by two UNDP financed experts for the supervision and monitoring of
project execution. A consultants team selected by IDA, as executing agency
for UNDP, and agreed to by the Government, would assist the Ministry of
Communications with the transport sector study.
(b) Execution
3.20     The project implementation schedule which was confirmed with
Government during credit negotiation is in Annex 3. Equipment and instal-
lation purcnases are being processed as described in the procurement
arrangement below (para. 3.22). RRMU would operate as a decentralized
financially autonomous unit under the supervision of the MOC. By a Govern-
ment resolution of July 10, 1982, the unit has a similar status as other
construction units in PDRY, namely in that it may: (i) hire expatriate and
local staff at competitive and incentive wage rates; and (ii) import
materials, equipment, spare parts and vehicles as needed. During credit
negotiations, Government gave assurances that it will maintain RRMU's
authority to do so. RRMU would carry out the reconstruction works by force
account in accordance with the work program which specifies costs and
timing, and which will be the reference for payment of the direct costs of
reconstruction (para. 3.28).
(c) Procurement
3.21     For the management team, the RRMU is expected to conclude by
September 1982 a negotiated contract with the management consultants cur-
rently working on the Naqabah-Nisab road under the Third Highway Project.
Undertaking a full selection process with subsequent mobilisation would
have required at least four to six months. Furthermore, these consultants
are assisting in the procurement of equipment and installations for the
Naqabah-Nisab road.  This arrangement, which is satisfactory, would also
ensure coordination and assistance between two construction units working
relatively close to each other, one in Ataq and the other in Shuqrah. The
contract arrangements including the consultants terms of reference were
reviewed during credit negotiations by IDA and are satisfactory.



- 21 -
3.22     Because of the urgency of the works, procurement of new equipment
would be concluded through negotiated contracts with the suppliers selected
after successful international competitive bidding for the Naqabah-Nisab
Road project. This tender took place in July 1981 and covered 65 equipment
and 21 installation items. Contracts for equipment and installations
similar to those needed for this reconstruction project were concluded in
March and April 1982 for deliveries to be made between May and October 1982.
Contracts for equipment and installations concluded for the Naqabah-Nisab
road total over US$10.0 million, while required supplies for the recon-
struction program would amount to about US$4.8 million. Proceeding with
international competitive bidding, entailing a minimum of four to ten
months for procurement and delay of deliveries, would not be practical.
Furthermore, a certain standardization of equipment among the two units,
which are expected to closely coordinate equipment maintenance and spare
part purchases is technically and economically justified. If contracts
cannot be negotiated with suppliers who provided the same kind of equipment
under the Third Highway Project, procurement would be done through limited
international bidding (LIB) in accordance with a shortlist agreed at credit
negotiations which includes the suppliers who previously bid under the
Third Highway Project. The contracts would take due account of price esca-
lation since the previous bidding and be subject to the agreement of IDA.
With respect to materials, IDA would disburse against the cost of construc-
tion, including materials, based on statements of expenditures and progress
of work. The materials would be purchased through the Government's foreign
trade organization which uses procurement procedures satisfactory to IDA.
3.23     Consultancy services for the monitoring unit and for the Transport
Study will be carried out by qualified and experienced consultants selected
by IDA according to normal procedures where IDA acts as executing agency
for UNDP.
(d) Financing
3.24     On the basis of the proposed reconstruction program, project and
procurement arrangements, contracts for installations, equipment, and
tecninical assistance are expected to be concluded by end-October 1982.
Expenditures for down-payments and progress payments under these contracts
would be incurred prior to credit effectiveness. To cover these costs, the
Government has established a special line of credit of YD 250,000, which
however will not be sufficient to also cover start-up costs of the unit.
During credit negotiations assurances were obtained from the Government
that it will increase this special line of credit through the Yemeni
National Bank, to provide RRMU with adequate working capital, estimated to
be at least YD 800,000 (US$2,350,000 equivalent).



- 22 -
H. Accounting and Auditing
3.25     MOC and RRMU and the Ministry of Communications will keep separate
accounts for the project which by law are subject to auditing by the
country's Central Board for Auditing. The project's accounting work will
benefit from the accounting experience MOC has made in implementing satis-
factorily previous highway projects with similar components. An agreement
was reached between the Government and IDA in January 1982 according to
which the Central Board of Auditing will give priority to auditing of IDA
project accounts. Accordingly, it is expected that auditing of project
accounts will be completed and the audited accounts be submitted to IDA
within six months of the end of each fiscal year. Corresponding assurances
were obtained at credit negotiations. Also during negotiations, it was
confirmed that the audit reports will expressly include a statement certi-
fying "We have audited, in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards, the Statements of Expenditure (SOE) submitted by RRMU to IDA for
reimbursement from the Credit and in our opinion, the SOE submitted and the
supporting schedules and information submitted with them together with the
internal controls and procedures involved in their preparation, can be
fairly relied on to support the applications for reimbursement".
3.26     The UNDP financed components of the project will be subject to
normal UNDP procedures, including six-monthly tripartite reviews and audits
as indicated in the project documents.
I. Monitoring
3.27     Project progress will be monitored by the project supervision and
monitoring unit of the MOC with the assistance of UNDP financed advisors.
The unit will carry out an overall supervision of the reconstruction works,
follow costs, prepare and adjust the work program, collect data on traffic
and economic activity, according to terms of reference as included in the
UNDP project document. The advisors to the unit will assist in the pre-
paration of progress reports and the completion report on the project.
J. Disbursements
3.28     Disbursements from the credit would be against normal documenta-
tion except for the reconstruction works by force account for which monthly
statements of expenditures would be used. Disbursement would be made on
the basis of 100% of foreign expenditures for equipment and management con-
sultants and 50% of the direct cost (labor, materials and spare parts) of
reconstruction works in Abyan and Aden Governorates. During credit negoti-
ations it was confirmed that the SOEs will specify : (i) a description of
the works performed and its location; (ii) the estimated total cost of the
works; (iii) expenditures during the reporting period; (iv) total expendi-
tures to the end of the reporting period; and (v) the amount for which
reimbursement is requested. The SOEs, entirely in local currency, will be
signed by the project manager and countersigned for certification of works
performed by the manager of the supervision and monitoring unit. The pro-
ject manager will further certify that the expenditure claimed was actually



- 23 -
incurred for the performance of the road reconstruction program and that
all support documentation is available for review and audit by IDA super-
vision missions.
3.29     The disbursement schedule would be as follows:
Amount of the Credit
Allocated
(Expressed in US$         % of Expenditures
Category                    Equivalent)              to be Financed
(1) Equipment under                   3,040,000                 100% of foreign
part (a) of the project                                     expenditures
(2) Reconstruction works under
part (b) of the project           2,200,000                 50%
(3) Consultants services for
part (a) of the project           1,020,000                 100% of foreign
expenditures
(4) Unallocated                         740,000
7,000,000
Retroactive financing in an amount not exceeding US$2,400,000 equivalent
would be allowed for expenditures incurred after June 1, 1982 for equip-
ment, and management fees under part (a) of the project and for direct
costs of works under part (b) of the project.
3.30     The estimated disbursement schedule which was confirmed at credit
negotiations is shown in Annex 4. This disbursement schedule cannot be
compared with standard disbursement profiles since the project is of an
unusual type.
K. Environmental Impact
3.31     The project will not have any adverse effect on the physical
environment; improved transportation would help improve economic develop-
ment of the population. Flood protection works will protect important
economic assets and ensure safe transportation.



- 24 -
IV. Economic Justification
A. General
4.01     The road system has been a major instrument for PDRY's progress so
far in unifying its disparate regions, in mobilizing productive resources
and in building an economy on a national scale. Under the project, key
sections of the system that were damaged in the extraordinary floods of
March 1982 would be permanently restored at least to their previous
standards so that the system as a whole would function again effectively.
The key location of the project sections would mean that more than 80% of
the country's population would benefit from this restoration of transport
services. Upon completion of the restoration works, equipment and other
assets included under the project but not used up would supplement the
country's limited road construction and maintenance capacity. Through its
technical assistance component, the project would have a long term perspec-
tive in institution building, policy development and planning.
4.02     In view of the vital role which the highway system plays in the
life and economy of the country, the need to permanently restore the key
sections involved is self evident. However, in order to confirm the econo-
mic viability of the different restoration investments which together
account for about eighty percent of the project cost, broad brush esti-
mates of related benefits have been made using available data on pre-flood
traffic, costs of vehicle operation and costs of keeping the damaged sec-
tions open to traffic. These calculations suggest that the lowest economic
return over a 20-year period on any one of the sections would be 20%.
B.  Road Reconstruction Works
4.03     The Zinjibar-Al Mahfidh section is part of the main coastal road
to the eastern Governorates of Shabwah, Hadramawt and Al Mahra which con-
tain almost half of the country's population, the main grain producing
areas and much of the fishery industry. This section together with its
branch to Wadi Ahwar also is the lifeline of Abyan, the country's most pro-
ductive Governorate. With a population of 370,000 (20% of the total),
Abyan before the floods accounted for well over a third of PDRY's agricul-
tural output, ranging from cotton and tobacco for export grown in the low
lands near tne coast to fruit and vegetables for the Aden market in the
middle and higher altitudes. Quick restoration of these sections is thus
essential both to contain the immediate economic impact of the floods and
to avoid delaying the longer-term reconstruction and development. The
urgency of the restoration works near Aden is emphasized by the imminent
danger during minor floods of a cut-off of fuel supplies from the refinery
to the western Governorates and a closure of Aden international airport
with their obvious economic implications.
4.04     The emergency road repairs that were made immediately following
the floods facilitate only very basic passage. Passenger car traffic is
almost completely suppressed as only four-wheel drive vehicles and trucks
can handle the affected sections. Large trucks carry less than full load



- 25 -
yet founder often on the steep wadi gradients.  Also, these repairs are
vulnerable and prone to be swept away by the regular floods during the
monsoon season. In order to keep the roads open, they may have to be
repeated three to four times a year. Thus, while only providing a very
inadequate level of service, maintaining the status-quo would be very
costly.
4.05     Except for the section near Aden airport, there are no real
alternatives as to the standards for rebuilding the roads. Conditioned by
the country's financial and economic constraints, road development in PDRY
is done on a "no frills" basis.  The roads in Abyan Governorate carry
between 300 and 900 vpd (prior to the floods), the entrances to Aden about
7000 vpd. Based on the analyses done in preparation of IDA's Third Highway
Project to determine the design standards of the Naqabah-Nisab road, the
6 m wide paved standards of the existing roads are not excessive in rela-
tion to the traffic they carry. Some minor improvements may be made to
structures such as Irish crossings, but only to the extent indicated by
basic engineering and economic considerations. The section by-passing Aden
international airport would partly be rebuilt on an embankment that will
act as a levee to prevent flooding of the airport at an extra cost of about
20% (US$120,000). Based on road user savings alone, the section is econo-
mically well justified even at its increased cost and further benefits will
accrue from the added protection of the airport.
C. Additional Road Maintenance Capacity
4.06     Upon completion of the reconstruction works, about $2.5 million
worth of equipment and workshop installations would be available for use in
maintaining the 416 km of paved roads and gradually upgrading the 560 km of
tracks in Abyan Governorate. Detailed road maintenance and construction
programs for this purpose are being prepared under the Third Highway Pro-
ject (para. 2.05). Assurances concerning the use of the equipment in this
way will be sought at negotiations (para. 3.06). Since this equipment is
in any case essential to carry out the flood road reconstruction works
efficiently and expeditiously, and since the country needs to build up its
presently limited capacity to carry out road maintenance and construction
programs, tne equipment and workshop investment is considered economically
justified.
D.  Technical Assistance and Transport Sector Study
4.07     Apart from helping the MOC in supervision and administration of
the reconstruction program, the technical assistance experts would design
accounting and budgeting systems for road maintenance works, thus usefully
complementing the technical assistance and training efforts under the Third
Highway Project (paras. 2.05 and 2.06) to enable the MOC to fulfill its
important road construction and maintenance obligations more efficiently in
the future. Tne transport sector study would review the possibilities to
improve the efficiency of transport operations and allocation of resources
and make recommendations for short and long term sector development. Both
components are therefore eminently justified.



- 26 -
E. Project Risk
4.08     The reconstruction program which was reviewed and confirmed at
negotiations is well defined both in terms of the work to be done and of
the resources needed to carry them out in the given time frame. Implemen-
tation by RRMU follows a method that proved successful under IDA's Second
and Third Highway Projects and adequate supervision has been ensured. The
risk of the construction part of the project, therefore, should be less
than average and much less than for other emergency projects in which IDA
has assisted. Similarly, Government's receptiveness to IDA's advice on
technical matters and the good cooperation experienced under the ongoing
transport projects hold out considerable promise for a successful
implementation of the technical assistance and study components.



- 27 -
V.  Recommendations
5.01     During credit negotiations, agreement was reached with Government
on the following principal matters:
(i) upon completion of the reconstruction works, the physical
assets of RRMU derived from the credit will be allocated to
other road maintenance and construction operations in
accordance with a program to be agreed with IDA by
October 31, 1983 (para. 3.06);
(ii) it will take all action required to conclude an agreement
with the Arab Fund to participate in the project with
US$3.0 million within 8 months after signing of IDA's
credit agreement or make within this period alternative
arrangements to provide these funds, including through
budgetary allocations (para. 3.18);
(iii)  it will increase the special credit to RRMU through the
Yemen National Bank to provide the unit with adequate
working capital estimated to be at least YD 800,000
(para. 3.24); and
(iv) MOC's and RRMU's project accounts will be audited and the
audited accounts will be submitted to IDA within six months
of the end of each fiscal year (para. 3.25).
5.02     A special condition of effectiveness of the proposed IDA credit
would be the signing of the UNDP project document for the technical
assistance to the MOC (para. 3.18).
5.03     With the agreements and the special condition indicated above, the
project would be suitable for an IDA credit of about 6,400,000 Special
Drawing Rights (US$7,000,000 equivalent) to the Government of PDRY on the
usual terms.



- 28 -
ANNEX 1
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
APPRAISAL OF
A ROADS FLOOD RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Previous Transport Projects
1.       The First Highway Project, for which Credit 240-YDR of US$1.6
million was signed in April 1971 (IDA's first operation in PDRY), helped to
improve the operation and administration of the highway-related activities
of the then Ministry of Public Works (MPW) and to prepare future high
priority road construction projects. It comprised technical assistance to
the Ministry to organize maintenance and workshop operations, fellowships
for MPW staff, procurement of maintenance equipment and feasigility studies.
Project implementation was satisfactory, with a cost underrun of 5%. How-
ever, completion was about two years later than planned, due to delays in
procuring the equipment, partly through the Government's unfamiliarity with
IDA procurement guidelines (see Project Performance Audit Report No. 1989
of March 13, 1978). Also, the institutional impact of the technical
assistance was affected by the shortage of qualified counterpart staff but
a valuable start was made. The Project Performance Audit Report concluded,
that this experience demonstrated the continued effort generally required
over several successive projects for institution building and implementa-
tion of recommendations for operational improvement. Subsequent projects
have continued the effort.
2.       The feasibility studies under the First Highway Project, extended
under Engineering Credit S-12 YDR for US$560,000 of November 1972, made
possible the preparation of a Second Highway Project, for which a credit of
US$15.5 million was approved in June 1975. Its major component is the con-
struction of the Al Mukalla-Wadi Hadramawt road. The project's total cost
originally estimated at US$31.8 million (US$20.8 million in foreign ex-
change) was to be financed jointly by IDA (Credit 560-YDR for US$15.5 mil-
lion), the Kuwait Fund (US$15.3 million equivalent) and the Government
US$1.0 million). The project also includes feasibility studies and
detailed engineering of the Naqabah-Ataq-NisabBeihan road, which provided
the basis for the construction component of the Third Highway Project
(para. 4); purchases of a modest amount of highway maintenance equipment
and spare parts; technical assistance to the MOC in transport planning and
fellowships. This project provided valuable experience in the procurement
of civil works; after international competitive bidding failed to attract
any reasonable bid, the Government in agreement with the co-financiers set
up a semi-autonomous construction unit that is performing well under an
expatriate management team. The success of this unit led the Government to
adopt the same approach for other road construction works. Experience with
the other project components is also generally good. This notwithstanding,



- 29 -
the project is expected to be completed in December 1982, about 37 months
behind schedule, at a cost of about US$49.9 million. The delays were
caused by an unsuccessful international tender and slow mobilization due
to the initial inexperience of the construction unit. Lately, the con-
struction period had to be extended to complete the work with the equip-
ment available to the Government. The credit was fully disbursed and the
account closed on September 10, 1982, when over 90% of the works were
completed.
3.       The next IDA project in the transport sector was the Aden Port
Rehabilitation Project, designed mainly to help the Port benefit from the
reopening of the Suez Canal. IDA and the Arab Fund for Economic and
Social Development (AFESD) are co-financing the US$17.6 million project
to rehabilitate the port, through assistance to the Port of Aden Autho-
rity, the National Shipping Company and the National Dockyard Company.
The project is relatively straightforward, consisting of replacement and
procurement of various kinds of equipment, together with technical
assistance and minor civil works. IDA provided US$3.2 million under
Credit 584-YDR signed in September 1975 and the AFESD US$13.6 million
equivalent. No major difficulties have been encountered. The project is
almost complete except for an AFESD financed slipway rehabilitation for
the dockyard company, which is delayed because of protracted discussions
to find an appropriate technical solution. Award of a contract for this
work is scheduled for October 1982 with coapletion by March 1984, or 57
months later than the estimated project completion date. The IDA credit
account was closed on August 24, 1982, and an unused amount of US$46,000
was cancelled. The final cost of the project is expected to be US$19.3
million.
4.       An IDA Credit (No.1144-YDR for US$12.5 million equivalent) for a
Third Highway Project was signed on July 27, 1981. The project is
co-financed by the Kuwait Fund and the OPEC Fund with loans of US$10.5
million equivalent each. The project supports the establishment of an
independent construction unit in Shabwha Governorate and the construction
of a 92 km paved road between Naqabah (on the Aden-Al Mukalla highway)
and Nisab. The road is expected to be extended eventually to the Wadi
Beihan near the border with Yemen Arab Republic. The project also con-
tinues tecnnical assistance to the Ministry of Construction and staff
training. Implementation is about 4 months behind schedule due to delays
in the delivery of equipment and due to the March 1982 floods. The
independent construction unit has hired management consultants;
procurement of equipment is complete; construction mobilization is well
underway and construction works are expected to start in September 1982.
Consultants contracts for technical assistance and training have been
negotiated. Total cost of the project is US$42.8 million and the
completion date is December 1984.



- 30 -
ANNEX 2
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
APPRAISAL OF A ROADS FLOOD RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Additional Installations and Equipment Needed by the
Road Reconstruction and Maintenance Unit
Description                                 No. of Units
1.  Installations
Workshop Building incl. 5t Overhead Crane              1
Office Building                                       1
Accommodation Consisting of:
4 houses; 18 units single
accommodation; and barracks                         n.a.
Services Reticulation                                 n.a.
Workshop Tools and Equipment                           n.a.
Field Workshop Trailer, Mobile                        2
Prefabricated Water Tank                               1
Water Distribution System                              2
Communications and Telephone                          n.a.
2. Equipment
Wheel Tractor 110 KW                                   2
Tracked Tractor 75 KW                                  2
Grader 100 KW                                          2
Excavator, Hydraulic with Piling Attachment            1
Loader, Wheeled 2,3 m3                                 2
Roller, Vibrating 10t                                 2
Roller, Pneumatic 20t                                 2
Roller, Hand-operated                                 2
Low Loader, 40t                                        1
Truck, Dump 12t                                      10
Truck, Flat bed 8t                                    4
Water Tanker, 12,000 1                                 2
Fuel Tanker, 12,000 1                                  1
Fuel Tanker, 6,000 1                                   2
Batch Plant, Concrete                                  1
Transit Mixer                                          2
Generating Set, 350 KVA                                2
Generating Set, 50 KVA                                 2
Lighting Set                                           2
Hotmix Patch Plant, Mobile                             1
Batch Plant, Hotmix, 50 tph                            1
Bitumen Storage & Heating Unit 10,000 1               2
Bitumen Paver                                          1
Skid Mounted Fuel Tank 18,000 1                       5
Mobile Lube Unit, Truck Mounted                        2
Water Pump, Outlet 50 mm                               4
Utility Truck 4 x 4, lt                               4
Station Wagon 4 x 4, LWB                              8



- 31 -
ANNEX 3
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
APPRAISAL OF A ROADS FLOOD RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Project Implementation Schedule
FY82           FY83                    FY84                    FY85
4th    1st I 2nd   3rd  4th   1st  2nd  3rd I 4th   lst I 2nd  3rd  4th
1.  Credit Processing                                      i    i    i                                          i
- Appraisal                                  *         I     i    i            i         i     j            I j
- Credit Negotiations                            a                                          
- Board Approval                                     el                        Ii                      
-  Signature                                          *
- Effectiveness Datei*i                                                              i     i                + 
-  Closing Date                     ~                                                 
- UNDP Effectiveness                                     *         I          I      I    i
2.  Upgrading RRMU                                         i     i    i            I    I    i                        i
- Preparation Work Program                    _              I                I     I     I           I    I i
- Legal Action                                 _
- Procurement Installations
-  Procurement Equipment
- Delivery Installations
- Erection Installations                               I                      I _         I                 I i
- Delivery Equipment
- Rehabilitation of Exist. Equipment                     _
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I                     I     I                       I           III   i.
3.  Reconstruction Program                                 i     i    i                 I i       i       i           i
- Road Sections                                        I                       ,    .     ,
- Irish Crossings                      ,                   *
- Culverts
4.  Technical Assistance                                                          I
(a) Project Supervision and Monitoring
- Preparation Project Document                  _                 I           I    I                 I
- Agreement Gvt/UNDP                            _                 I          I i       i             i
-  Signature agreement                               t                       I
-  Recruitment advisors
-  Mobilisation advisors                                                      I          I
- Construction Supervision                            I          _
- Completion Report                                              I           I    I                        I
- Final Report                                        i     i    i           i    i    i              1          i
(b) Transport Sector Study
- Preparation Project Documentation                   I
- Agreement Gvt/UNDP                            _  _
-  Signature agreement                               I *
-  Recruitment consultants                            I                       I
-  Negotiations consultants                                *
- Government approval                                I                              I
- Mobilisation consultants                            I    | *  |
-  Inception report                                               I          I     I-
- Fact finding mission                               I     I      I _               I
-  Interim report                                     I                 _
- Draft final report                                  I     I    I             0 *
- Government approval                                I      I     I          I _
- Final report                                        I     I    I            |    |-
August 1982



- 32 -
ANNEX 4
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
APPRAISAL OF A ROADS FLOOD RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Cumulative Disbursement
at End of Quarter
IDA Fiscal Year   End of Quarter             (US$ million equivalent)
FY82/83            December 31, 1982                        2.4
March 31, 1983                           3.2
June 30, 1983                            4.0
FY83/84            September 30, 1983                       4.8
December 31, 1983                        5.6
March 31, 1984                           6.2
June 30, 1984                            6.5
FY84/85            September 30, 1984                       6.8
December 31, 1984                        7.0



- 33 -
ANNEX 5
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
APPRAISAL OF
A ROADS FLOOD RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Selected Documents in the Project File
1.          Preliminary Assessment of Road Flood Damages and Action
Program, Ministry of Construction, May 1982.
2.          Roads Flood Reconstruction Project, Implementation Report,
Ministry of Construction and Consultants SMEC, main report of June
1982 and attachments of August 1982.
3.          UNDP Project Document (Draft) entitled "Project Supervision
and Monitoring Unit," August 1982.
4.          Draft terms of Reference for Transport Sector Study,
August 1982.
5.          Report entitled "Reconstruction of Wadi Crossings" by Swiss
Disaster Relief Unit of May 1982.
6.          United Nations, Economic and Social Council, submission to
the nineth session of the Economic Commission for Western Asia
entitled "Preliminary Findings on the Situation Resulting from
Floods that affected the People's Democratic Republic of Yemen
(29-30 March 1982)," dated May 9, 1982.
r



I



IBRD 16628
TURKEY   ;               Ju.S SR                                46'                               48                            50                                52                          AUGUST 1982
IRAo \   IRAN                                                             PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN                                                                                      20'
\S2> '4s,Kg<}>   <_ROADS FLOOD RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
-   0145              ~~~~~~~~PAK'ISTAS
SAUDIW  \       rEIA j                               0 KILOMETERS50     100       150      200       250
PEOLEAS A8,AV                      MILES                                                                                          PI
REP. OP  Sh,,k, (Nh,,o.  MILES o          AG~~~ 160                    Ac                                                               \\\
Ihkn Oth-
mrfn   -18                      /                                     ~~~                                ~        ~      ~    ~~~~~~~~~~~~/  \  8'
Al Hi- swoA/                              .. ... rhe.    pp5...t....
/   \  ,,.~~   f  t \ \\\T/"   VfmAddaz*amdItsfffifias,sny   /                                  g                                    \      O~~ M         A     N
/                     .                 2     ~ r \ S>2S U a ^ s55,ttssfZotVmhl,Tldo somw
KhYis,okso,  ~   ,f,,,,,hb,,,,,,,pTharn,ud                       A I \  f  A             . i A
1     %  .    ./              /S^abwah  ,               T~~      ~~~~~ \i                    /   MS y          i-tR:          : C
Ad--- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~ G,-
-I~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~e
r   , I; Ro                                                                   ''
Adr             J___   Tirai           , Rod                 1,=                                         ,.i~                                                                                                16'rod/FodDnoes: * Gvrort   a
*-0aa,ay Roadsudud
~R5Bl  p AreOs
- Orsisict Roraadary~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Oih
.., 6Sui.."'            dShabssr'
I                                     AIApn:~ 46  Rn         ": ;..                                                                        -            A \ g- -~   M   oriculturl Arooas
Hadeida                                    VBl= N:MstI.,A.                                                               ,rAsphalt Roads Under Construction
BEMEN                Nisob           Kharner                  AlM1K9Shh1 -                        =      --             Grve Roads Under ConstruCtion
KD                       ~~~~~~~REP U BLIC                 AlMt,ihMot  h                                                                           t .    Airstrips Recei'ving Scheduled Flights
14'    -,/.-'ukayras AlMhi                                                              ao       ef14'-
0  5 ~~~~  Am A5s '1Ah     -"' ~~~~~~~~~Rooids Flood ReconstUCtion Project f                              National Capital
Ii44it444Other Roads /Flood Daimages               0       Governorate Capital
Kesh              tobt1 har                        .T.hir.d Highway Project                                                          0      Other Towns
-: ~~t~j    Zisijlsar  o ~~~L~~'/ f  QF  AR~~N         Primary Asphalt Roads                                 Governorate Boundaries
4rAIBaha                   .    - .                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Main Trpclks          -    - International Boundaries
4 UrKnr   0       DE            4,6'                              4869                                5,0                                 52'



I



IBRD 16629
TURKEY   5-0 n          US S.R                           46- O                                                      5O                             52-                        AUGUST 1982
nZ&stRIRA0-   ,    Fvf,Z                                         PEOPLE'S  DEMOCRATIC  REPUBLIC  OF YEMEN
XJIRA     IRAN \ rROADS FLOOD RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
'n~aUWAJ
t   NEUTRAL ZONE  V   ~ PA.Rn1TANo                            Traffic  Flows on  Paved    Road   Network  1988
, SAUD I ARABIA
SUDAN    E/                 R4Y  A hA\
TPEEKPE\P. OF'D                0ILOMETERS      50       100     150      200      250
I____ _____ ___ _MILES__   O  50         100          150                            -
This mIp h-s 'ee prepamd sV ks  .    X                          O      M   A   N
PTa An,n,~~~~~~~~~UUnanATha                                                                                                                                       I 8,A'i A I  . 
nArd  anks     and Inn nape
danarnyny an,In,, dn'hnIF
WnThe denk  a,,A,IanP   any                                                                     A   md Ihe
ARAB *   _            | /                         /                                       R
t-einev~~~~~~ ~    ~          ~         ~~~ ~~~~                                ~~                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Tai              Gheid2 W  /*th
0   \   So'dsh  ~ ~~         .         6     f^            /        \%     ~                Q Thomud~   ?       AL '       A Fj h)A.
i~ ~~~~~S'o                                                                                                / (              TAK X2,f f4Sr
16'              YEMEN                                                                               -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1--  ~     --9AIGidh16'7
REPUBLIC                  j    /                       I_ _n_ _hrf                                                 uThbv1
/                                                                              AIXaRT           R j /  .!S_udadd                  Ns htu nISI TV
-       - _       E -2)Morib               -Hwra                                                             Qistnn k-
Prirmary Asphalt Roads
(I                                                    Ej~~~~~             Eoq               -         -'          - ~~~~~~~~~~Ra  Qvsaoir ~~~~~~tMain Tracks
ni     t\Hodeida            \                  "SBeihon  ' q       Ataq                                                                            Asphalt Roods Under Construction
NE>   \   /' .^ >, Nisable=>Khamer  tS  Al Mukalla^>>a;uhoir             ~       - ~~ GrvIel Roads Under Construction
r  0  (I   J    Said           Azzon+    International Airports
14rj Muk ayrs                                                                     a         bah\ b                                              t      Airstrips Receiving Scheduled Flights
14' ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-4  Harbor
\\<  r oDbs s: /  /        Bir Al      TRAFFIC FLOW  SCALE L.    Minor Port
0 pT~~~~ IbMair  Ah~~~~~~                          Number of vehicles per day           (R     National Capitals
z  Nobat                                                                               10~    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Governorate Capitals
toC a       Kers      v                ur'                                                   1000                            0      Other Towns
G Ul F  OF ADEIV                        500~O               ---   Governorate Boundaries
LAH'p'               ZG                    F    F       /_or                                                       -   International Boundaries
K QKha a. h  N            46       ,                     4r'                             50_



