CREDIT NUMBER 1295 YDR
Development Credit Agreement
(Roads Flood Reconstruction Project)
betweea
PEOPLE' S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated   OshJ    e<   2.              , 1982


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1295 YDR
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated     .Z,27                   , 1982, between
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN (hereinafter called the
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter
called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Borrower intends to contract from the Arab Fund for
Economic and Social Development (hereinafter called the Arab
Fund) a loan (hereinafter called the Arab Fund Loan) in an amount
equivalent to about three million dollars ($3,000,000) to assist
in financing part of the Project on the terms and conditions set
forth in an agreement (hereinafter called the Arab Fund Loan
Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and the Arab
Fund;
(C) the Borrower intends to contract from the United
Nations Development Programme (hereinafter called UNDP) grants
(hereinafter called the UNDP Grants) in an aggregate amount
equivalent to about eight hundred thousand dollars ($800,000) to
assist in the financing of Parts C and D of the Project on the
terms and conditions set forth in agreements (hereinafter called
the UNDP Project Documents) to be entered into among the
Borrower, the Association as executing agency, and UNDP; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).


﻿-2-
Section 1.02.   Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following addi-
tional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "MOC" means the Borrower's Ministry of Construction;
(b) "MCom" means the Borrower's Ministry of Communications;
(c)  "RRMU" means the Road Reconstruction and Maintenance
Unit of the Borrower;
(d)  "YD" or "Yemen Dinars" means the currency of the Bor-
rower; and                                  I
(e)  "Third Highway Project" means the Third Highway Project
financed by the Association under the Development Credit
Agreement (Credit No. 1144-YDR), concluded between the Eorrower
and the Association on July 27, 1981.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit
Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in various
currencies equivalent to six million four hundred thousand
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 6,400,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Association, for
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agree-
ment.


﻿- 3 -
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1984 or
such  later  date as   the  Associatic-  shall  establish.    The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time, The commitment charge shall accrue from
a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agree-
ment to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each
year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each March 15
and September 15 commencing March 15, 1993, and ending September
15, 2032, each installment to and including the installment
payable on September 15, 2002, to be one-half of one per cent
(1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment
thereafter to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such
principal amount.
Section 2.09. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.


﻿ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project
through its MOC and MCom with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate engineering, administrative and
financial practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the
purpose.
(b) Without limitation on the provisions of the preceding
paragraph (a), the Borrower shall: (i) take all action required
to ensure the conclusion of the agreement providing for the Arab
Fund Loan within a period of eight months from the date of this
Agreement, or (ii) provide the Association, within such period,
with alternative arrangements, satisfactory to the Association,
for securing for purposes of the Project the amount expected
under such Loan from other sources of finance, including
budgetary allocations from the Borrower.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying
out Parts A and B of the Project, the Borrower shall employ con-
sultants whose selection, qualifications, experience and terms
and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Association, such consultants to be selected in accordance with
the principles and procedures described in the "Guidelines for,
the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World
Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall maintain RRMU in accordance
with such powers, duties and resources as shall be satisfactory
to the Association, including the following:
(a) RRMU to possess such degree of autonomy as shall enable
it to operate as a contractor capable of hiring expatriate and
local staff at competitive salaries and of importing equipment,
spare parts and all other materials required for the carrying out
of the works under Parts A and B of the Project without import
restrictions;
(b) RRMU to be provided by the Borrower through the Yemeni
National Bank with a special line of credit in an amount adequate
to meet RRMU's working capital needs; and


﻿-5-
(c) RR4U to be managed by competent managerial and tech-
nical experts whose qualifications and experience and terms and
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Associa-
tion.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall ensure that, upon comple-
tion of the reconstruction works under the Project, the equipment
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, be allocated to
other road maintenance and construction operations in accordance
with a program to be agreed upon with the Association by Decem-
ber 31, 1983.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as provided in Section 3.04 hereof, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit to be used exclusively for the purposes of the
Project.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the
Association,   promptly  upon   their  preparation,   the   plans,
specifications, reports, contract documents and construction and
procurement   schedules  for   the  Project,   and  any  material
modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project (in-
cluding its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall
enable the Association's representatives to visit the facilities
and construction sites included in the Project and to examine the
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association
at regular intervals all such information as the Association
shall reasonably request concerning the Project, its cost and,
where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the


﻿- 6 -
expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and
services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Upon the award by the Borrower of any contract for
goods, works or services to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, the Association may publish a description thereof,
the name and nationality of the party to whom the contract was
awarded and the contract price.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to
the Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and ini-
tial operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived
and to be derived from it, the performance by the Borrower and
the Association of their respective obligations under the
Development Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the
purposes of the Credit.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall take all such action as
shall be necessary to acquire as and when needed all such land
and rights in respect of land as shall be required for carrying
out the Project and shall furnish to the Association, promptly
after such acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the Association
that such land and rights in respect of land are available for
purposes related to the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause MOC and RRMU to
maintain separate records and accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting
practices the operations, resources and expenditures, in respect
of the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof,
including, without limitation to the foregoing, separate accounts
by RRMU reflecting all expenditures under Part B of the Project
on account of which withdrawals are requested from the Credit
Account on the basis of statements of expenditures.


﻿-7-
(b) The Borrower shall cause RRMU to retain, until one year
after the Closing Date, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing the expenditures
on account of which withdrawals are requested from the Credit
Account on the basis of statements of expenditure, and shall
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records.
(c) The Borrower shall cause MOC and RRMU to: (i) have the
accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for each
fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles   consistently  applied,   by   independent  auditors
acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish to the Association,
as soon as available, but in any case not later than six months
after the end of each such year, a certified copy of the report
of such audit by such auditors, of such scope and in such detail
as the Association shall have reasonably requested, including
without limitation to the foregoing, a separate opinion by said
auditors in respect of the expenditures and records referred to
in paragraph (b) of this Section as to whether the proceeds of
the Credit withdrawn from the Credit Account on the basis of
statements of expenditure have been used for the purpose for
which they were provided; and (iii) furnish to the Association
such other information concerning said separate accounts, records
and expenditures and the audit thereof as the Association shall
from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall cause the roads in its
highway system, including those reconstructed under the Project,
to be operated and maintained and all necessary repairs and
renewals thereof to be made in accordance with appropriate
engineering standards and financial practices, and shall provide,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for that purpose.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall take, in conformity with
its regulations, all measures necessary to ensure at all times
that the dimensions and axle loads of vehicles using its roads do
not exceed limits consistent with the design standards of such
roads.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. (a) For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions, the following additional event is specified


﻿pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof, namely, that, subject to
paragraph (b) of this Section, the right of the Borrower to
utilize the proceeds of the UNDP Grants made to the Borrower for
the financing of the Project shall have been suspended, cancelled
or terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of the
agreement providing therefor.
(b) Paragraph (a) of this Section shall not apply if the
Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Association that:
(i) such suspension, cancellation or termination is not caused by
the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations
under such agreement; and (ii) adequate funds for the Project are
available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and
conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under
this Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an
additional condition to the effectiveness of the Development
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the
General Conditions, namely, that the UNDP Project Document
pertaining to Part C of the Project has been duly signed on
behalf of the parties thereto.
Section 6.02. The date         -                  is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General
Conditions.
Section 6.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections
4.02 and 4.03 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the
date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or
on a date twenty years after the date of this Agreement,
whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Planning of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.


﻿Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Planning
P.O. Box 1193
Aden
People's Democratic Republic
Yemen
Cable address:                       Tklex:
TAKHTEET                           289 TAKHTEET AD
AD
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 10 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
By is  A  L.ta. 61       At - A st-
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By IS/  K. CJ,4Lw 4
Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in         Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1) Equipment                 2,780,000         100% of foreign
under Part A                                expenditures
of the
Project
(2) Reconstruction            2,010,000         50%
works under
Part B of the
Project
(3) Consultants'                930,000          100% of foreign
services                                   expenditures
(4) Unallocated                 680,000
TOTAL          6,400,000
2.   For  the   purposes  of  this  Schedule  the   term  "foreign
expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any country
other than the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from
the territory of any country other than the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in
respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the


﻿- 12 -
Credit decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to
the Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage
then applicable to such item as required to be consistent with
the aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent
of SDR 2,190,000, may be made in respect of Categories (1), (2)
and (3) on account of payments made for such expenditures before
that date but after June 1, 1982.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that the
amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category will be
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures
in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet
the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then
allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the
Association are not needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii)
if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall,
reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such
expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such
Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall
have been made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expend-
itures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit and the Association may, without in any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association
under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Bor-
rower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Association's
reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures
which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the
proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is designed: (i) to reconstruct key sections of
the Borrower's roads and transportation network destroyed or
severely damaged by floods in March 1982; and (ii) to strengthen
the Borrower's capabilities for road maintenance and construction
and overall transportation planning.
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:   Strengthening of RRMU through:
(i) improving the existing installations and construc-
tion of, inter alia, new workshops, stores and
accommodations;
(ii) reconditioning of existing equipment; and
(iii) provision of new equipment.
Part B:   Reconstruction of (i) the damaged road sections and
bridges, totalling about 40 km, of the Abyan Governor-
ate road network; (ii) the road section (about 1300
meters) at the Al-Hiswah crossing on the Aden-Little
Aden road; and (iii) the road section (about 1000
meters) and the flood protection structures near Aden
International Airport.
Part C:   Strengthening  of   the  capacity   of  MOC's   Highway
Authority to supervise and monitor the reconstruction
works.
Part D:   Study of the transport sector.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1984.


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   Procurement Procedure
Equipment under Part A of the Project may be procured (a) on the
basis  of   contracts  acceptable   to  the  Association,  to   be
negotiated   with   the  suppliers   who   were   selected  after
international competitive bidding to provide the same kind of
equipment to the Borrower under the Third Highway Project, or (b)
if such contracts cannot be negotiated, on the basis of
procurement procedures satisfactory to the Association which
shall involve the obtaining of price quotations from not less
than three reliable suppliers.
B.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   With respect to each contract to be awarded in accordance
with the procedures described in Part A of this Schedule, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly after the
execution of such contract and prior to the submission to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from
the Credit Account in respect of such contract, two conformed
copies of such contract and such other information concerning it
as the Association shall reasonably request.      The Association
shall, if it determines that the award of the contract was
inconsistent with the "Guidelines for Procurement under World
Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the
reasons for such determination.
2.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 15% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Association of the proposed modification, waiver, extension
or change order and the reasons therefor. The Association, if it
determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the pro-
visions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for its determination.


﻿- 15 -
C.   Procurement Without Contracting
Reconstruction works under Part B of the Project may be
carried out by RRMU under suitable financial and administrative
procedures.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the _7C        day of
198 Z.
FOR SECRETARY


