Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3793-IN
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN OF US$280.7 MILLION
TO INDIA
FOR THE
RAILWAY ELECTRIFICATION AND WORKSHOP MODERNIZATION PROJECT
April 30, 1984
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perilormance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii-
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of April 17, 1984)
US$1.00        =  Rs 10.80000
Rs 1.00        =  US$ 0.092592
Rs 1 million   =  US$ 92,592
The US Dollar/Rupee exchange rate is subject to change.
Conversions in the Staff Appraisal Report were, except
as otherwise noted, made at the rate of US$1.00 to
Rs 10.8.
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
Abbreviations and Acronyms
AC      -   Alternating Current
BG      -   Broad Gange (1.676m)
DC      -   Direct Current
DCW     -   Diesel Component Works
GOI     -   Government of India
ICB     -   International Competitive Bidding
ICF     -   Integral Coach Factory
IR      -   Indian Railways
kv      -   kilovolt (1000 volts)
MG      -   Meter Gange
mw      -   megawatt
NG      -   Narrow Gange (0.762m and 0.610m)
NTPC    -   National Transport Policy Committee
ORE     -   Overhead Equipment
OIS     -   Operating Information System
REPCM   -   Railway Electrification Planning,
Coordinating and Monitoring Group
Rkm     -   Route kilometer
RTEC    -   Rail Tariff Enquiry Committee
Ton-km  -   Ton kilometer



- ii i-
FOR OFFICIAIL USE ONLY
INDIA
RAILWAY ELECTRIFICATION AND WORKSHOP MODERNIZATION PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:           India, acting by its President (GOI).
Beneficiary:        Indian Railways (IR).
Amount:             Bank Loan:   US$280.7 million, including capitalized
front-end fee.
Terms:              Repayment over 20 years, including five
years' grace at the standard variable
interest rate.
Relending Terms:  GOI will on-lend the proceeds of the loan as GOI's capital-
at-charge to IR in accordance with its standard arrange-
ments f'or financing IR's capital expenditure program. IR
pays a dividend on the total capital-at-charge at a rate
determined by GOI, currently 6.5% per annum. GOI will
carry the interest and exchange risks.
Purpose:           The purpose of the proposed project is to increase IRs
carrying capacity to meet growing traffic demand; to
improve the utilization of existing assets; and to
strenglthen the IR organization in selected operational
areas.
The project consists of: (a) electrification of some 3000
route kilometers of IR's 7500 route-kilometers program for
the remainder of this decade-focusing on the major trunk
routes between India's four major cities New Delhi, Bombay,
Madras and Calcutta, together with provision of ancilliary
testing and maintenance equipment; (b) modernization of
six major workshops, the Integral Coach Factory (:ECF), and
selected maintenance depots; (c) provision of advLsory
services and training for the electrification and workshop
modernization components. Project risks are considered to
be within acceptable limits.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authori;ation.



- iv-
Estimated Project Costs:                               (US$ Millions)
Local 1/        Foreign           Total
A. Electrification:
(i) Lines Electrification         525.0             104.0            629.0
(ii) Test/maintenance equipment    3.0                 7.0             10.0
Sub Total                     528.0            111.0             639.0
B. Workshop Modernization:
(i) Major Workshops                73.0             60.0             133.0
(ii) Maintenance Depots             86.0              86.0            172.0
Sub Total                     159.0            146.0             305.0
C. Technical Advisory Services
& Training
(i) Electrification                 2.0               1.0              3.0
(ii) Workshop Modernization          1.0               3.0              4.0
Sub Total                       3.0              4.0               7.0
Total project base cost               690.0             261.0            951.0
Physical Contingencies                  58.0             20.0             78.0
Price Contingencies                    129.0             54.0            183.0
Total Project Cost                       877.0 1/         335.0           1212.0
Front-End Fee                             --                0.7               0.7
Total Financing Required                 877.0 1J         335.7           1212.7
Financing Plan:                                        (US$ Millions)
Local           Foreign           Total
IBRD                                     --             280.7            280.7
GOI                                     877.0            55.0            932.0
877.0           335.7           1212.7
1/ Including an estimated US$211 million in taxes and duties.



_v
Estimated Disbursements:
(US$ Millions)
IDA Fiscal Year                   FY85    FY86    FY87    FY88    FY89    FY90
Annual                            12.0 2/ 63.0   100.0    65.0    30.0    10.7
Cumulative                        12.0    75.0   175.0   240.0   270.0   280.7
Overall Rate of Return:   25.0Z
Appraisal Report:            No. 4940-IN, dated April 26, 1984
2/ Including front-end fee of US$0.7 million.






INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO INDIA
FOR THE RAILWAY ELECTRIFICATION AND WORKSHOP MODERNIZATION PROJECT
1.      I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to India in the amount of US$280.7 million on standard terms to help finance
the electrification of the Indian Railways (IR) main trunk routes and the
modernization of selected key maintenance workshops.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
BackRround
2.      An economic report, "Situation and Prospects of the Indian Economy -
A Medium Term Perspective" (4962-IN, dated April 16, 1984), was distributed
to the Executive Directors on April 23, 1984. Country data sheets are attached
as Annex I.
3.      India is a large and diverse country with a population of about 700 mil-
lion (in mid-1982) and an annual per capita income of US$250. The economy is
dominated by agriculture which employs more than two-thirds of the 'Labor force.
However, the land base is not sufficient to provide an adequate livelihood to
everyone engaged in agricultural activities, especially those with little or no
land. Growth of value-added in agriculture -- 2.2% since 1950/51 -- has been
slower than growth of industrial value-added (5.0% per annum). As a result,
there has been a gradual decline in the share of agriculture in GDP (at factor
cost) from 60% to just under 40%, while the share of industry rose from 15% to
around 25%. But industrialization has not been rapid enough to absorb the
growing labor force, or to bring about a rapid economic transformation, with
significantly higher productivity and income levels. As a result economic
growth has been slow over the past three decades, averaging about 3.6% per
annum since 1950/51.
4.      Nevertheless, there has been steady progress with per capita income
rising by about 1.4% per year in the period 1950 to 1980. Despite the large
population base and its relatively rapid growth, India has been able to
eliminate persistent dependence on foodgrain imports through significant
improvements in agricultural production. Savings and investment have increased
1/ Parts I and II of the report are substantially the same as Parts I and
II of the President's Report for the Madhya Pradesh Fertilizer Project
(No. P-3776-IN), dated April 13, 1984.



-2-
markedly since 1950/51: gross national savings more than doubled from 10.8% of
GDP (at factor cost) to 22.8% in 1982/83, while gross domestic investment rose
from 12.5% of GDP to 24.9% in 1982/83. Foreign savings (balance of payments
deficit on current account) have never financed a major portion of domestic
investment: a peak of about 20% was reached during the early 1960s. Surpluses
arose for a few years in the late 1970s, and at the present time, foreign
savings are about 8% of investment. External assistance has been low both as a
percentage of GDP and in per capita terms, never rising above 3% of GDP and
averaging below 1% for the past five years. "Net foreign savings have never
risen above 3% of GDP, and presently stands at 2.1%.
5.      Before the 1970s, India placed relatively less emphasis on export
promotion and more on import substitution. The volume growth of exports
between 1950/51 and 1969/70 averaged only 2.2% per annum, while the volume
growth of imports over the same period was 4.3%. In the early to mid-1970s,
however, India's terms of trade, which had remained roughly constant during the
1960s, deteriorated sharply. In response, the Government introduced various
policy measures designed to stimulate exports. As a result, the volume of
India's exports grew on average about 7.3% per annum for the 1970s as a whole,
a performance which demonstrates that sustained rapid growth is possible.
While expanding world markets, particularly in the nearby Middle East, con-
tributed to this growth, liberalized access to imported inputs and more effec-
tive export incentives played a major role.
6.      Moving into the second half of the 1970s, the Indian economy was buoyed
by higher levels of investment and an expanding level of foodgrain output. As
a result, growth in real GDP and in agricultural and industrial value-added,
substantially exceeded the historical 30-year trends (paragraph 3) averaging
4.9%, 3.9% and 5.6%, respectively. In 1979180, however, this momentum was
broken when the worst drought in recent years, combined with a doubling of
international oil prices and domestic supply shortages, led to a sharp fall in
foodgrain production, a decline in GDP, and the opening up of a large trade
deficit. Severe inflationary pressures also emerged after several years of
virtual price stability. These setbacks in 1979/80 coincided with the prepara-
tion of the Sixth Five-Year Plan which laid down a program of adjustment that
aimed at improving the trade deficit, removing infrastructural bottlenecks and
ensuring price stability with an overall growth of the economy of 5.2%, 1.6 per-
centage points above the trend growth of 3.6%.
Recent Trends
7.      In 1980/81 and 1981/82, the economy substantially recovered with real
GDP growing by 7.9% and 5.2%, respectively. While industrial cutput expanded
by 4% in 1980/81 and 8.6% in 1981/82, recovery was particularly robust in
agriculture where normal weather helped output to rise by more than 15% and
5.5%, respectively. The availability of power, coal, and rail transport,
already improved in 1980/81, was even better in 1981/82, recording growth rates
of about 10%, 9.6% and 12.9%, respectively. The easing of constraints on the
supply of infrastructure and basic commodities was a determining factor in the
improved performance of the industrial sector. This overall improvement in the
Indian economy, combined with a more restrictive monetary policy contributed to
a sharp decline in the rate of inflation. Wholesale prices rose by about 9% on
an average annual basis in 1981/82 and by only 2.5% in 1982/83, reflecting a
strong deceleration from a peak increase of 18% in 1980/81.



-3-
8.      After two years of fairly solid performance, the Indian economy Eaced a
difficult year in 1982/83 due to the drought in mid-1982 which brought down
the GDP growth rate to around 2% and put further strains on the already dif-
ficult balance of payments and domestic resource situation. Besides a sig-
nificant decline in the range of 4.5%-6.5% in agricultural production, GDP
growth was also constrained by a slowdown in industrial growth from 8.6% in
1981/82 to about 4% in 1982/83. This resulted from a combination of several
factors, notably the decline in agriculture income, persistent (though
lessened) power shortages, a textile strike in Bombay, as well as depressed
export markets and increased competition from imports. The Government was
able, however, to protect the level of savings to a large extent and keep the
momentum of the investment program through largely successful public sector
resource mobilization efforts. Foreign savings played a crucial role in sup-
port of this effort. Similarly, the timely implementation of various economic
policies mitigated the otherwise very distressing effects of a poor monsoon.
Continued improver-ents of the infrastructure sectors, although at a slower pace
than in the previous two years, also reduced the negative effects of the
drought.
9.      Agricultural production in 1982/83 received a serious setback from the
drought. Foodgrain production, which had reached a record 133 million t:ons in
1981/82, declined to 124-127 million tons. Production of most other ma jor
crops also declined in 1982/83. Corrected for weather variations, this still
represents a creditable performance. In 1979/80, with a broadly comparable
monsoon, foodgrain production reached only 109 million tons. The Governiment
was able to mitigate the effects of the 1982 drought through efficient manage-
ment of foodgrain procurement and distribution, careful timing of foodgrain
imports, and appropriate allocation of power to irrigation pumps. These
policies helped to avoid disruptions in basic food supplies and contributed
to price stability during the year. While the management of the foodgrain
economy after the drought was a significant achievement, the effect of the
drought on production re-emphasized the continued importance of the monsoon
in India's agriculture. The performance of the recent past and probable future
trends suggest that on average foodgrain supplies will meet demand. The
balance remains delicate, and the need for foodgrain imports to maintain con-
sumer supplies or adequate buffer stocks could arise from time to time. Thus,
programs to expand irrigation, strengthen extension and encourage the efficient
use of other agricultural inputs continue to receive high priority.
10.      Basic infrastructure services performed generally well in 1982/83,
although growth of coal, power and rail transport failed to maintain thie momen-
tum of the marked recovery of 1981/82. Despite lower hydro generation due to
the failure of the monsoon, overall power generation recorded an increase of
about 7%. This was due largely t:o an increase in capacity utilization in
thermal plants resulting from improved overall management, stabilization of
most of the new large units and better availability of coal due to the combina-
tion of increased coal production and improved railway performance.
Nevertheless, power shortages remain the major bottleneck in the economy.
Railway traffic grew by only 3.7% in 1982/83 reflecting a slowdown from
1981/82. The lower growth was due not to a decline in the operational
efficiency of the railways but rather to slack demand from core sectors like
steel, iron ore, coal washeries and fertilizers. Coal production growth (4% in
1982/83), after 10% growth in the two preceding years was creditable. There
were no major shortages and there were improvements in the quality of coal.
Recent easing of shortages and bottlenecks in infrastructure has come primarily



-4-
from better utilization of existing capacity, but in the future most improve-
ment must result from added capacity. It is therefore critically important
that India maintain the pace of investment in these key sectors and mobilize
sufficient resources to do so.
11.     The Indian economy has reverted from a situation of resource surplus,
which had been a temporary phenomenon of the late 1970s, to one of resource
scarcity. Investment has again grown quicker than national savings, and the
scope for further increases in the latter appears limited. India's gross
national savings rate, which averaged 22.4% of GDP in the last three years, is
high by any standard, particularly considering India's low income and the large
proportion of its population living below the poverty line. Future increases
in savings will depend heavily upon the enhanced profitability of public sector
enterprises which would require better utilization of capacity, more efficient
operations and adequate pricing policies. In 1981/82 there was a significant
increase in public savings due to improved profitability of various public
sector enterprises. This trend which was maintained in 1982/83 needs to be
accelerated. The gap between gross investment and national savings which rose
from 0.4% of GDP in 1979/80 to 1.8%, 2.3% and 2.1%, respectively in the first
three years of the 1980s, has been financed by foreign savings.
12.     India's ability to generate resources to meet its development objec-
tives has become increasingly linked to the balance of payments. The current
account balance which recorded surpluses between 1976/77 and 1978/79, sharply
deteriorated to deficits of nearly US$2.9 billion in 1980/81 and US$3.8 billion
in 1981/82 (1.8% and 2.3% of GDP, respectively). This was partly due to a
sharp rise in the oil import bill as a result of both the disruption of oil
production in northeast India in 1980 and significant oil price increases, and
to a more liberal import policy aimed at providing producers with access to
inputs for higher capacity utilization, greater efficiency, improved technology
and capacity expansion. The current account deficit in 1982/83 declined to
US$3.3 billion or 2.1% of GDP. The improvemenat would have been greater had not
the drought resulted in the need to rebuild food stocks through imports and at
the same time led to a lower level of GDP growth. This improvement in the
balance of payments is to a significant degree the result of India's develop-
ment and adjustment efforts over the past threse years. It also reflects a
reduction in the trade deficit as compared to the levels reached in 1980/81 and
1981/82. The trade deficit declined from US$7.6 billion in 1980/81 to US$6.0
billion in 1982/83 due to continued export voLume growth (following the sub-
stantial resumption in 1981/82) despite poor world market conditions, coupled
with the containment in import growth due to import substitution of petroleum
products, metals and fertilizers while allowing substantial growth in "other"
imports through more liberal import policies. lNevertheless, it is expected
that the balance of payments will be under strain for the next several years,
for India's adjustment program will continue to require high levels of imports.
13.     The high investment rate, about 25% os: GDP, envisaged in the Sixth Plan
coupled with the limited possibilities of raising domestic savings beyond the
present high levels, necessarily implies a need for external resources. Faced
with a reduction in the availability of bilateral and multilateral concessional
assistance, India has begun to borrow significant amounts on commercial terms
from the Euro-dollar market in addition to much greater utilization of
suppliers' and export credits. India's favorable debt service profile has
enabled India to tap commercial capital markets at favorable spreads (over
relatively high underlying rates). In the period 1980-82 India contracted



-5-
commercial loans totalling over US$2,000 million and suppliers' credits of
about US$520 million. The bulk of the loans are linked to specific development
projects in the public sector while the credits are linked, by and large, to
development projects in the private sector. India also reached an agreement
with the International Monetary Fund for the use of the Extended Fund Facility
for SDR 5 billion, of which SDR 2.5 billion have already been drawn. The
transfer of funds under the EFF has stemmed the use of foreign exchange reser-
ves which had fallen to less than four months of import coverage in 1981/82.
In 1982183, in addition to continued use of the EFF, financing requirements
were met by increased non-concessional borrowing (about US$2,000 million in new
committments) and a 10% increase ia net aid disbursement.
Development Prospects
14.     The experience of recent years illustrates that India has the capacity
to grow and develop at a more rapid pace. Although the industrial sector is
small compared to the size of the economy, it nevertheless is large in absolute
terms and has a highly diversified structure, capable of manufacturing a wide
variety of consumer and capital goods. Basic infrastructure -- irrigation,
railways, telecommunications, power, roads and ports -- is extensive compared
to many countries, although tfhere is considerable need for additional capacity
as well as improvement in the utilization of existing capacity.  India is also
well-endowed with human resources and with institutional infrastructure for
development. Finally, India has an extensive natural resource base in terms of
land, water, and minerals (primarily coal and ferrous ores, but also gas and
oil). With good economic policies and reasonable access to foreign savings,
India has the capability for managing these considerable resources to
accelerate its long-term growth.
15.     The medium-term framework for advancing India's development objectives
is the Sixth Five-Year Plan (1980/81-1984/85), which is now in its fourth year.
The Plan assigns priority to agriculture, energy development, the growth of
exports and domestic import substitutes where appropriate, and the removal of
infrastructural bottlenecks., Overall performance has so far been encouraging,
although bottlenecks in key sectors such as power and transport are likely to
persist. Moreover, fulfillment of the Plan targets will require additional
resource mobilization. The efforts of the Central Government to raise resour-
ces have so far been impressive and are likely to be broadly sufficient: to meet
the financing requirements of the Central Government's share in plan
investment, even if some increase in inflation is experienced above current low
levels. However, a shortfall in public savings is likely to occur in some
States unless further measures are introduced. There will be a need a:Lso for
continuous efforts to maintain the current level of private savings. Recent
increases in interest rates and tax concessions on time deposits and the con-
tinued dampening of inflationary expectations should stimulate such savings.
16.     The higher capital formation rates of the past few years augur well
for future income growth. However, returns to investment have so far been
relatively low. Much of this phenomenon relates to India's stage of
development, in which a large and growing proportion of investment has been
needed to build up basic inifrastructure. These services, such as power, tran-
sport and irrigation, have inherently high capital-output ratios. Howrever,
there is scope to improve the sectoral capital-output ratios through greater
efficiency and better management. Bottlenecks in basic infrastructural sectors
clearly can prejudice growth in other sectors where large investments have been



-6-
made. As demonstrated in the laLst three years, performance in the basic serv-
ice sectors can be improved through better planning and management, thus lead-
ing to higher productivity and capacity utilization throughout the economy.
At the same time, programs to expand domestic capacity are vital. In the case
of tradeable commodities like coal, steel and cement, this is justified on the
grounds of comparative advantage. For sectors such as irrigation, power and
transportation, expansion of planned capacity in accordance with the require-
ments of the rest of the economy will be vital to overall medium- and long-term
development prospects. In the short term, however, achieving an adequate
balance between supply and demand in these sectors will remain a difficult
objective.
17.     Under the Sixth Plan, India has an ambitious oil production program
backed by substantial financial commitment. W4hile the gap between domestic
consumption of petroleum and production remainis large, the prospects for
progressive substitution of domestic petroleum for imports are quite bright.
In 1981, and again in early 1983, resources for exploration and development
were raised by successive price increases for domestic crude and products.
India's dependence on oil imports dropped from 63% in 1979/80 to about 45% now
and a scheduled expansion in production is expected to decrease oil imports (in
crude equivalent terms) to about 33% of consumption by 1984/85. The rapidly
expanding level of exploration activity, combined with the possibilities for
accelerated offtake from known fields, offers much encouragement for India's
longer-term energy prospects.
18.     Despite an expected continued decline in. its current account deficits
from the current 2.1% to about 1.7% of GDP by the late 1980s, India will
require growing access to world financial markets to complement concessional
assistance. These commercial sources of funds will be important in the future
since India's current account deficits, though not large relative to the size
of the economy, will nevertheless be large in absolute terms and will neces-
sitate external borrowing beyond levels expected to be available from normal
concessional sources. Given the favorable structure of India's external debt,
which reflects the past reliance on concessional sources, India should remain
creditworthy for a substantial growth in external borrowing.
19.     India's development prospects over the next few years will hinge on the
extent to which the economy can be brought into both internal and external
balance, while at the same time achieving more rapid growth than in the past.
In the longer term, income growth represents tbe best strategy for achieving
these needed adjustments, both by generating higher savings for further
investment, and by fostering the development of export and import-substituting
industry to improve the balance of payments. In the short term, a relatively
large external borrowing, including an increased emphasis on commercial
borrowing, will be necessary to cope with the balance of payments consequences
of such a growth strategy. However, an important element in providing India
with the capacity to adjust flexibly will be adequate flows of concessional
assistance. Although India is currently in a pDsition to increase borrowing
on commercial terms from the very low levels of the past, there are, of course,
limits beyond which India will choose to sacrifice growth objectives rather
than accept debt on unfavorable or unmanageable terms. The Government's effort
to maintain an adequate rate of growth while adjusting the structure of the
Indian economy to a more open and efficient environment requires foreign
resources in addition to the level of commercial borrowing available to India.
India is still a very poor country with a large rural sector and enormous



-7-
investment requirements for human development and basic infrastructure. The
fact that India has been able over the past seven years to maintain a rate of
growth above the long term trend, despite the poor monsoons of 1979/80 anid
1982/83, lends substance to the hope that a more open trade policy and con-
certed efforts to remove constraints on the growth of productive capacity,
supported by adequate mobilization of savings both foreign and domestic, can
sustain a rate of growth closer to 5.0% per annum than the long-run trend of
3.6% per annum.  Combined with a reduction in the rate of population increase
to below 2.0% per annum, a 5.3% growth rate would mean a doubling of the trend
rate of growth of per capita income of less than 1.4% per annum. Success in
these efforts would make a significant difference to the prospects of easing
poverty in India.
20.     A large and growing population and severe poverty underline the need to
accelerate India's development efforts. The 1981 Census placed India's popula-
tion at 683.8 million, or about 12 million higher than official projections.
The fact that there was no decline in inter-census rates of population growth,
equivalent to about 2.2% per annum, is a cause for concern. While further
analysis of the Census may suggest this rate of growth to be slightly
overestimated, the expectation of a measurable decline in the population growth
rate has not materialized. Until the results of the Census are fully analyzed,
firm judgements about the reasons for this outcome are not possible. However,
the results re-emphasize the need for continuing efforts to strengthen the
health and family planning program in a broad range of activities and services.
These efforts are given high priority in the Sixth Plan, which aims at a rise
in the proportion of protected couples in the reproductive age group from its
estimated 1979/80 level of about 23% to over 35% by 1984/85.
21.     Reduction of poverty remains the central goal of Indian economic,
growth.  More than one-third of the world's poor live in India, and more than
80% of the Indian poor belong to the rural househoLds of landless laborers and
small farmers.  About 51% of the rural population and 40% of the urban popula-
tion subsist below the poverty line.  Improvements in the living standaids of
the poor will depend to a large extent on the overall growth of the econiomy,
particularly on increases in agricultural production and employment, and in
non-farm rural employment. These developments will have to stem in large part
from market forces which can be enicouraged and reinforced by appropriate
Government policies and the strengthening of basic services and infrastructure.
The declining trend in real foodgrain prices between 1970 and 1981, resulting
from India's sustained effort to raise agricultural production, reflects such
developments. There is also a role for direct Government action in fast:er
implementation of land reform (though the scope for significant reduction in
poverty through land redistribution is quite limited in India), in increasing
the supply of credit available to small farmers and rural artisans, and finally
in broadening the provision of those services which enhance the human capital
of the poor and improve living standards. Many of the latter are elements of
the Minimum Needs Program, which has been an integral part of Indian planning
for the past decade. Progress has been slow but steady in the expansion of
primary education, the extension of rural health facilities and the provision
of secure village water supplies. Operations such as the community health
volunteer program and the national adult literacy campaign provide encouraging
evidence that well-targetted, relatively low-cost programs can lead to enhanced
prospects for India's poor.



-8-
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERZATIONS IN INDIA
22.     Since 1949, the Bank Group has made 76 loans and 160 development
credits to India totalling US$5,183 million and US$11,851 million (both net
of cancellation), respectively. Of these amounts, US$1,387 million has been
repaid, and US$6,224 million was still undisbursed as of September 30, 1983.
Bank Group disbursements to India in the current fiscal year through
September 30, 1983 totalled US$286 million, representing a decrease of about
2 percent over the same period last year. Annex II contains a summary state-
ment of disbursements as of September 30, 1983.
23.     Since 1959, IFC has made 29 commitments in India totalling US$224
million, of which US$30 million has been repaid, US$56 million sold and US$18
million cancelled. Of the balance of US$120 million, US$113 million represents
loans and US$8 million equity. A summary statement of IFC disbursements as of
September 30, 1983, is also included in Annex II (page 4).
24.       The thrust of Bank Group assistance to India has been consistent with
the country's development objectives in its support of agriculture, energy and
infrastructure.  Of particular importance have been investments in irrigation,
extension and on-farm development designed to increase agricultural
productivity, and efforts to improve the availability of basic agricultural
inputs to farmers through credit, fertilizer, marketing, storage, and seed
projects. Major elements of the lending program have also been directed at
helping to meet the energy needs of the economy while curbing the growth of oil
imports, and to ease the infrastructure bottlenecks which have hampered
economic growth in India, particularly through power generation and
distribution, and railways and telecommunications projects. The Bank Group has
also provided financing for a broad range of medium- and small-scale industrial
enterprises, primarily in the private sector, through its support of develop-
ment finance institutions. Recognizing the importance of improving the ability
to satisfy the essential needs of urban and rural populations, the Bank Group
has supported nutrition and family planning programs, a rural roads project, as
well as water supply and sewerage and other urban infrastructure projects.
25.       This pattern of assistance remains highly relevant, and consonant
with Government priorities, as reflected in the Sixth Plan. The continued
active involvement of the Bank Group in agriculture, energy and infrastructure
development will appropriately contribute to India's adjustment and growth
prospects. Irrigation will need continuing support, with emphasis on improved
efficiency in water conveyance systems to ensure reliable delivery to farmers'
fields. In addition, major investments to develop the large Narmada River
basin will be vital to India's efforts to increase agricultural production.
Important complements to these efforts, such as fertilizer production and
distribution, agricultural credit and extension, will continue to receive
support. A continued program of investments aimed at rapidly increasing the
domestic supply of energy will clearly be necessary if India is to curb the
cost of oil imports and alleviate the critical power shortages which constrain
output in both the agricultural and industrial sectors. Exploitation of oil
and gas resources is a central element of this program, which should be supple-
mented by investments in hydro and thermal power generation, and in the expan-
sion of the transmission and distribution networks. Industrial projects to
increase the domestic production of basic commodities, which have been in short
supply and which India has a comparative advantage in producing, should also
receive high priority. Finally, raising the efficiency and levels of transpor-



-9-
tation infrastructure would mitigate a key constraint to achieving higher
levels of economic growth so that further support of the railways and for ports
development will be particularly appropriate.
26.       The need for a substantial net transfer of external resources in
support of the development of India's economy has been a recurrent theme of
Bank economic reports and of the discussions within the India Consortium.
Thanks in part to the response of the aid community, India successfully
adjusted to the changed world price situation of the mid-1970s. However, there
a        is now a need for increased foreign assistance to India, not only to help the
economy adjust to the more recent oil price increases and the overall
deterioration in the world trade environment but also to maintain the rela-
tively higher growth rates achieved during the first two years of the Sixth
Plan. As in the past, Bank Group assistance for projects in India should aim
to include the financing of local expenditures. India imports relativelyt few
capital goods because of the capacity and competitiveness of the domestic
capital goods industry. Consequently, the foreign exchange component tends to
be small in most projects. This is particularly the case in such high-priority
sectors as agriculture, irrigation, and water supply.
27.       India's poverty and needs are such that whenever possible, external
capital requirements should be provided on concessionary terms. Accordingly,
the bulk of the Bank Group assistance to India has been, and should continue to
be, provided from IDA. However, the amount of IDA funds that can reasonably be
allocated to India remains small in relation to India's needs for external
support. This requirement for additional assistance can be met, in part,
through Bank lending. Given its development prospects and policies, India is
judged credit-worthy for Bank lending to supplement IDA assistance. A con-
tinuation of efforts already underway to achieve growth in productive capacity,
trade expansion, higher levels of savings, foodgrains self-sufficiency and a
reduction in the rate of population growth should result in continued economic
growth and improvement in the balance of payments. Despite recent setbacks,
India's external payments position is still manageable. The ratio of Inidia's
debt service to the level of exports was about 11% in 1982/83 and is projected
to remain below 20% through 1995/96. As of September 30, 1983, outstanding
loans to India held by the Bank totalled US$3,932 million, of which
US$2,100 million remain to be disbursed, leaving a net amount outstanding of
US$1,832 million.
28.       Of the external assistance received by India, the proportion con-
tributed by the Bank Group has grown significantly. In 1969/70, the Bank Group
accounted for 34% of total commitments, 13% of gross disbursements, and 12% of
net disbursements as compared with 50%, 43% and 53%, respectively, in 1981/82.
On March 31, 1982, India's outstanding and disbursed external public debt was
about US$17.9 billion, of which the Bank Group's share was US$7.1 billion or
38% (IDA's US$5.9 billion and IBRD's US$1.2 billion).  In 1981/82, about 16.0%
of India's total debt service payments were to the Bank Group.



-10-
PART III - THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
General
29.     Road and rail transport are the dominant modes of transport
throughout India with the railways system providing mainly trunk services
and the highway system functioning mainly as a feeder system to the rail-
ways or for short-to-medium transportation needs, where there are compara-
tive cost advantages over the railways. Other modes of transport are at
present of minor importance as general goods and passenger carriers:
coastal shipping and pipelines each carry about 3% of the total freight
traffic in terms of ton-kilometers, and air transport about 1% of total
passenger-kilometers. These modes are, however, important within their
specialized area, and there is scope for considerable expansion within
each mode.
30.      The transport sector plays a vital role in India: virtually all
the other sectors are dependent on efficient and reliable transport serv-
ices and the railway system is a key determinant in the efficient opera-
tion of each of these sectors. It is therefore of paramount importance
that the transport sector generally, and the railways system in
particular, does not become a constraint to development, and that the
vital production activities of the economy are not hindered by inefficien-
cies in the sector.
31.      There has been in the last two decades a decline in investments
for the development of the transport system relative to development
investments elsewhere in the economy. Expressed as a percentage of total
public investment, GOI investment in the transport sector decreased from a
very substantial 24% in the Second plan period 1956-61 to 13% during
1980-84, the first four years of the current: Sixth plan. The Sixth plan,
which covers the period 1980-85, provided an outlay of Rs 51.0 billion for
railways.  Actual investment is estimated at Rs 65.9 billion since alloca-
tions were increased in recognition of the inadequacy of the initial
outlay and to partially compensate for increases in railway costs during
the period. Real allocations for railways during the Sixth plan are
expected to exceed the previous high investment level of 1961-66 reflect-
ing growing awareness by the Government of the magnitude of railway
problems. In spite of this higher allocation, the railways will not be
able to achieve the targets originally set in respect of electrification,
track renewals and rolling stock procurement, hence many of the projects
will spill over into the Seventh plan period.
32.      There have also been significant shifts in the volume, origin and
destination of traffic flows over the past two decades. There is more
movement of foodgrain traffic in the north-south direction as imports of
these items have virtually ceased and the restrictions on foodgrain tran-
sport have been lifted. Fertilizer imports through the cities of Madras
and Bombay have increased as has cement movements in the east-west
direction. These changes have had a significant impact on the railways



-11-
operations where, inter alia, average leadsl/ for most freight movements
have increased.   The average lead has increased from 669 km in the early
1970s to 706 km in 1978-83, thuas tying up freight wagons and motive power
for longer periods per movement and correspondingly decreasing effective
freight capacity. Furthermore the road transport system, which was never
designed to carry bulk freight volumes over long distances, is being
forced to carry some freight that the rail system cannot carry, at a
higher cost to the economy. All of these factors have contributed to
supply shortages of vital commodities such as coal, cement and fertilizer
and, coupled with freight congestion in the main ports, has resulted in
serious dislocations and shortages in critical segments of the economy in
the past few years.
33.     The Indian transport sector is under the jurisdiction of various
ministries: major ports, shipping and roads are under the Ministry of
Shipping and Transport; railways are under the Ministry of Railways; civil
aviation is under the Ministry of Tourism and Civil Aviation; and
pipelines are under the Ministry of Petroleum. A number of committees at
cabinet and secretarial level are involved in transport coordination, but
no single unit below the Prime Minister has complete responsibility for
coordination. While railways are exclusively under the central
government, highways and road transport, minor ports and inland water
transport are the joint responsibility of central and state governments.
Given the importance of coordinated transport policy formulation, the
National Transport Policy Coimmittee (NTPC), supported by a study group
within the Planning Commission has prepared a framework for overall tran-
sport planning and coordination in India. The Committee's report,
presented to GOI in 1980, contains sound recommendations that will provide
a framework for better development of the country's transport sector. GOI
approved most of the NTPC's recommendations in March 1982 and has begun to
implement them. GOl has emphasized its committment to the continued
expansion of the transport sector, and to encouraging increased efficiency
within the railway sector.
THE RAILWAY SUBSECTOR
34.     The backbone of India's internal freight and passenger transporta-
tion system is the railways, which carries about two-thirds of the total
freight and nearly one-half of the passenger traffic. The railway has the
crucial responsibility of moving freight traffic from the localized
production centers of commodities such as steel, cement and coal to the
few concentrated centers of manufacture and trade and from the (essen-
tially northern) foodgrain surplus centers to all domestic markets
throughout India. Agricultural and mineral products, together, account
for an estimated 70% of total freight movements. Transport capacity to be
planned and provided by the railway is therefore closely tied to the
country's foodgrain requirements, to the forecast demands of the coal,
1/ "Lead" - the average distance traveled by a ton of freight.



-12-
power, steel and cement sectors and related heavy industries and to
forecast passenger movements.
Indian Railways
35.     GOI owns and operates the railway system through Indian Railways
(IR). IR's operations are very large by world standards with assets of
some Rs 86 billion, and 1.7 million employees. Indian Railways is con-
trolled and directed by a Board consisting of five Members headed by a
Chairman who is, ex officio, a Principal Secretary to the Government,
reporting to the Minister of Railways. The Board performs the dual func-
tions of the secretariat to the Minister of Railways and of an executive
body responsible for railway operation. The quality of senior staff is
excellent and their knowledge of modern railway technology is good.
36.     The IR network is divided into 9 Zonal Railways, each with its own
General Manager and staff. IR"s indigenous production capacity consists
of three factories manufacturing locomotives and rolling stock. Two new
factories are under construction, one for production of wheels and axles
(partly financed under Credit 844-IN) and one for the remanufacture of
critical diesel locomotive components (partly financed under Loan 2210-IN/
Credit 1299-IN). IR also owns 41 Workshops undertaking regular or
unscheduled heavy repairs of locomotives and rolling stock and 200 smaller
Repair and Maintenance workshops or support units scattered throughout the
network.
37.     The last 25 years of planned development of IR has brought about
extensive modernization, including a major shift in the mode of traction
from steam to diesel and electric traction. About 2,500 diesel and 1,100
electric locomotives introduced since 1960 nlow carry about 85% of the
total freight traffic. During the same period the number of freight
wagons in the fleet has grown about 2 1/2 times to 390,000 wagons and the
passenger stock has doubled to about 25,000 coaches. About 7,000 steam
locomotives remain in service. IR's track network is slightly in excess
of 60,000 route-km of which about 13,000 rotute-km is multiple tracked and
about 13,700 km of (mainly) broad gauge track has been electrified. About
63% of total track is broad gauge (BG), 32% is meter gauge (MG) and 5% is
narrow gauge (NG). Of the 24,000 route-km of BG track, about 15,000
route-km constitutes the heavy density lines over which the average traf-
fic density exceeds 20 million gross ton-km per year. On important
routes, the track is being strengthened and modernized to enable IR to
meet the increasing demands of both passenger and freight traffic. Due to
financial constraints, however, the allocation for track renewal has been
decreasing over the years and the track renewal program on the primary BG
lines averages only about 900 km per year as compared to an estimated
requirement of some 1,400 km per year.
IR Performance
38.     The railway network performance over the past decade has been
encouraging--both on a year-to-year comparative basis and compared to the



-13-
other railway systems in deaveloping countries. For freight traffic irn the
period 1971/72 through 1983/84, originating tonnage has increased by
60 million tons to 258.0 million tons, an increase of 30% Passenger traf-
fic during the same period has ialso grown from 2.54 billion passengers to
3.27 billion passengers, an increase of 28%. The growth in traffic during
this period has not been linear, however. The reasons for the variabLe
growth (with its corresponding adverse affects on IR's profitability)
include external factors - those that are outside IR's controls, such as
civil disturbances and labor unrest; sectoral factors - those that are
peculiar to IR--such as inefficiencies by the major users in wagon loading
and unloading; and internal factors such as lower-than-normal locomotive
and rolling stock reliability due to poor maintenance or obsolete equip-
ment being kept in service; management-related factors, such as the lack
of sophisticated financial and operating control systems and associated
communications networks that are essential to efficient railway
management. GOI/IR is keenly aware of these causative factors and is
committed to improvement as discussed elsewhere in this Report.
The Bank's Role in the Sector
39.     Bank Group lending in the transport sector began in 1949 with a
railway loan and since has included ports, rural roads, highway projects,
urban transportation, oil tankers and a pipeline. Substantial indirect
support to the sector has also been provided through industrial import
credits under which imports of materials and components for manufacture
have been financed. The Railway subsector, in the past 34 years, has
received direct assistance totalling US$1.4 billion through 15 loans and
credits.
40.     Through the first six loans and seven credits approved between
1949 and 1975, the Bank Group assistance to IR (which totalled about
US$900 million), was aimed at the rehabilitation and subsequent modern-
ization of railway infrastructure, motive power and rolling stock and
improvements in operating efficiency, administration and planning. During
this period the main railway infrastructure has been improved, domesl:ic
production has commenced for both diesel and electric locomotives, as well
as for coaches and wagons, and has resulted in an improved motive power
and rolling stock fleet.
41.     Commencing in 1978 (Credit 844-IN), the Bank Group s support has
been directed at improving the utilization of existing IR assets through
the modernization of existing maintenance workshops, the import of spare
parts and raw materials and components for the maintenance of existing
locomotives and the manufacture of wheels and axles to meet existing
demands. In addition to financial assistance, there have been consult-
ations by Bank Group staff and consultants which reviewed heavy engineer-
ing technology, electrical and diesel traction technology, maintenance
procedures, telecommunications, management structures and computerized
operating information systems. The findings of these review missions have
been extensively discussed with GOI - especially the Ministries of
Railways, and Finance and with members of the Planning Commission and has



-14-
resulted in IR clearly identifying its investment priorities and in
developing national programs for addressing them.
42.     Project performance audits have been carried out for Credits
280-IN and 448-IN and the audit findings are contained in Report No. 1658
of June 30, 1977. The report found that the projects were implemented on
time and the re-estimated rates of return were similar to the appraisal
forecast. Because of unusual economic and political circumstances the
financial situation of IR deteriorated during the 12th project period
(Credit 448-IN), but improved again from the mid 1970s. The report also
found, as the Government itself found, that transport planning and coor-
dination remained rather weak.  In 1978, GOI set up the National Transport
Policy Committee (NTPC) and its report resulted in the establishment of a
high level Committee to review and implement the recommendations contained
in the NTPC's report. Many of these recommendations are now under
implementation. Overall, the audit report concluded that IR's performance
had been satisfactory and that GOI/IR has sought to meet the covenant
requirements set out in the various Credit Akgreements. Credit 844-IN
(November 13, 1978) is progressing somewhat more slowly than projected at
appraisal due to delays in equipment deliveries but commitments and the
physical construction is now onl schedule. The most recent combined loan
and credit (Ln. 2210-IN/Cr. 1290-IN, December 23 1982) continues the
modernization program begun under Cr. 844-IN and addressed the modern-
ization and improvement of diesel electric locomotive maintenance and
reliability and the technology being used ini the mainline AC1/ electric
locomotives. Technical assistance was also provided to assist IR in
improving the efficiency with which it manages its manufacturing units.
Progress on construction of the diesel component works and on procurement
of spare parts and materials for the unit exchange program is progressing
satisfactorily. On other components of the project however, progress has
been somewhat slower than expected, but supervision missions are actively
following up to enhance implementation and the situation is now improving.
Operating Information Systems (OIS)
43.     While IR's management continues to take measures to resolve key
operational bottlenecks, it is constrained in the extent of actions it can
initiate because of a lack of modern management tools which other large
railways have employed.  Adoption of a real-timeJ/ operating information
system (OIS) - a key management tool for any large railroad-- has been
under consideration by IR for several years. The Bank Group's audit of
the eleventh and twelve railway projects also recommended th,e use of
computers to provide on-line information on freight carrying capacity and
its optimal utilization. Considerable progress has been made: a task
1/ AC - Alternating Current
2/ That is, data is maintained, accessed and updated directly into the
computer instantaneously.



-15-
force was assembled in 1979 to study OIS' used elsewhere in the world and
its report was issued in August L979. Further, in November/December 1981,
a multi-disciplinary team visited and studied railway OIS in the UK,
France, Germany, USA and Canada, and recommended an OIS of the type cur-
rently in use in both Britain and Canada for use in IR. The OIS chosen
requires a substantial related telecommunication and data transmission
network and the implementation of both the telecoms/data network and the
computerized OIS is now beginning. Some delays have been experienced as a
number of government agencies and departments are involved and it has
proved difficult to gain agreement between the various agencies as to what
constitutes an appropriate mix of centralized and decentralized computer
functions and where the locus of development of the hardware and software
should be.  Satisfactory progress by GOI/IR in the selection and implemen-
tation of the OIS and related telecommunications has been a prerequisite
to the continued processing of this project. Selection of the consultants
who will be collaborating with GOI/IR in implementing the OIS is a condi-
tion of effectijeness of the proposed loan (Section 5.01, Loan Agreement).
Rationale for Bank Group Involvement
44.     The rationale for continued Bank involvement with Indian Railuays
is two-fold: first, it is playing a significant role in delineating IR's
investment priorities on a continuing basis -- a role that is proving
invaluable in assisting IR in following a sound investment strategy.
Under the proposed project the primary focus would shift from the modern-
ization of diesel and electric motive power commenced under 844-IN and
2210-IN/1299-IN and would focus primarily on the modernization of coaches
and wagons, completion of the electrification of primary trunk lines and
initiating action on utilizing better quality track material. Second, IR
still faces the basic problem that sustained expansion of capacity to
adequately meet the expected growth in traffic will demand a substantial
improvement both in technology and in management and operating procedures.
A stepped-up investment effort in critical areas involving a substantial
share of India's total investment in transportation, requires a strong,
continuous presence by the Bank to ensure that the necessary development
occurs in a timely manner.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
45.     The project was prepared by Indian Railways with the assistance
of Bank staff. It was appraised in March 1983. Subsequent processing of
the project was delayed pending action related to the OIS (see paragraph
43). A report entitled Staff Appraisal Report, Railway Electrification
and Workshop Modernization Project (No. 4940-IN), is being distributed
separately to the Executive Directors. Negotiations were held in
Washington D.C. in March and April 1984. The Government of India and
Indian Railways was represented by a delegation coordinated by Mr. Misra,
Department of Economic Affairs, GOI. A supplementary project data sheet
is attached as Annex III.



-16-
Proiect Obiectives
46.     The overall objective of the Bank's involvement with IR is to
channel its investments into improving the utilization of IR's existing
assets. In this project specifically, the objective is to focus IR's
investment priorities on improving the maintenance of IR's rolling stock;
increasing the pace of electrification of high traffic density lines; and
continuing the process of upgrading IR's managerial capacities.
Proiect Description
47.     The proposed loan would support the electrification of about 3,000
route-km of IR's accelerated plan to complete the electrification of the
major trunk routes connecting the quadrilateral formed by the four major
cities of Delhi, Bombay, Calcutta and Madras and its diagonals, together
with the acquisition of overhead equipment recording/testing cars and a
number of specialized maintenance vehicles for the newly electrified
lines. To ensure that full benefits will be derived from the electrifica-
tion program, this component includes a detailed review of the Ghat 1/
operations near Bombay with a view to streamlining the operations of that
section and providing appropriate communications facilities.
48.     The project would also finance the modernization of six of IR's
major workshops, the Integral Coach Factory (ICF) located at Perambur,
near Madras, and a number of Maintenance Depots, together with the
acquisition of parts and components that are needed for expanding the Unit
Exchange system in these workshops that was introduced under Credit 844-IN
and supported in Loan 2210-IN/1299-IN. In all the Workshops and Depots,
the emphasis would be on modernizing equipment, improving materials han-
dling procedures, improving quality control., work flow procedures, and
introducing appropriate management information systems and training.
49.     Training for the electrification and workshop modernization com-
ponents would be provided under the project, to ensure that the latest
skills are made available to the IR. Some 1,500 man months of local and
overseas training is provided at a cost of US$3.0 million under the elec-
trification component to re-train drivers, introduce line electrification
skills and train staff in signalling and telecommunications.
50.     The report of the Rail Tariff Enquiry Committee (RTEC) included
many recommendations for restructuring IR's tariffs. These recommenda-
tions have been, or are being, implemented and GOI/IR has provided infor-
mation on the expected completion dates for the remainder of the recommen-
dations contained in that report. Agreement has been reached that GOI/IR
will maintain passenger fares and freight rates and take all other action
1/  GHAT operations refers to that portion of IR's network in the hilly
country near Bombay that currently is a major bottleneck to increased
freight movements into, and out of, Bombay.



-17-
as may be necessary to enable IIR to meet, annually, all operating
expenses, make appropriate contributions to the depreciation reserve fund
and pay the appropriate dividends on the capital-at-charge (Section 4.02,
Loan Agreement). Agreement has also been reached that appropriations to
the Depreciation Reserve Fund (DRF) for fiscal years 1985 through 198'9
shall be at least equal to that appropriated in 1984 (Section 4.03, Loan
Agreement). Efficient utilization of IR's assets will be promoted through
the following actions: IR will ensure that an adequate supply of motive
power will be available to utilize the newly electrified lines; IR will
ensure an adequate motive power and an adequate supply of power to the
electrified network; IR will study optimal maintenance standards for both
rolling stock and motive power; and IR will install communication systems
on the key North East Ghat sections of the Central Railways.
Project Cost and Financing
51.     IR's provisional investment program for the period FY84-90 is
Rs 120 billion (US$11 bil'lion). The proposed project, which forms part of
the program, is estimated to cost Rs 13,099 million (US$1,213 million)
including US$211 million in taxes and duties. The foreign exchange com-
ponent of the project is estimated at US$336 million. The proposed loan
would provide about 23% of total project costs, net of duties and taxes,
and 83% of the foreign exchange cost. The balance would be financed by
GOI/IR from internal cash generation and from capital-at-charge infusions.
Procurement and Disbursement
52.     Procurement of the items under this project would be as shown in
Annex IV attached. Items financed by the Bank would be procured by IR in
accordance with the Bank Group's guidelines. All equipment and materials
would be procured through International Competitive Bidding (ICB) except
for contracts of US100,000 equivalent or less which, in aggregate, would
amount to less than US$10 million equivalent. Also, minor items of
material and equipment associated with contracts for installation/erection
of signalling and telecommunication may be procured in accordance with
IR's usual business practices. This is estimated to amount to less than
US$10 million equivalent. Local manufacturers are expected to win con-
tracts valued at up to US$20 million on items under the project bid under
ICB procedures. A domestic preference of 15%, or the import duty,
whichever is less, would be applied to bids of local manufacturers in bid
evaluation.
53.     The proceeds of the loan would be disbursed against 100% of the
c.i.f. cost of imported items; 100% of the ex-factory cost of items
procured from domestic suppliers; and 100% of the cost of training
services. Retroactive financing in an amount not exceeding US$5 miLlion
would be provided for eligible expenditures on the electrification com-
ponents incurred after May 1, 1983. Disbursements under the loan is
expected to be completed by March 31, 1990 and the closing date wou'Ld be
September 30, 1990.



-18-
Project Management and Implementation
54.     IR will be the executing agency for all portions of the proposed
project and will implement the project as part of its ongoing works and
manufacturing program. IR has shown itself to be experienced in managing
large construction projects, in the installation, testing and commission-
ing of large-scale plants and other major project undertakings.
55.     To execute the accelerated line electrification program, IR has
set up a central organization for railway electrification -- the Railway
Electrification Planning Coordination and Monitoring (REPCM) Group
situated at Nagpur, in central India.  Five field units have also been
created directly under this central organization. Two additional field
units have been set up under the South-Central and Southern railways. In
addition, IR utilizes outside contractors for construction work and the
installation of overhead equipment (OHE). Appropriate training schools
and facilities have been set up and the organizational arrangements for
carrying out the electrification program are adequate and competent staff
are being appointed. GOI/IR would recruit and maintain appropriately
trained personnel as needed to meet the needs of the electrification
program (Section 3.04, Loan Agreement).
56.     The Central Organization for Modernization of Workshops (COFMOW),
a specialized organization wholly devoted to the task of managing the
workshop modernization program, which began operation in 1973, would
continue this role in the workshop modernization component of the proposed
project (Section 3.04, Loan Agreement).
57.     A detailed implementation program showing the phasing of the
electrification work and the availability of locomotives and trained
manpower to complete this work and the planning of the workshop modern-
ization program has been agreed between the Bank and GOI/IR (Section 3.01,
Loan Agreement). The progress reporting arrangements and details of these
reports, including GOI preparation of a final report upon completion of
the project, have also been agreed (Section 3.03, Loan Agreement).
58.     With the increasing size and complexity of IR's manufacturing
operations, the earlier projects (Loan 2210-IN/Credit 1299-IN and Credit
844-IN) provided for a Management Information System designecd specifically
for manufacturing plants. This same management information system would
also be introduced at the modernized workshops.
IR's Financial Performance
59.     As a result of a number of far-reaching recommendations made by
the RTEC, and their implementation, freight rates and passenger fares have
been increased substantially and, more importantly, many rates are based
on the principle of recovering the fully allocated cost of the
commodity/class of travel. There has, therefore, been a substantial
reduction in the degree of cross-subsidization and loss carrying
practices. As a result, IR made net surpluses, after dividends in all



-19-
years FY77 through FY83 except FY79 and FY80 -- the years immediately
prior to the increases. For FY84 IR has been unable to cover a portion of
the dividend payment due GOI. For future years FY85-FY90, based on the
Bank's conservative assumptions, the financial forecast indicates that IR
would require small tariff increases (about 2% annually in real terms) to
cover its full dividend payment. Agreement has been reached that GOI/IR
will maintain passenger fares and freight rates sufficient to cover all
expenses including depreciation and dividends to GOI (Section 4.02, Loan
Agreement and paragraph 50). Operating ratios would be favorable despite
large sums appropriated to the DRF and IR is expected to increase its
internal generation of resources, to finance capital investment, to about
50% compared with an average of about 40% in previous years.
Economic Justification and Risks
60. The economic case for the proposed project rests on the expected
reduction in IR's maintenance and operating costs of both motive power and
rolling stock throughout the period. With the project, IR will be able to
make better use of its assets, to accelerate improvement in performance
and allow it to meet the increasing demands of the Sixth and Sevent:h Five
Year Plans while avoiding a larger share of long-haul goods being diverted
to the more costly road transport system. The economic rate of rel:urn
(ERR) for the project as a whole is 25%. For the electrification
component, the ERR of 9 of the 10 sections to be electrified varies from
14.5% to a high 40.5%. One section, from Anuppur to Bilaspur, of only 151
ki, is justified on the basis that it fills the last remaining non-
electrified gap in the otherwise completed network and the resulting ERR
is an acceptable 14%. Sensitivity analysis show that there is little risk
that the ERR will fall below 12%, the estimated opportunity cost of capi-
tal for India. The component ERR is most sensitive to the assumed
locomotive-kilometers per day and, in the case of 3 sections of track
(Itarsi-Nagpur, Nagpur-Durg, and Anuppur-Bilaspur) an assumption that
there is only a marginal increase in locomotive km/day over the present
diesel rates would cause the ERR to remain at about 12%. All others show
acceptable ERRs under likely conditions.
61.     The economic case for workshop modernization involves reduced idle
time for motive power and rolling stock during periodic overhauls and
increased in-service reliability--resulting in savings of locomotives and
coaches/wagons required to carry the increasing traffic; reduced costs of
overhaul and substantial increase in new capacity. Under the project, the
ERR for each workshop varies between 20% and 50%. Under the unlikely case
involving both a 20% increase in costs and a 20% decrease in assumed
benefits (or a 2-year lag in benefits), all project workshop components
remain at or above 12%.
62.     All project components involve technology (except for the testing
and research elements) which is well established in other parts oi- the
world. Technical risks connected with the project are therefore small.
Additionally, in the past, IR has successfully implemented similar
projects in a timely manner and has built up appropriate managerial and



-20-
technical expertise. Risks from inadequate project implementation are
therefore considered to be small. The staff examined the environmental
aspects and fond that all workshop plans included satisfactory treatment
for pollutants. IR, being an integral part of the Central Government,
does not carry insurance and the Bank Group guidelines on insurance do not
apply.
Part V - Legal Instruments and Authority
63.     The draft Loan Agreement between India and the Bank and the
Recommendation of the Committee provided for in Article III,
Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank are being dis-
tributed to the Executive Directors separately.
64.     Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex 3. The selection and appointment of the collaborator to assist
GOI/IR in implementation of the Operating Information System is a condi-
tion of effectiveness of the proposed loan (Section 5.01, Loan Agreement).
65.     I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
Part VI - Recommendation
66.     I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
A.W. Clausen
President
April 30, 1984                             by Ernest Stern



ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
INDIA                    - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
INDIA                                   REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES) /a
MOST                       (MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) /b
lb          'b  RECENT               LOW INCOME              MIDDLE INCOHE
1960-       1970-  ESTIMATE-            ASIA & PACIFIC           ASIA & PACIFIC
AREA (THOUSAND SQ. NM)
TOTAL                                3287.6       3287.6      3287.6
AGRICULTURAL                         1760.7       1780.5      1811.3
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                      70.0        100.0       260.0                276.7                     1028.6
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)        114.0       165.0        210.0                398.4                      792.8
C                  POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION,MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)  434850.0    547569.0    690183.0
URBAN POPULATION (% OF TOTAL)          18.0         19.8        23.7                 21.5                       32.9
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILL)                              1001.3
t                       STATIONARY POPULATION (MULL)                                 1838.3
YEAR STATIONARY POP. REACHED                                2140
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                         132.3       166.6        205.3               161.7                       260.7
PER SQ. EM. AGRI. LAND             247.0        307.5        372.7               363.1                      1696.5
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (%)
0-14 YRS                            40.9        42.7         39.7                36.6                        39.4
15-64 YRS                            54.5        54.2         57.2                59.2                        57.2
65 AND ABOVE                          4.6         3.1          3.0                 4.2                         3.3
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (%)
TOTAL                                 1.8         2.3          2.1                  1.9                        2.3
URBAN                                 2.5          3.3         3.7                  4.0                        3.9
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUS)           43.7        40.0         35.4                 29.3                       31.3
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUS)           21.8        16.7         13.3                 10.9                        9.6
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                 2.9          2.7         2.4                  2.0                        2.0
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUS)            64.0      3782.0       6826.0
USERS (% OF MARRIED WOMEN)             ..        12.0         23.0                48.1                        46.6
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71=100)                          98.0       102.0        107.0                111.4                      125.2
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (% OF REQUIREMENTS)         96.0        90.0         87.0                98.1                       114.2
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)             54.0        50.0         47.0                56.7                        57.9
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE           17.0        15.0         13.0/c              13.9                        14.1
CHILD (AGES 1-4) DEATH RATE            26.2        20.7         17.0                 12.2                         7.6
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECT. AT BIRTH (YEARS)          43.2         48.1         52.2                59.6                        60.2
INFANT MORT. RATE (PER THOUS)         165.0       139.0        121.2                96.6                        68.1
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (%POP)
TOTAL                                  *          17.0        33.0/d               32.9                       37.1
URBAN                                  ..        60.0         83.07d               70.8                       54.8
RURAL                                  *-          6.0        20.07d               22.2                       26.4
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
(% OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                  ..         18.0        20.0/e               18.1                       41.4
URGAN                                  ..        85.0         87.0/e               72.7                       47.5
RURAL                                  *-          1.0         2.07e                4.7                       33.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN            4850.0       4890.0       3640.0/f            3506.0                      7771.9
POP. PER NURSING PERSON             10980.0/g    8300.0       5380.071            4797.9                      2462.6
POP. PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                              2180.0      1650.0       1310.0/d            1100.6                      1047.2
URBAN                                  ..           ..       370.071             298.4                       651.1
RURAL                                  ..           ..     10410.07W            5941.6                      2591.9
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED              ..           ..          ..                   ..                       27.0
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                 5.2          5.6         5.2/e
URBAN                                 5.2          5.6         4.87..
RURAL                                 5.2          5.6         5.37..
AVERAGE NO. OF PERSONS/ROGM
TOTAL                                 2.6         2.8
URBAN                                 2.6          2.8          ..
RURAL                                 2.6          2.8
ACCESS TO ELECT. (% OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                  ..           ..
URBAN                                  ..           ..
RURAL                                  ..           ..



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
INDIA                    - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
INDIA                                    REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES) /a
HOST                        (MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) /b
/b          lb  RECENT  lb            LOW INCOME              MIDDLE INCCtE
1960-        1973    ESTIMATE-           ASIA & PACIFIC            ASIA & PACIFIC
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:   TOTAL                     61.0          73.0         76.0/f              96.1                       101.2
MALE                      80.0         90.0         90.071             107.8                       106.0
FEMALE                   40.0          56.0         61.071              82.9                        97.5
SECONDARY: TOTAL                     20.0         26.0         28.0/f               30.2                        44.9
MALE                      30.0         36.0         37.07d              37.3                         50.0
FEMALE                   10.0          15.0         18.07?              22.2                        44.6
VOCATIONAL (% OF SECONDARY)              2.8          1.0          0.7/e               2.3                         18.5
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                              46.0         41.0         43.0/f               34.4                        32.7
SECONDARY                            16.0         21.0           ..                 18.4                        23.4
ADULT LITERACY RATE (%)                 27.8         33.4         36.0                53.5                        72.9
CONSUDPTION
PASSENGER CARS/THOUSAND POP              0.6          1.1          1.3/f               1.6                         9.7
RADIO RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP             4.9         21.5        44.4                 96.8                       113.7
TV RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP                0.0          0.0          1.7                 9.9                        50.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION
PER THOUSAND POPULATION                10.6         16.2         19.7                16.4                        54.0
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE/CAPITA          3.2          4.1          3.7/e               3.6                         3.4
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUS)          185951.0    219194.0    271179.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                     30.7         32.5         31.8                 33.3                        33.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)                74.0         74.0         69.3                 69.0                        50.9
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                   11.0         11.0         13.2                 15.8                        19.2
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 42.8        40.0         39.3                 42.5                        18.6
MALE                                  57.0        52.4          51.9                54.4                        50.7
FEMALE                               27.3         26.9         25.9                 29.8                        26.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.1           1.1          1.1                 1.0                         1.1
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5% OF HOUSEHOLDS             26.7         26.3/h       22.2/e               16.5                        22.2
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS             51.7        48.97h       49.47e               43.5                        48.0
LOWEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS               4.1          6.77i-       7.07o               6.9                          6.4
LOWEST 40% OF HOUSEHOLDS              13.6         17.27Wh      16.27e              17.5                         15.5
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                   ..           ..       132.0                133.9                       194.5
RURAL                                   ..           ..       114.0                111.6                       155.0
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                   ..           ..           ..                  ..                       178.0
RURAL                                   ..           ..          ..                   ..                       164.8
ESTIMATED POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (%)
URBAN                                   ..           ..        40.3                 43.8                        24.4
RURAL                                   ..           ..        50.7                 51.7                        41.1
NOT AVAILABLE
NOT APPLICABLE
N O T E S
/a  The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b  Unless otherwise noted, Data for 1960  refer to any year between 1959 and 1961;  Data for 1970" between 1969 and
1971; and data for "Most Recent Estimate" between 1979 and 1981.
1477; /d 1976; /e 1975; /f 197; /g 1962; /h 1964-65.
May 198?



ANNEX Ir
Page 3 of 5
te-tobf  o-d-r  .f taoto,tdlla-  tredo, oodrrrotftrtosojttff--tota  Ot s-orotr
(lstefrotgotoae(1ostt  o.tofy g-ao  oF to  go..b                            000    t   Otorts     ootrattftOaoaota    tfa   foot-totOsoyo   h
,ojooootr   etylaettgtsr olIot  aoretX-Pr  h                                'tfddto  tootNrt   e  ooatiodt-at'i   far   eostoorogtot-rtoa
afot  et    oofofrot300   aaoaot.gaotpp                         fat  gtOottIfNaaafroaf  rtoo   o   ha  o     fo   t(to    faertsfoI 
arofOa  ft,fo  ora  Odfaor,str  Otocoergaofrottse  ooo   ot  oirfoe  orot  t  ot  totaitoyofofoottorof  otra,  toto -toh
aoartattorttrto    ateagatrtretodoasoooaofft.   Thetttrtgsaftrottoatot t  toyarto  rhoatttfot fotraorooffornootfteoooosao
fro ropt, yasorto  o-ote  sod Ottota- da-d-  or o            1oofata; t1S                      rttooottttt
005ar   orl dos-ooa toorOatottd-rot,ota,ao  oa      ootto                                                                                                                 fot
19-Al b-i ~    ~        ~        ttrratdlta  tyoet   a  trto   oOe   fher  atfd
rae-r 00trttd    taro   hrta. llreersF, .or .d....h ta
'Tao   tIS.6attttt1ar.70ht.ttrfal  oot-a  Oy  rrtrlatgeaet  ostt,sotta
irrlto, 1 (orlIdor tot ,t                         IIyt.t   tttdoa    t  teott(roe
trrbao fopottotto  tyerrtot of oota I   Oeo 10 tO orhar-to tota- rorott-tto
dlf ftreo   defootttos of orar stoattoyalar  rrortfllt    f  ot                        tot-
atog  oooret  tot  tos,to    Ot  or,                                                    eeogtfrt-f -ierot  (rtora05  hoehodt- tta,  rbo,th  rro
yopotatfoo fto(totlooa                                                  - 0 frotahot 3 root~~~~LaI 00' P  00   fldttot    ftaae1ttgostt
yorlttoo  ro  to  300 -sooeo  tryrtotr  pr (ro rotaoaheet  r [00       ot  oe r  ttosato.0 htrdr o  tote  to  ortarto  hefooote   t
tots yyotolr t  ad  so  tt at oet atoatro  ttferttoy                    ro  ootttoo  ot  tottootot yrorro
rate.  fotef tot fyacotra(ororral ty rtesroepttarforratrtreroabe   tO  rotta  oo rot-ota. rr~2tss0otykaosaaeoth
,taeatoottrorotr   a   010Irtatgtt   rrtosoro   trottptro-t  t   ta,to   'ttoryttoottbo
rarha  orto  roa,  ot  ata     -httf -odar -o y otttItat(.                                tttoa,tfOrpt,ttt   ttOrt ooorO'oetarrot   o
doter-  ThLaotea   r   attorrt   (ohottretotoorrtE-O-00000,                                                                W
oatgt0   rotottotat: to   eoorlo   t  lrot  (oo  ro  yotItttyooooratortrt2 I otor  of dettoro t-t.  -fOt.toraa
Otaoto   yaforatr.  Oor  otoro  a tto  tolrtOrotof  ott  trt         Gotrt toataoot tga  ft  alrt  rtr  toldre                          - oertraayerpoag
oootatraofsrottsao   eet ly   rod   oryrjroo   yrY=t                                      of orot-4or,t,  Io to-o t  oetl toa ret_tt_oot
atrot-,ht btroto root to eqoot ortlrt dfotO  rttr , tot o-tobthe ago-5p\tOottf
atrartrtoetaot oetoaoo,thto  t aohtoad oty afor foott toytootshejodod-tott-eto-har-y
tartferorhrsrrteoeofeorsooofo    oorapodottorrar,ero                            OrIfoobo  -ptO    a-o,dtot-trtott,aog-                                  ott
oatgrealo   o  ottretra   tet0eeo t.toetotoot                                                 oftett0'ot  gt  ftOtrott  tot  aorotaaofttata
rortptooatto  otttlsooetrChej6 tatO_1h    r(oorttlo4tao    rta-t-0  ooto:rrot  tototrtdt   gdft
t64    tltryaottoO  teya   00,attorf-o    rto   t                                                      er   o    t0stLo    rttottoos  fy  st  aootodo
ara; tOot  tft  art) t -ts ttoa,    yloyoforao--tttyo   It tou 5" ret Iob,   roroprttroasat
oe  to. Or. rttotr  tth      boy-ta-aotfrortotortotfOt (osrtd
ooytb,ttd9605   as                                                                       Orttttootptttrttfoodttrtttttotttl
foytolo  aa  Oorprra  forel t-  otiro  (-t  (oot,  .ooto-ao   tO               tototsohtrt,  otatrar  0  otro  pr0tathtO   ftatotoryod
htyatoe    1960, 1970 r  -tr dttytrtrtorfo    prtIreofod-rr                                         -ottratste-r   f  trodryt-ototoo
fof(ateotrrt  yttgrr.o-otoooogror-                           roos  o  to-oh yoaoodoorrtetdoto r-roaa
(ror yeptattoo  tt tOOt-O. tOtt-(, toot tft-Ot.                       fopoot of  (root-t
yrotaloSfahttttetar(   atta-orttgrofoarooarooMot  toooytO(o-rto  ttOtrretootaoeottttta--ta
pootafoo   tr trtto,I       PIo-o,er    00-0-,   f                                             aooaeo   oatoOyroa  o   gdt  00   o    or
Crote  trotoftooo  rot ltootaoy  - oorat (ot ftots to  ofotoattOTfVttO
(tsr ooyotaotro; tygo, INfO, sod tOOt data,              CtOOJfrStltt         ~          ~         ~         ~        I.          T
Stoos ft-tO Oto (ar troeaoS  -  port datO  rOtoroooo  ofato-oao    foteoor frt   ye  otoado   r-oattro  t -foo..gr...a.....oe.oto
prytttot  (00  (00.ar   Ot tta                                        rottooio   tst  f0   eoftroooo;coroda   tahtaot. Otootso
sorts Rerrotorotoraotot-toataao  ototto rf taogfoeroeoootot tt toar toattttoty  oo-trter
oearotartlrtt   etttaooptrre                      rtaooe-frOl                                atoOrrrrtertoaoyotafo-obtrer    trtrarrot
fot....t..ttott   ft. tofe  oeAe at3t th,tt,atOtaotot    ord(rht  prtRoao   f  oooto                                                                        srotort
III or   otor   f   orrg    o   t   ro   ottgoootto   oo
0aot~taoto-hreoor,aroottooaod.taerotortrttr-; rY                                        pttoeoo- otfttrdooorteo1rr   oro    ereaootao-                                  a
ofItI-tt    It trf e  ttt   oeyfe   ofotootftt9oaoo                                         ooor 0thtta  t97 trot t
yfgor                                                                                    O  eatoa(prr-odr   ootoo...t...trt  t  totrat
faotrtoto(ataoptoo    tartdeoot    eoaeeafaotsoaeatot(    aotooodo-oetoertorotlaottfrrett
doeoftt-hot-         art5too-teh    t  -o-rrro Paor   o                                          .rrof        oOrorr   to    r0ortttf  0reo00   oftr 
ttoooooo -1  1blt   aof                                                                  .rfsootttorrr9Islruirrootr.,oo(
ff5   Mo  OtttoOor  trt. .oflo   prro   tototIrortr',--t-rt   ,                                                                                                                Iwr o,to
Otoo  00oatfrot aorto  ootorr rlrteght:(OI -hf  tOOt tot I tOOt-,T--
daft.                                                                              t.ogoe roger ,  .I,h~--I      --    ,                            -e'1   I 4
rtao,atrtptfroo.Ottrlt   atrIo-. tootot fat. t-oo                                             aofrO     u;tOO  (00ot  O             rt
tototoIt  otO  t  frt  oorraoa -ar  tosato  so            97 t-ottott  1977thot-  Ib, reoof-Er  O   Ottfor   sprooaaofttltao   a
Ototootetasp  atoaht  y  thOoeO  0  oyoo-goa  ortato  arot                               rrraToRe z    abom     t-too    orrtf   eoa   0000  ho  o   o
arotrryoe   (tatoO  rtatdttogrtlrrootrot  otfotatte,  ody otgftt  fthtog   t yertrfoeof  rost   otorfort; 100. (05 otttoottab           a
000  aoytyrf  ootyarda.  Ot tyft  offoo  O  ttf--e   ah000,                            ot  toato(tt5orer -              ott  oo  rttataftf  tatta
brotreeot  fe tl 0000 ft ofhfhdh   00yatefroottatsttroe  r   oyodt   ro,tt,at(ot   ar    oo
otoaroff yN               o   ta    rtt   e  oftOt   rt   foofo   t                                    .eetOerttt   a                0   acl   tottto   t ot    tpttoy
fot  yoooo  o   OOh(  gor  fos   t  rtl  rrat-OototM   .00-0,   .11 o                                                 II bO   Oat    -o    r  ftoo   tt    otttatog
otop                                                                                           100005 tto tOto--O-tr pl I
50 tI fa -a - t-orotto pD            OoooO-poa   oos  a   bott   orre-aoo.rro    ooe 1oht  ofedoer                                                               aertO   oht
aoaorttroat-otdetttea-rarttoattertg                                                                   rret   orto .fooO    (aott  yrtt"oOyoeotyrrro
rooto-rst. tettotd    Or ..      fo opttto  tOt,- tOt  pt' Igg--ot                                   booo-oo
00010                                                                                              000000 -PetO-trotI
bolttootrtaty tIOtre  Ioe-at- OrofP-oro   taeo   lseao,g                                     Oio-ro    Otttootori-ooooe   oteso  roo     ros   o



ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA
GNP PER CAPITA IN 1981 US$260 a/
CROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT IN 1982/83 bl                                                   ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (Z, Constant Prices) c/
1955/56-1959/60   1960/61-1964/65   1965/66-1969/70  1970/71-1974/75   1975/76-1979/8h
US$ BIn.    %
GDP at Market Prices                   170.74   100.0                        3.7                 3.6                3.7                 2.9                4.1
Gross Domestic Investment               41.99    24.6
Gross National Saving                   38.L2    22.3
Current Account Balance               -  3.87   - 2.3
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY IN 1981
Value added (at factor cost)           Labor Force i/        V.A. Per Worker
US$ Bln.                   Z           Mil.       5t          US0    Z of National Average
Agriculture                             51.7                    35.1         172.7       70.6       299         50
Industry                                35.2                    23.9          31.6      12.9       1114        185
Services                                60.6                    41.0          40.3       16.5      1504        249
Total/Average                          147.5                   100.0         244.6    10(0.0        603        100
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Govern-ent  e/                                   Central Government
Rs. BIn. .              of GDP                      Rs. Bln.               2 of GDP
1982/83      1982/83     1978/79-1982/83            1982/83       1982/83    1978/79-1982/83
Current Receipts                         333.34        20.3             19.5                  175.61         10.7           10.5
Current Espenditures                     340.09        20.7             19.0                  188.59         11.5           10.8
Csrrent Surplus/Deficit                 -  6.75      - 0.4               0.5                 - 12.98        - 0.8          - 0.4
Capital Espenditures f/                  131.28         8.0              8.1                   95.13          5.8            5.7
External Assistance (net) d/               19.30        1.2              1.0
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES                1970/71  1975/76  1977/78   1978/79  1979/80  1980/81  1981/82  1982/83  February 1983  Pebruary 1984
(Rs Billion outstanding at end of period)
Money and Quasi Money                    109.8    224.8    329.1    401.1    472.3    555.5    624.9    723.8                 711.7           845.7
Bank Credit to Government (net)           54.6    106.3    137.3    159.3    200.1    257.2    309.1    352.4                 353.5           406.6
Bank Credit to Commercial Sector          64.6    156.2    212.2    255.3    310.1    363.5    430.5    504.5                 487.7           576.4
(Percentage or Index Numbers)                                  Apr-Peb 1982/83  Apr-Feb 1983/84
Money and Quasi Money as a Z
of GDP                                  27.3      30.3      36.7       41.1      44.1      43.6      42.0      44.0
Wholesale Price Index
(1970/71 = 100)                        100.0    173.0    185.8    185.8    217.6    257.3    281.4    288.6                288.1                314.8
Annual percentage changes in:
Wholesale Price Index                       7.7     -1.1        5.2       -        17.1      18.2       9.4       2.6           2.3                  9.3
Bank Credic to Government (net)           15.0       22.7      16.3      16.0      25.6      28.5      20.2      14.0          21.0 S/              18.9 h/
Bank Credit to Commercial Sector          19.4      22.7       12.6      20.2      21.5      17.2      18.4      17.2          15.5 g/              13.9 hl
a/  The per capita GNP estimate is at market prices, using World Bank Atlas methodology, base period 1979-1981.
All other conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period covered.
6/ Quick Estimates, Central Statistical Organization.
s/ Computed from trend line of GNP at factor cost series, including one observation before first year and one observation after last year of
listed period.
d}  World Bank estimates of net disbursement  of concessional aid and IBRD.
e/ Transfers between Centre and States have been netted out.
f/ All loans and advances to third parties have been netted out.
j/ Percentage change from end-March 1982 to end-February 1983.
h/ Percentage change from end-March 1983 to end-February 1984.
i/ Total Labor Force and percentage breakdown from 1981 Census. Excludes data for Assan.



ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                         1980/81   1981/82   1982/832/ 1983/841/             MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1979/80-1982/83) 3i
(Us$ Mln.)                                                                                                                       US$ Mln.      %
Exports of Goods g/                          8,504      8,519      8.001     8,466              Engineering Goods r/               980        12
Imports of Goods a/                       -16,204   -15,500   -14,249   -14,412                 Tea                                455         6
Trade Balance                              - 7,700   - 6,981   - 6,248   - 5,946                Gems                               779         9
NFS (net)                                    1,365        974        940        856             Clothing                           573         7
Leather and Leather Products    480            6
Resource Balance                          - 6,335   - 6,007   - 5,308         5,090             Jute Manufactures                  333         4
Iron Ore                           380         5
Interest Income (net) k/                       600        286   -   415   -   648               Cotton Textiles                    328         4
Net Transfers 1/                             2,771      2,318      1,849      1,790             Sugar                               86          1
Others                          3,849         46
Balance on Current Account                - 2,964   - 3.403   - 3,874   - 3,948
Official Loans & Grants                                                                         Total                            8.243       100
Gross Disbursements                          2,651      2,570      3,086      3,441             EXTERNAL DEBT, MARCH 31, 1983
Amortization                              -   700   -   674   -   701   -   783
US$ billion
Transaction with IMP (net)                   1,035        690      1,980      1,295             Outstanding and Disbursed                     19.6
All Other Items o/                        -   367   - 1.581           12        531             Undishbrsed                                    11.1
Outstanding including Undisbursed             30.7
Increase in Reserves (-)                       345      2,398   -   503   -   536
Gross Reserves (end year) R/                 6,859      4,461      4,964      5.500             DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1982/83 J/  n/         10.1 per cent
Net Reserves (end year) m/                   6,532      3,497      2,088      1,449
IBRD/IDA LENDING, MARCH 31, 1984 i/
Fuel and Related Materials
UIS$ million
Imports (Petroleum) j/                      6,672      5,590      4.613      3,395                                                      1860     IDA
Outstanding and Disbursed              1,826      7,924
Undisbursed                            2.081      4.331
Outstanding including Undisbursed   3,907        12.255
RATE OF EXCHANGE
June 1966 to mid-December 1971            US$1.00 - Rs 7.50
Rs 1.00 - US$0.13333
Mid-December 1971 to end-June 1972        US$1.00 - Rs 7.27927
Rs 1.00 - US$0.137376
After end-June 1972                       Floating Rate
Spot Rate end-March 1983              : US1.00 - Rs 10.0301
Rs 1.00 = JS$0.0997
Spot Rate end-March 1984                  US$1.00 - Rs 10.7181
Es 1.00 - US$0.0933
j/  Estimated
k/ Figures given cover all investment income (net). Major payments are interest on foreign loans and charges paid to IMF. and major receipts is
interest earned on foreign assets.
1/ Figures gives include workers' remittances but exclude official grant assistance which is included within official loans and grants. and
non-resident deposits which are included within all other items.
m/  Exclude net ose of IMF credit.
n/ Amortization and interest payments on foreign loans as a percentage of total current receipts.
O/ Includes exchange rate adjustments to the valuation of reserves and financing of imbalances in rupee trade.
e/  Excluding gold.
q/  Net of crude petroleus  exports.
r/  Including iron and steel.



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 4
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of September 30, 1983)
US$ million
Loan or  Fiscal                                                  (Net of Cancellations)
Credit   Year of
No.      Approval        Purpose                         Bank         IDA 1/      Undisbursed 2/
48 Loans/                                              1,688.0          -              -
83 Credits fully disbursed                                 -        4,759.0            -
482-IN    1974      Karnataka Dairy                       -           30.0          11.56
502-IN    1975      Rajasthan Canal CAD                   -           83.0           6.83
521-IN    1975      Rajasthan Dairy                       -           27.7           6.30
522-IN    1975      Madhya Pradesh Dairy                  -           16.4          -0.11
598-IN    1976      Fertilizer Industry                   -          105.0           3.12
604-IN    1976      Power Transmission IV                 -          150.0           3.95
610-IN    1976      Integrated Cotton Development         -           18.0           3.25
1251-IN    1976      Andhra Pradesh Irrigation           145.0          -            44.92
1273-IN    1976      National Seeds I                     25.0          -            15.89
1335-IN    1977      Bombay Urban Transport               25.0          -             4.77
680-IN    1977      Kerala Agric. Development             -           30.0          13.37
682-IN    1977      Orissa Agric. Development             -           20.0           3.30
685-IN    1977      Singrauli Thermal Power               -          150.0           7.45
690-IN    1977      West Bengal Agricultural
Extension & Research                -           12.0         10.29
1394-IN    1977      Gujarat Fisheries                    14.0          -             4.08
712-IN    1977     M.P. Agric. Development                -           10.0           0.49
720-IN    1977      Periyar Vaigai Irrigation             -           23.0           6.99
728-IN    1977      Assam Agricultural Development                     8.0           3.96
736-IN    1978      Maharashtra Irrigation                -           70.0           4.05
1475-IN    1978      Industry DFC XII                     78.5          -             2.49
747-IN    1978      Second Foodgrain Storage              -          107.0          61.57
756-IN    1978      Calcutta Urban Development II                     87.0           6.51
761-IN    1978      Bihar Agric. Extension &
Research                           -            8.0          5.81
1511-IN    1978      IDBI Joint/Public Sector             25.0          -             2.54
1549-IN    1978      Third Trombay Thermal Power         105.0          -             8.38
788-IN    1978      Karnataka Irrigation                  -          117.6          52.30
793-IN    1978     Korba Thermal Power                    -          200.0          47.64
806-IN    1978      Jammu-Kashmir Horticulture            -           14.0          11.01
808-IN    1978      Gujarat Irrigation                    -           85.0          19.30
815-IN    1978      Andhra Pradesh Fisheries              -           17.5           9.98
816-IN    1978      National Seeds II                     -           16.0           8.88
1592-IN    1978      Telecommunications VII              120.0          -            22.27
824-IN    1978      National Dairy                        -          150.0          76.70
842-IN    1979      Bombay Water Supply II                -          196.0         156.24
844-IN    1979      Railway Modernization
& Maintenance                       -          190.0         48.31
848-IN    1979      Punjab Water Supply & Sewerage        -           38.0           8.48
855-IN    1979      National Agricultural Research        -           27.0          18.96
862-IN    1979      Composite Agricultural Extension    -             25.0          7.58



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 4
US$ million
Loan or  Fiscal                                                  (Net of Cancellations)
Credit   Year of
No.      Approval        Purpose                         Bank         IDA 1/      Undisbursed 2/
871-IN    1979      National Cooperative Development
Corporation                         -           30.0           5.51
1648-IN    1979      Ramagundam Thermal Power             50.0          -            50.00
874-IN    1979      Ramagundam Thermal Power              -          200.0          41.57
889-IN    1979      Punjab Irrigation                     -          129.0          61.80
899-IN    1979      Maharashtra Water Supply              -           48.0          15.25
911-IN    1979      Rural Electrification Corp. II        -          175.0          21.96
    925-IN    1979      Uttar Pradesh Social Forestry          -           23.0           8.05
954-IN    1980      Maharashtra Irrigation II             -          210.0          82.85
961-IN    1980      Gujarat Community Forestry            -           37.0          15.27
963-IN    1980      Inland Fisheries                      -           20.0          17.90
981-IN    1980      Population II                         -           46.0          36.41
1003-IN    1980      Tamil Nadu Nutrition                  -           32.0          23.97
1011-IN    1980      Gujarat Irrigation II                 -          175.0         121.65
1012-IN    1980      Cashewnut                             -           22.0          18.24
1027-IN    1980      Singrauli Thermal II                  -          300.0         213.36
1028-IN    1980      Kerala Agricultural Extension         -           10.0           8.99
1033-IN    1980      Calcutta Urban Transport              -           56.0          23.21
1034-IN    1980      Karnataka Sericulture                 -           54.0          41.38
1046-IN    1980      Rajasthan Water Supply & Sewerage   -             80.0          61.54
1843-IN    1980      Industry DFC XIII                   100.0          -            10.61
1887-IN    1980      Farakka Thermal Power                25.0          -            25.00
1053-IN    1980      Farakka Thermal Power                 -          225.0         170.60
1897-IN    1981      Kandi Watershed and
Area Development                   30.0          -            23.46
1925-IN    1981      Bombay High Offshore Development  400.0            -             7.41
1072-IN    1981      Bihar Rural Roads                      -          35.0          23.58
1078-IN    1981      Mahanadi Barrages                      -          83.0          72.77
1082-IN    1981      Madras Urban Development II           -           42.0          29.04
1108-IN    1981      M.P. Medium Irrigation                -          140.0         1.28.41
1112-IN    1981      Telecommunications VIII               -          314.0         176.21
1116-IN    1981      Karnataka Tank Irrigation             -           54.0          53.45
1125-IN    1981      Hazira Fertilizer Project             -          400.0         281.64
1135-IN    1981      Maharashtra Agricultural Ext.         -           23.0          20.24
1137-IN    1981      Tamil Nadu Agricultural Ext.          -           28.0          23.88
1138-IN    1981      M.P. Agricultural Ext. II             -           37.0          35.73
1146-IN    1981      National Cooperative
Development Corp. II                -          125.0         106.34
1172-IN    1982      Korba Thermal Power Project II        -          400.0         367.32
1177-IN    1982      Madhya Pradesh Major Irrigation       -          220.0         199.76
2050-IN    1982      Tamil Nadu Newsprint                100.0          -            61.58
1178-IN    1982      West Bengal Social Forestry           -           29.0          25.41
1185-IN    1982      Kanpur Urban Development              -           25.0          21.68
2051-IN    1982      ICICI XIV                           150.0          -           104.43
2076-IN    1982      Ramagundam Thermal Power II         300.0          -           300.00
2095-IN    1982      ARDC IV                             190.0          -           121.32
1219-IN    1982      Andhra Pradesh Agricultural Ext.    -              6.0           5.50
2123-IN    1982      Refineries Rationalization          200.0          -           171.60
2165-IN    1982      Rural Electrification III           304.5          -           300.00
2186-IN    1982      Kallada Irrigation                   20.3          -            20.00



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 4
US$ million
Loan or  Fiscal                                                  (Net of Cancellations)
Credit   Year of
No.      Approval        Purpose                         Bank         IDA 1/      Undisbursed 2/
1269-IN    1982      Kallada Irrigation                    -           60.0          45.33
1280-IN    1983      Gujarat Water Supply                  -           72.0          71.39
1286-IN    1983      Jammu/Kashmir and
Haryana Social Forestry             -           33.0          31.06
1288-IN    1983      Chambal Madhya Pradesh                -            -
Irrigation II                       -           31.0          26.94
1289-IN    1983      Subernarekha Irrigation               -          127.0         121.37
2205-IN    1983      Krishna-Godavari Exploration        165.5          -           158.92
2210-IN    1983      Railways Modernization &
Maintenance II                    200.0          -           197.04
1299-IN    1983      Railways Modernization &
Maintenance II                      -          200.0         197.01
2241-IN    1983      South Bassein Gas Development       222.3          -           219.01
1319-IN    1983      Haryana Irrigation II                 -          150.0         143.60
1332-IN    1983      U.P. Public Tubewells II              -          101.0         101.00
1356-IN    1983      Upper Indravati Hydro Power           -          170.0         170.00
2278-IN    1983      Upper Indravati Hydro Power         156.4          -           156.01
1369-IN    1983      Calcutta Urban Development III*       -          147.0         147.00
1383-IN    1983      Maharashtra Water Utilization         -           32.0          32.00
2308-IN    1983      Maharashtra Water Utilization        22.7          -            22.64
2283-IN    1983      Central Power Transmission*         250.7          -           250.70
2295-IN    1983      Himalayan Watershed Management       46.2          -            46.08
2329-IN    1983      Madhya Pradesh Urban*                24.1          -            24.10
1397-IN    1984      Orissa Irrigation II*                 -          105.0         105.00
Total                                    5,183.2    11,851.2
of which has been repaid               1,251.2        136.1
Total now outstanding                    3,932.0    11,715.1
Amount Sold                     133.8
of which has been repaid    133.8          -
Total now held by Bank and IDA 3/        3,932.0    11,715.1
Total undisbursed (excluding *)          2,100.45    4,124.24
1/ IDA Credit amounts for SDR-denominated Credits are expressed in terms of their
US dollar equivalents, as established at the time of Credit negotiations and as
subsequently presented to the Board.
2/  Undisbursed amounts for SDR-denominated IDA Credits are derived from cumulative
disbursements converted to their US dollar equivalents at the SDR/US dollar
exchange rate in effect on the dates of disbursement.
3/ Prior to exchange adjustment.
*   Not yet effective.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 4
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of September 30, 1983)
Fiscal                                                    Amount (US$ mill:ion)
Year                     Company                        Loan     Equity    Total
1959             Republic Forge Company Ltd.             1.5        -        1.5
A;~         1959             Kirloskar Oil Engines Ltd.              0.8         -       0.8
1960             Assam Sillimanite Ltd.                  1.4         -       1.4
1961             K.S.B. Pumps Ltd.                       0.2         -       0.2
1963-66          Precision Bearings India Ltd.           0.6        0.4      1.0
1964             Fort Gloster Industries Ltd.            0.8        0.4      1.2
1964-75-79       Mahindra Ugine Steel Co. Ltd.          11.8        1.3     13.1
1964             Lakshmi Machine Works Ltd.              1.0       0.3       1.3
1967             Jayshree Chemicals Ltd.                 1.1       0.1       1.2
1967             Indian Explosives Ltd.                  8.6       2.9      11.5
1969-70          Zuari Agro-Chemicals Ltd.              15.1       3.8      18.9
1976             Escorts Limited                         6.6        -        6.6
1978             Housing Development Finance
Corporation                             4.0       1.2       5.2
1980             Deepak Fertilizer and
Petrochemicals Corporation Ltd.         7.5       1.2       8.7
1981             Coromandel Fertilizers Limited         15.9                15.9
1981             Tata Iron and Steel Company Ltd.    38.0            -      38.0
1981             Mahindra, Mahindra Limited             15.0         -      15.0
1981             Nagarjuna Coated Tubes Ltd.             2.9       0.3       3.2
1981             Nagarjuna Signode Limited               2.3        -        2.3
1981             Nagarjuna Steels Limited                1.5       0.2       1.7
1982             Ashok Leyland Limited                  28.0        -       28.0
1982             The Bombay Dyeing and
Manufacturing Co. Ltd.             18.8         -       18.8
1982             Bharat Forge Company Ltd.             15.7         -       15.7
1982             The Indian Rayon Corp. Ltd.             8.3        -        8.3
1984             The Gwalior Rayon Silk Manu-
facturing (Weaving) Co. Ltd.        4.2         -        4.2
TOTAL GROSS COMMITMENTS         211.6       12.1    223.7
Less:   Sold                          53.0        3.4      56.4
Repaid                        30.1         -      30.1
Cancelled                     16.1        1.4     17.5
Now Held                     112.4        7.3    119.7
Undisbursed                   82.9         -      82.9



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 1
INDIA
RAILWAY ELECTRIFICATION AND WORKSHOIP MODERNIZATION PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I:      Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken by the country to prepare the proiect
Four years.
(b) The agency which has prepared the proiect
Indian Railways, assisted by Bank Group staff.
(c)  Date of first presentation to the Association and date
of first mission to consider the project
April 1980, June 1980
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission
November 1983.
(e) Date of completion of negotiations
April 1984.
(f) Planned date of effectiveness
September 30, 1984.
Section II:     Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III:    Special Conditions
GOI would ensure passenger fares and freight rates adequate
to enable IR to meet all operating expenses and other costs
(para 50).



ANNEX IV
INDIA
RAILWAY ELECTRIFICATION AND WORKSHOP MODERNIZATION PROJECT
PROCUREMENT DETAILS
Proiect Element                            Procurement Method Proposed
ICB        LCB                    Other                    N.A.    Total
(Departmental  (Borrower's/Other
Forces, etc.) Donor's Procedure)
Civil Works                  -         74.2         63.3 11                           7.8 N    145.3
Signalling &
Telecom Works           60.3      101.7            -                              60.7 2/   222.7
(60.3) 3/
Electrical Works            85.5      288.2           -                              94.3 2/   468.0
(85.5) 3/
Recording/Testing Car        1.8        -            0.2                 -             0.7 2/     2.7
(1.8) 3/
OHE Maintenance
Vehicles                  4.7                    0.5                  -            1.9 2/      7.1
(4.7) 3/
Radio for Banking
Locos                     0.6       -             0.1                 -            O.Z N       0.9
(0.6) 3/
Plant and Machinery         93.3       19.6          6.9 1/              -            28.4 N    148.2
(93.3) 3/
Maintenance Depots          40.0       75.4          8.6 i/             86.2         39.3 N    249.5
(40.0) 3/
Track Renewal               49.3      157.5         25.6 1-                            2.1 2/   234.7
(49.3) 3/
Ballast Screening
Machines                  1.7        -            0.1                              0.7 2/      2.5
(1.7) 3/
Technical Assistance          -         -           11.9 4                              -        11.9
(11.9)3/
General/Miscellaneous         -         -                                -           88.6 5/    88.6
TOTAL                      337.2      716.6        117.4                86.2        324.7    1,582.1
(337.2) 3/               (11.9) 3/                                   (349.1)
l/   Railway forces will be used.
2/   Taxes and Duties
3/   Figures in parentheses indicate proposed financing by the Bank.
4/   According to Bank Guidelines.
5/   General charges (administration and supervision)/miscellaneous works viz. compensation
to P&T, modification to power line crossings, replacement works, etc.






