Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 3932-PAK 
 
Program Agreement 
 
(Second NWFP Structural Adjustment Credit) 
 
between 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
and 
 
NORTH WEST FRONTIER PROVINCE  
 
Dated June 22, 2004 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 3932-PAK 
 
PROGRAM AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated June 22, 2004, between INTERNATIONAL 
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) and NORTH WEST FRONTIER 
PROVINCE acting by its Governor (NWFP). 
 
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received from the Islamic Republic of 
Pakistan (the Borrower) a letter dated May 13 , 2004, transmitting to the Association a 
letter from NWFP dated May 11, 2004, describing a program of actions, objectives and 
policies designed to improve and strengthen the fiscal framework and public institutions 
of NWFP (hereinafter called the Program), declaring the commitment of NWFP to the 
execution of the Program and the Borrower’s support thereto, and requesting assistance 
from the Association in support of the Program during the execution thereof;  
 
(B) 
NWFP has carried out the measures and taken the actions described in 
the Schedule to this Agreement to the satisfaction of the Association and has maintained 
a
macroeconomic policy framework consistent with the Borrower’s macroeconomic 
framework satisfactory to the Association; 
 
(C) 
by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between 
the Borrower and the Association, the Association has agreed to make available to the 
Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to sixty-two million one hundred 
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 62,100,000) on the terms and conditions set forth 
in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that NWFP agrees to 
undertake such obligations toward the Association as are set forth in this Agreement; and 
 
(D) 
the Program will be carried out by NWFP with the Borrower’s assistance 
and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to NWFP the local 
currency equivalent of the proceeds of the Credit as provided in the Development Credit 
Agreement;  
 
WHEREAS NWFP, in consideration of the Association entering into the 
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the 
obligations set forth in this Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
Page  3
-
2
-
ARTICLE I 
 
Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the Development Credit Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and in the General 
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth. 
 
ARTICLE II 
 
Execution of the Program 
 
Section 2.01. NWFP declares its commitment to the objectives of the Program 
and, to this end, shall carry out the Program with due diligence and efficiency, and shall 
provide or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and 
other resources required for the Program.  
 
Section 2.02. (a) NWFP shall from time to time, at the request of the Association, 
and with the participation of the Borrower, exchange views with the Association with 
regard to the progress of the Program, the actions specified in the Schedule to this 
Agreement, the performance of its obligations under this Agreement and other matters 
relating to the purposes of the Credit. 
 
(b) 
Prior to each such exchange of views, NWFP shall furnish to the 
Association and the Borrower for their review and comments a report on the progress 
achieved in carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably 
request. 
 
(c) 
NWFP shall promptly inform the Association and the Borrower of any 
condition, which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Program, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by NWFP of its 
obligations under this Agreement. 
 
(d) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Section, NWFP shall exchange views with the Association on any proposed action to 
be taken after the disbursement of the Credit which would have the effect of materially 
reversing the objectives of the Program, or any action taken under the Program, including 
any action specified in the Schedule to this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.03. For the purpose of assisting in the implementation and monitoring 
of the Program, NWFP shall maintain an Economic Reform Unit which shall report on 
the progress of the Program to the Senior Minister, Finance and Planning of NWFP on a 
quarterly basis. 
 
Page  4
-
3
-
Section 2.04. NWFP shall: 
 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Association, the carrying out of the Program and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof, including the impact of implementation of the Program on the poor; 
 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date, a report 
integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to 
paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program and 
setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Program 
and the achievement of the objectives thereof; and 
 
(c) 
review with the Association the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this 
Section, within forty-five (45) days of the receipt of the report and thereafter, take all 
measures required to ensure the efficient implementation of the Program and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of 
the said report and the Association’s views on the matter. 
 
Section 2.05. (a) NWFP shall use the amounts transferred to it by the Borrower 
pursuant to Section 2.02 (c) of the Development Credit Agreement in support of the 
Program. NWFP undertakes that no proceeds of any such amounts shall be used to 
finance expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Association determines that 
corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of NWFP during the 
procurement or execution of such contract, unless and until NWFP shall have taken 
timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Association to remedy the situation. 
 
(b) 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any such 
amount shall have been used to make a payment for any expenditure not consistent with 
paragraph (a) above, NWFP shall, promptly upon request from the Association, refund 
such amount to the Association. Amounts refunded to the Association upon such request 
shall be credited to the Credit Account for cancellation. 
 
ARTICLE III 
 
Financial Covenants 
 
Section 3.01. (a) NWFP shall, not later than thirty (30) days after the receipt of 
the Rupee amount transferred to it by the Borrower pursuant to Section 2.02 (c) of the 
Development Credit Agreement provide confirmation to the Association showing the 
date and the Rupee amounts received from the Borrower and stating that such amounts 
have been credited into the Consolidated Account of NWFP on that same day. 
 
Page  5
-
4
-
(b) 
Upon the Association’s request, NWFP shall, not later than sixty (60) 
days after the date of such request, provide to the Association an audit report by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Association showing the date and the Rupee 
amounts transferred by the Borrower to NWFP pursuant to Section 2.02 (c) of the 
Development Credit Agreement.   
 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Effective Date; Termination; 
Cancellation and Suspension 
 
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective. 
 
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and 
NWFP thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates: 
 
(i) 
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall 
terminate in accordance with its terms; or 
 
(ii) 
the date twenty (20) years after the date of this Agreement. 
 
(b) 
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with its 
terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)(ii) of this Section, the Association shall 
promptly notify NWFP of this event. 
 
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force and 
effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General conditions. 
 
ARTICLE V 
 
Miscellaneous Provisions 
 
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing.  Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly 
given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telex or facsimile to the 
party to which it is required or permitted to be given or made at such party’s address 
hereinafter specified or at such other address as such party shall have designated by 
notice to the party giving such notice or making such request. Deliveries made by 
facsimile transmission shall also be confirmed by mail. The addresses so specified are: 
 
Page  6
-
5
-
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 
  Telex: 
  
Facsimile: 
 
 
INDEVAS 
 
  248423 
(MCI) 
or 
(202) 
477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
  
  64145 (MCI)    
 
 
 
For NWFP: 
 
Planning and Development Department 
Government of North West Frontier Province 
Peshawar, Pakistan 
 
Cable Address: 
 
 
 
 
Facsimile: 
 
 
DEVELOPMENT 
    091-9210354 
 Peshawar, 
Pakistan 
 
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of NWFP may be 
taken or executed by the Secretary, Finance Department, NWFP, or such other person or 
persons as NWFP shall designate in writing, and NWFP shall furnish to the Association 
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such 
person. 
 
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument. 
 
Page  7
-
6
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ John W. Wall 
Country Director 
 Pakistan 
 
NORTH WEST FRONTIER PROVINCE  
 
By /s/ Mushtaq Malik 
Authorized Representative 
Page  8
-
7
-
SCHEDULE 
 
Actions Referred to in Recital (B) of the respective Preambles to the Development 
Credit Agreement and the Program Agreement 
 
A. 
Improving Fiscal Sustainability and Restoring Financial Accountability
1. 
With a view to improving expenditure composition, the project portfolio in the 
FY 2004 ADP budget has been re-prioritized so as to reduce the throw-forward ratio of 
development projects to a level below the FY 2003 level of 3.2 years. 
 
2. 
With a view to promoting fiscal devolution, a decision has been taken to transfer 
funds for district government staff salaries to the districts via NWFP’s Account IV. 
 
3. 
With a view to improving financial accountability, transparency and efficiency in 
public spending: (a) the monthly reconciliation rates of receipts, expenditures, suspense 
accounts, and intergovernmental accounts have been raised to 90%, 93%, 90% and 85%, 
respectively, with two months lag, from 75%, 51%, 80% and 84%, respectively, in  
FY 2003; and (b) a new procurement law has been enacted, and new procurement 
regulations and standard bidding documents for goods, works and consultants services 
have been notified and are operational. 
 
B. 
Strengthening Accountability and Professionalism of State Institutions
4. 
With the view to promoting administrative devolution: (a) revised district rules of 
business have been notified and implemented; and (b) authority for recruitment of 
teachers
 
has been devolved to district governments. 
 
C. 
Accelerating Human Development
5. 
With a view to alleviating demand constraints on basic education: (a) the 
following progress in providing missing facilities for girls’ schools has been achieved;  
(i) latrines - 96%; (ii) boundary walls - 90%; (iii) water supply - 64%; and (iv) additional 
classrooms - 50%; and (b) free public education expanded through secondary level and 
provision of free textbooks to girls of all grades and boys up to grade-2 in all government 
primary schools has been announced. 
 
6. 
With a view to improving the quality of education, a system of monitoring 
teacher attendance to reduce teacher absenteeism has been implemented, under which 
Executive District Officers (EDOs) (Education) take disciplinary action based on timely 
reports and send monthly consolidated reports to the Directorate for Schools and 
Literacy. 
 
Page  9
-
8
-
7.
 
With a view to enhancing health service delivery, coverage of TB (tuberculosis) 
daily observation therapy sessions (DOTS) has been extended from 10 to 17 districts, and 
1800 new lady health workers and 200 female nurses have been deployed at district 
hospitals. 
 
D. 
Promoting Growth and Private Sector Development
8. 
With a view to promoting private sector development: (a) a private sector 
development policy statement has been issued, and an agricultural growth strategy has 
been approved; and (b) of all remaining small hydel projects, three (3) have been leased 
to the private sector, five (5) have completed the bidding process and one (1) is being 
refurbished.  
 
