Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 3932-1 PAK 
(Amendment) 
 
Agreement Amending 
Development Credit Agreement  
 
(Second NWFP Structural Adjustment Credit) 
 
between 
 
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated October 25, 2005 
 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 3932-1 PAK 
(Amendment)
 
AGREEMENT AMENDING 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated October 25, 2005, between ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF 
PAKISTAN (the 
“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (the “Association”). 
 
(A) 
WHEREAS pursuant to a development credit agreement dated  
June 22, 2004, between the Borrower and the Association (the “Development Credit 
Agreement”), the Association agreed to provide the Borrower with a Credit in an 
amount in various currencies equivalent to sixty-two million one hundred thousand 
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 62,100,000) to support the Borrower and NWFP in the 
execution of the Program as described in Recital (A) of the Development Credit 
Agreement (the “Program”); 
 
(B) 
WHEREAS the Borrower and NWFP have requested the Association 
to provide additional financial assistance in support of the Program to help in meeting 
the increased financing requirements caused by the impact of the earthquake that hit 
the Borrower’s territory on October 8, 2005, by increasing the amount made available 
under the Development Credit Agreement by an amount in various currencies 
equivalent to thirty four million six hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
34,600,000), to be disbursed in a single tranche upon effectiveness of this Amending 
Agreement; and 
 
(C) 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, among other 
things, of the foregoing to extend such additional assistance to the Borrower and to 
NWFP upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Amending Agreement and in 
the Agreement Amending the Program Agreement of even date herewith; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions 
 
Section 1.01.  The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through  
October 6, 1999) (the “General Conditions”), with the modifications set forth in 
Section 1.01 of the Development Credit Agreement constitute an integral part of this 
Amending Agreement. 
 
Section 1.02.  Unless the context otherwise requires and except where 
otherwise defined in this Amending Agreement, all capitalized terms contained herein 
shall have the meanings given to them in the Development Credit Agreement or in the 
General Conditions as the case requires. 
Page  3
-
2
-
ARTICLE II 
 
Amending Provisions 
 
Section 2.01.  Section 1.02 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended 
as follows:  
 
(i)  
by deleting the word “and” at the end of Sub-section 1.02(f); 
 
(ii)  
by replacing the full stop at the end of Sub-section 1.02(g) with a semi-
colon; and  
 
(iii)  
by inserting new Sub-sections 1.02(h) and (i) which shall read as 
follows: 
 
“(h) 
“Amending Agreement” means this Agreement 
Amending the Development Credit Agreement (Second NWFP 
Structural Adjustment Credit) between the Borrower and the 
Association; and 
 
(i) “Agreement 
Amending 
the 
Program 
Agreement” 
means the Agreement Amending the Program Agreement (Second 
NWFP  Structural Adjustment Credit) dated June 22, 2004, between 
the Association and NWFP”. 
 
Section 2.02.  Section 2.01 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended 
to read as follows: 
 
“Section 2.01. The Association agrees to make available to the 
Borrower, on the terms and subject to the conditions set out, or referred to, in 
the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies 
equivalent to ninety six million seven hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 96,700,000) (the “Credit”) which consists of: (a) an initial 
amount in various currencies equivalent to sixty-two million one hundred 
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 62,100,000) (the “Initial Credit”); 
and (b) an additional amount in various currencies equivalent to thirty four 
million six hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 34,600,000) (the 
“Supplemental Credit”).”  
 
Section 2.03. Section 2.03 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended 
to read as follows: 
 
“Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 2006, or such 
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly 
notify the Borrower of such later date.” 
 
Section 2.04. A proviso is added at the end of Section 2.04(b)(i) of the 
Development Credit Agreement reading as follows:  
Page  4
-
3
-
“; provided however that the commitment charge on the 
Supplemental Credit shall accrue from a date sixty (60) days after the date of 
the signing of the Amending Agreement.” 
 
Section 2.05. A new Sub-Section (e) is added to Section 2.07 of the 
Development Credit Agreement reading as follows: 
 
“(e) 
Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) above, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Additional Credit in semiannual 
installments payable on each March 15 and September 15 commencing 
March 15, 2016 and ending September 15, 2040. Each installment to and 
including the installment payable on September 15, 2025, shall be one and 
one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each installment 
thereafter shall be two and one half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal 
amount.” 
 
Section 2.06.  Except as expressly provided in this Amending Agreement, all 
other provisions of the Development Credit Agreement shall remain in full force and 
effect. 
 
ARTICLE III 
 
Effective Date; Termination 
 
Section 3.01. The Amending Agreement shall not become effective until a 
legal opinion or opinions satisfactory to the Association, showing: (i) that the 
Amending Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and 
delivered on behalf of the Borrower and is legally binding upon the Borrower in 
accordance with its terms; and (ii) that the Agreement Amending the Program 
Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by NWFP, and is legally binding 
upon NWFP in accordance with its terms, have been received by the Association. 
 
Section 3.02. This Amending Agreement shall come into force and effect on 
the date upon which the Association shall dispatch to the Borrower notice of its 
acceptance of the evidence required by Section 3.01 of this Amending Agreement. 
 
Section 3.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Amending 
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General 
Conditions. If this Amending Agreement shall terminate under the provisions of this 
Section, the Development Credit Agreement shall continue in full force and effect, as 
if this Amending Agreement had not been executed. 
 
Page  5
-
4
-
ARTICLE IV 
 
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses 
 
Section 4.01. The Borrower
’s Minister of Finance, or an official authorized 
for this purpose by the Minister of Finance, is designated as representative of the 
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions. 
 
Section 4.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Secretary to the Government of Pakistan 
 
Economic Affairs Division 
 
Islamabad 
 
Pakistan 
 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
Page  6
-
5
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Amending Agreement to be signed in their 
respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day 
and year first above written. 
 
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN 
 
By /s/ Mushtaq Malik 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ Praful Patel 
 
Regional Vice President 
South Asia
Page  7
-
6
-
