Page  1
 1
INITIAL PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
 
 
Report No. 
28772 
Project Name:
 
PAKISTAN: North West Frontier Province SAC II (NWFP SAC II) 
Region:
   South 
Asia 
    
 
 
Project ID: 
 
P079635 
Borrower(s):
 
  Government 
of 
Pakistan 
Implementing Agency:  
Government of the North West Frontier Province 
 
 
Contact Person:
   Mr. 
Waqar 
Ayub 
    SAC 
Reforms 
Coordinator 
    Ministry 
of 
Finance 
Environment Category:
 
U (Not Required) 
Date PID Prepared:
 
             April 22, 2004 
Projected Appraisal Date: 
April 2004 
Projected Board Date: 
 
June 22, 2004 
 
 
1.  Country and Provincial Background 
 
For Pakistan’s poor, the 1990s were a lost decade with little progress made in reducing poverty 
and improving social indicators.  Per capita growth declined to 1.2% per year, down from 3% per 
year in the 1980s.  Prospects for sustaining faster growth, reducing poverty, and improving social 
indicators are now brighter.  Over the past 4 years, the Government of Pakistan has made 
remarkable progress in stabilizing and reviving the economy, launching an ambitious and 
comprehensive program of reforms to modernize Pakistan and its institutions, and demonstrated 
its determination to tackle a wide range of difficult reforms. These reforms have continued after 
the transition to a democratically elected government in 2002.  Macroeconomic performance has 
continued to strengthen, with growth accelerating to above 5% in 2003/04, inflation remaining 
low, and external balances continuing to improve. The next few years pose the challenge of 
maintaining political and macroeconomic stability, the reform momentum and a higher growth 
path, and finding ways of translating this higher growth into lower poverty. Achieving these 
things will require mobilizing additional domestic and external resources including by private 
investors.  The national government’s Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PSRP) provides the 
policy framework for consolidation of reforms.  The Government of NWFP is implementing its 
Provincial Reform Program which is consistent with the national PRSP.  
 
In Pakistan’s federal structure the Federal, Provincial and Local governments all have important roles to 
play in reducing poverty. The provincial governments are responsible for managing the consolidated 
provincial finances and fiscal transfers to local governments; executing provincial development programs, 
delivering province-wide services such as irrigation, road networks and tertiary services; undertaking 
monitoring and evaluation of local governments; and providing the regulatory framework for the private 
sector.  Under the devolution of power the Local governments are responsible for service delivery for pro-
poor programs in basic education, curative and preventive health, water supply and sanitation, rural 
development, farm-to-market roads, etc. Contrary to experience with other federal countries, tax authority 
is concentrated at the federal level. The federal government revenue transfers account for as much as 90 
percent of NWFP’s resources, weakening the accountability of provincial government to taxpayers. 
 
By the late 1990s, NWFP faced a number of serious socioeconomic problems, including: a stagnant 
economy; endemic governance issues; poor service delivery in all major services; low social indicators; 
low tax potential and a rigid expenditure structure.  The 
Government of 
NWFP was the first province in 
Page  2
 2
Pakistan to launch a comprehensive Provincial Reform Program (PRP) in June 2001 which has 
subsequently been adopted by the new Government after elections in October 2002.   
 
2.  Objectives and Description 
 
The Provincial Reform Program encompasses a broad-based strategy for addressing poverty in 
its various dimensions. The proposed NWFP SAC2 would be the second of a series of three one-
tranche adjustment credits that would support the next phase of the GoNWFP’s medium-term 
reform program, as laid out in the Provincial Reform Program. The reforms the proposed credit 
will support are along four main pillars: 
 
I. 
Governance and Civil Service Reforms
. The objectives of these reforms are to increase 
the efficiency and effectiveness of government operations, including the delivery of public 
services, raise the level of competence and integrity of government officials, and make them 
more accountable. The government’s strategy to achieve these objectives is to fully implement 
the devolution of power, decentralize the functions and operations, contain the size of the civil 
service with increases mainly in high priority areas (education, health and police),tighten the 
system of accountability, reorganize functions and departments at the provincial level, improve 
recruitment, make promotions more performance-based, simplify procedures, and computerize 
business processes.  
 
II. 
Service Delivery Improvement Reforms. 
The major thrust of the Government’s reform 
effort is to
 
improve the delivery of basic public services to improve the quality of and access to social 
services, contribute to productivity growth and equity and reduce poverty. The Government’s 
medium-term objectives in education are to: (i) improve primary education (both enrollment and 
quality of instruction); (ii) reduce gender and rural-urban disparities; and (iii) expand the 
capacity at the secondary school level. The objective in the health sector is to significantly 
improve health indicators over the medium-term. The strategy is to: (i) improve the management 
structure; (ii) reorganize health facilities, with a multi-level referral system; (iii) focus on 
preventive and primary health care; (v) increase budgetary allocations as well as user charges; 
(vi) and increase reliance on the private sector with adequate regulation. With a relatively 
conservative society, NWFP required a special focus on the development and welfare of women. 
In each of the sectoral reform areas, concentrated efforts are being made to reduce gender 
disparity and mainstreaming gender equity throughout the reform program.  
 
III. 
Fiscal and Financial Management Reforms
. the key areas of fiscal reform are: (i) 
enhancing revenues; (ii) reprioritizing expenditures and improving expenditure management; 
(iii) improving budget preparation, execution, and oversight; and (iv) strengthening fiscal 
devolution. 
  
IV. 
Private Sector Development and Growth Oriented Reforms. 
The PRP recognizes that the 
incidence of poverty and vulnerability of the poor can only be reduced with sustained, broad 
based economic growth generated and sustained by the private sector. The province has therefore 
developed strategies to improve the business environment; enhance productivity of agriculture; 
reduce the role of the public sector in commercial and industrial activities, and promote public-
private partnerships. Reforms to improve the efficiency of the province’s infrastructure, 
including irrigation facilities, road and urban infrastructure and services; and environmental 
protection would also support the growth process.  
 
Page  3
 3
 
3.  Rationale of Bank’s Involvement 
 
The rationale for the proposed NWFP SAC2 is based on NWFP’s substantial reform program and its 
financial needs. The proposed credit is an integral part of the Bank's overall country assistance strategy. 
The CAS emphasizes assisting those provinces which have embarked upon a comprehensive fiscal and 
economic reform program, have built credible track records on implementation and have sought the 
Bank’s assistance. All three points are applicable to the proposed operation. 
 
4. Financing 
 
The borrower is the Government of Pakistan. The amount of the proposed NWFP SAC2 is equivalent to 
US$90 million (IDA terms) will be disbursed in a single tranche upon credit effectiveness and the Rupee 
equivalent onlent to the Government of NWFP.
 
 
5.  Risks
 
and Sustainability 
 
Risks associated with the government’s medium-term reform program include: (i) political risks;  
(ii) risks of limitations on reform implementation capacity; (iii) fiscal risks; and (iv) exogenous
 
shocks. Provincial politics could be affected by developments on the external (regional) or 
domestic scene. Technical and institutional capacity has been augmented by capacity building 
programs, but weaknesses remain, particularly in the local governments.  Fiscal risks could stem 
from less judicious use of public resources leading to higher spending on lower priority areas. 
This would most likely only threaten overall fiscal sustainability after 4-5 years if also provincial 
receipts fall short of projections. At that time the fiscal adjustment would more likely be a 
squeeze on spending – possibly in the provision of high-priority social services and public 
investment – than  a ballooning deficit since deficit financing is limited. Continued commitment 
to the SAC’s Medium-Term Budget Framework will be required to mitigate this risk. Possible 
exogenous shocks include unforeseen changes to resource transfers from the center, droughts, or 
tension along the borders disrupting normal commerce and possibly affecting the political 
environment. improved irrigation networks and water use arrangements could mitigate the effect 
of droughts to some extent but overall exogenous shocks have limited potential for risk 
mitigation.  
 
There are several good reasons to believe that reforms are sustainable in NWFP over the medium and 
long term.
 
The reform program is home-grown, seen to be locally ‘owned’ and to enjoy consensus among 
major stakeholders with its emphasis on expanding education, improving service delivery, resolving fiscal 
issues and improving governance. The reforms help delivering visible and significant benefits on the 
ground through improved service delivery, public accountability, and greater transparency. If the reforms 
are explained well, the political costs of reversing them could become significant.  
6.   Monitoring 
 
The NWFP SAC2 will draw on data and findings from a range of sources to monitor progress on 
social indicators, public service delivery and fiscal implementation. These include the 
government’s annual Education Management Information System (EMIS) reports and Health 
Management Information System (HMIS) reports, Third Party Validation surveys for education 
and health (including public service delivery), monthly reports on teacher absenteeism provided 
by Education District Officers (EDOs), annual CWIQ surveys coming onstream in FY05, 
triannual Multiple Indicators Cluster Surveys, triannual PIHS surveys (next available data set in 
Page  4
 4
FY06), annual monitoring reports prepared by the Health and Education Reforms Units, and 
quarterly fiscal reports and annual budgets. Regular supervision of the NWFP SAC2 will also be 
carried out by the Bank in partnership with the Government of NWFP.   
 
7.  Environment Aspects 
 
The environmental safeguard OD 4.01 does not apply and furthermore the policy measures 
supported by the Credit are not expected to have a direct negative impact on the environment.  
8.  Contact Points 
Mr. 
Paul 
Wade 
      Ms. 
Zareen 
Fatima 
Naqvi 
Senior 
Economist 
     Senior 
Economist 
The World Bank 
 
 
 
 
 
World Bank Pakistan Country Office 
1818 
H 
Street, 
NW 
     20-A 
Shahrah-e-Jamhuriyat, 
G-5/1 
Washington, 
D.C., 
20433 
 
USA 
    Islamabad, 
Pakistan 
Telephone: 
202-478-2270 
    Telephone: 
(9251) 
9090231 
Fax: 
202-522-0356 
     Fax: 
92-51-2279648-9
 
