Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 3932-1 PAK 
(Amendment) 
 
Agreement Amending 
Program Agreement  
 
(Second NWFP Structural Adjustment Credit) 
 
between 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
and 
 
NORTH WEST FRONTIER PROVINCE 
 
Dated Occtober 25, 2005 
 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 3932-1 PAK 
(Amendment)
 
AGREEMENT AMENDING 
PROGRAM AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated October 25, 2005, between INTERNATIONAL 
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the 
“Association”) and NORTH WEST 
FRONTIER PROVINCE acting by its Governor (NWFP). 
 
(A) 
WHEREAS pursuant to a development credit agreement dated  
June 22, 2004, between Islamic Republic of Pakistan (the “Borrower”) and the 
Association (the “Development Credit Agreement”), the Association agreed to 
provide the Borrower with a Credit in an amount in various currencies equivalent to 
sixty-two million one hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 62,100,000) to 
support the Borrower and NWFP in the execution of the Program as described in 
Recital (A) of the Development Credit Agreement (the “Program”), but only on 
condition that NWFP agreed to undertake such obligations toward the Association as 
are set forth in the Program Agreement;; 
 
(B) 
WHEREAS pursuant to the Program Agreement dated 
 
June 22, 2004, between the Association and NWFP, NWFP agreed to undertake the 
obligations set forth in the Program Agreement; 
 
(C) 
WHEREAS the Borrower and NWFP have requested the Association 
to provide additional financial assistance in support of the Program to help in meeting 
the increased financing requirements caused by the impact of the earthquake that hit 
the Borrower’s territory on October 8, 2005, by increasing the amount made available 
under the Development Credit Agreement by an amount in various currencies 
equivalent to thirty four million six hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
34,600,000); and 
 
(D) 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed to extend such additional 
assistance to the Borrower and to NWFP on the terms and conditions set out in the 
Development Credit Agreement as amended by the Agreement Amending the 
Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith (the “Amending Agreement”); 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
 
Definitions 
 
Section 1.01.  Unless the context otherwise requires and except where 
otherwise defined in this Agreement Amending the Program Agreement, all 
capitalized terms contained herein shall have the meanings given to them in the 
Development Credit Agreement, the Amending Agreement or in the General 
Conditions as the case requires. 
Page  3
-
2
-
ARTICLE II 
 
Amending Provisions 
 
Section 2.01.  Recital (C) of the Development Credit Agreement is amended to 
read as follows: 
 
“(C) 
by the Development Credit Agreement of even date 
herewith, as amended by the Agreement Amending the Development Credit 
Agreement (together, the “Development Credit Agreement”) between the 
Borrower and the Association, the Association has agreed to make available 
to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to ninety six 
million seven hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 96,700,000) 
on the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, 
but only on condition that NWFP agrees to undertake such obligations toward 
the Association as are set forth in this Agreement as amended by the 
Agreement Amending the Program Agreement (together, the “Program 
Agreement”); and” 
 
Section 2.02.  Except as expressly provided in this Agreement Amending the 
Program Agreement, all other provisions of the Program Agreement shall remain in 
full force and effect. 
 
ARTICLE III 
 
Effective Date; Termination 
 
Section 3.01. The Agreement Amending the Program Agreement shall come 
into force and effect on the date upon which the Amending Agreement becomes 
effective. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Miscellaneous Provisions 
 
Section 4.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement Amending the Program Agreement and any agreement between 
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request 
shall be deemed to have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand 
or by mail, telex or facsimile to the party to which it is required or permitted to be 
given or made at such party’s address hereinafter specified or at such other address as 
such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making 
such request. Deliveries made by facsimile transmission shall also be confirmed by 
mail. The addresses so specified are: 
 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association 
Page  4
-
3
-
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
 
INDEVAS  
 
248423 
(MCI) 
or 
(202) 
477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI)    
 
 
 
For NWFP: 
 
Planning and Development Department 
Government of North West Frontier Province 
Peshawar, Pakistan 
 
Cable Address: 
 
 
 
Facsimile: 
 
 
DEVELOPMENT 
 
 
 
   091-9210354 
 Peshawar, 
Pakistan 
 
Section 4.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement Amending the Program 
Agreement on behalf of NWFP may be taken or executed by the Secretary, Finance 
Department, NWFP, or such other person or persons as NWFP shall designate in 
writing, and NWFP shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of the 
authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person. 
 
Section 4.03. This Agreement Amending the Program Agreement
 
may be 
executed in several counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all 
collectively but one instrument. 
 
Page  5
-
4
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their 
respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day 
and year first above written. 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ Praful Patel 
Regional Vice President 
South Asia 
 
NORTH WEST FRONTIER PROVINCE  
 
By /s/ Mushtaq Malik 
Authorized Representative 
Page  6
-
5
-
