                                      Document of
                                   The World Bank




                                                               Report No: 32493

                        IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                  (TF-50893 IDA-39320)

                                     ON A CREDIT




                          IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 62.1 MILLION
                                 (US$90 Million Equivalent)

                                        TO THE

                            ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN

                                         FOR A
                  SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT CREDIT FOR THE

                  GOVERNMENT OF NORTH WEST FRONTIER PROVINCE




                                      June 22, 2005




Poverty Reduction and Economic Management Unit
South Asia Region

                                     CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                                 (Exchange Rate Effective June 20, 2005)

                                       Currency Unit = Pak Rupees (PKRs)
                                               PKR 1 = US$ 0.0165.
                                                US$ 1 = PKR 60.5

                                              FISCAL YEAR
                                             July 1     June 30

                                ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AAA   Analytical & Advisory Activity                      M&E      Monitoring & Evaluation
ADBP  Agriculture Development Bank of Pakistan            MDG      Millennium Development Goal
ADP   Annual Development Plan                             MICS     Multi Indicator Cluster Survey
AGP   Auditor General of Pakistan                         MMA      Mutahidda-Majlis-e-Amal
AIT   Agriculture Income Tax                              MTBF     Medium-Term Budget Framework
AsDB  Asian Development Bank                              NBP      National Bank of Pakistan
BoK   Bank of Khyber                                      NFC      National Finance Commission
CAS   Country Assistance Strategy                         PAC      Public Accounts Committee
CBR   Central Board of Revenue                            PFAA     Provincial Financial Accountability Assessment
CFAA  Country Financial and Accountability Assessment     PFC      Provincial Financial Coordinator
CWIQ  Core Welfare Indicators Questionnaire               PFM      Public Financial Management
DAO   District Accounts Officer                           PIFRA    Project for Improvement in Financial Reporting and Auditing
DCO   District Coordinating Officer                       PIHS     Pakistan Integrated Household Survey
DFID  Department for International Development (UK)       PPA      Participatory Poverty Assessment
EDO   Executive Development Officer                       PPSC     Provincial Public Service Commission
EIROP Essential Institutional Reforms Operationalization  PRSP     Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
      Project
EMIS  Education Management Information System             PRSC     Poverty Reduction Support Credit
EPI   Expanded Program of Immunization                    PSD      Private Sector Development
FEF   Frontier Education Foundation                       PTA      Parent-Teacher Association
FIAS  Foreign Investment Advisory Services                SAC      Structural Adjustment Credit
GAVI  Global Alliance for Vaccines and Immunization       SBP      State Bank of Pakistan
GTZ   Gesellschaft fur Technische Zusammenarbeit          SDA      Sarhad Development Authority
HMIS  Health Management Information System                SDC      Swiss Development Corporation
ICA   Investment Climate Assessment                       SIDB     Small Industries Development Board
IFC   International Finance Corporation                   SME      Small-Medium Sized Enterprise
LFS   Labor Force Survey                                  TEVTA    Technical Education and Vocational Training
                                                                   Agency
LGC   Local Government Commission                         TMA      Tehsil Municipal Administration
LGO   Local Government Ordinance                          UNDP     United Nations Development Programme
LHW   Lady Health Worker                                  WAPDA    Water and Power Development Authority




                                      Vice President:      Praful Patel, SARVP
                                   Country Director        John W. Wall, SACPK
                                     Sector Director       Sadiq Ahmed, SASPR
               Task Team Leader/Task Manager:              Paul Wade, Zareen Naqvi (SASPR)

                                          PAKISTAN
                                        NWFP SAC II


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            7
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            21
6. Sustainability                                                                22
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 23
8. Lessons Learned                                                               25
9. Partner Comments                                                              26
10. Additional Information                                                       34
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             36
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             47
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             48
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             49
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             50
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                51
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            52

Project ID: P079635                                                  Project Name: NWFP SAC II
Team Leader: Paul Wade                                               TL Unit: SASPR
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 22, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: NWFP SAC II                                              L/C/TF Number: TF-50893; IDA-39320
   Country/Department: PAKISTAN                                                           Region: South Asia Regional
                                                                                                     Office

        Sector/subsector: General public administration sector (40%); Health (20%); General
                            education sector (20%); General industry and trade sector (10%);
                            General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector (10%)
                  Theme: Public expenditure, financial management and procurement (P);
                            Education for all (P); Health system performance (P); Administrative
                            and civil service reform (P); Regulation and competition policy (P)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 04/01/2004                                     Effective: 06/23/2004                06/23/2004
     Appraisal: 04/15/2004                                         MTR:
      Approval: 06/22/2004                                      Closing: 12/31/2004                 12/31/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT OF PAKISTAN/MINISTRY OF FINANCE; GOVERNMENT
                                           OF PAKISTAN/GOVERNMENT OF NWFP
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Praful C. Patel                                Mieko Nishimizu
Country Director:               John Wall                                      John Wall
Sector Director:                Sadiq Ahmed                                    Sadiq Ahmed
Team Leader at ICR:             Paul Wade                                      Paul Wade
ICR Primary Author:             Richard Carroll


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

Background

National context. After a decade of macroeconomic weakness and stagnant social indicators, a military
government came into power in Pakistan in October 1999. This government recognized the need to restore
macroeconomic stability, raise growth and reduce poverty, and designed a reform program to modernize
Pakistan and its institutions. The Bank has been supporting this strategy as expressed in the national
Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) with two adjustment credits and one Poverty Reduction Strategy
Credit (PRSC) to the federal government. Several provinces, including the North West Frontier Province,
have supplemented the federal reform program with their own programs of growth and poverty reduction
through improved economic management and governance and improved delivery of basic social services.
These provincial programs are in line with the national government's program to improve service delivery
and decentralize many government functions.

Provincial context. The North West Frontier Province (NWFP) is one of four provinces in Pakistan and
accounts for about 15 percent of the Pakistan's total population. Its per capita income is estimated at 14
percent below the national average (World Bank estimate). NWFP's most recent poverty headcount placed
it at 46 percent compared with a national average of 37 percent (World Bank estimate based on PIHS
2001/02 household data). The rural and urban poverty headcounts are 48 and 35 percent, respectively,
compared with national averages of 42 and 26 percent. About 85 percent of NWFP's population is rural.

Despite some improvement in the 1990s, social indicators reveal weak social development. The literacy
rate for NWFP was estimated in 2001/02 at only 38 percent, compared to 45 percent for the nation (from
PIHS survey 2001/02). The 2001/02 data also showed large gender disparities with the female literacy rate
at 20 percent (57 percent for males) and net primary enrollment at 39 percent (62 percent for males),
though it has improved recently.

The Second Structural Adjustment Credit to the Islamic Republic of Pakistan the NWFP SAC2 in the
amount of US$90 million equivalent was the second phase of IDA support to the Government of the
NWFP's economic reform program to reduce human and income poverty in the province, and address
gender disparities. Like the first phase, the NWFP SAC2 was a single tranche operation and was fully
disbursed the day of effectiveness (June 22, 2004). The credit closed on December 31, 2004, which was
the original closing date.

Objective

NWFP SAC2's overarching objective was to support the medium-term Provincial Reform Program (PRP
2001-2004), which has five pillars:

1.       fiscal reforms;
2.       public financial management and accountability reforms;
3.       reforms to accelerate human development;
4.       governance reforms to achieve an efficient, accountable and service-oriented
         civil service; and
5.       measures to promote growth and private sector development (PSD).




                                                    - 2 -

The NWFP SAC2 was responsive to the province's priority development problems. The credit
allowed the province to incur larger budgetary expenditures for the province's reform program, especially
those related to improved service delivery improvements and retirement of expensive debt. More detailed
objectives are listed as subcomponents in Section 3.3 below.

This support was consistent with the program expressed in the national PRSP that was published in
December 2003 and discussed by the World Bank and IMF Boards, and complements the nationwide
Poverty Reduction Strategy Credit. The national poverty strategy emphasizes: improved macro-policy and
growth, governance and devolution, human capital development and programs targeting the poor, which are
essentially the same priorities as those of the NWFP SAC2.

3.2 Revised Objective:

No revisions.

3.3 Original Components:

The components of the NWFP SAC2 were consistent with the main goal of the Bank Group's Assistance
Strategy for FY2003-2005, discussed by the Board in June 2002, which is to support the Government
reform program for a transition to a modern Islamic state through a program of analytical services,
institutional capacity building, and demand-pull lending. The components address the priority development
constraints in the province, and reflect the pillars of the PRP, listed in Section 3.1. The NWFP SAC2
components and their sub-components were expressed in the form of objectives and comprised the
following:

1.       Improving Fiscal Sustainability and Restoring Financial Accountability
         1.1      Enhancing fiscal sustainability
         1.2      Increasing reliance on provincial revenues
         1.3      Restructuring public expenditures
         1.4      Improving budgetary processes
         1.5      Strengthening fiscal devolution
         1.6      Improving public financial management and accountability
         1.7      Improving public procurement

2.       Strengthening Accountability and Professionalism of State Institutions
         2.1      Restructuring the civil service
         2.2      Strengthening administrative devolution
         2.3      Improving M&E

3.       Accelerating Human Development
         3.1      Improving access to education and reducing gender disparities
         3.2      Improving quality of education and health services
         3.3      Improving public-private partnership in education and health
         3.4      Full budget (MTBF) funding for education in general --for girls' schools in
         particular--and for health services
         3.5      Improving M&E for education and health
         3.6      Improving health outcomes




                                                       - 3 -

4.       Promoting Growth-Private Sector Development
         4.1      PSD strategy formulation and implementation
         4.2      Improving the regulatory and administrative business environment
         4.3      Restructure and privatize state-owned enterprises
         4.4      Agriculture sector development

The design was broad as in the previous operation. Enhancing fiscal sustainability, improving public
financial management and accountability and accelerating human development through improved public
service delivery in education and health were key ingredients. Each component addressed a priority reform
area with the overall aim of restoring financial and operational integrity to provincial government
institutions and improving the effectiveness of public expenditures. The credit aimed at helping NWFP
maintain and create additional fiscal space for high priority programs through the retirement of expensive
federal debt, improved revenue mobilization and expenditure management. Civil service reform included
revised rules of business that would clarify responsibilities in a decentralized civil service. The growth
strategy included formulating a PSD strategy for the province based on guiding principles for further PSD
reforms; improving the investment climate by reducing regulatory and administrative barriers; leasing or
selling select government assets to the private sector; and and agriculture strategy and irrigation sector
reform.

The GoNWFP strategy views education as the foundation of long term development and promoted
education through better access to primary education and reduction of gender disparities. The NWFP
SAC2 was to achieve these goals through making public education free through secondary school, new
hiring rules of teachers (most of them from their local community) to reduce teacher absenteeism,
upgrading school facilities, in particular in girls schools to improve their access to education, redeploying
teachers, rationalizing staff and faculty, and separating the managerial aspects of education from those of
teaching. Encouraging public private partnerships in education and strengthening PTA were two vehicles
to increase access to education and to monitor quality indicators (such as teacher absenteeism),
respectively.

The health policy component aimed to improve health outcomes by extending coverage of TB DOTS
programs to 7 additional districts (FY03) and by expanding access to maternal and child health services,
including family planning, by deploying new lady health workers (LHWs) and female nurses at district
hospitals. The non-core program contained a good deal of planning for the sector including a long-term
sector reform program. In this sector, the SAC2 could have better supported the need to improve
management and develop a multi-level referral system. Funds from SAC2 were used to remove obvious
gaps in facilities, which was a top priority. Though monitoring of health care financing was part of the
policy dialog, there could have been more follow-up in the mechanism for health care financing/cost
recovery.

The Government institutional set up was such where there was little delineation between the roles of the
Government vis-a-vis the private sector, thus the growth and private sector development component was
fairly sparse in terms of specifics and focused more on developing a private sector- oriented mind set. Due
to a lack of quality analytical work there were few specifics with respect to reducing administrative
barriers. A FIAS study on administrative barriers was expected to provide input into SAC2. However, the
study has been delayed and has, therefore, not provided input into SAC2. A core component of the PSD
agenda was to lease out two hydel projects to the private sector, which was an appropriate move. Some of
the M&E indicators established for the PSD agenda were relatively general. This reflected that the Bank
needed to build up a PSD reform agenda gradually given the specific context at the time. The SAC2 team



                                                       - 4 -

was dealing with a newly elected government who had no experience in governing and very limited insight
into PSD matters. There was a long history of mistrust and lack of communication between government
and the private sector, and also a lack of AAA on the provincial economy and PSD issues (which has now
been addressed with the recent NWFP Economic Report). The first sign that the Government was becoming
increasingly aware of PSD issues and the importance for economic growth and poverty reduction in the
province was the PSD Policy Statement in April 2004. This was subsequently followed by a number of
policy initiatives on public-private partnerships in 2005.

The basic concept of provincial adjustment loans was sound; it recognized that to make progress on MDGs
in Pakistan, the reform efforts need to be targeted also at the provincial level where delivery of social
services takes place. The provincial SAC2 also provided much-needed support for a challenging
decentralization process by providing the fiscal space for expanding social service delivery at the local
level. The credit followed a programmatic approach, which is a sequence of similar credits (a total of three
are anticipated). The programmatic approach offers the flexibility to adapt the program to changing
circumstances as well as the multi-year commitment of a reasonable level of budgetary support in order for
fiscal and governance reforms to yield results. As in SAC1, the triggers for the Bank's future assistance
strategy are based on measurable outputs expected to be closely associated with progress towards the
Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) in the social sectors.

3.4 Revised Components:

No revisions.

3.5 Quality at Entry:

Satisfactory (moderately). As part of the second phase of the reform program, the preparation of the
NWFP SAC2 benefited from the experience of the preceding SAC. SAC2 activities generally adjusted to
the priorities that were apparent after implementation of SAC1, namely, the need to continue to improve
public expenditure management and revenue mobilization, as well as build on education and civil service
reform, which were the strongest components of SAC2. The areas of health and PSD were followed up,
but will need further strengthening ahead. Still, health outcomes were ultimately good (Section 4.1), and,
in PSD, as mentioned, the SAC2 program was starting from a rudimentary base and was able to initiate an
effective PSD policy dialog. In general, the policy dialogue with GoNWFP was broad and has continued to
deepen. The Government had a high degree of ownership of the SAC2 design.

Risk assessment. The Program Document cited four types of risk and proposed mitigations, which are
summarized in Table 1. The risk of inadequate implementation capacity threatened the success of
decentralization. This risk was to be addressed by a bilateral and multilateral, donor-supported
comprehensive capacity building program. Decentralization was also threatened by power struggles
between the province and the districts, which was extremely difficult if not impossible to mitigate during
the project period. A risk that needed greater consideration was that the SAC2-funded improvement in
physical assets in the social sectors would not be adequately maintained. There is not a culture of
maintenance in NWFP, particularly at the district level, and stronger efforts could have been designed to
ensure adequate funds for maintenance and the application of those funds for their intended use. Overall
the risk assessment and mitigation were moderately satisfactory.




                                                      - 5 -

                    Table 1: Major Risks and Mitigation for NWFP SAC2
                          Type of Risk                                      Mitigation
 Political: mainly from the regional security           Despite the potential for pulling the government in
 problems, which could lead to rising opposition to     a more radical, anti-reform direction, the
 the reform program.                                    government has continued to pursue reforms at a
                                                        reasonable pace.
 Implementation capacity: combined with the large       This lack of capacity is being addressed with TA
 number of non-core conditions could undermine          funded by other donors.
 implementation.
 Fiscal: the risk has shifted from one of               Continued adherence to the MTBF. Continued
 sustainability to one of not maintaining adequate      improvement in own revenue generation.
 social spending and investment. The concern is poor
 judgment in the composition of spending and in the
 civil service.
 External shocks: including impacts on the national     Limited scope for mitigation except that emphasis
 economy that could reduce transfers from the central   on improved irrigation and water use could mitigate
 government, drought, border tensions that affect       low rainfall.
 commerce.


One fiscal factor outside the control of the province with a negative impact on the provincial finances was
the breakdown of the deal to increase federal transfers to the provinces (National Finance Commission
-NFC- awards). Civil service salaries increased too rapidly and placed a further strain on the budget.
There was also a concern at the Bank that after SAC1 was disbursed and the new government settled in, the
reforms might be derailed. That did not happen and it was appropriate to separate the SAC1 and SAC2 by
an additional year to ensure commitment of the new government to the reform program before proceeding
with the next round of budget support.

Civil Service Measures and Fiscal Impact. One action, lifting the ban on civil service recruitment outside
of teachers and health workers was a response to changing conditions, namely, increased demand for social
services in step with population growth. And there were empty sanctioned posts (available positions) that
needed to be filled. The program document warned that lifting the ban would pose a threat to fiscal
sustainability in an environment of an unchanged NFC Award. When the NFC Award was not approved it
did add somewhat to the negative fiscal impact because it combined with a large, federally-driven, civil
service salary increase. Thus, the risk was appropriately assessed (see Section 5 for an explanation).

Monitoring Indicators. Much emphasis was placed on monitoring of poverty indicators, such as those
covered in the PIHS, which are conducted at regular intervals and on a nationwide basis by the federal
government. Reliance on these instruments for program monitoring proved unrealistic. The federal
government had protracted debates on how best to get the increased amount of information needed at the
district level in light of decentralization. This deliberation caused delays. The federal government also
delayed in carrying out Core Welfare Indicator Questionnaires-"CWIQ surveys," for which it had opted in
the interim. CWIQ surveys are carried out among a larger number of households, but require less
information per household. Even the CWIQ survey is a major undertaking with a sample size of about
80,000 households. EMIS and HMIS (under provincial control) data were collected, but delayed as well,
and their reliability is not certain. A set of monitoring indicators might have been selected and collected in
a way that did not rely on a nationwide, coordinated effort. To its credit, the Bank attempted a round of
third party validation surveys but that was rejected due to the upcoming CWIQ. By the time of the ICR,
sufficient monitoring indicators including the CWIQ, became available to evaluate the program, and served
as input into the next credit (SAC3, or Development Policy Credit-DPC).



                                                       - 6 -

SAC2 complexity. Although the core conditions were relatively few (12), there were 64 non-core
conditions, which seemed to tax the provincial authorities' implementation capacity. This strain on
implementation capacity resulted in a somewhat less determined pursuit of the non-core program (see
Section 4). In addition, the program was very broad with measures ranging from public expenditure
management and procurement, to micro-hydro privatization, school rehabilitation, accounting and auditing
and farmer organizations.

Frequency of SACs. When the program was originally designed, a SAC was envisioned for each year, but
only if implementation were exemplary. As implementation has been generally satisfactory, but not
exemplary, the SACs are spaced out to every other year, allowing additional time for the GoNWFP to
demonstrate commitment, particularly for the broader, non-core program. This approach has worked well
so far but has the weakness of not providing funding at the time of the budget approval, on an annual basis.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The achievement of objectives is rated satisfactory. This section bases its rating on meeting the core
conditions, and on progress in the non-core program as revealed by the monitorable indicators, process
improvements and the overall provincial macro/fiscal measures. The NWFP SAC2 effectively supported
the government reform program and made significant progress through its major components, with
particular emphasis on social sector and governance reforms. The outcomes are presented under their
corresponding project development objectives (PDOs). Table 2 provides estimates of provincial macro
indicators. Table 3 summarizes the broad outcomes from the NWFP SAC2-supported program, though
many of the indicators are updated infrequently. The table in the Additional information section presents
the recent fiscal performance of the GoNWFP and Annex Table 1 provides additional details of outcomes
and outputs. While there have been a number of shortcomings documented below, GoNWFP implemented
all core conditions, the vast majority of the non-core program and achieved a significant development
impact. Moreover, the pace of reforms has been steady and with notable progress after 3 years of
SAC-supported reforms. There are significant measured improvements in health and education outcomes,
increased fiscal responsibility and credibility of government institutions and recent momentum in PSD.

Macroeconomic Stability

Numbers describing provincial macro stability were estimated by the Bank. Official estimates of provincial
GDP are not available. Bank estimates show moderately strong growth throughout the program period.
Unemployment held steady at about 13 percent. Detailed fiscal accounts are provided in Additional
Information, Section 10 (Table 5).

                       TABLE 2: Provincial Macroeconomic Indicators
 Indicator                          2001/02             2002/03                2003/04           2004/05 (Proj.)
 Provincial GDP Growth 1/               5.4                 5.1                   5.6                    6.3
 Unemployment                      13.1      2/          13.0 3/               12.9 2/                 12.8 3/
1/ Bank staff estimates. These estimates have been derived by calculating NWFP's share in national value added by using broad
"allocators" or national GDP apportioning factors. For instance, the allocator for agriculture crops is production of these crops
in NWFP; for manufacturing it is the share of manufacturing value added in NWFP; and for services is the employed civilan
labor force in services sector in NWFP. The projections for FY05 are based on expected GDP growth in NWFP.
2/ Labor Force Surveys.
3/ The unemployment rate is based on assumed employment-to-GDP growth elasticity of 0.55 and assumed annual growth in
labor force of 3.2%.




                                                             - 7 -

4.1      Outcomes by Development Objective

I.       Improving Fiscal Sustainability and Restoring Financial Accountability (Satisfactory)

There were a number of positive developments on the fiscal front. The province has made impressive gains
under fairly difficult fiscal circumstances, raising own revenues, reducing debt and creating fiscal space
and improving the composition of expenditures. Provincial own revenues have increased cumulatively by
29 percent in nominal terms during FY02 (pre-SAC) to FY04. The provincial government has retired Rs
10.1 billion of expensive debt since 2002/03, and created Rs 1.9 billion ($5.2 million) in annual fiscal
space by reducing interest and principal payments. Interest payments as a share of total expenditures have
declined from 18 percent in FY02 to 12.5 percent by end FY04. The debt to PGDP ratio has been reduced
from around 16 percent in FY02 to 12 percent in FY04 and is expected to fall further in coming years. The
composition of expenditures has improved with higher expenditures on public investments and on social
sectors. During 2001/02 to 2003/04 the share of current expenditure has declined from 80 percent of total
expenditures to 77 percent; the share of development expenditures has increased from 20 percent to 23
percent; and the share of social sector expenditures in total expenditures have increased from 29 percent to
39 percent. Moreover, the province has controlled expenditures on subsidies from 3 percent of total
expenditures in FY02 to only 1.5 percent in FY04.

Provisional estimates show a 23 percent increase in overall revenues (13 percent increase in real revenues
taking the provisional GDP deflator estimate of 10 percent for FY05 for Pakistan) during the first three
quarter of FY05 compared to the same period of FY04. Based on preliminary estimates, it is expected that
the overall increase in revenues would be around 26 percent (16 percent in real terms) by the end of FY05.
The GoNWFP's own nominal revenues increased by 16 percent (6 percent in real terms) (see Table in
Additional Information Section), during the first three quarters of FY05 over the same period of FY04, thus
exceeding the nominal target of 13 percent (Table 3). Provincial own revenues are expected to increase by
close to 20 percent (10 percent in real terms) by end-FY05 over actual revenue collection of FY04. The
overall resource position in FY04 was basically stagnant, but provincial own revenue collection increased
by 8.9 percent (1.1 percent real increase) higher in FY04 over FY03.

The FY05 third quarter position showed a 21 percent increase in nominal expenditures and a 11 percent
real increase based on the estimated cumulative GDP deflator for the year. Expenditures increased due to
an increase in establishment costs but also because of a healthy increase in development expenditures of 85
percent (75 percent real increase) ­ largely due to growing public investments in social sectors and in
public infrastructure. Based on preliminary estimates for the end of FY05, it is expected that the overall
increase in revenues would be around 18 percent (8 percent in real terms) over FY04, including a 26
percent nominal increase (16 percent real increase) in development expenditures. The smaller increase in
expenditures between the third quarter and expected by end of the fiscal year is largely because
expenditures were better paced throughout the year during FY05, whereas expenditures, particularly
development expenditures, were bunched during the last quarter of FY04. Although the province has made
progress in fiscal monitoring, due to teething problems with the introduction of the New Chart of Accounts
in FY05 and chronic problems of fiscal reporting from Districts, monitoring of actual expenditures has
been somewhat weak and inconclusive.

The fiscal deficit stood at Rs. 1.5 billion (0.2 percent of the estimated PGDP) by the end of the third
quarter of FY05 and is expected to be around Rs 3.5 billion (0.6 percent of PGDP) by end of the fiscal
year. The expected FY05 deficit is within the agreed limits that were set in the Program Document for SAC
2 (Rs 4.3 billion). Although the province did not get the NFC Award as was expected at the time of



                                                      - 8 -

negotiating the Credit (end of FY04) it is not expected to end up with a higher fiscal deficit in FY05. The
reasons are that the overall revenues stood close to the expected levels because of higher Federal and
foreign grants, current expenditures were contained to agreed levels even though expenditures on
establishment costs were higher, while the province continued to provide resources for infrastructure
development and social sectors.

There were some initial concerns regarding the sustainability of FY05 expenditures but many of these fears
have not materialized. The province has not resorted to Ways and Means financing in FY05 due to prudent
fiscal management and receipt of arrears on electricity from WAPDA and on certain types of user charges.
Fiscal sustainability could be an issue in FY06 and beyond, if there is no agreement on the new NFC
Award, if the Net Hydel Profits continue at their capped levels of Rs 6 billion and if there is another
increase of 15-20 percent in the wage and pension rates as part of the decisions of the Federal Government.
The province would like to get on a higher growth path to generate jobs and move to next phase of reforms.
Unless more resources are available from the Federal government (the new NFC), or from donors, it may
need Ways and Means financing to fund expenditures and that the need might go beyond the Rs.2 billion
limit (about US$40 million), above which the State Bank charges a higher interest rate (7 percent). The
more important concern is that GoNWFP's wage and pension bill has increased rapidly over the past two
years. If this trend continues, it could crowd out expenditures that would be more likely to produce growth,
employment and poverty reduction, such as in O&M and public investments that would foster long-term
growth. So far, however, Annual Development Plan (ADP) spending is growing at a satisfactory pace.

The ADP budgeted throw forward rate was reduced to 2.86 years, which was a substantial achievement.
The actual outcome on the ADP throw-forward for FY05 will be available by October/November 2005
with the June final data. The ADP throw forward relates to the total remaining spending needed to finalize
all development projects that are already included in the project portfolio. It is measured in number of years
it would take to complete the existing projects with the current pace of implementation (i.e., this year's
ADP spending). This achievement meant that more development projects were completed more rapidly and
that projects would not be added to the bloated project portfolio unless there were funds to complete the
project in less than the throw-forward target. It improved efficiency and reduced the practice of
proliferating development projects for political reasons. It also benefits private contractors who are more
likely to be paid enough to complete the contracted job in a reasonable amount of time. Steps toward
strengthening procurement were taken with the enactment of the new procurement law and notification of
procurement regulations and standard bidding documents. However, the impact is reduced as many
provincial Departments continue to use the old procurement rules. The new law is also in need of some
revisions, which the Bank has recommended. More importantly, there needs to be greater stakeholder
involvement developing the implementing regulations for the new procurement practices. Failure to do this
earlier has also reduced the impact of the new law.

II.      Strengthening Accountability and Professionalism of State Institutions
         (Moderately Satisfactory)

Civil Service Reform. Restructuring the civil service has been carried out incrementally with increased
transparency, particularly for grades 11 and above (grades 16 and above in departments that have devolved
functions to the districts) through recruitment by an autonomous Provincial Public Service Commission
(PPSC). The increase in sanctioned posts was held below the 3 percent yearly target (1.3 percent). Senior
staff tenure has increased substantially to 16.0 months (as of April 2005) and is more or less on track to
reach the 18-month target during FY06. The increase in tenure is expected to improve management
continuity and, therefore, flatten learning curves, with fewer staff shake-ups, which will improve
implementation. Complicating civil service reform is the extremely weak database, which does not allow a


                                                      - 9 -

comparison of the actual numbers of staff employed against the number of sanctioned posts provided for in
the budget nor provide reliable information on staff movements such as appointment, transfer or promotion.
The Bank has continued to support the establishment of a human resource database, which is progressing
well. The second phase of this effort is underway and 228,000 data sets (out of 282,000) have been input
into the system. The key will be to operationalize the system quickly, integrate it into the government and
update it regularly. Delays would be damaging in this activity.

GoNWFP followed suit with the Federal government by increasing civil service salaries by 15 percent for
all staff, and increasing pensions of current retirees by 8-16 percent in 2004. This increase followed
another 15 percent increase in salaries and pensions in 2003. Although not legally required, provinces
typically follow federal salary increases because they share the same basic pay scale structure. Provincial
governments perceive that it is politically impossible to diverge from the federal civil service remuneration
policy. These increases were not well structured and carry substantial costs with insufficient gains in
retaining high quality staff; the low level employees are reportedly over-paid compared to their best
alternative employment, while high level employees are substantially underpaid (ref. "Pakistan Public
Expenditure Management", World Bank, 2004). Patronage has thus become more attractive.

Though civil service reform has had significant progress in recruitment and tenure, regularization of
contract employees causes concern. The Bank views the GoNWFP's approach as a way of expanding the
civil service. The regularization does not however increase the number of sanctioned posts as contracted
employees already occupied sanctioned posts. Staff quality may have suffered because a lower caliber of
applicant may have been attracted to contract posts where the terms and conditions of employment were
less attractive than those pertaining to regular posts. However, this is difficult to assess in practice.
Regularization may increase pension liabilities for the 23,000 or so contract staff hired since 2001. New
contract employees will not, for now, have free pension benefits, but the Government has had a practice of
granting additional benefits, and if internal pressure from the bureaucracy builds (as was the case in
regularization), it will be difficult, politically, to prevent.

There is also concern that this regularization may nullify benefits from the introduction and expansion of
school-based contracts for teachers (see next objective section). The Bank, in general, maintains that
workers that have a finite task should be under contract, and those who have continuous work are
permanent employees and not contractors. However, there will always be exceptions where job
performance is critical and where a fixed term contract is required to ensure performance and/or provide a
simple mechanism, for example the expiry of the contract, to deal with non-performance. The terms and
conditions of such contracts should not be less attractive than those of regular employment engagements
and would typically include generous gratuities, normally paid at the successful completion of the contract.
However, if teachers are to be regularized, they should still be responsible to the school where they work
and not to the Province or district. Existing Rules of Business provide that no staff may be transferred
before they have completed a term of three years. This rule will be difficult to monitor and enforce before
the human resources management system is operational.

Strengthening Administrative Devolution: District Rules of Business and Devolution. The Local
Government Ordinance (passed in 2001) is the basic, national law governing devolution, and the District
Government Rules of Business further spell out the division of responsibilities between the provinces and
the districts. As per the District Rules of Business, the authority over recruitment and career management
of district staff in grades 1-16 has been formally transferred from the provincial to the district governments.
Specifically, appointments of staff in the devolved departments in BPS 1-15, and postings and transfers in
BPS 1-16, have been given to the districts. However, while these formal authorities have been devolved, de
facto provincial control over recruitment and career management of district, and tehsil, personnel is quite


                                                         - 10 -

pervasive. Moreover, the Rules also specify a high degree of centralization of appointment, posting, and
transfer powers within the district in the office of the District Coordination Officer (DCO). The DCO is
the appointing authority for staff in grades 1-15, and the posting and transfer authority for staff in grades
1-16. This centralization undermines the efficient functioning of the district administration as the DCO's
office lacks the capacity to handle the human resource functions for all the devolved departments. It is also
in contrast to the pre-devolution set-up, where senior district officers within each department had
considerable administrative authority.

Improving M&E. Improving M&E was achieved through additional efforts and resources, but more
frequent updates are needed to be useful to shorter-term program monitoring. Some of the data necessary
to monitor outcomes are federal (PIHS, CWIQ), but other are provincial responsibilities (EMIS, HMIS,
fiscal data, HR database). Both need to improve in terms of timeliness and reliability. The provincial
management information systems (e.g., for health and education) could be strengthened and made more
reliable by for instance establishing independent units for these information systems. Also, monitoring of
service delivery and accountability by frontline providers can be strengthened by better involvement of local
monitoring committees and community based organizations such as PTAs in M&E .




                                                      - 11 -

III.     Accelerating Human Development (Satisfactory)

Education. SAC2 supported the rehabilitation of girls' primary school facilities and was successful, with
100 percent of targeted facility improvements attained. SAC2 made it possible to substantially increase
social expenditures and provided approximately US$25-30 million additional funds for this activity. Works
and services were able to spend about 94 percent of their budget last year and this year, which is a good
performance, but it also means that they are surrendering the rest. Girls are also getting more than half of
overall resources and are getting free textbooks through grade 10. There does seem to be gradual
improvement in the outcome indicator, gross enrollment ratio in public (government) schools (which is the
beneficiary of SAC2 funds), which has increased from 62 to 64 percent during FY04-FY05. Total primary
enrollment increased from 77 to 80 percent during 2001/02-2004/05 (preliminary CWIQ data, 6/2005).
Female primary enrollment increased from 56 to 65 percent over the same period. Recent preliminary
CWIQ data (table 4) show that percentages of the population completing primary school and enrollment in
middle school are also increasing substantially for both boys and girls, again, during 2001/02-2004/05.
The Teacher Management Study (TMS) also confirmed that education reforms -- an essential component of
the SAC -- are having an overall positive impact on enrollment increase, reduction in drop-out, increase in
retention of students at primary level, improvement in learning achievement, reducing teacher absenteeism
and empowering PTAs. Finally, literacy rates for persons aged 10 or above have climbed from 38 to 45
percent over the four year SAC-supported program period.

Other areas are not as strong. For example, public and private partnerships are not effectively encouraged,
though objectives were modest, here. In fact, at least in the rural areas, public private partnerships that
consist of private agents conducting evening classes in public buildings do not work well in NWFP. There
is the issue of safety, especially, but not exclusively, for women. Also, the profit margins for this activity
are nil, except in the urban areas. For now, it would make sense to devise other ways of public private
partnerships in the rural areas, but continue to cultivate evening classes in the urban areas. Schools also
need to be able to hire their own staff, which is currently not the case.




                                                      - 12 -

Table 3: Medium-Term Monitoring Indicators for the SAC-Supported Program
              INDICATOR                         BEFORE              ACTUAL            PLANNED
                                              NWFP SAC1              LATEST           END FY06
 Provincial GDP growth rate                        4% i               6.3% i             5-6% i
 Poverty Head Count (caloric) using               44.3 a             46.3% a             37% a
 World Bank poverty line a/
Poverty Head Count (caloric) using                41.6 b               42.4 b
GoP       poverty line (Bank staff
estimates)
 Provincial Tax Revenue Growth                     15%                14% c              13%
 % Pro-poor I-PRSP expenditures of                 29%                38% d              41%
 total
 Development expenditures                          26%                20% c              21%
 Reconciled fiscal data using the New                ---              95% of             100%
 Accounting Model                                                     receipts
                                                                      97% of
                                                                      expend.
                                                                   (March 2005)
 Gross Primary Enrollment rate                    70% e               80% e            85% e,i
 Gross Primary enrollment rate                    54% e               65% e            84% e,i
 female
 Primary school dropout rates                     24% e               22% e             20% e
 Girls school provided essential                   50% f              100% l        100% by end
 facilities                                                                            of FY04
 Full immunization % of children less             54% e               76% e             65% e
 than 2 yrs.
 % of population with access to TB                20% g              100% m            100% k
 Control using DOTS
 Antenatal coverage of pregnant                   34% h               46% k             50% e
 women by health professionals
 Contraceptive Prevalence Rate                    21% h               33% k             30% k
 Population with access to safe                   58% e               65% e             68% e
 drinking water
 Proportion of roads in poor condition             80%                  n.a.              50%
a/ World Bank. NWFP Poverty Annex and as per the Bank's methodology and poverty line using PIHS 1998/99
and PIHS 2001/02, respectively.
b/ Estimates based on PIHS data and official poverty line using PIHS 1998/99
and PIHS 2001/02, respectively. World Bank staff estimates.
c/ GoNWFP. June Final in a given FY over June Final in the previous FY.
d/ GoNWFP. Both recurrent and development spending on Education and Health, June Final in one FY over June Final in
   previous FY.
e/ Pakistan Integrated Household Survey (PIHS) 1998/99 and 2001/02, respectively. Pakistan Social and Living Standards
Measurement (PSLM) survey which includes CWIQ, from FY05 onwards.
f/ NWFP: Education Management Information System 2001/02 and 2002/03, respectively.
g/ Department of Health, GoNWFP.
h/ Pakistan Reproductive Health and Family Planning Survey 2000/01.
i/ NWFP Economic Report, June 2005, Bank estimate.
j/ NWFP District based Multi Indicator Cluster Survey 2001.
k/ HMIS.
l/ EMIS 2004-data for 2004.
m/ Joint Review of the National TB Control Programme Mission report.




                                                          - 13 -

PTAs are critical to successful schools in the NWFP educational strategy. PTAs have been established in
many schools, but will require time to operate effectively in monitoring teacher attendance and directing
maintenance of schools. Policy issues are not being taken up and M&E is weak. The M&E does not use
standard reporting and does not disaggregate between boys and girls making assessment of reducing gender
disparities, beyond enrollment rates, impossible. The GoNWFP agreed that EMIS was to produce
additional monitoring data such as teacher absenteeism. The EMIS report was delayed by nearly 6 months
and there is no detailed data as yet on teacher absenteeism. The EMIS is intended as a management tool
and has been useful in planning the free textbook program and in teacher redeployment, but needs further
development to convince managers of its usefulness in running schools.

Teacher recruitment is improving with SAC2-supported facility-based recruitments where teachers are
employed by a specific school, not the district bureaucracy. This change increases the teacher's incentive
to show up and teach. There is also increased enforcement of penalties on absent teachers, both those with
facility-based contracts and some of those recruited under the previous system. The vast majority of
teachers was recruited under the non-facility based system, though the TMS notes improvements in merit
recruitment of teachers. Facilities and access are also a major constraint in teacher attendance that SAC2
has been addressing. Only senior high school teachers and lecturers (grade 16 and above) are recruited
through the PPSC, which conducts merit-based recruitment. Many teacher recruitments, which are in the
grade range of 7 to 15 cannot assuredly be said to have been merit based. There is plenty of anecdotal
evidence that many teaching positions are viewed as entitlements with little obligation to actually teach.

Health. The two most important impacts of this component were the increased coverage of TB DOTS (
districts with fully functional TB DOTS through the public health system) and the deployment of Lady
Health Workers to deliver health care to a greater share of the population. Supervision missions report that
the overall immunization program, along with the deployment of LHWs, is proceeding well. Expanding
access to TB DOTS vaccinations (100 percent of districts) has progressed as planned. Reduction of polio
cases (33 to 8) is also going well. Most of the other health indicators are also good. Antenatal
immunization has reached 46 percent coverage, which is on target to reach 50 percent by 2006.
Contraceptive use increased to 33 percent already exceeding the 2006 target of 30 percent. Immunization
coverage of children aged 12-23 months has also exceeded the target of 65 percent by 2006, having reached
76 percent (preliminary CWIQ data, table 4). The weakness in the program was the minimal progress in
establishing a management cadre in the health sector. The Bank will need to continue to pursue this
initiative with GoNWFP.




                                                    - 14 -

Table 4. Social Indicators based on the Preliminary CWIQ Survey Results (June 2005)

                                                             1998-99             2001-02             2004-05
Literacy Rate (10+ years)
Total                                                           37                  38                  45
Females                                                         20                  20                  26
Gross Primary Enrolment Rate (5-9 Years)
Total                                                           70                  77                  80
Female                                                          54                  56                  65
Population 10 years and above who have
completed primary education
Total                                                           28                  31                  36
Female                                                          14                  16                  20
Gross Middle Enrolment Rate (10-12 Years)
Total                                                           37                  38                  47
Female                                                          22                  23                  31
Gross Matric Enrolment Rate (13-14 Years)
Total                                                           36                  41                  43
Female                                                          13                  20                  24
Percent of Children 12-23 months immunized
Total                                                           54                  57                  76
Female                                                          56                  57                  76
Access to safe water                                            58                  58                  65
Homes with toilet facilities                                    58                  69                  76
Sources: Pakistan Integrated Household Survey (PIHS) 1998/99 and 2001/02, and preliminary results from the Pakistan Social
and Living Standards Measurement Survey 2004/05 (CWIQ Approach).


IV.      Promoting Growth-Private Sector Development (Satisfactory)

This component aimed at PSD strategy formulation and implementation, privatizing state-owned energy
enterprises and agriculture sector development. There has been progress on all fronts, with a recent
acceleration in the PSD agenda following the March 2005 Investors' Conference. SAC 2 improved the
business environment by supporting a reduction in the number of industrial inspections from 23 to 13.
Firms can benefit further by being exempted from 10 of the remaining 13 inspections, which are labor
related, if they have been certified in compliance with the labor laws.

In power, seven of nine micro-hydro plants have been leased out to the private sector, exceeding the SAC2
target of 2 and approaching the DPC/SAC3 trigger of 9. This is a significant step in involving the private
sector in meeting the electric power needs in NWFP. The private sector is also increasing its presence in
the power sector by carrying out feasibility studies for two hydro plants totaling a capacity of 135 MW. In
agriculture, GoNWFP developed a sector strategy and increased the ADP allocation from Rs80 million in
2003/04 to Rs135 million in 2004/05. This higher allocation, with additional funds for rural development
and regional development programs, helps fulfill the objective of aligning public expenditure to the
agriculture sector strategy. DPC/SAC3 is following up with measures in the water sector that seek to
strengthen and increase the authority of the Provincial Irrigation and Drainage Authority (PIDA) and the
role of farmers organizations in the management of irrigation schemes (see Section 4.2).

As mentioned, the PSD agenda has accelerated. The Bank has supported a business dialogue forum



                                                        - 15 -

between the private and the public sector, with equal representation, in some cases with chairman from the
private sector. This new principle for private public policy dialogue is now applied (i) in industry and
sector dialogue with the establishment of the Industrial Facilitation Council for high-level policy dialogue
with the Chief Minister of NWFP as the Chair, and with equal representation from the private sector and
the public sector (typically Department Secretaries), and an industrial facilitation committee for problem
solving in the interface between business and government; (ii) in Central Management Committees that
function as Boards for public technical training and vocational schools (chairman from the private sector);
and (iii) in agricultural committees.

4.2 Outputs by components:
The main outputs of SAC2 are summarized in Annex 1 (divided by reform component), which lists the core
conditions for SAC2, non-core measures and medium-term monitoring indicators.

I.    Improving fiscal sustainability and restoring financial accountability

The throw-forward of the ADP has remained within the limit agreed with the Bank of below 3.2 years. The
most recent estimate, for the current fiscal year, is budgeted at 2.86 years, and is better than the SAC3
trigger of 3.0 years. However, the final outcome would be available with the June Final data in
October/November 2005.


Account reconciliation. Implementation of the comprehensive reconciliation framework in at least 10
districts (target May 2005) under PIFRA auspices has been somewhat delayed to PIFRA II. So far 5
districts are covered and coverage for an additional 3 is expected to be completed by

end-May, bringing the total to 8 districts. The province would therefore continue with the existing
reconciliation arrangements until on-line reconciliation is introduced through PIFRA II. In any case, the
provincial reconciliation targets set under the program have been surpassed markedly, as shown in Table
4A.

There have been some problems associated with mapping the old chart of classification (used at the district
government levels) to the new chart of accounts (used at the provincial government level) during the current
FY, namely consolidation deficiencies for the province-whole fiscal data. These associated problems are
expected to be resolved as of FY06 when both the provincial and district governments would be operating
on a unique chart of accounts.

In some non-core areas, results have been mixed.


Audit backlogs. Despite the activeness of the PAC in reviewing audit reports and accounts, little progress
has been achieved in clearing backlogs of audit reports due to 3 main factors: (a) the number of audit
paragraphs requiring review is high for a non-full time committee to deliberate on over a single year
without technical assistance and support; (b) the capacity of the PAC members and its secretariat staff is
inadequate; and (c) the quality of audit reports for historical years has been uneven. The milestone,
scheduled for achievement by December 2005, was designed on the assumption that the provincial
assembly would have succeeded in securing TA support (such as the IDF Grant to support and strengthen
the Federal PAC and its secretariat) to support the PAC in its deliberations particularly relating to clearing
the backlog of audit reports. This TA has not yet become available. There are now more regular meetings
by the DACs aimed at clearing backlogs of audit paragraphs but the progress is slow. Apart from
education which has significant paragraphs yet to be cleared, most provincial departments are progressively
clearing their respective paragraphs. Clearing arising paragraphs is taking longer than the targeted 3



                                                      - 16 -

months of receipt of advance paragraphs from DGs Audit.

Internal Audit (IA). Internal audit functions have been notified at the provincial government departments
but a formal strategy for establishing IA functions at district government levels has not been devised. Even
at the provincial government departments, the form and structure of the internal audit function does not
accord with international practice. Progress in this area will most likely come after the establishment of
formal internal audit units at the federal level under the auspices of PIFRA.



New Chart of Accounts. The province has demonstrated commitment to reform by the adoption of the
GFS-compliant new chart of accounts under the new accounting model for the provincial government
budget for FY05--the first in Pakistan. It has also achieved a state of readiness in extending the adoption
of this new COA/NAM system to all its 24 districts for the FY06 budget year. In comparison to the other
3 provinces, NWFP is performing the best with respect to consolidation of the province-wide budget and
accounts. This is an indicative trigger for NWFP SAC3 that has already been met.




                                                     - 17 -

II.      Strengthening accountability and professionalism of state institutions

Devolution and civil service reform. The notification of the District Rules of Business outlining the
administrative authorities of district and provincial governments was an important initial step in devolution.
However, administrative devolution remains far from complete, as key senior district officers, such as the
DCO and the Executive District Officers (EDOs) remain provincial employees, and therefore are often
subject to considerable pressure from the province to transfer district staff, thereby undermining local
control over personnel management. The Rules specify that intra-district transfers of devolved staff in
grades 1-16 will be made by the EDO, with mandatory consultation with the DCO. Therefore, formally
this authority stands devolved to the district. However, while there is no comprehensive monitoring data,
anecdotal evidence from some districts reveal that politically motivated intra-district transfers of staff were
a common problem, a majority of which were instigated by DCOs and EDOs under pressure from the
provincial government. Moreover, while the original Rules of 2001 required consultation with the District
nazim for the postings and transfers of senior officers (BPS 17 and above) in the district, the 2003 amended
Rules removed this requirement.

In certain sectors, in particular water supply and sewerage, there has been limited functional devolution of
responsibilities. The LGO specifies that TMAs are responsible for the delivery of municipal services,
including water supply, sanitation, and solid waste disposal. For this purpose, it was envisaged that the
staff of the Public Health and Engineering Department (PHED) would be devolved to the TMAs to provide
them the necessary capacity to perform these functions. However, in NWFP the PHED staff were not
devolved to TMAs, but were instead merged with the district Works and Services department. TMAs were
left with only the staff of the erstwhile urban councils, and therefore have the capacity to only initiate small
schemes limited to the urban areas. Therefore, the present situation is that while the TMAs have the legal
mandate, they lack the requisite staff, and the districts, which do not have the legal mandate, now have the
staff and are de facto providing these services. This confusion in the roles and responsibilities of the
district W&S department and the TMA has compromised the planning and implementation of water and
sanitation services, has in some cases resulted in the duplication of services, and is the source of
considerable conflict between the district and tehsil/town governments.

Greater administrative devolution through the phased creation of a District (and Tehsil) Service is required
to give local governments de facto control over their staff, and to resolve these conflicts with the provincial
government, and between local governments. In addition, mechanisms will need to be put in place to
de-politicize transfers and to increase the tenure of senior local government staff, and to protect them from
both local and provincial political pressures. The introduction of an operational human resources
management information database expected in August or September will allow better monitoring of this
issue. The provincial government also needs to decide which tier of government will deliver water supply
and sewerage services, and then provide that tier with the resources and the staff to deliver these services.

Civil service recruitment. All new staff, except police, prison and judiciary, was hired on a contract basis
with the declared purpose of saving on pensions. Civil service rules for redressing grievances have been
extended to contract staff. These existing contract personnel are shortly to be regularized with all pension
and other regular staff benefits, although as the new Contract Law is still pending passage by the
Provincial Assembly we do not know when this will be. New staff hired after the law is in place will be on
contract terms that have all regular staff benefits except for a free pension. They and government will each
contribute 10 percent of the salary to an individual retirement savings account. The Bank is not in favor of
this measure because it means that new hires would have less favorable pension arrangements, which is
sure to become a political issue. Even the current policy demonstrates a practice of appearing to hold the
line on pension costs and then retroactively granting pensions to excluded personnel. Contract employment


                                                      - 18 -

should not be used as a device to circumvent regular human resources policies, especially in the areas of
hiring and compensation, including pensions. Staff are most appropriately hired on a contract basis where
there is a specific task to be performed, usually over a fixed period and to achieve a given outcome and,
where this is done compensation should be fixed at such a level that grievances due to unfavorable
comparisons with staff on regular terms and conditions of employment do not arise.

The GoNWFP met the important non-core condition of keeping the growth of sanctioned posts to 3 percent
above the September 2003 level. Staffing increases have been confined only to health, education, police and
the judiciary following reform initiatives. Regularization of contract staff does not affect the number of
sanctioned posts as contracted personnel already occupy sanctioned posts.



III. Accelerating Human Development



Targets for upgrading schools were achieved as 171 primary schools and 162 middle schools were
substantially rehabilitated representing a 10 percent increase, more than half of which was for girls. In
addition, 270 primary schools, 271 middle schools and 46 high schools are being upgraded to the next
highest level through ADP funds, about half of which are schools for females. The target to supply free
textbooks to all girls at all grades and boys through grade 2 was exceeded as books were distributed to all
students in government schools. In all, 2.66 million sets of books were distributed. The distribution was
implemented by the Department of Schools and Literacy (DoSL) and the NWFP Textbook Board and was
monitored by EMIS. During April-May 2005 free textbooks were provided to girls in grades 1-10 and
boys in grades 1-5. It was reported in the field that distribution would have been more effective had the
distribution points been the actual schools rather than the district offices. Subsequent textbook programs
should attempt to deliver textbooks directly to the schools, especially considering the lack of transportation
capacity in the district offices. The TMS cited free textbook provision as key to increasing enrollments and
decreasing the dropout rate.

NWFP's appointment of 4,000 teachers on a contract basis (non-core program) was delayed beyond FY04,
because the recruitment process was stopped on court orders. The court has since lifted the ban and the
recruitment (and redeployment) process is underway. The goal of separating the teachers from the
management cadre was not carried out due to opposition from the teachers' union. This reform will
continue to be pursued. Service rules are being amended to re-launch this reform.



Health reforms. The health policy component aimed to improve health outcomes by extending coverage of
TB DOTS programs to 7 additional districts (FY03) and deploying 1,800 new Lady Health workers and
200 female nurses. Successes include achieving universal access (100 percent district coverage) to TB
control, deployment of 12,100 Lady Health workers (on track to meet FY05 target of 13,000), decline in
polio cases of 33 in 2003 to 8 in 2004 (also on track to meet the 0 target by end FY05, with only one case
reported so far this year). While monitoring indicators established for health did allow the tracking of
outcomes, the quality of the data could not be verified. Subsequent Bank activities should include at least
spot verification of data. Though the health outcomes and outputs were satisfactory, there are a couple of
areas of needed improvement in the reform program. Timely availability of expenditure data as a
mechanism for collecting and aggregating expenditures across two levels is not fully functional and the
provincial government needs to accelerate progress in this area. Such expenditure data is key for a



                                                     - 19 -

well-managed structural adjustment program. Second, the knowledge of districts about the reform program
was limited and there was little interaction between the two levels of the government about the reform
program. In the future, the Bank and the Government need to do more to ensure that there is a stronger
buy-in of the reform program and information about the program is shared with district governments.

4.       Promoting growth and private sector development

The main outputs of the PSD component were as follows:

·        Reduction of industrial inspections from 23 to 13, with a further reduction to three if
compliance with labor laws is ensured.
·        Leasing out of seven micro-hydro plants, thus exceeding the target of two.
·        20 farmers organizations have been formed to take over management of water distribution for
irrigation, which approaches the SAC3 target of 24.
·        Announced policy statement on private sector development showing a new orientation in        PSD
policy along sound principles. Reforms since then are in accordance with the PSD policy statement.

The privatization committee has taken up the cases of only two companies, but there are only very few
entities that need to be privatized. Thus, the Committee has focused on restructuring, which is an
appropriate role.

Since end-2004 there has been a substantial shift in the orientation of the government towards the private
sector. Recent measures include:

·        Establishment of an Investor Facilitation Council under the chairmanship of the Chief
Minister and an Investor Facilitation Committee with the Chief Secretary as chairman. Both high level
committees have equal representation by the private and the public sector.
·        Handing over of management of Industrial Estates to the private sector.
·        Establishment of Central Management Committees to govern public technical schools and
vocational training centers. There is equal representation by the private and the public sector and the
Chairperson is from the private sector.
·        Drafting of new concession rules for mining addressing deficiencies mentioned in this
report.

The critical challenge remains sustained implementation of these steps to ensure that the initiatives are
effective in facilitating PSD. SAC 3 will endeavor to maintain this momentum.


4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

Not applicable.

4.4 Financial rate of return:

Not applicable.

4.5 Institutional development impact:

The SAC2-supported provincial reform program deepened the process of more accurate budgeting and


                                                    - 20 -

increased fiscal discipline according to fiscal targets. The institutional development impact in these areas
was arguably substantial. The procurement and accounting and auditing frameworks and capacities have
also been strengthened, but with the shortcomings, IDI must be rated modest for now. The GoNWFP has
accepted the need for and strongly committed to upgrading primary and secondary schools and school
materials, particularly for females. SAC2 has supported key legislation, such as the revised DRB,
specifically to improve clarity in roles and responsibilities between the provincial and district governments.
Again, while the potential impact is high, current shortcomings in implementation, particularly service
delivery and lingering civil service politicization, call for a "modest" impact rating. The government has
accepted and followed through on efforts to improve social services, but some of the institutional areas will
take a number of years to be fully functional, such as is the case of the PTAs (education). Also, in
education, while the EMIS is carried out, schools managers still do not view the data as potentially useful
to improved performance. The data themselves need to be improved to more accurately measure program
performance.

Thus, while the movement is definitely in the right direction overall, the reforms have not been as uniformly
and completely implemented, especially with regard to a number of non-core actions. As stated in the
previous completion report for SAC1, the measures supported by the NWFP SAC2 are expected to lead to
a substantial institutional development impact in the future. However, the impact still must be
characterized as modest for now. The new government has shown that it is committed to the reforms, but
the real proof of substantial institutional impact will be the sustained improvement of social services and
other government services. M&E efforts will also have to be intensified both to improve the quality of data
and to achieve institutional development.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

There are essentially four factors that are outside the control of the provincial government:
(i) macroeconomic and PSD; (ii) fiscal (fiscal federalism including revenue transfers from the center, and
civil service wage and pension increases); and (iii) political and regional security factors. The
macroeconomic policies and environment for PSD are determined mainly by the federal government. On the
macroeconomic management front, Pakistan has made considerable progress in restoring macroeconomic
stability, liberalizing the trade regime, and reforming the financial sector. Private investment has increased
substantially.

NWFP's fiscal outcomes, and the provincial and local governments' ability to deliver better services
depend partly on its own fiscal performance, but also to a large extent on federal policies. There are large
vertical fiscal imbalances in Pakistan, with most of the revenue collected at the federal level, and most of
the expenditure carried out by provincial and local governments. Hence, provincial fiscal outcomes and
performance depend to a large extent on a reliable and timely system of transfers from the federal
government through the NFC. In the case of NWFP, they also require the timely payment of hydel profits
from WAPDA, a federal entity. While the Government of NWFP's fiscal performance is improving, the
transfer of resources from the federal government has increased only to a limited extent and not
commensurately with the expansion in service delivery activities devolved to the districts via the provinces.
At the time of the preparation of SAC 2, it appeared possible that agreement on a new NFC award would
be concluded in time to provide additional resources to NWFP for FY05. Due to political economy
considerations, this higher award did not materialize, and as of now an agreement has not yet been reached.
The level of hydel profits to the province also turned out to be lower than was projected by the provincial
government. The lesson for future provincial operations is that higher level of transfers from the federal



                                                      - 21 -

government should be factored in only when an agreement on the NFC materializes. It also emphasizes the
need for provincial governments to explore all revenue raising measures provided for in the Constitution of
Pakistan.

On the expenditure side, the two 15 percent across-the-board increases in civil service salaries that the
Federal Government implemented and GoNWFP followed (the provincial and federal civil services share
the same basic pay scales and system of job classification) strained NWFP's fiscal position and made
patronage more attractive with respect to already overpaid, low-level civil servants. However, even though
GoNWFP has controlled well the increase in sanctioned posts in mitigation of these salary increases, its
decision to extend non-contributory pension privileges to 23,000 existing contract workers will further
damage its fiscal position.


The new Government that was elected in 2002 had many members who understood the challenges of
improving governance and service quality as they tended to come from social strata that relied on public
services. It was reported that their personal experience convinced them of the priority to reduce corruption
and provide better health and education. Finally, the external security environment in the region has tended
to limit interest of foreign investors in the province.

Regional security factors have a bearing on investors -- both domestic ones, in particular in other provinces
than NWFP, and foreign investors' -- perceptions about the attractiveness of investing in the province. The
regional security perception is largely outside the control of the provincial government but does have a
bearing on investment and growth in the province and hence on employment and poverty reduction that are
key targets for the provincial government.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

Political forces play an important role in SAC2 implementation through their affect on decentralization.
Most districts in the NWFP are controlled by the opposition. This factor creates a disincentive for the
province to devolve power to the districts as quickly and as completely as is feasible or desirable. It is
possible that the elections, planned for August 2005, could change the balance in the districts that would
encourage fuller devolution in the future.

In some cases the process of decentralization complicated implementation of the reforms. In addition to the
need to build capacity at lower levels, power sharing is still being worked out between the districts and the
province. In the case of the Nazims, the incentive structure is such that they view their main constituency
as the Union Councilors which elect them rather than the individual constituents and they often allocate
their funds accordingly (fragmentation of funds with equal shares to each Union Councilor for spending in
their respective local area). As a result, maintenance of schools, clinics and roads has suffered.

Another area that also affects decentralization is the extent of fiscal federalism where greater federal to
provincial revenue devolution can create the necessary fiscal space for further provincial to local
devolution. As noted above, the federal revenue transfers to the provinces have not increased
commensurately with the additional responsibilities that were being devolved to the districts via the
provinces and a new NFC Award with a higher revenue share to the provinces is necessary. The
postponement of increased transfers in 2004 strained NWFP's fiscal position and also set back
decentralization efforts.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:



                                                      - 22 -

No specific factors.

5.4 Costs and financing:

The total original credit amount was SDR 62.1 million (US$90 million equivalent). The entire credit
amount was disbursed in a single tranche upon effectiveness. The credit was made on standard IDA terms
with a term of 35 years, and a 10-year grace period. The borrower was the Government of the Islamic
Republic of Pakistan which on lent the funds in PAK rupees (also on IDA terms) to the Province of NWFP.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

The sustainability of the NWFP SAC is rated likely, but with reservations due to uncertainties from some
aspects of implementation. The Government has performed well in raising provincial revenues, but faces
some fiscal uncertainty from the costs of the two successive, federally-driven, 15 percent, across the board
civil service salary (and pension) increases. The government elected in 2002 has demonstrated that it is
committed to reform, but it also needs to put more effort into the non-core program.

Achievements in accounting and procurement appear permanent, which will heighten the performance and
sense of integrity in public institutions. Health and education improvements such as improved physical
school facilities and immunization coverage are more sensitive to slippage as they require concerted efforts
and budget allocations to maintain achievements. Sustainability will be aided by increased awareness of
the importance of, for example, educating girls, and the establishment of complementary financing
mechanisms (e.g. partial cost recovery) that demonstrate the high priority of services to the public. The
new Secretary for Schools and Literacy is reform-minded and is expected to improve implementation in the
education reform program. The reform program also needs a renewed focus on quick wins to sustain
public support. Examples of quick wins thus far include upgrade of school facilities, improved vaccination
services and provision of textbooks to primary and secondary students. Future quick wins could include
substantially improved teacher attendance and progress on the Bank of Khyber.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

The third phase of the SAC-supported program is underway and the GoNWFP continues to make progress
on the established triggers for SAC3. This progress was verified in a detailed Aide-Memoire from a
December 2004 mission, through GoNWFP monitoring, comprehensive supervision mission in May 2005,
and by an ICR field mission that generated additional updated information. Key areas for improvement are
provision for maintaining school improvements, monitoring and evaluation, more effective civil service
reform at both the provincial and district levels and more effective measures to improve private sector
investment that will increase growth and employment. There is a risk that the improvements to education
and health facilities made possible by SAC2 will erode unless a more systematic maintenance program is
put in place. Currently, the program relies on PTAs with their IM&R budget to carry out school
maintenance. Because PTAs are not yet fully effective, the maintenance program may not be sufficient.
Also, it was reported that Nazims and even DCOs, occasionally do not ensure that maintenance budgets
actually reach the schools. The future success of civil service reform will require an operationalized and
computerized Human Resource database, which is progressing well so far. The Bank is assisting the
GoNWFP in this effort which has moved into its second phase.Other data concerns may be alleviated by
the completion, albeit delayed, of the CWIQ survey (which is part of the PRSC policy matrix for 2005/06).
If the commitment to reform continues, as manifested in the progress toward triggers for a SAC3, then the


                                                     - 23 -

Bank is poised to support the reform program with the third phase of the program in FY06.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

Satisfactory. The Bank was able to work closely with a new government which might have easily chosen a
direction far different from the reform program that they had inherited. The GoNWFP's development
agenda, as it turned out, was in line with the ongoing reform program supported by the Bank. The Bank
effectively continued to pursue such priorities as girls' education and professionalism of public institutions.
The Bank might have focused more on cost recovery in some of the services to enhance sustainability. The
Bank judged correctly that approving a SAC every year would have been too fast and slowed the pace of
new adjustment lending to every other year. In the future it might be useful narrowing the scope of the
operations and aim at an annual cycle for the operations.

7.2 Supervision:

Satisfactory. The system of quarterly reporting continued under SAC2 under the Reform Monitoring Unit.
A project coordination unit at the Department of Finance monitored SAC2, with supervisory support from
the Bank office in Islamabad. Intensive supervision missions were conducted with headquarters and the
Islamabad office in December 2004 and May 2005, and each component was carefully assessed and issues
identified. The December supervision mission was effective in in following up on areas that needed
improvement to trigger a possible SAC3. The May supervision mission followed up on these areas and
found them, in most cases to be on track. Despite the thorough and regular supervision, the Bank needs to
help the GoNWFP improve the quality and timeliness of its M&E. This was also a weakness cited in the
completion report for SAC1. It is also strongly urged that Bank staff make greater efforts to visit service
delivery sites, especially where education and health facility upgrades have been funded from budget
support from the Bank. It was reported during the ICR mission that Bank staff site visits to learn the direct
impact of the activities and to verify outcomes indicated by monitoring data were not as frequent as they
should be.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

Satisfactory. The Bank pressed on with its support for the PRP and its emphasis on expenditure
management, fiscal discipline and social service delivery helped improve prospects for decentralization. In
addition, since the beginning of the program, the Bank has deepened working relations in NWFP, with
increasing mutual respect, and a degree of leverage with the provincial government. The Bank also made a
successful investment in changing the government's mindset regarding PSD which has begun to show
positive results.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

Satisfactory. The new Government generally took ownership of the ongoing reform program. Part of the
reason that they were elected to power was the public's demand for better governance and better delivery of
social services. The new Government had a reputation for clean governance and came from the same
classes that in general rely more on public provision of social services than on private, more expensive,
delivery. So the new government seemed to understand quite well that aspect of the program, and
embraced it. Other aspects, such as PSD were not so intuitively understood and that has taken longer to



                                                     - 24 -

develop, but recently has resulted in a series of recent positive policy initiatives. Ownership of health
initiatives, especially at the district level, needs to be improved in subsequent operations, specifically to
improve district awareness of the reform program.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

Satisfactory. The Government carried out all Board Conditions for a timely tranche release. The fiscal
pressures that developed were handled well by the provincial government. Most of the key elements adding
to the fiscal burden of NWFP originated at the federal government (large general wage increases, lack of
increased transfers because of non-agreement on NFC award, and rapid erosion of the real value of the Net
Hydel Profit transfer from a federal agency--WAPDA). The provincial government did add to its wage
bill by expanding its civil service -- however, the increase in sanctioned posts has been well below the
agreed annnual target of 3% and after a 7-year freeze on hiring. What the provincial government could
influence, it did relatively well, such as own revenue mobilization, accelerated (pre)payment of expensive
debt, and prudent build up of a capital fund against pension liabilities. There are a couple of areas of
needed improvement that have been mentioned: more focus on the non-core program and monitoring the
reform program.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

Moderately Satisfactory. Greater responsibilities are being assumed at lower levels, particularly in
accounting, procurement and some services, though there is still resistance from the provincial authorities
to devolve authority, e.g., salary payments to the districts. A long term issue for implementers is the need to
de-politicize expenditures and recruitment at the district level and establish a district service. Also, it is
important to establish appropriate incentive structures to align local spending preferences with those of
higher levels of government. For example, there were a number of instances reported of maintenance
budgets not properly used. The result is already clear in the declining condition of roads in the districts.
Also, it is critical that the districts do a better job of maintaining the recent improvements to the
government schools, or the gains from SAC2 will erode.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

Satisfactory (moderately). The Borrower showed initiative and ownership of the broad reform program,
implemented all core conditions under the SAC2, the vast majority of the non-core program and exceeded
targets in a number of areas. Processes at the district level, however, need continued improvement in the
coming years. The decentralization process that runs concurrently with the reform program adds
challenges to reform implementation, where capacity has to be built, not only at the provincial, but also at
the district level.

8. Lessons Learned


Monitoring a program must measure not only what has been accomplished, but also what has not.
The GoNWFP has improved substantially its monitoring processes. In the next stage, the GoNWFP needs
to monitor its activities not just for the purpose of confirming completion of an activity, but, more
importantly to identify problem areas that need attention.

For programs that fund facility improvements, a maintenance program must be in place. A large part
of SAC2 funds were spent on educational and health facilities. Maintenance is critical to preserving the
gains and the districts are currently weak in this regard. Therefore, subsequent operations, must have a


                                                         - 25 -

strong maintenance program that guarantees adequate funds for maintenance and that the maintenance is
actually carried out.

Provincial adjustment loans can be critical to improving social services. Social services are delivered at
the provincial and district levels. Thus a provincial SAC is closer to the action and has advantages in
getting funds to the implementing agents compared to a country-wide SAC. In large, populous provinces,
the Bank has an opportunity to provide the additional technical and financial resources to make
decentralization successful and thereby make basic service delivery more effective. Without a specific
provincial SAC, provincial reforms including reforms to improve service delivery by local governments
would likely be much further behind.

SAC2 Reinforcement of Lesson from SAC1: It is better to proceed with a reform program credit
even with the risks of sub-national lending, new elections and decentralization, if there is borrower
ownership. SAC2 has fostered continued buy-in on reforms by the new government. There were also
fears that the devolution program would fail, but to the contrary, the Bank's support to NWFP under
SAC2 strengthened decentralization as well as the position of reform-minded officials. Proceeding with the
SAC2 meant that there was an established reform program that would give structure and focus to the new
government's reforms and limit errant policy decisions by continuing to improve expenditure management.
In the second SAC it became clear that reform capacity was building, especially with a broader grasp of the
concepts of the reform program.

Timely and reliable M&E depends on regular updating of performance indicators and site visits to
verify data. Many of the indicators identified to monitor SAC2 were long-term in nature. Either different
indicators need to be identified to measure performance that can be collected more regularly or greater
efforts are needed to update the indicators that are chosen. Indicators that can be updated only every few
years may be useful to long term assessments, but not to the type of M&E needed for trouble shooting.
Unfortunately, it was not possible to generate interim data for monitoring purposes because the provincial
government regarded such an exercise as duplicative of federal efforts. In any case, Bank staff need to do
more field work to spot check the implementation and impact of program investments.

In the future, improving service delivery will require greater administrative devolution through the
creation of a district service. Dual managerial authority by the provincial and local governments has
weakened the accountability of front-line service providers, and the province needs to move ahead with the
creation of the district (and tehsil) service so as to ensure that local governments are the unambiguous
employers of the staff assigned to them. In addition, the present jurisdictional confusion between districts
and tehsils in the provision of water supply and sewerage services needs to be resolved, with ideally this
responsibility resting with the tehsils, accompanied by the requisite transfer of PHED staff.

Factor in higher revenue transfers from changes in NFC Awards into the fiscal program only when
an agreement on the NFC materializes. The large vertical fiscal imbalances in Pakistan, with most of
the revenue collected at the federal level, and most of the expenditure carried out by provincial and local
governments, makes NWFP and other provinces very dependent on a reliable and timely system of transfers
from the federal government through the NFC. The transfer of resources from the federal government has
not increased commensurately with the expansion in service delivery activities devolved to the districts via
the provinces. At the time of the preparation of SAC 2, it appeared possible that agreement on a new NFC
award would be concluded in time to provide additional resources to NWFP for FY05 and this was
projected in the fiscal program. It turned out that the political economy considerations were more
complicated than what the staff and the provincial government anticipated and this higher award did not
materialize. The lesson for future provincial operations is that higher level of transfers from the federal


                                                       - 26 -

government should be factored in only when an agreement on the NFC materializes. It also emphasizes the
need for provincial governments to explore all revenue raising measures provided for in the Constitution of
Pakistan.

Capacity building efforts need to track changes in levels of responsibility as a result of
decentralization. With greater responsibilities in the districts comes the need for additional capacity. For
example, the large investments in school rehabilitation need to be matched with increased mobility of ADOs
(through, e.g., provision of motorcycles) to monitor school condition and maintenance, as well as teacher
attendance. Another example is the capacity in the PSC, which has taken on greater recruitment
responsibilities, especially in 2004, but has not increased its staff commensurately.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:




                                                     - 27 -

- 28 -

- 29 -

- 30 -

- 31 -

- 32 -

- 33 -

- 34 -

(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):




                                             - 35 -

    10. Additional Information

Table 5: Summary Fiscal Accounts of the Government of NWFP, 2001/02 - 2004/05 (Rs Million)
                                    2001/02    2002/03            2003/04           2004/05                                   % Change
                                                                                                                       FY04     FY05    FY05
                                                                                                                      Actual     QIII   Prelim
                                                                                                   Actual    Prelim     over     over    over
                                     June            June               June             WB Adj     upto   estimate    FY03     FY04    FY04
                                     Final  Budget   Final    Budget   Final    Budget   Budget     QIII   (June 05)  Actual     QIII   Actual


Total Revenues and Grants            36,549  47,950  38,851    52,843   38,978   51,521    49,104   30,875    49,309       0.3     22.8    26.5
 Federal Tax Assignment              18,944  22,568  23,369    25,470   23,704   28,987    28,988   20,238    29,714       1.4     26.3    25.4
 Provincial Own Revenues   /1         9,300  20,374   9,891    22,325   10,255   12,994    13,285    6,567    11,573       3.7     12.7    12.9
   Provincially Collected Revenues    3,021   3,897   3,594     3,986    3,915    4,231     4,522    3,029      4,679      8.9     16.2    19.5
     Tax Revenues                     1,351   1,809   1,538     1,976    1,688    2,081     2,081    1,459      2,162      9.8     17.4    28.1
      Non-Tax Revenue                 1,670   2,089   2,056     2,010    2,227    2,149     2,440    1,570      2,517      8.3     15.2    13.0
   Hydel Profits from WAPDA           6,000  15,904   6,000    17,653    6,000    8,000     8,000    3,000      6,000      0.0      0.0      0.0
   GST on Services                      256     413     297       406      340      406       406      284        393     14.5     27.9    15.6
   Royalty on Oil and Natural Gas        23     160        0      280        0      357       357      254        501
 Federal & Foreign grants             8,305   5,008   5,591     5,047    5,019    9,540     6,831    4,070      8,022    -10.2     24.0    59.8
              Subventions             3,915   3,898   3,898     3,898    3,898    4,500     4,500    2,924      4,500      0.0      0.0    15.4
              Others                  1,445     564   1,693     1,149    1,121    5,040     2,331    1,143      3,522    -33.8            214.2
                  o/w Foreign grants    387     546     373       767      505    1,248     1,248      124        270     35.4             -46.5


Total Expenditures                   37,867  59,725  41,029    59,206   44,767   57,845    54,712   32,360    52,895       9.1     20.7    18.2
Current Expenditures                 30,295  46,052  32,750    44,510   34,621   41,650    42,693   25,754    40,159       5.7     10.8    16.0
  o/w Wages                         14,573   17,791  15,564    17,444   18,945   20,606    22,292   17,216    22,355      21.7     30.0    18.0
    Pension                           2,805   3,600   2,653     3,780    2,702    3,780     3,137    2,235      3,102      1.8     13.6    14.8
    Non-Wage O & M, contingency       4,621   3,204   5,749     4,511    4,637    6,434     6,434    1,042      5,499    -19.3    -61.8    18.6
    Interest Payments                 6,798   8,679   5,907     6,159    5,599    7,404     7,404    3,280      5,877     -5.2     -5.5      5.0
    Subsidies (Food)                  1,228   1,000    800      1,000     700     1,000     1,000      200        900    -12.5    -33.3    28.6
   Transfer payments to LG              269   1,959   2,077     2,084    2,038    2,426     2,426    1,781      2,426     -1.9     16.4    19.0


Development Expenditures              7,572  13,673   8,279    14,696   10,146   16,195    12,019    6,606    12,736      22.6     84.5    25.5
o/w Annual Development Program        1,684   4,230    6705     6,352     8604   10546     10,169    5552     10,963      28.3     91.8    27.4
    Foreign Project Assistance       2,121    5,187   1,574     5,391    1,542    5,649     1,850    1,054      1,773     -2.0     53.9    15.0


Fiscal Balance                       -1,318 -11,776  -2,178    -6,363   -5,789   -6,324    -5,609   -1,485     -3,586    165.8    -11.5    -38.0
Primary Balance                       5,480  -3,096   3,729     -204      -190    1,080     1,796    1,795      2,291   -105.1      0.2 -1305.6
Source: GoNWFP and Bank Staff Projections.
1/ Provincial own revenues include provincially collected tax and non tax reveneus as well as Net Hydel Profits, GST on Services and Royalty on oil and
2/ The Non-wage O&M is caclulated residually from current expenditures.




                                                                 - 36 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix




                                        - 37 -

- 38 -

- 39 -

- 40 -

- 41 -

- 42 -

- 43 -

- 44 -

- 45 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal Actual/Latest    Percentage of
                                                           Estimate   Estimate /a     Appraisal /a
              Project Cost By Component                  US$ million  US$ million
BOP/Budget Support                                               90.0           90.0         100%


Total Costs                                                      90.0           90.0         100%


Total Financing Required                                         90.0           90.0         100%



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)

Expenditure Category            ICB        Procurement   Method         N.B.F.    Total Cost
                                              NCB         Other /a r
1. BOP/Budget Support                                         90.0                    90.0
   Total Costs                                                90.0                    90.0
    Total Financed by IDA                                     90.0                    90.0
/a Or SDR62.1 million.

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
   Expenditure Category         ICB        Procurement Method           N.B.F.    Total Cost
                                              NCB        Other /b
1. BOP/Budget Support                                         90.0                    90.0
Total Costs                                                   90.0                    90.0
Total Financed by IDA                                         90.0                    90.0
/b Or SDR 62.1 million.

Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
     Component          Appraisal Estimate        Actual/Latest   Percentage of Appraisal /a
                                                    Estimate/a
                               IDA                    Govt.        CoF.IDAGovt.CoF.IDAGovt.CoF.
BOP/Budget Support             90.0                                    90.0           100%
Total                          90.0                                        90.0       100%




                                                - 46 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Not applicable.




                                      - 47 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty                Performance Rating
                                      (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)         Implementation Development
                    Month/Year  Count           Specialty                        Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
               September 2003            8    TTL, E, L, F, PSD, E, H



 Appraisal/Negotiation
               April 2004                9    TTL, E, L, F, PSD, E, H               S               S


 Supervision
               December 2004              8   TTL, E-2, L, F, PSD, Ed, H            S               S
               May 2005                   9   TTL, E. L, F, PSD, Ed, H,A,P          S               S

 ICR
               June 2005                 1     E                                    S               S



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
                                    No. Staff weeks                  US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation              66.14                        210,328
  Appraisal/Negotiation
  Supervision                              10.5                        20,541
  ICR
  Total                                   76.64                        230,869




                                               - 48 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 49 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 50 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

NWFP Public Service Commission, Annual Report 2004
Program Document for a Proposed Credit in the Amount of SDR 62.1 million (US$90 million equivalent)
to the Islamic Republic of Pakistan for a Structural Adjustment Credit for the Government of NWFP, May
26, 2004.
Development Credit Agreement dated June 22, 2004.
Memorandum of the President on a Country Assistance Strategy for the Islamic Republic of Pakistan, June
24, 2002.
Project Agreement between the International Development Association and the North West Frontier
Province, June 2004.
Aide-Memoires from supervision missions (Project File)
EMIS and HMIS data sheets




                                                    - 51 -

- 52 -

