             Document of
           The World Bank


                                   Report No: 61394-PL


       RESTRUCTURING PAPER

               ON A

  PROPOSED PROJECT RESTRUCTURING
                 OF
      ENERGY EFFICIENCY PROJECT
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER TF054104


          OCTOBER 14, 2004


              TO THE

        REPUBLIC OF POLAND


      {DATE OF RESTRUCTURING}
                       CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                   (Exchange Rate Effective April 19, 2011)


                      Currency Unit     =      New Polish Zloty (PLN)
                           PLN 1.0      =      US$ 0.361
                           US$ 1.0      =      PLN 2.77


                              FISCAL YEAR
                         January 1 - December 31



                   ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


BGK                  Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego
DO                   Development Objectives
DPL                  Development Policy Loan
EE                   Energy Efficiency
ESCO                 Energy Service Company
GEF                  Global Environment Facility
GHG                  Greenhouse Gas
PIP                  Project Implementation Plan
POE ESCO             ESCO Subsidiary of MPEC
TA                   Technical Assistance
TM                   Thermo-Modernization




                     Vice President:        Philippe Le Houérou
                   Country Director:        Peter Harrold
                   Country Manager          Thomas Laursen
           Sector Manager / Director:       Ranjit Lamech
                  Task Team Leader:         Peter Johansen
                                            POLAND
                                    ENERGY EFFICIENCY PROJECT
                                             P070246
                                           CONTENTS

                                                                                                                     Page
A. SUMMARY................................................................................................................ 1
B. PROJECT STATUS.................................................................................................. 1
C. PROPOSED CHANGES .......................................................................................... 2
D. APPRAISAL SUMMARY........................................................................................ 7
ANNEX 1: RESULTS FRAMEWORK AND MONITORING .................................... 8
                         ENERGY EFFICIENCY PROJECT

                             RESTRUCTURING PAPER

SUMMARY
1.1     The proposed restructuring consists of a reallocation of uncommitted GEF funds
from the Partial Credit Guarantee Facility Component to a new Thermo-Modernization
(TM) Investments Component at the Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego (BGK). The Partial
Credit Guarantee Facility has performed poorly due to low demand from participating
banks and will be abandoned except for the amount needed to cover existing liabilities.
The freed-up funds will be transferred to the new TM Investments Component and used
to provide grants to eligible Energy Efficient (EE) investments in residential buildings.
The grants will be channeled to beneficiaries through the existing government-owned TM
Fund that will provide grants to partially cover the investment cost of an EE investment
which has been financed by commercial banks that have signed a cooperation agreement
with the BGK (in the following referred to as TM Partner Banks). As a result of the
introduction of the TM Investments Component, the Environmental Management
Framework has been revised and updated and has been re-disclosed. To ensure that the
Project’s objectives are met, a twelve-month extension of the Closing Date of the Project
to June 30, 2012 is requested. The Project’s results framework will be modified to reflect
the changes made (see Annex 1 for details).


PROJECT STATUS
2.1    The Project is financed by a GEF Grant of US$11 million and has three
components. Below is a brief description of each component and its status as of March
2011, roughly three months before the present Closing Date of June 30, 2011:

   (i) Part A - Partial Credit Guarantee Facility (US$5.7 million): Establishment of a
            Partial Credit Guarantee Facility at BGK to provide Participating Banks
            partial guarantee of loans made for EE investments throughout the territory of
            the Recipient. Only one guarantee transaction has taken place representing
            less than 1% of the forecasted number of transactions. There has been no
            demand for a guarantee instrument from participating banks and their
            customers.
   (ii) Part B - Energy Efficiency Investments (US$2.0 million): Partial financing,
            through a Capital Grant Facility, of EE investments under energy performance
            service contracts. The Capital Grant Facility was successfully implemented
            by POE ESCO in Krakow. It has financed EE upgrades in 29 schools and 9
            other public buildings in Malopolskie region. The original target was to
            upgrade 30 buildings.
   (iii)Part C - Technical Assistance (US$3.3 million): Provision of technical assistance
            to BGK for the deployment of the guarantee mechanism and to POE ESCO
                                            1
           for preparation of the investments under the Capital Grant Facility. This
           component has produced several market studies and surveys for partial credit
           guarantees and energy performance service contracts in support of the
           implementation of Parts A and B.


PROPOSED CHANGES
3.1     Results/Indicators. The Project Development Objective level indicators are
unchanged but the output level indicators referring to the Partial Credit Guarantee
Facility have been dropped and new indicators for a TM Investments Component have
been introduced. Please refer to Annex 1.

3.2      Components. The proposed restructuring follows a request from the Ministry of
Finance of Poland (letter dated January 13, 2011) and seeks to address the poor
performance of the guarantee facility. The restructuring will take into account existing
institutional and market capacities and will improve progress in meeting the Project
Development Objective. Uncommitted funds under the Partial Credit Guarantee (around
US$5.65 million) will be reallocated to a new support modality for EE investments.
Instead of providing a guarantee to facilitate commercial lending to building owners, the
Project will now finance grants that will provide a subsidy to the same kind of
investments.

3.3    The new component will be channeled to the beneficiaries through the
Government-owned Thermo-Modernization (TM) Fund using its existing delivery
mechanisms. The TM Fund has successfully facilitated EE investments in buildings for
more than ten years by providing grants that subsidize these EE investments (TM Bonus).
Due to budget constraints, the Government did not allocate additional budget resources to
the TM Fund in 2010 and the funds allocated for 2011 are insufficient to cover the built-
up demand. The funds reallocated from the Partial Credit Guarantee Facility will be used
to extend the TM Fund’s activities during 2011 tapping into an existing pipeline of EE
investments that are already in preparation and where the grant (the so-called TM Bonus)
is expected to be paid out during calendar year 2011 and the first six months of 2012. In
recognition of the particular need to scale-up EE investments in residential buildings the
new component will selectively support this category of buildings (historically covering
over 95% of all investments from the TM Fund). The proposed component changes are
described below.

3.4    Part A of the Project - the Partial Credit Guarantee Facility Component, will
continue but the funds available will be reduced to only cover BGK’s liabilities in
connection with the one guarantee that has been approved. No further guarantees will be
supported by the Project.

3.5     Part B of the Project – the Energy Efficiency Investments Component, has
already been successfully implemented and will not be changed.


                                            2
3.6     Part C of the Project - the Technical Assistance (TA) Component will continue.
However, The TA Component will be expanded to include technical assistance to the
Recipient for energy efficiency barrier removal at the national level. The identification of
the specific TA activities have been coordinated with the preparation of a Development
Policy Loan (DPL) for Poland with focus on energy efficiency in buildings and they will
be reflected in the updated Procurement Plan which has been agreed in principle with the
Bank.

3.7    A new component – a Thermo-Modernization Investments Component - will be
introduced as Part D of the Project. The TM Investments Component will be established
at BGK in the following manner. The existing government-owned TM Fund provides TM
Bonuses for eligible energy efficient thermo modernization investments in buildings and
heating networks financed by select commercial banks (TM Partner Banks) on
commercial terms (TM Loans). The TM Bonus corresponds to up to 20% of the TM Loan
amount and will be paid by the TM Fund once EE investments are fully implemented.
The TM Investments Component will then reimburse the TM Fund based on proof of
payment of a TM Bonus – but only to residential buildings. The TM Fund operates under
the operational guidelines set in the Act of 21 November 2008 on support of Thermo-
Modernization and Renovation of Buildings (OJ 223/2008 item. 1459). The TM Fund is
managed and operated by BGK which means that BGK has experience with all
procedural and operational aspects.

3.8      According to the operational guidelines mentioned above, the beneficiary submits
a combined loan and TM Bonus application to a TM Partner Bank with an energy audit
attached. The TM Partner Bank carries out its standard due diligence and verifies the
creditworthiness of the potential beneficiary and that the beneficiary is eligible for a TM
Bonus. The next step is the signing of the TM Loan agreement, which is sent to BGK
along with an energy audit of the EE investment. BGK reviews the application and based
on the TM Partner Bank’s confirmation that it meets the eligibility criteria, the energy
audit is sent for verification by an independent audit verification company already on
contract with BGK. The following eligibility criteria apply:
    (i) The TM Bonus for a given TM Loan cannot exceed the lowest of these three
            values: 20% of the commercial bank loan; 16% of the total investment cost;
            and 200% of the expected annual energy costs savings (as defined in a
            verified energy audit);
    (ii) The TM Bonus is available to: home owners associations; cooperatives,
            commercial companies (but only for non-commercial purposes); individuals;
            and municipalities (gminas) and local authorities;
    (iii)The TM Bonus can support TM of: residential buildings1; non-commercial
            buildings; public buildings; local heating networks; and local heating sources;
            and
    (iv) TM Grants may only be provided for EE investments in residential buildings.

If the energy audit verification by an independent auditor is positive, the TM Bonus
application is accepted and the implementation of the EE investment can start. Once the

1
    This is the only type of project that will be supported from the GEF grant
                                                        3
EE investment is carried out by the beneficiary, the TM Bonus is paid to the TM Partner
Bank thus reducing the outstanding principal of the TM Loan.

3.9    In combination with the continued TA facility, the TM Investments Component
would demonstrate the commercial viability of EE investments in buildings and break
down barriers for EE investments. This approach is also consistent with supporting
Poland on a low-carbon path to development.

3.10 Safeguards. The existing Environmental Management Framework (EMF) has
been updated to include EE investments financed by the TM Investments Component.
The TM Investments Component will only finance EE investments in residential
buildings. According to the classification of EE investments financed under the TM Fund
(as indicated in the updated Eligibility Criteria), residential buildings fall under three
investment categories: (i) one-family dwellings, (ii) multi-family dwellings, and (iii)
collective dwellings (collectively representing 93% of the TM Fund portfolio to date,
with multi-family dwellings accounting for the great majority). As indicated in the
EMF, EE Investments financed under these three eligible investment categories include
only minor renovation works (e.g. replacing windows, renovating balconies, insulating
walls and roofs, etc.), which all fall under Environment Assessment Category C. In
accordance with the updated EMF, which was disclosed April 13, 2011 on BGK’s
website, BGK will make sure that TM Bonuses paid from the GEF grant will only
finance EE Investments which fall under these three residential investment categories and
are Category C.

3.11     Financing.
                             Project Costs (US$ million)
                 Components/Activities                  Current                   Proposed

 Partial Credit Guarantee Facility                              5.700              0.050
 TM Investments Component                                         -                5.800
 Energy Efficiency Investment                                   2.000              2.100
 Technical Assistance                                           1.930              1.880
 Project management fee                                         1.335              1.135
 Training                                                       0.035              0.035

 Total                                                          11.000             11.000

3.12     Financing Plan
                                            Indicative Costs    Financing Plan (US$ million)
                                           Amount                          % of
                          Category/         (US$       % of                GEF       Private
    Component              Sector          million)    Total    GEF     Financing    Sector
GEF Partial Credit
Guarantee Facility     Barrier removal      0.23         0.3%   0.05       0.4%       0.19
EE Investments         Barrier removal      9.85        13.8%   2.10      19.1%       7.75
                       Barrier removal,
Technical Assistance   capacity building    3.05        4.3%    3.05      27.7%        0
TM Investments         Barrier removal      58.00       81.6%   5.80      52.7%       52.80
                                                    4
Total Project Costs                     71.13       100.0%   11.00    100.0%      60.59
Total Financing Required                71.13       100.0%   11.00    100.0%      60.59

3.13 Disbursements. Uncommitted GEF funds (defined as those not committed to or
encumbered by any outstanding loans or committed via existing framework agreements
with participating banks) sitting in the Partial Credit Guarantee Facility account at BGK
would be refunded to the GEF Trust Fund account. Following the restructuring
procedure, a new special category (Category 8) would be created for the proposed TM
Investments Component. The refunded amount and the remaining balance under
Category 7 (Partial Credit Guarantee Facility) would be reallocated to Category 8.
Category 8 will be disbursed to the TM Fund account at BGK, in order to reimburse the
TM Fund for TM Bonuses, against proof of payment of TM Bonuses to TM Partner
Banks.

3.14 Flow of Funds. Grant proceeds for the TM Investments Component will be
disbursed on a reimbursement basis to BGK for the TM Fund. Withdrawal applications
under the TM Investments Component will be sent to the Bank on a quarterly basis and
all withdrawals would be made on the basis of Statement of Expenditures. Supporting
documentation for all transactions will be received and retained by BGK according to the
requirements set in the Cooperation Agreements signed between BGK and the TM
Partner Banks and will be made available to the Bank during Project supervision and for
audit purposes. Specific documentation includes:(i) notification by the TM Partner Bank
that the eligibility criteria for obtaining the TM Bonus has been met, (ii) statement on the
construction design in accordance with the EE audit verified by BGK during the
application process, and (iii) statement on the execution of the EE investment in
accordance with the construction design and the within the deadline specified in the TM
Loan agreement.

3.15 Retroactive Financing. To meet the financing needs of TM Fund, the Grant will
finance retroactively expenditures paid from January 1, 2011 until the countersigning of
the Restructuring Amendment, up to a limit of 20% of the grant amount for this
component which is USD 1.16 million. The reimbursement will be based on a list of
payments from TM Fund to the TM Partner Bank linked to the EE investments, and
accompanied by the evidence of payment from TM Fund account to these commercial
banks. The reimbursement will be done directly to the TM Fund account.

3.16 Reallocations. There will be a need to reallocate the majority of the funds under
the Partial Credit Guarantee Facility Component to the new TM Investments Component.
A number of smaller adjustments will also be needed, including an upward revision of
the allocation for Supply and Installation and Works under due to exchange rate
fluctuations. Finally, the management fee for BGK is to be reduced due to the reduction
in staff in the last years of Project implementation.




                                                5
          Category of Expenditure                         Allocation                 % of Financing
        Current               Revised               Current       Revised        Current        Revised
1. Supply and         1. Supply and                $800,000      $850,000         36%             36%
installation of       installation of
equipment             equipment
2. Goods              2. Goods                      $600,000     $600,000           36%               36%
3. Works              3. Works                      $600,000     $650,000           36%               36%
4. Consultants’       4. Consultant’s              $1,930,000   $1,880,000    100% for          100% for
Services, including Services, including                                       foreign           foreign
auditing services     auditing services                                       consulting        consulting
                                                                              firms and         firms and
                                                                              individual        individual
                                                                              consultant and    consultant
                                                                              83.5% for         and 83.5% for
                                                                              local             local
                                                                              consultants,      consultants,
                                                                              including         including
                                                                              100% of           100% of
                                                                              eligible social   eligible social
                                                                              charges           charges
5. Training               5. Training          $35,000           $35,000           100%              100%
6. PMU                    6. PMU
(a) Management Fee        (a) Management Fee $1,300,000         $1,100,000        100%              100%
(b) Goods                 (b) Goods            $35,000           $35,000           82%               82%
7. Partial Credit         7. Partial Credit   $5,700,000         $50,000          100%              100%
Guarantee Facility        Guarantee Facility
                          8. TM Investments        -            $5,800,000           -              100%
                          Component
     Total                   Total           $11,000,000        $11,000,000

 3.17 Financial Management. The financial management functions will be handled by
 BGK in a similar manner to the existing arrangements in place2. The audit of the Project
 financial statements will be conducted by independent private auditors acceptable to the
 Bank, on terms of reference acceptable to the Bank. The annual audited Project financial
 statements (or for other periods as agreed by the Bank) will be submitted to the Bank
 within six months of the end of each fiscal year. Also, the BGK will have its annual
 financial statements audited. Un-audited Interim Financial Reports (IFRs) will be used
 for the Project monitoring and supervision. The existing formats of the IFRs will be
 supplemented with an additional line for a new TM Investments Component and a
 supplementary list of financed EE investments. The Project will prepare a full set of IFRs
 every quarter throughout the life of the Project and will submit them to the Bank within
 45 days after the end of each calendar quarter.

 3.18 Procurement. Procurement in relation to the new TM Investments Component
 will include two additional methods of procurement under the Consultant Services.
 2
     BGK is acting as a fiduciary agent on behalf of MOE.
                                                            6
These are (i) the Quality Based Selection; and (ii) the Single Source Selection. The firm
for the Single Source Selection is approved based on the justifications provided by the
Recipient. There will be post-review on a sample basis to verify that the grant funds have
been used according to the agreed guidelines. This will be reflected in the amended legal
documents.

3.19 Closing Date. Given that the Project is only three and a half months from its
Closing Date and that the ratification of the restructuring by Poland would take about
three months, a twelve-month extension of the Project Closing Date to June 30, 2012 is
requested. This extension would ensure that the funds reallocated from the Partial Credit
Guarantee Facility Component to the new TM Investments Component can be fully
disbursed and that the studies under the TA component can be completed in time. The
requirements for an extension of the closing date are being met: (i) the Project objectives
continue to be achievable, (ii) the performance of the Recipient and BGK continue to be
satisfactory, (iii) BGK has prepared an action plan acceptable to the Bank to complete the
Project in time, and (iv) there are no outstanding audit reports for the Project.


APPRAISAL SUMMARY
4.1    Economic and financial analysis. With the implementation of the proposed
changes, during the Project implementation period the Project would produce reductions
in greenhouse gas emissions in Poland by catalyzing US$42 million in investments in
energy efficiency. These investments would yield carbon dioxide reductions of about
0.64 million tCO23 over the assumed 20 years lifetime of the equipment installed.

4.2     Compared to the Project as originally appraised, the estimated GHG reduction
resulting from investment in energy efficiency would be less than half the estimated CO2
emissions reductions of 1.4 million tCO2 expected at the Project Appraisal. With the total
cost of the Project remaining unchanged (US$11 million), the CO2 abatement cost
increases from $8/tCO2 to $17/tCO2.

4.3    The difference is due to the fact that (i) Project investment costs have almost
doubled since Project inception and at the same time, the US Dollar has depreciated
considerably against the Polish currency; and (ii) at Appraisal a lower average pay-back
time was assumed than what is considered realistic in the type of residential EE
investments targeted by the restructured Project.




3
    Assuming an average TM Bonus of 10% of the total investment per loan.
                                                    7
8
                                                               ANNEX 1
                                                   Results Framework and Monitoring
                                                      POLAND: ENERGY EFFICIENCY PROJECT


Project Development Objective (PDO):

Increase public and private sector investments in energy efficiency in buildings in the territory of the Recipient by:
(i) Overcoming the risk barriers in the financial markets inhibiting commercial bank participation in energy efficiency project financing;
(ii) Demonstrating the feasibility of packaged investments in higher-cost energy efficiency measures in buildings and increasing acceptance of energy performance
contracting mechanisms; and
(iii) Stimulating the demand for energy efficiency services in the buildings sector and increasing awareness and capacity of commercial banks to originate and
implement loan transactions for Energy Efficiency investments.

Revised Project Development Objective:
The PDO remains unchanged
                                              D=Dropped                                                                             Data Source/    Responsibility for
                                              C=Continue                             Cumulative Target Values**      Frequency
                                                                                                                                    Methodology      Data Collection
                                       Core




                                              N= New       Unit of   Baseline
 PDO Level Results Indicators*
                                              R=Revised    Measure    2004
                                                                                    2007        2010        2011

Indicator One:
Number of transactions relating to
                                                  C        Number     3195          11,566     23,739      28,070      Annual       Market Study       Consultants
EE projects/ESCOs in the Polish
market
Indicator Two:
Volume of debt financing relating to
                                                  C        (US$m)      210           885        1,672      2,075       Annual       Market Study       Consultants
EE projects/ESCOs in the Polish
market
Indicator Three:
Number of EE/ESCO projects larger                 C        Number      151           634        1,543      1,785       Annual       Market Study       Consultants
than $250,000
Indicator Four:
Number of in-country commercial                   C        (US$m)      452           865        1,307      1,400       Annual       Market Study       Consultants
business that can provide energy



                                                                                9
efficiency services to target market


                                                                        INTERMEDIATE RESULTS

Intermediate Result (Partial Credit Guarantee Facility Component): The Guarantee Facility will leverage US$16.3 million in investments from commercial banks for approx. 130
projects

Revised Intermediate Result (Thermo-Modernization Investments Component): The TM Investments Component will leverage US$ 58.5 million in total investments for approx.
480 projects

                                              D=Dropped
                                                                                       Cumulative Target Values**

                                       Core
    Intermediate Level Results                C=Continue   Unit of    Baseline                                                             Data Source/     Responsibility for
                                              N= New                                                                        Frequency
           Indicators*                                     Measure     2004           2007         2010         2011                       Methodology       Data Collection
                                              R=Revised
Intermediate Result indicator One:
Total investment in EE supported by               N        (US$m)       276           1,205        2,396        2,834         Annual           BGK                 BGK
TM loans
Intermediate Result indicator Two:
Total investment directly leveraged               N        (US$m)        0              0            0           58.5         Annual           BGK                 BGK
by TM Investments Component
Intermediate Result indicator Three:
Energy savings resulting from TM                  N        (GWh/y)      324           1,415        2,814        3,328         Annual           BGK                 BGK
loans
Intermediate Result indicator Four:
Energy savings directly leveraged                 N        (GWh/y)       0              0            0            68          Annual           BGK                 BGK
by TM Investments Component
Intermediate Result indicator Five:
                                                            (1000
Emissions reductions resulting from               N                     125            545         1,083        1,281         Annual           BGK                 BGK
                                                            tCO2)
TM loans
Intermediate Result indicator Six:
Emissions reductions directly                               (1000
                                                  N                      0              0            0            26          Annual           BGK                 BGK
leveraged by TM Investments                                 tCO2)
Component




                                                                                 10
Intermediate Result (Energy Efficiency Investments Component): Support bundled EE project investments of US$6.4 million. Local Banks and POE ESCO contribute US$5.4
million of this investment, and client co-financing is equal to US$1 million of total project cost.


Revised Intermediate Result (Energy Efficiency Investments Component):

                                              D=Dropped
                                                                                      Cumulative Target Values**




                                       Core
    Intermediate Level Results                C=Continue   Unit of   Baseline                                                             Data Source/     Responsibility for
                                              N= New                                                                       Frequency
           Indicators*                                     Measure    2004           2007         2010         2011                       Methodology       Data Collection
                                              R=Revised
Intermediate Result indicator One:
                                                                                                                                           BGK, POE
Total investment in EE projects                                         0
                                                  C        (US$m)                    5.87          6.38        6.38          Annual          ESCO                BGK
initiated by POE and supported by
                                                                                                                                            Records
grant
Intermediate Result indicator Two:                                                                                                         BGK, POE
Total co-financing contributed by                 C        (US$m)      121            424          461          461          Annual          ESCO                BGK
building owners                                                                                                                             Records
Intermediate Result indicator Three:
Total lending by local banks to POE               D
ESCO
Intermediate Result indicator Four:
                                                                                                                                           BGK, POE
Energy savings resulting from grant
                                                  R        (GWh/y)      0             7.1          13.8        13.8          Annual          ESCO                BGK
financing
                                                                                                                                            Records
Intermediate Result indicator Five:                                                                                                       BGK, POE
                                                        (1000
Emissions reductions resulting from           R                        0              2.2          5.7         5.7         Annual            ESCO              BGK
                                                        tCO2)
grant financing                                                                                                                             Records
Intermediate Result (Technical Assistance Component): Successful deployment of the guarantee mechanism and development of adequate capacity within BGK to manage facility.
Development of a performance contracting model by POE ESCO.
Revised Intermediate Result (Technical Assistance Component): n/a (was related to guarantee component)

                                              D=Dropped
                                                                                      Cumulative Target Values**
                                       Core




    Intermediate Level Results                C=Continue   Unit of   Baseline                                                             Data Source/     Responsibility for
                                              N= New                                                                       Frequency
           Indicators*                                     Measure    2004           2007         2010         2011                       Methodology       Data Collection
                                              R=Revised
Intermediate Result indicator One:
Number and volume of projects for                 D
which performance contracting was




                                                                                11
used

Intermediate Result (Partial Credit Guarantee Facility Component):
The Guarantee facility will leverage US$16.3 million in total investment by commercial banks participating in the Program, for approximately 130 projects ranging in size from
US$25,000 to US$500,000.
Revised Intermediate Result (Partial Credit Guarantee Facility Component):
This component is dropped
                                               D=Dropped
                                                                                           Cumulative Target Values**




                                        Core
       Intermediate Level Results              C=Continue   Unit of      Baseline                                                                 Data Source/      Responsibility for
                                               N= New                                                                             Frequency
              Indicators*                                   Measure       2004            2007           2010         2011                        Methodology        Data Collection
                                               R=Revised
Intermediate Result indicator One:
Number of Guarantee Framework                      D
Agreements signed
Intermediate Result indicator Two:
                                                   D
Number of guarantee transactions
Intermediate Result indicator Three:
Disbursements into Guarantee                       D
Account
Intermediate Result indicator Four:
                                                   D
Guarantee claims paid
Intermediate Result indicator Five:
Net reserves (comes from above +                   D
BGK leverage)
Intermediate Result indicator Six:
                                                   D
Net outstanding exposure
Intermediate Result indicator Seven:
                                                   D
Project liabilities to reserves ratio
Intermediate Result indicator Eight:
                                                   D
Loan volume supported by guarantee
Intermediate Result indicator Nine:
Total investment in EE supported by                D
guarantee
Intermediate Result indicator Ten:
Energy savings resulting from                      D
guaranteed loans
Intermediate Result indicator Eleven:
Emissions reductions resulting from                D
guaranteed loans




                                                                                     12
13
