Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 15190
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BFNIN
SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
(CREDIT 1721-BEN)
DECXEBR 22, 1995
Infrastructure Operations Division
Central-Western Africa Department
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
(period average)
Currency unit: CFA Franc (CFAF)
1986:  US$1.00    =  CFAF   346.30
1987:  US$1.00    =  CFAF   300.54
1988:  US$1.00    =  CFAF   297.85
1989:  US$1.00    =  CFAF   319.01
1990:  US$1.00    =  CFAF   272.26
1991:  US$1.00    =  CFAF   282.11
1992:  US$1.00    =  CFAF   264.69
1993:  US$1.00    =  CFAF   283.16
MEASURES
I meter                =       3.28 feet
1 liter                =       0.26 US gallon
1 cubic meter (m3)     =       264 US gallons or 1,000 liters
1 cubic meter/sec. (m3/s) =    31.5 million cubic meters per year or 22.8 million
US gallons per day
1 liter per capita per day =  0.26 US gallon per capita per day
(lcd)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
AGETUR         Agence d'Exdcution des Travaux Urbains
CCCE           Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (presently CFD, Caisse Francaise de Developpement)
CEPEPE         Centre pour la Promotion de l'Emploi et de la Petite et Moyenne Entreprise
DH             Direction de I'Hydraulique
DV             Direction de la Voirie
DVU            Direction des Voiries Urbaines
EIB            European Investment Bank
GIGG           Groupement IGIP / GKW / GRAS - Joint Venture of Engineering Consultants
IDB            Islamic Development Bank
IGIP           Ingenieur Gesellschaft fur Internationale Planungsaufgaben
MET            Ministere de I' Equipement et des Transports
MSP            Management Support Program
OPEC           Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
PCR            Project Completion Report
RWS            Rural Water Supply
SAR            Staff Appraisal Report
SBEE           Socidte Beninoise d' Electricite et d' Eau
SW             Staff-weeks
UWS            Urban Water Supply



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
The World Bank
Washington, D C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of the Director-General
Operations Evaluabon
December 22, 1995
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Benin
Second Water Supply Project (Credit 1721-BEN)
Attached is the Project Completion Report (PCR) on the Benin: Second Water Supply Project
(Credit 1721-BEN, approved in FY86) prepared by the Africa Regional Office with Part 11 contributed
by the Borrower. The Credit for SDR8.6 million was closed on schedule on December 31. 1993. A
balance of SDR1.02 million was canceled.
The Credit was the second to assist the water sector in Benin, the first one being an engineerilng
loan. Its main objective was to improve the financial viability of the urban water supply sector by:
(a) implementing a low-cost expansion of the water supply system in Benin's two largest cities:
Cotonou and Porto Novo; (b) promoting domestic connections to increase the revenue base; (c) setting
tariffs to reflect long-term marginal costs; (d) strengthening the utility's management, and
(e) implementing sound budget practices to avoid accumulating unpaid bills. An amendment to the
Credit in August 1990 added the promotion of small-scale contractors as part of a labor-intensive public
works operation.
The project's physical components were implemented successfully; some targets were even
exceeded, such as the number of connections, which were 2.5 times higher than estimated at appraisal.
The labor-intensive public works operation was implemented successfully through a new agency and
demonstrated that small contractors can operate reliably with proper supervision. Project cost was 20
percent lower than estimated even after adding the public works component.
The project did not meet its main objective: tariffs were not adjusted, unpaid bills for water
increased, and the government did not pay its water bill. Yet, because water is a minor share of the
utility, its overall finances were unaffected by these bad outcomes. The covenanted financial rates of
return were met for the last three years of project implementation for the utility as a whole due to the
profitable electricity sales. The reestimated economic rate of return was only slightly positive (vs. 15
percent at appraisal) because demand did not increase as much as forecast and tariffs were not adjusted
as planned. The utility did not cooperate on the institutional improvements partly because project
responsibility was given to the head of the water department, itself only 15 percent of the whlole utility.
The PCR also acknowledged IDA's failure to assess project risks and to enforce covenants, especially the
financial ones.
The outcome of the project is rated as unsatisfactory; its sustainability is rated as uncertaini: and
its impact on institutional development is rated as negligible. The PCR describes adequately the success
on the technical side and the failure to improve the sector's financial viability.
No audit is planned.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE
EVALUATION SUMMARY.1i
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK' S PERSPECTIVE                                                               1
A. PROJECT IDENTITY                                    .        .        .       ...........................I
B. BACKGROUND   ...                                    ...                           ......................1
C. PROJECT  OBJECTIVES AND  DESCRIPTION  ........................................                   2
Project  O bjectives       .  .  .   .........................................             2
Project  D escription    ............................................                      3
D. PROJECT DESIGN  AND  ORGANIZATION  ............................................3
E. PROJECT  IMPLEMNTATION  ......................................... .                       .       4
Credit Effectiveness and Project Start-up .........................................  .     4
implementation Schedule ........................................      .          .5
Procurement .............................................6
Project Costs and Financing ........................................    .        .         6
Disbursements and Credit Allocation ........................................ .     .       7
F. PROJECT RESULTS ......................................                .        .        .        7
G. PROJECT  SUSTAINABELITY  .............................................8
H. BANK  PERFORMANCE .............................................9
I. BORROWER  PERFORMANCE .............................................9
J. PROJECT RELATIONSHIP                                  .         .          .............................. 10
K. CONSULTING  SERVICES                                         ............................................ 10
L. PROJECT DOCUMENTATION  AND  DATA ............................................ 10
M. CONCLUSIONS AND  LESSONS LEARNED .......................................... 10
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE                                                           12
A. GENERAL COMMENTS ............................................ 12
B. CONCLUSIONS ............................................                                          13
PART m1: STATISTICAL INFORMATION                                                                              13
1. Related IDA  Credits                  ...................................... 16
2. Project Timetable ......................................                                17
3. Credit Disbursements ......................................                             17
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wiLhout World Bank authorization.



4. Project Implementation               .        .       ............................. 18
5. Project Costs and Financing ...................................         20
6. Project Results.                   ................................................ 2
7. Status of Covenants .         ...............................................  23
8.  Use   of Bank   Resources  ................................................  29
ANNEX 1 - WATER PRODUCTION AND SALES- 1987/1993    .................... 31
ANNEX 2 - WATER AND ELECTRICITY SALES-1987/1993 ...................... 32
ANNEX 3 - SUMMARY INCOME STATEMENTS (ACTUAL) .................... 33



)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BENIN
SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
(CREDIT 1721 - BEN)
PREFACE
1.    This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Second Water Supply Project in Benin, for
which Credit 1721 - BEN in the amount of SDR 8.6 million was approved on June 30, 1986 and signed
on June 29, 1987. The Credit became effective on March 25, 1988 and was closed on December 31,
1993 as originally scheduled. The last disbursement under the credit was on March 11, 1994; only 88% of
the credit was disbursed, with a balance of SDR 1,024,344.77 that was canceled effective March 11,
1994.
2.    The PCR was prepared by the Infrastructure Operations Division of the Central-Western Africa
Department (AF4IN). The completion mission took place in June 1994. The Societe Beninoise
d'Electricite et d' Eau (SBEE) was then requested to prepare Part II which was received in October 1994.
3.    The PCR is based on the President's Report, the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), the Development
Credit Agreement, the Project Agreement, reports by and correspondence between IDA and the
Government and SBEE, internal memoranda and interviews with IDA staff who have been associated
with the project over the years.






ii
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BENIN
SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
(CREDIT 1721 - BEN)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Objectives
i.    The main objective of the project was to improve the financial viability of the urban water supply
sector so as to allow also for further expansion in small secondary centers by: (a) implementing low cost
reinforcements of the water supply systems in Cotonou and Porto Novo; (b) promoting domestic
connections to increase access of the urban population to the piped network and expanding the revenue
base of the Societe Beninoise d'Electricite el d'Eau (SBEE); (c) setting water tariffs to reflect long-term
marginal costs; (d) strengthening SBEE's management capability; and (e) implementing sound budgetary
and commercial practices which would inter alia avoid accumulation of unpaid bills. In August 1990, the
project's objectives were amended to include also the promotion of small scale contractors through a
labor intensive public works operation (paragraph 5).
Implementation Experience
ii.    The expansion of water supply facilities in Cotonou and Porto Novo has been implemented on
time and within budget. The number of additional water connections was about two and a half times the
SAR estimate. The basic facilities became operational by August 1992, are functioning well and are well
maintained. The Management Support Program (MSP) designed to strengthen SBEE's management
capability was not implemented. Only about half of the amount allocated for the replenishment of SBEE's
working capital was used. The labor intensive pilot operation for public works was very successfully
implemented. The actual project cost was about 20% less than the estimate, despite the addition of the
pilot operation for public works (paragraphs 12 to 19).
Results
iii.   The project achieved its physical objectives of increasing the availability and the quality of water,
and the number of people served. Actually there has been a dramatic increase (by about 130%) in
domestic connections which were made more affordable. Since the Management Support Program
(MSP) was not implemented, the expected results of this component did not materialize, with the
exception of staff productivity which improved significantly. Otherwise, receivables for water increased,
tariffs were not adjusted to reflect long-term marginal costs, the covenanted internal financial rates of
return were partly achieved from 1991 onwards, and the actual economic rate of return is estimated to be
only slightly positive. The government cash flow situation was more favorable than expected, albeit not
in the manner it was intended, but simply because Government did not pay its bills to SBEE. The overall



iii
achievement of the project in terms of the institutional development of SBEE was therefore negligible,
and the financial viability of the urban water supply sector has not improved. Under the labor intensive
pilot operation for public works, a large number of small contractors, including some that had experience
only in housing construction, were awarded contracts for labor intensive street paving and carried them
out satisfactorily.  On balance, the overall outcome of the project is judged to have been
unsatisfactory.(paragraphs 20 to 23).
Sustainability
iv.    Despite the serious shortcomings on the institutional development side, the project is likely to
maintain an acceptable level of net benefits throughout its economic life (paragraph 24).
Findings and lessons learned
v.    A number of lessons, some of them obvious and not unique to this project, can be drawn from the
experience with the project (paragraph 31):
(a)   The objective of increasing the availability and quality of water and the number of people
served can be achieved with good project preparation and supervision by the implementing
agency, and with adequate incentives to increase the number of water connections.
(b)   A policy of encouraging domestic connections and the development of a system of
neighborhood vendors can be very successful to eliminate public standpipes, which are
usually a source of arrears.
(c)   Good technical performance is not enough for a project with a revenue earning entity, but
there is also a need for good financial and commercial performance.
(d)   In order for the objectives of a project to be achieved, special efforts need to be made
(including adequate supervision by IDA with the appropriate skill mix, and the use by IDA
of all available leverage) to ensure that all components are implemented (as redesigned if
needed) and to enforce compliance with covenants.
(e)   The labor intensive public works have demonstrated that, with proper training and
supervision, and appropriate technology, housing contractors can undertake urban road
rehabilitation and construction, and that it is possible to award contracts to small
contractors, to have the works supervised properly and carried out satisfactorily and to
have the contractors paid promptly, all of this within a reasonable time frame and at a
reasonable cost.



l
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BENIN
SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
(CREDIT 1721 - BEN)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK' S PERSPECTIVE
A.    PROJECT IDENTITY
Name                            Second Water Supply Project
Credit Number                   1721 - BEN
RVP Unit                        Africa Region
Country                         Benin
Sector                          Infrastructure
Sub - Sector                    Water Supply
B. BACKGROUND
1.    A small, poor country situated on the Atlantic coast of Western Africa in the equatorial zone,
Benin had at the time of project appraisal a population of 3.8 million and an estimated 1984 per capita
GDP of US$240. The country's economy was based mostly on agriculture, particularly traditional
farming. The very small industrial sector consisted mainly of a few import substitution and agricultural
processing plants, and the recently built sugar and cement plants faced problems of production costs,
pricing and market uncertainties. Economic policy during the 1970s emphasized national control and
self-reliance with much of the economy put under state ownership. In the early 1980s, curtailed activities
in Nigeria and Niger reduced the demand for Benin's manufactures and transit services; the rate of GDP
growth fell, public finances and the liquidity of the domestic banking system deteriorated, and the country
experienced debt service difficulties. In recognition of these many problems the Government began in
1982 the introduction of measures aimed at reducing distortions and improving the performance of the
economy, including the preparation of a stabilization program.
2.    The main objective of the project was in line with the Government's policy to rehabilitate the
parapublic sector. A water project with Societe Beninoise d'Electricite et d'Eau (SBEE), one of the few
well functioning parastatals in Benin, was timely. SBEE had been asked by Government to extend its
operations in several secondary centers; there was a danger of uncontrolled development in those very
high cost centers and a need to introduce tariffs that would reflect marginal costs. It was evident that



2
establishment of a sound financial framework in the urban water supply sector could only be based on
activities initially concentrating in the main urban centers of Cotonou and Porto Novo.
3.    Ground water constituted the major source of drinking water and was available almost throughout
the country. It was estimated that about 60 percent of the urban population had access to safe water; 17
percent being served by house connections, 13 percent by standpipes and 30 percent obtaining their water
from neighbors (private reselling). The remaining 40 percent were believed to rely only on untreated
water sources, such as private wells, for their drinking water needs. In rural areas, construction of
modern water points had started in 1980. The sanitary situation was very poor in both urban centers and
rural areas.
4.    Responsibilities for the Urban Water Supply (UWS) sector were exclusively in the hands of
SBEE, a combined electricity/water utility established in 1973 as a public enterprise. SBEE reported to
the Ministry of Finance and Economy (also responsible for Mines and Energy), which transmitted
Government's objectives without major interference in SBEE's day-to-day operations.   SBEE
programmed, financed and executed investments, was the owner of the assets, operated the facilities and
serviced the debt. SBEE enjoyed a certain measure of managerial autonomy except in the areas of tariff
setting and staff remuneration policies which were placed under direct responsibility of Government. The
rural water supply sector was placed under the responsibility of Direction de l'Hydraulique (DH) of the
Ministry of Equipment and Transportation. Responsibilities were divided among several agencies for
urban sanitation and ill-defined for rural sanitation.
5.    The Urban Water Supply (UWS) sector being entirely in the hands of SBEE, a commercially
oriented entity, the principle of payment for the sale of piped water was widely accepted. However, in
spite of the relatively good development of the distribution networks in the centers presently equipped,
the number of domestic connections remained rather low because their cost was too high for a large
segment of the population. A policy of introducing incentives to increase the number of small (or social)
connections would have the advantages of increasing the number of people served and SBEE's revenues,
as well as improving the health situation in the country. The positive impact of such a policy would be
reinforced by the widespread practice of water resale to neighbors, an useful community service which
assured regular revenues to SBEE whereas public standpipes were one of the main sources of public
arrears.
C. PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION
Project Objectives
6.    The main objective of the project was to improve the financial viability of the urban water supply
sector so as to allow also for further expansion in small secondary centers by: (a) implementing low cost
reinforcements of the water supply systems in Cotonou and Porto Novo; (b) promoting domestic
connections to increase access of the urban population to the piped network and expand the revenue basis
of SBEE; (c) setting water tariffs to reflect long-term marginal costs; (d) strengthening SBEE's
management capability; and (e) implementing sound budgetary and commercial practices which would
inter alia avoid accumulation of unpaid bills. In August 1990, the project's objectives were amended to
include also the promotion of the development of small scale contractors through a labor intensive public
works operation.



3
Project Description
7.    The project consisted of the following components:
(a)    expansion of water supply facilities in Cotonou and Porto Novo including: (i) drilling of
ten new boreholes; (ii) extension of two existing neutralization plants and construction of
a new one; (iii) construction of three storage service reservoirs and rehabilitation of three
existing reservoirs; (iv) supply and laying of 23 km of feeders and 275 km of distribution
pipes; and (v) installation of about 11,500 domestic connections;
(b)    strengthening of SBEE's management capability through (i) training of intermediate and
higher level staff ; (ii) consultancy services for organization, accounting and data
processing; (iii) technical assistance to the water, finance, data processing and training
department; and (iv) expansion of office space;
(c)    replenishment of SBEE's working capital including supply of spare parts; and
(d)   a labor intensive pilot operation for public works - basically street paving and
rehabilitation and cleaning of drains (This component was added in August 1990).
8.    Technically, the project was of standard nature.  The primary benefits of the project were
improved water supply both in quantity and quality for Cotonou and Porto Novo; simultaneously, SBEE
was to benefit from institution building efforts under the project and in concert with projects financed by
other donors. While the population of the project area was expected to grow from about 650,000 to
1,300,000 between 1984 and 1994, the population supplied by water, either through direct connections
or indirectly through community connections (water resale to neighbors or "concession standpipes"), was
expected to increase by about 640,000 or 150 percent, from 428,000 to 1,065,000. The estimated cost
of the project, including contingencies but excluding taxes and duties, was US$ 30.5 million. Total
financing requirements including interest during construction were US$ 33.0 million. The project was
cofinanced by CCCE of France, the Fund of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC
Fund),the European Investment Bank (EIB) and SBEE.
D. PROJECT DESIGN AND ORGANIZATION
9.    The Bank's initial entry into the UWS and sanitation sectors in Benin was in the form of an
Engineering Credit (Cr. 1171 - BEN of 1981) whose objectives were to provide relief to the most urgent
water and sanitation needs in Cotonou, examine long-term solutions to water, sanitation and urban
problems, prepare specific projects, and suggest appropriate institutional arrangements and alternative
sources of revenues for the sector. Studies financed under the credit revealed the important needs of the
sector, at a time when SBEE was asked by Government to extend its water supply activities to some 46
secondary centers. Thus, it was crucial to assist SBEE, one of the few well functioning parastatal
enterprises in the country, in the establishment of a sound financial framework and in the reinforcement of
its managerial structures. Since the improvement of the financial viability of the UWS sector could only
be based on activities concentrating on the main urban centers, the proposed project did not include rural
water supply (as originally planned), nor even secondary centers. The social objective to increase the



4
urban population's access to drinking water by promoting domestic connections would also enlarge
SBEE's revenues base and help meet the objective of financial viability. A water supply project with
SBEE was considered timely due to its complementary nature to a proposed power project with SBEE
and in view of the government focus on rehabilitation / strengthening of the public enterprise sector. A
combined water / urban project was initially included in the lending program; in order to avoid over-
complexities in design and implementation arrangements, it was decided to have two projects whose
preparation would be closely coordinated and which would be implemented in parallel. Both projects
were expected to improve substantially environmental living conditions and to provide a minimum
acceptable level of welfare to the urban population.
10.   Technical preparation was undertaken on the basis of preliminary studies carried out by
consultants GIGG (a joint venture of consulting firms IGIP, GKW, GRAS in Germany) as part of the
master plan studies financed under Cr. 1 171-BEN. SBEE, assisted by engineering consultants, was to be
responsible for implementation of the urban water supply component and the management support
program. Detailed designs and tender documents for the urban water supply component were under
preparation and were expected to be ready during the Summer of 1986. Construction was scheduled to
start by late 1987 and extend through the end of 1992 with possible extension until mid 1993. The labor
intensive pilot operation for public works (which was added to the project description in August 1990)
was the responsibility of an independent implementing agency to be established.
11.   There was a clear conceptual foundation for the project which, with the exception of the
Management Support Program (MSP), was shared and understood by all parties and was well prepared,
with the role and responsibilities of the implementing agency clearly defined and understood. The project
was a standard one, the only innovative parts being the social connections and the labor intensive works
introduced in 1990. In retrospect, the scope and scale of the project, which appeared appropriate in light
of its objectives, was too ambitious, not only for the MSP and the working capital (spare parts)
component, but also for the water supply facilities in Cotonou since water demand in that area did not
increase as forecast. The aspect of project design and organization that contributed most to its successes
was that SBEE was its own master for all implementation activities including disbursements, and that
within SBEE the director of works (Water) was in charge. The latter point turned out to be very good
for the physical investments, but not for the other components and, therefore, contributed also to the
project failures. Another aspect of the project that contributed to its failures was the fact that a water
project was not the right vehicle to reorganize an enterprise that is 85 percent electricity and only 15
percent water.
E. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Credit Effectiveness and Project Start-up
12.   Although the credit was approved on June 30, 1986, it was signed only on June 29, 1987 because
of difficulties in finalizing the financing plan; one cofinancier (IDB) withdrew, and had to be replaced by
another one (EIB). Additional conditions of effectiveness included the adoption by Government of the
"General Regulations" for the water operations, the introduction of the entire water tariff structure and
the first adjustment of water tariffs provided for in an annex to those regulations, the signing of the
subsidiary loan agreement between Government and SBEE, and the effectiveness of the CCCE, EIB and
OPEC Fund loan agreements. The credit was made effective on March 25, 1988.



5
13.   The delay in credit effectiveness did not mean that all that time was lost for project
implementation. During that period, the Bank fielded two supervision missions, and the Borrower started
the bidding process and employed a consulting firm for the supervision of works.
Implementation Schedule
14.   The expansion of water supply facilities in Cotonou and Porto Novo has been well implemented.
SBEE called for bids by late June 1987, and, despite some delays with its award recommendations,
contracted for basically all the works in accordance with the original schedule. By early 1991, all physical
works for the water systems with the exception of the reservoirs were practically complete.  The
reservoirs, which were financed by the OPEC Fund, were delayed because of a suspension of
disbursements due to Benin's arrears to the OPEC Fund. SBEE implemented another program for the
extension of the tertiary systems and an additional 10,000 social connections, over and above the 11,500
already done. The basic facilities became operational by August 1992, and are functioning well and are
well maintained. Compared with the SAR estimates which are shown between brackets, the completed
works consisted of nine (ten) new boreholes ; extension of two (two) existing neutralization plants and
construction of a new one (one); construction of four (three) and rehabilitation of one (three) storage
service reservoirs; supply and laying of 25 (23) km of feeders and 332 (275) km of distribution pipes; and
installation of 21,500 (11,500) domestic connections. Apart from SBEE's headquarters building which
was completed in June 1990, the Management Support Program (MSP) designed to strengthen SBEE's
management capability was essentially not implemented. During the project period, with financing
provided under another IDA-financed project, the focus was on the problem of computerizing the billing
and accounting systems of SBEE, which was considered a prerequisite for the improvement of financial
and commercial management.  Those efforts were not successful.  Recommendations of external
consultants for reorganizing SBEE--including a major study financed under Credit 2284-BEN (Power
Rehabilitation Project of 1990)--were not implemented due to the management conflicts within SBEE
and the conflicts between SBEE and the supervising Ministry. Only about half of the amount allocated
for the replenishment of SBEE's working capital was used.
15.   The labor intensive pilot operation for public works was successfully implemented in a reasonable
time, with most of the proceeds of the IDA credit allocated to that component disbursed in about two
years. Since on the technical side a lot of preparatory work had been done previously, this new
component could start quickly once the Government and IDA agreed on the institutional setup and the
implementation arrangements. AGETUR (Agence d'Execution des Travaux Urbains) was created, and
an agreement was signed between AGETUR and SBEE, in October 1990. Initial problems with the
management of AGETUR, the overlapping of responsibilities and lack of communication between SBEE
and AGETUR were satisfactorily resolved at an early stage. AGETUR benefited from short-term
external technical assistance and was able to use local consultants for the detailed engineering and the
bidding process, as well as the supervision of the individual sub projects. The completed works consisted
of about 2.5 km of street paving with concrete cement blocks, 10 km of drains and 6 bridges for
pedestrians. The achievement of the objective of promoting the development of small scale contractors
was facilitated by the work of CEPEPE (Centre pour la Promotion de lEmploi et de la Petite et
AMfoyenne Enfreprise), under a UNDP project which consisted of technical assistance to small and
medium scale enterprises but included also a fund for helping enterprises to provide a performance
security under their civil works contracts. Because of its success, the pilot operation had a catalytic



6
effect and AGETUR was able to mobilize substantial financing from other donors for activities outside
the project scope.
16.   rhe most critical variances between planned and actual project implementation were the social
water connections, the Management Support Program (MSP), the working capital replenishment and the
introduction of the pilot operation for public works as a new component. The variances regarding the
water connections, the working capital (which was not needed because of the good cash flow for the
electricity side of the business) and the pilot operation (which was considered by IDA a good addition to
the project) are essentially good things. Regarding the MSP which involved two cofinanciers, the
variance could have been avoided only by ensuring that the design of the component reflected what
Government and SBEE were interested in doing and, therefore, were committed to it, or if IDA had been
prepared to exercise its leverage (by suspending disbursements for example) to force SBEE to implement
the project as appraised. In retrospect, it may have been a good thing that SBEE did not want to use
long-term technical assistance, but it should have certainly benefited from short-term expertise in a
number of areas. With hindsight, the project risks were not correctly identified at appraisal; the main
risks turned out to be the budgetary problems and government arrears, the difficulty of making the
compensation of cross-debts work and the unwillingness of SBEE to strengthen its management
capability, its accounting and its financial performance. Factors that affected project implementation and
that could not have been foreseen were the political crisis of 1988/1990 and the closing of a number of
industrial and commercial enterprises which reduced water sales and SBEE's revenues. The change of
SBEE's General Manager in June 1990 is one of the decisions taken that most affected project
implementation; internal conflicts within SBEE, and conflicts between SBEE and its supervisory ministry
also affected project implementation. Regarding the pilot operation for civil works, the fact that IDA
stood firm and intervened quickly to resolve the problems that arose at the beginning contributed to the
success of this particular project component.
Procurement
17.  Initially, procurement has been slow, but SBEE complied with IDA guidelines. The bidding of
the computer system (managed under this project but financed by Credit 1507-BEN) encountered
considerable delays and did not lead to an award recommendation. in hindsight, the combination of the
procurement of hardware and software was not an optimal one. Procurement delegated to AGETUR
under the labor intensive public works was quite satisfactory and showed substantial reductions in
processing time compared to Beninese standards.
Project Costs and Financing
18.   Excluding interest during construction, the project cost estimate in the Staff Appraisal Report
(SAR) was CFAF 11.0 billion. Following changes in cofinanciers and an updating of project costs, the
SAR estimate was revised to CFAF 10.6 billion prior to the signing of the IDA credit in June 1987. At
CFAF 8.6 billion, the actual project cost was about 20 percent lower than the estimate, despite the
addition of the pilot operation for public works which cost about CFAF 0.6 billion. Most of the cost
savings are the results of the shortfalls in the SBEE Management Support Program (MSP) and the
replenishment of SBEE's working capital, but even the expansion of the water supply facilities in
Cotonou and Porto Novo cost about 10 percent less than the revised SAR estimate. It should be noted
that, while the rate of exchange between the US dollar and the CFA franc did not change much during the
period 1987 to 1993, variations in the rate of exchange between SDRs and US dollars increased the



7
dollar amount available from the IDA credit, part of which was not needed to complete the project.
Actual disbursements by external cofinanciers were also less than the revised SAR estimate; on the other
hand, the actual contribution of SBEE exceeded the estimate by almost CFAF 0.6 billion (or about 40
percent), an increase shared equally between the expansion of water supply facilities and interest during
construction.
Disbursements and Credit Allocation
19.   The cumulative estimated and actual disbursements of the credit are given in Table 3 of Part III.
The six years disbursement forecast of the SAR turned out to be realistic. Because of an increase in the
value of the SDR in dollars, disbursements in SDRs represented 88 percent of the credit, whereas the
same disbursements expressed in US dollars equivalent were equal to 103 percent of the US dollars
equivalent amount of the IDA credit shown in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR). The allocation of the
proceeds of the credit was amended three times to reflect the addition of a new component and changes
in financing requirements. Disbursements of the IDA credit were (a) more than estimated at appraisal for
SBEE's Headquarters and, of course, the pilot operation for public works, (b) less for the equipment for
water supply facilities, spare parts and the Management Support Program (MSP) and (c) about the same
for the supervision of construction of the water supply facilities. The credit was closed on December 3 1,
1993 as scheduled, and the last disbursement was on March 11, 1994. A balance of SDR 1,024,344.77
was canceled effective March 11,1994.
F. PROJECT RESULTS
20.   SBEE implemented the expansion of water supply facilities in Cotonou and Porto Novo on time
and within budget, and the project achieved its physical objectives of increasing the availability and
quality of water and the number of people served. SBEE has been able to meet water demand which, in
any event, did not increase as much as forecast. Actually there has been a dramatic increase (by about
130 percent) in domestic connections which were made more affordable. The number of additional
connections was about two and a half times the SAR estimate. Therefore, although there is no figure
available on the population served, the additional number of people served through the new domestic
connections and through the neighborhood vendors is likely to be close to the appraisal estimate of
640,000.
21.   The Management Support Program  (MSP) was intended to enhance SBEE's operational
resources and allow for a manpower redeployment. Basically, the MSP was not implemented and,
therefore, the expected results did not materialize with the exception of staff productivity ( as measured
by the number of customers per staff member) which has improved significantly. Receivables for water
did not decrease but increased instead to the equivalent of 14 months' billings at the end of 1993. The
government cash flow situation was more favorable than expected, not in the manner it was intended, but
because Government did not pay its bills to SBEE. Tariffs were not adjusted to reflect long-term
marginal costs. The covenanted internal financial rates of return were achieved for SBEE as a whole
(excepted in 1991 and 1992) but were not achieved for the water supply activities from 1991 onwards,.
The actual economic rate of return is estimated to be slightly higher than zero, to be compared to the
SAR estimate of 15 percent. The overall achievement of the project in terms of institutional development
was therefore negligible, and the financial viability of the urban water supply sector has not improved.
For 1993, SBEE had a rate of return of 4.3 percent and an operating ratio of 90 percent for its overall
operations, compared with SAR estimates of 9.1 percent and 73 percent, respectively. The variances



8
between the appraisal and completion economic and financial rates of return can be explained by the lack
of pressure on the financial side and the political and economic crisis. Water operations have continued
to be subsidized by the profitable electricity operations, and there has been no incentive for SBEE to
adjust water tariffs. Because of the economic crisis, some major commercial consumers (port, brewery,
textile company, etc.) reduced their consumption by as much as 50 percent, and SBEE could not reap the
full benefits of the additional water available. In 1993, water sales were CFAF 1.9 billion, compared with
the SAR estimate of CFAF 6.1 billion.
22.   With the addition in August 1990 of the labor intensive pilot operation for public works, the
project objectives changed during implementation to include also the promotion of the development of
small scale contractors. This component has been very successful. Following local competitive bidding,
a large number of small contractors, including some that had experience only in housing construction,
were awarded contracts for labor intensive street paving and carried them out satisfactorily. The pilot
operation has demonstrated that, given the right institutional setup, management and procedures, an
appropriate technology (concrete cement blocks) and with local consultants and short-term external
technical assistance, it is possible to award contracts for labor intensive works to small contractors, to
have the works supervised properly and carried out satisfactorily and to have the contractors paid
promptly, all of this within a reasonable time frame and at a reasonable cost.
Impact of Project
23    The project had a favorable impact on the macro and sector growth and policies, and on the
physical and social environment.  With the additional domestic connections, the rehabilitation and
cleaning of open drains and the paving of streets, a greater number of people have an easier access to
water of a better quality and enjoy improved sanitary conditions. The project reinforced an existing trend
with the further development of the system of neighborhood vendors (with adequate competition and at a
reasonable price) and the disappearance of public standpipes.  The improvement in the physical
environment, however, is endangered by the uncontrolled urban development in the perimeter of
protection of the aquifer.  The pilot operation had also a favorable impact on the technological
environment with the demonstration that housing contractors could undertake other kinds of cost
effective, labor intensive works. However, the project did not achieve two of its main objectives, namely
the strengthening of SBEE's management and the improvement of the financial viability of the water
supply sector and the overall outcome of the project is not satisfactory.
G. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
24.   Despite the serious shortcomings on the institutional development side, the project is likely to
maintain an acceptable level of net benefits throughout its economic life, particularly in view of the
resumption of growth observed in Benin since 1992 and reinforced by the devaluation of the CFA Franc.
The problem of the pollution of the aquifer is being addressed by an urban project and an environmental
project financed by IDA. The success of the pilot operation for public works enabled Government to
mobilize substantial additional funds from other donors for those types of labor intensive works, which
have also been included on a larger scale in the urban project. The overall impact of the project in terms
of sustainability is therefore satisfactory.



9
H. BANK PERFORMANCE
25.   The strengths of IDA's performance on this project have been the quality of project preparation,
IDA support to the implementation of the expansion of water supply facilities, staff continuity and the
flexibility that IDA has shown during project implementation to modify the project objectives and
description and reallocate the proceeds of the IDA credit. The amendment to the credit agreement to add
to the project the pilot operation for public works was approved by the Country Director with a minimum
of paper work. Although one could argue that this addition was a cnange sufficiently major to be
submitted to the Board for approval on a no objection basis, the fact remains that IDA responded very
quickly to a government request for assistance to alleviate the hardship of the adjustment program,
promote the development of small contractors and provide relief for the unemployed as well as improving
the sanitary environment. The new component turned out to be very successful not only in itself, but also
as laying the foundation for a comprehensive urban project. The main weakness of IDA's performance
was its inability or unwillingness to insist on the implementation of the Management Support Program
(MSP), or at least that something be done to improve SBEE's accounting and financial and commercial
management. During project implementation, IDA focused on the problem of computerizing the billing
and accounting systems of SBEE, but without results. Granted that in the final analysis SBEE was not
interested in substantial long-term technical assistance, the component could have been redesigned so that
SBEE would reform itself with some short-term technical assistance, as required.  In addition to
threatening to suspend disbursements for this project, IDA could have used the leverage of the new
power project with SBEE. In the end, IDA declined to extend the closing date of the credit as a late
recognition that the performance of government and SBEE was not satisfactory. Also, IDA allocated
insufficient resources to supervision (80 SW over the project implementation period, not unusually low
for the time but still inadequate). The project was not supervised enough (particularly immediately after
the 1987 reorganization of the Bank), and with the absence of participation by a financial analyst since the
Fall of 1987 the skill mix was not the most appropriate for a project with a revenue earning entity. The
main lesson of experience that may be relevant to other IDA-financed projects is that, in order for
project's objectives to be achieved, special efforts need to be made to ensure that all components are
implemented ( as redesigned if needed) and to enforce compliance with covenants.
I. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
26.   The performance of the Government and SBEE on this project has been mixed. With continuity
in staffing and in the employment of consultants (with maybe too much delegation of responsibility to
consultants), the performance of SBEE from a purely technical point of view for the design and
construction of water supply facilities has been good. On the other hand, the performance of SBEE has
been rather satisfactory for procurement, mediocre for financial management and poor for commercial
operations. Obviously, the political crisis of 1988-1990 and the change of General Manager did not help.
But those events are not an excuse for neglecting some important components of the project, or for not
complying with many covenants, or complying with them only partially. The Government could have
done a better job to implement the provisions of the enterprise contract (including payments of bills and
settlement of arrears) which did not work at all, and SBEE to improve its data processing, accounting,
and billing and collection operations. Year after year, SBEE systematically ignored the recommendations
of the auditor aimed at improving the presentation of the accounts and the systems of internal control.



lo
The implementation of those recommendations would not have cost much, and in any event there was
plenty of financing available from IDA and two other donors, which could have been used for that
purpose and to implement the most crucial part of the Management Support Program (MSP). The main
lesson of experience for the Borrower that may be relevant to the preparation and implementation of
other projects is that, for a project with a revenue earning entity, good technical performance is not
enough, but that there is also a need for good financial and commercial performance. The performance of
Government for the pilot operation for public works (which did not require a government contribution
and did not involve the difficult problems of settlement of arrears and payment of bills to a public utility)
was good.
J. PROJECT RELATIONSHIP
27.    The rather poor performance of Government on budgetary allocations and payments of bills for
water created the usual problems with the Ministry of Finance, and there have been conflicts at times
between SBEE and its supervising ministry (Ministere de Tutelle) with a tendency on the part of SBEE
to use IDA as an umbrella against the ministry. Coordination could have been done better by all
concerned, including Government, as demonstrated by the development of secondary centers financed by
another donor. IDA relationship with cofinanciers has generally been good, although one of them failed
to notify IDA (for as long as one year) that it had suspended disbursements on its loan. On balance,
however, the IDA relationship with Government, SBEE and cofinanciers is judged to have been
satisfactory.
K. CONSULTING SERVICES
28.   Consultants played an important role in project implementation. To some extent, they may have
been too much involved in project management, but their performance was good. Not much was done
for training, mostly because there does not seem to have been any desire on the part of SBEE staff to be
trained. The performance of contractors and suppliers has been satisfactory. The contractor for the
reservoirs interrupted its work but for a valid reason: he was not being paid because of the suspension of
disbursements of the OPEC Fund on its loan due to Government arrears to the Fund.
L. PROJECT DOCUMENTATION AND DATA
29.   The Staff Appraisal Report, the President's Report, the Development Credit Agreement, the
Project Agreement and supplemental letter, and the working papers prepared prior to project approval
were an adequate documentation for the implementation and supervision of the project. Because
progress reports were incomplete, all the data relevant to the preparation of the PCR were not readily
available.
M. CONCLUSIONS AND LESSONS LEARNED
30.   The overall outcome of the project is judged to have been unsatisfactory, despite the fact that the
project achieved its physical objectives of increasing the availability and quality of water and the number
of people served. The financial viability of the urban water supply sector has not improved., nor the



11
management capacities of SBEE. The labor intensive pilot operation for public works achieved its
objective of promoting the development of small scale contractors. On balance, the sustainability of the
project is likely.
31.   A number of lessons, some of them obvious and not unique to this project, can be drawn from the
experience with the project:
(a)   The objective of increasing the availability and quality of water and the number of people
served can be achieved with good project preparation and supervision by the implementing
agency, and with adequate incentives to increase the number of water connections.
(b)   A policy of encouraging domestic connections and the development of a system of
neighborhood vendors can be very successful to eliminate public standpipes, which are
usually a source of arrears.
(c)   Good technical performance is not enough for a project with a revenue earning entity, but
there is also a need for good financial and commercial performance.
(d)   In order for the objectives of a project to be achieved, special efforts need to be made
(including adequate supervision by IDA with the appropriate skill mix, and the use by IDA
of all available leverage) to ensure that all components are implemented (as redesigned if
needed) and to enforce compliance with covenants.
(e)   The labor intensive public works have demonstrated that, with proper training and
supervision, and appropriate technology, housing contractors can undertake urban road
rehabilitation and construction, and that it is possible to award contracts to small
contractors, to have the works supervised properly and carried out satisfactorily and to
have the contractors paid promptly, all of this within a reasonable time frame and at a
reasonable cost.



12
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BENIN
SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
(CREDIT 1721 - BEN)
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
A. GENERAL COMMENTS
1.    Contractors' Performance. The contractual dates for completing the works were generally
complied with. The only problem encountered during the project's execution was the water tightness
defects recorded in the elevated reservoirs of Akpakpa (R3) and Abomey-Calavi (R5). This problem was
rapidly mastered without any harm to the operation of the water systems of Cotonou and Abomey-Calavi.
2.    Consultants' Performance. Consultants and architect's services were very satisfactorily carried
out. All experts assigned to the project were up to their tasks.
3.    Project Unit Performance. The activities of the Project Unit were carried out in accordance with
the agreed program and, above all, adequately coordinated with the consultants' activities.
4.    Project's Results. The project allowed to increase the capacity of water production facilities in
Cotonou and Porto-Novo. The gap between the expected and actual production figures observed in
1993 (26.6 millions m3 expected to be produced compared to an actual production of 14.8 millions m3)
is attributable to the major socioeconomic and political crisis experienced in Benin between 1988 and
1991, which translated in the almost general suspension of the main economic activities of the country.
Large undertakings such as the Port of Cotonou, breweries, edible oil and soap industries, hotels and
medium and small enterprises greatly reduced their water consumption. The resumption of activity of
those units has been slow. In addition, the erratic payment of civil servants' wages seriously disturbed
domestic water consumption. The once flourishing informal sector also faced dire straits that decreased
revenues thus forcing households to reduce their water consumption and even to renounce to be served
by SBEE. Fortunately, the social connections program executed under the project allowed to partly
offset the decrease of consumption.
5.    External Constraints. The enterprise contract signed in 1986 by the Government and SBEE set
up the respective objectives of the two parties; it has not been fully complied with, as:
(a)   the above-mentioned socioeconomic and political crisis denied the opportunity for SBEE
to propose revisions of water tariffs (as well as of electricity tariffs); and



13
(b)   the collection of Government's bills did not reach the targets specified in the enterprise
contract.
Those two exogenous factors, among many others that it would be tedious to list, have impaired
the results of the project.
6.    Improvement of SBEE's management. The assistance to be provided to SBEE under the
project to improve its management was not delivered. Following IDA's request, the funds allocated to
the TA component were reallocated to labor-intensive public works. The absence of that important
component has seriously hampered the financial and commercial performances.
7.    Donors' Supervision Missions. The successive missions were candid and constructive and
somewhat helped SBEE to improve its services from a commercial, technical and financial point of view.
B. CONCLUSIONS
Generally speaking, the physical components executed under the project were carried out
satisfactorily and in accordance with standards. Although various financial targets were not met, the
project had a very interesting impact not only on SBEE but also on the Beninese economy as a whole.
The project allowed to sensitize further SBEE to the important issues related to cost recovery,
commercial management and financial equilibrium.
The project helped the staff of the PU team capitalize a significant knowledge of design,
supervision and control and institutional aspects--in summary of all tasks related to the execution and
supervision of a project.
The project allowed many local contractors to benefit from the experience of larger companies
that were awarded contracts (transfer of know-how).
The project has had a very important socioeconomic impact and health impact that deserves to be
highlighted:
(a)   the physical works related to water supply and the labor-intensive works created
employment and supported the emergence of small and medium contractors, dynamic and
able to organize themselves;
(b)   the supply of safe water to poor neighborhoods with high density of population
contributed significantly to improve the social and sanitary conditions of the population,
which particularly translated in the reduction of water-borne diseases, and
(c)   the labor-intensive urban works have greatly improved the urban environment of Cotonou
and Porto-Novo.



14
Finally, the project was instrumental in launching the ongoing water tariffs study, the report of
which should be available by the end of 1994. The recommendations of this study would allow to bill
water in line with its actual costs.
When looking farther in the future, the project certainly provided the building blocks of a new
development effort, but there are still several outstanding issues that must be addressed in the next two
years to keep the poise of the sector in the immediate future; the issues are as follows:
(a)   the frequent bursts of asbestos pipes which cripple water distribution in the largest cities;
those pipes--with diameters ranging from 90 mm to 500 mm--should be systematically
replaced;
(b)   the renewal of the water production plant of Vedoko in Cotonou where several pieces of
equipment are wearing down,
(c)   the siltation of the dam which provides the only source of supply to the city of Djougou,
and
(d)   the low densification of distribution networks in almost all secondary centers.
It would be appropriate for IDA and SBEE to jointly address the above issues by preparing and
financing quickly a new project.



15
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BENIN
SECOND WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
(CREDIT 1721 - BEN)
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION



16
1. Related IDA Credits
Project Title/           Purpose          Year of       Status                   Comments
Credit Number                             Approval
Engineering Project      To provide relief to   1981       Completed   Satisfactorily  completed  regarding  the
(Cr. 1171-BEN)          the  most  urgent                     1987      water supply part, but less so for the
water and sanitation                           sanitation and urban aspects.
needs in Cotonou
and   to  finance
studies to examine
long-term solutions
for Cotonou's water,
sanitation and urban
problems.
Power Rehabilitation     To   support  the      1990        Ongoing    The project, which took a vear from board
Project                  institutional                                  date to effectiveness. was also slow to start
(Cr. 2284-BEN)          strengthening    of                             mainly due to some procurement issues
SBEE, and to help                              which have now  been resolved.  The
meet      increased                            project is beginning to achieve its physical
demand         for                             targets.
electricity     by
rehabilitating   and
extending Cotonou,
Porto  Novo,  and
Abonicy/Bohicon
distribution systems.



' 7
2. Project Timetable
Item                Timetable             Date Revised            Date Actual
Identification                                                              Dec 83
Preparation         _                                                 Jun & Nov 84
Executive Project
Summary                                                                  Jan 28, 85
A_p!aisal Mission             Apr 85                                   Apr/May 85
Credit Negotiations          Dec 85                  Mar 86                May 86
Board Approval                Apr 86                  Jul 86             Jun 30, 86
Credit Signature    _         Apr 86                  Jul 86             Jun 29, 87
Credit Effectiveness          Oct 87                 Jan 88             Mar 25, 88
Credit Closing            Dec 31, 93                                    Dec 31, 93
3. Credit Disbursements



18
Cumulative estimated and actual disbursements
(US$ million)
Fiscal Year      1987       1988       1989        1990       1991       1992       1993        1994
Appraisal        0.20       2.04        5.43       7.69       8.98        9.67      10.00      10.00
Estimate
Actual              0        0.3         1.7        3.9        7.3         9.2       10.5       10.3
Actual as %       0%         15%        31%        51%        81%        95%        105%       103%
of estimate
Note: Because of an increase in the value of the SDR in dollars since the signing of the IDA credit, the
available IDA financing represented more dollars than the amount estimated at appraisal, despite the fact
that SDR1.02 million was canceled.
4. Project Implementation
Indicators                    Planned            Actual or PCR Estimates
(Implementation Program of Schedule 2 to Project  Date
Agreement)
SBEE to monitor the technical, administrative and          SBEE has monitored its operations, but the
financial results of its operations in accordance with  Continuous  submission of reports has been usually late.
monitoring indicators, and within six months after end
of year furnish annual report to Association.



19
SBEE to prepare annually a list of spare parts to be  By
purchased during the following year, together with   November  Lists have been prepared.
their estimated cost and method of procurement, and to  30 of each
submit list to Association.                         year
SBEE to make annual adjustments in its water tariffs
on the basis of a cost index formula acceptable to the  Continuous  No tariff adjustments were made.
Association, and in addition adjustments every three
years taking into account SBEE's medium-term cash
flow requirements.                              .



20
5. Project Costs and Financing
A. Project Costs and Financing Requirements
Revised
SAR        SAR         Actual
Estimate   Estimate
(In CFAF million)
Water Supply Facilities in Cotonou and Porto Novo      8,477       7,519       6,771
SBEE Management Support Program                        1,444       2,024         721
Replenishment of SBEE's Working Capital                1,067       1,067         556
Public Works Pilot Operation                                           -         590
Total Project Costs                                   10,988      10,610       8,638
Interest during Construction                            892         921        1,207
Total Financing Requirements                          11,880      11,531    _  9,845
Note: Following changes in cofinanciers and an updating of project costs, the SAR estimates were
revised and the legal documents amended prior to the signing of the IDA credit in June 1987. The new
component "Public Works Pilot Operation" was added in August 1990.
B. Project Financing Plan                               l
Revised
SAR         SAR        Actual
Estimate    Estimate
(In CFAF Million)
IDA                                                    3,600       3,412       2,443
CCCE                                                   3,600       3,563       2,850
IDB                                                    1,620           -           -
EIB                                                        -       2,218       1,790
OPEC Fund                                               972         851          693
SBEE                                                   2,088       1.487       2,069
Total Financing                                       11,880   i 11,531        9,845



21
6. Project Results
Indicators               Appraisal Estimates             PCR Estimates
(As of, or for year ended    (Most recent information
12/31/93)                    available)
Availability  and  quality  of Additional water supply facilities SBEE has been able to meet
water                        to allow SBEE to meet demand  demand   (which   has   not
through 1994, and rehabilitation  increased as much as forecast),
and expansion of neutralization  and water quality has improved
plants to improve water quality and pipe corrosion has been
and reduce pipe corrosion.   reduced.
Decrease    in    accounts Increased efficiency of SBEE's (i) Receivable did not decrease,
receivable and increase in staff operations to be documented  but increased, representing 14
productivity, as a result of the through  (i)  a  decrease  in months' billing at end of 1993.
Management Support Program  accounts receivable (from about
(MSP) which would enhance 9 months' billing on 12/31/85 to  (ii) There is no figure available
SBEE's operational resources less than 4 months' billing by  on the current number of staff
and allow for a manpower re  12/31/87)and (ii) an increase in members  for  water  supply.
deployment.                  staff productivity (from 1 staff However, since total personnel
member for 41 customers on  did not increase during the
12/31/85 to 1 staff member for project, it is most likely that staff
48  customers  on  12/31/89, productivity   has  increased
according to the first Enterprise  significantly.
i____________________________ Contract).
Domestic  Connections  and  (i) Installation of about 11,500  (ii) Between the end of 1987 and
number of people served. One small domestic connections.   the end of 1993, the number of
of the main goals of the project                           connections has increased by
was  to  promote  domestic                                 27,600, from about 20,900 to
connections and  make them                                 about 48,500 (a 132% increase).
more affordable in order to  (ii)  An  additional  227,000  (ii) No figures available.
improve the sanitary conditions people to be provided with
and  enlarge  SBEE's revenue domestic connections, and an
base by increasing water sales.   additional 413,000 people to be
served through neighborhood
vendors.
Affordability                New tariff structure to include Social tranche has remained at
social tranche of CFAF 100/m3  CFAF 100/m3 in current CFA
for the first 10m3 per month, Francs.
expected to remain constant in
real terms.



22
Indicators               Appraisal Estimates              PCR Estimates
(As of, or for year ended     (Most recent information
12/31 93)                     available)
Average  Incremental  Costs  Tariff charged for the upper Tariffs were not adjusted to
(AIC)                         block (more than 25m3  per reflect long-term marginal costs.
month) to compare with sector-
wide AIC, estimated at CFAF
234/m3 in 1986.
Economic  Rate  of Return  About 15%.                        In  the   absence   of  cost
(ERR) of project                                            accounting    and    separate
accounts for water, the actual
ERR   cannot  be  calculated
precisely. A rough calculation
shows a slightly positive ERR.
Government    cash    flow  From  onlending of the IDA  No    detailed    information
situation                     credit, and possibly of other available.  Situation was most
cofinanciers loans to SBEE, and  likely   favorable    because
from  payments of corporate government did not pay its bills
taxes  and  dividends,  SBEE  to SBEE.
would pay to government a total
CFAF 7 billion over the period
1987-1994.
Internal Financial Rate  of SBEE to generate
Return                        (i) a positive internal rate of (i) for the  1988/90  period
return for its overall operations overall rate of return has been
for the years 1988, 1989, and  positive (it has varied between
1990; and                     3.4% and 4.6%);
(ii) from  1991  onwards an  (ii)  Although   no   detailed
internal rate of return of at least information is available because
2.5%  for its water operations of the  absence  of separate
alone, and an internal rate of accounts for water, the rate of
return of at least 4.5%  for its return for water has most likely
overall operations.           been negative. Overall rate of
return has been -2.0% for 1991,
3.7% for 1992 and 4.3% for
1993.
Promotion of the development                                Following competitive bidding, a
of small  scale  contractors                                large   number   of   small
through a labor intensive public                            contractors have been awarded
works operation.                                            contracts  for  mostly  labor
intensive street paving and have
carried them out satisfactorily.



23
7. Status of Covenants
Section in                Subject                Deadline for                   Status
Credit                                          compliance
Agreement
3.01(a)        Borrower's commitment to objectives  Continuous     Unsatisfactory. Borrower has not caused
of the Project; Borrower to cause                  SBEE, and has not taken all action
SBEE to perform in accordance with                 necessary or appropriate to enable SBEE,
the  provisions  of  the  Project                  to perform its obligations under the Project
Agreement all its obligations under                Agreement.
that agreement, and to take and
cause to be taken all action,
including the provisions of funds,
facilities,  services  and   other
resources necessary or appropriate to
enable SBEE to perform such
obligations.
3.01(b)        Borrower to make proceeds of the    Condition of    Complied with.
credit available to SBEE partly as    effectiveness
grant (for spare parts and pilot urban
works) and partly as a loan (for the
balance of the Project) under a
subsidiary loan agreement with
terms and conditions approved by
the Association.
3.02           Procurement                       Continuous        Some delays were encountered in contract
awards and the bidding for SBEE's
computer  system   was  inconclusive.
Procurement delegated to AGETUR was
quite expeditious and satisfactory.
3.04           Borrower  to   establish   and, November 1, 1990  Complied with.
thereafter, maintain with qualified
staff in adequate number, all
satisfactory to the Association, an
independent implementing agency to
supervise the execution of the labor
intensive pilot operation for public
works.



24
Section in
Credit                   Subject                  Deadline for                     Status
Agreement                                           compliance
4.01(a)         Borrower to provide in its annual  Continuous          Partially  complied  with.    Amounts
national budget amounts sufficient to                 provided in budgets were insufficient and
cover the  electricity  and  water                   in   any   event   government,  local
consumption costs of its ministries                   collectivities and autonomous agencies did
and agencies, and to ensure that                      not pay.
local  collectivities   and   other
autonomous agencies provide in
their respective budgets amounts
sufficient  to  cover  their  own
electricity and water consumption
costs.
4.01 (b)        Amounts referred to in 4.01(a) to be  Continuous      Complied with.
determined by Borrower, local
collectivities and other autonomous
agencies in collaboration with SBEE
and, thereafter, reviewed by the
Association    not   later   than
September 30 of each year.                                   .-
4.02            Borrower  to  perform   all  its  Continuous          Not complied with.
obligations under the Enterprise
Contract with due diligence and
efficiency, and to cause SBEE to
perform all its obligations under
such contract.
Section in                                         Deadline for
Project                  Subject                  Compliance                       Status
Agreement
2.01(a)         SBEE's  commitment  to  the  Continuous               SBEE  was not committed to all the
objectives of the Project; SBEE to                    objectives of the project, and carried out
carry  out the project with  due                      with reasonable diligence and efficiency
diligence and efficiency, and  in                    the physical facilities only. There has been
conformity    with    appropriate                     no problem with the provision of funds,
administrative,   public   utility,                   facilities, services and other resources for
financial and engineering practices,                 the Project.
and to provide or cause to be
provided  the  funds,  facilities,
services   and   other  resources
required.



25
Section in
Project                 Subject                Deadline for                    Status
Agreement                                         compliance
2.01(b)        Operation of Special Account.     Continuous        Satisfactory.
2.01(c)         SBEE  to monitor operations, to  Continuous        Complied with, with the exception of tariff
prepare annually a list of spare parts             adjustments.
to be purchased, to make annual
adjustments in its water tariffs on
basis of a cost index formula, and to
adjust tariffs every three years
taking into account its medium-
term cash flow requirements.
Rather satisfactory (see comments under
2.02           Procurement                       Continuous        Section 3.02 of the credit agreement).
3.01 (a)        SBEE to carry on its operations and  Continuous    Unsatisfactory. SBEE has not conducted
to conduct its affairs in accordance              its affairs in  accordance with  sound
with    sound    administrative,                  financial, commercial and public utilities
financial, commercial, engineering                 practices.  It failed to improve both its
and public utilities practices and in              commercial function and its cost and
accordance  with  its  Reglement                   managerial  accounting.     Receivable
General de la Distribution d'Eau en               increased sharply.
zone urbaine, under the supervision
of  qualified  and  experienced
management assisted by competent
staff in adequate numbers, and to
perform all its obligations under the
Enterprise  Contract  with  due
diligence and efficiency.
SBEE to establish and thereafter
3.01 (b)       maintain  a  new   decentralized  Dec 31, 1989      Not complied with.
management structure satisfactory
to the Association.
3.01 (c)       SBEE to promote a commercial                        Complied  with.   Program  was very
policy whereby small household  Continuous         successfully implemented with installation
consumers shall be provided with                   of  about  21,500   small  domestic
low cost house connections partly                  connections, compared to the appraisal
subsidized by SBEE's water tariffs.                estimate of 11,500.
3.01 (d)        SBEE to assist Government and
public  entities  in  determining  Continuous      Complied with
adequate budget appropriations for
power and water bills.
4.01 (a)        SBEE  to maintain  records and                     Complied with, although SBEE has not
accounts to reflect in accordance  Continuous      been able to establish separate accounts for
with sound accounting practices its                water and electricity and to introduce cost
operations and financial condition.                accounting.



26
Section in
Project                 Subject                Deadline for                    Status
Agreement                                        Compliance
4.01 (b) & (c)                                                     Audit reports have been submitted with
SBEE to have its accounts and  By August 31 of   delays (sometimes sizable ones) as follows:
financial  statements,  and  the  each year, for the      for 1989: in Oct 90
Special Account, audited annually, preceding year.        for 1990: in Feb 92
and to furnish audit reports to the                       for 1991: in Aug 92
Association.                                              for 1992 in Aug 93
for 1993: not yet submitted
4.02            SBEE to submit each year for
review   operating  and  capital By November 30    SBEE submitted its budgets, usually with
budgets for the next year, and  of each year      delays, but not the financial projections for
financial projections for the next                the next three years.
three years.
4.03            Until Dec 31, 1993, SBEE not to
undertake,    without     prior  Continuous       Complied with
consultation   with  IDA,  any
investment in the urban water
supply and sewerage sector in an
aggregate estimated amount of
more than CFAF 500 million.
4.04            SBEE  to  maintain  billing  and
collection procedures in order to  Dec 31, 1987   Never complied with. At the end of 1993,
reduce and thereafter keep water                  total receivables represented 14 months'
supply and electricity receivables                billings.
from   private  and   parastatal
consumers to a maximum of four
months' billing.
4.05            SBEE not to incur any debt unless
its annual net revenues exceed 1.5  Continuous    Complied with.
times its estimated maximum debt
service  requirements  for  any
succeeding year on all debt.
4.06 (a)       (i) SBEE to earn a positive rate of                (i) Complied with.
return for 1988, 1989 and 1990.  Continuous
(ii) For 1991 and any succeeding                  (ii) Not complied with. Water operations
year, SBEE to earn returns of 2.5%                are still subsidized by electricity operations.
on its water supply assets and 4.5%
on all its assets.
Section in
General                 Subject                Deadline for                    Status
Conditions                                       Compliance
(i) Progress Reports            (i) Continuous    (i) Partially complied with; reports have
9.06                                                              been incomplete and submitted with delays.
(ii) Completion Report          (ii) June 30, 1994  (ii) Borrower submitted Part II in October
1994.
Supplemental               Subject                Deadline for                   Status
letter    I_I   compliance   I_I



27
Number 1          Preference for domestic contractors.  Continuous         Complied with.
Criteria  for   classification   of
domestic contractors eligible for
such preference.



28
8. Use of Bank Resources
A. Staff Inputs (in Staff-weeks)
Stage of Project Cycle                                         Actual
Through Appraisal                                                32.3
Appraisal through Board Approval                                 61.5
Board Approval through Effectiveness                             25.8
Supervision                                                      79.6
Total                                                           199.2
B. Missions
Stage of     Month/    No. of    Days   Specializations   Performance 1 Types of
Project Cycle    Year      Persons    in       represented       Rating       Problems
Field         (a)            (b)           (c)
Through Appraisal
Identification      12/83
Preparation          6/84     3         10   SE,FA, EC
Preparation         11/84     4         10   2 SE, 2 FA
Preparation        2-3/85     2          4   SE, FA
Appraisal throu h Board
Appraisal          4-5/85     5         19   2SE, 2FA, EC    l _l
Follow-up           10/85      1         5   SE               l    _l
Board approval through effe ctiveness
Supervision 1       6/87      1          8   SE
Supervision 2       10/87     1          8   FA                      1



29
8. Use of Bank Resources B. Missions (conti nued)
Stage of     Month/    No. of   Days    Specializations   Performance   Types of
Project Cycle    Year      persons   in        Represented       Rating       Problems
Field         (a)             (b)           (c)
Supervision                          _
Supervision 3       9/88      2         10   SE, EC
Supervision 4        5/90     2         10   SE, EC                  1       PP, CLC
SMD, SE, LEG,
Supervision 5       9/90      5         18   ENV, UP
Supervision 6       4/91      2         14   SE, UP                  I       CLC, PP
PDO, CLC
Supervision 7       2/92      2         14   SEC, SE                 2       PNI, FP
PDO,CLC,
Supervision 8       6/92      2         10   SEC, SE                 2       PMP, FP
PDO, CLC,
Supervision 9       4/93      2         12   SEC, SE                 2       PMP, FP ,
PDO, CLC,
Supervision 10      11/93     2         16   SEC, SE                 3       PMP, PP,
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   F P
PDO, CLC,
Supervision 1 1    6-7/94     2         10   SEC, SE                 3       PMP, PP,
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ I  I__ _   I__ _ _ _ _ _   I__ _ _ _   F P
(a) Specializations represented:
EC     Economist
ENV   Environmentalist
FA     Financial Analyst
LEG    Legal
SE      Sanitary Engineer
SEC     Senior Economist
SMD    Specialist Municipal Dev.
UP      Urban Planner
(b) Key to Performance Rating Status
1 = Problem Free     2 = Moderate Problems      3 = Major Problems
(c) Types of Problems:
CLC   Compliance with Legal Covenants
FP     Financial Performance
PDO:  Project Development Objectives
PMP:  Project Management Performance
PP      Procurement Progress



30
ANNEX 1- WATER PRODUCTION AND SALES- 1987/1993
1987               1988               1989                1990                1991                1992               1993
l             Forecast   Actual  Forecast  Actual  Forecast  Actual  Forecast   Actual    Forecast   Actual   Forecast  Actual   Forecast  Actual
Water         14.50      11.78    17.20     12.37    18.70    11.76    21.80      12.45     23.50      12.30    25.10     13.74    26.60     14.84
Production
Mfillion   m   3__         _ ___                                          _ _ _  __ _ _ _   __ _ _ _  __ _ _ _  _ _  _ _
Water Sales   10.81      9.88     12.79    8.53     14.12     8.71     16.38      9.86      17.67     9.41      18.90     10.32    20.00     11.25
|Million m3 3
Efficiency %     75        84       74       69        76       74        75        79         75        77       75        75        75        76
New           1,470      1,480    3,520    3,515    2,525     8,793    3,625      2,474     3,410      4,515    2,855     2,429    3,275     5,890
Connections            I
Total        22,220      20,879   25,740    24,393   28,265    33,186   31,890    35,660    35,300     40,175   38,155    42,604   41,430    48,494
Number of
|Connections



31
ANNEX 2 - WATER AND ELECTRICITY SALES-1987/1993
(IN M_OLION CFAF)
1987                1988                 1989                 1 990                 1991                 1992                 1993
Forecast    Actual   Forecast   Actual   Forecast  Actual   Forecast   Actual    Forecast   Actual   Forecast   Actual   Forecast  Actual
Water Sales        1,900    1,391      2,653     1,501     3,163    1,521       3,962      1,637       4,617     1,611     5,334      1,644     6,094      1,860
Works                140      285        280      140        295       130        330         82        325        62        425       112        800        145
(Water)             .
Electricity       11,753    7,907     13,866    9,221     16,147    8,913      18,796      9,572      21,974    9,979     25,628    10,766    28,296      11,409
Sales                     I__   _              _ _ _ _   I__ _ _    _ _ __   _ _ _ _ __                                   _I_  _                        _ _ _  _
Works                164    1,191        213      558        229      536         305        366        363       322        381       366        405        374
(Electricity)
Other              1,19!      937      1,272      712      1,361      774       1,457        815       1,516      804       1,576      895      1,639       879
Revenues            I_I_                                                                                                  _
Total             159148   11,711     18,284   12,132    21,195   11,874       24,850     12,472      28,795    12,778    33,344    13,783    37,234      14,667
Revenues                                                                                                     __________-
AVERAGE SALES PRICE
WATER- CFAF/m3
198 7               1988                 199190                                     19'1                 199 2                1993        1
Forecast    Actual   Forecast   Actual   Forecast  Actual   Forecast   Actual    Forecast   Actual   Forecast I Actual | Forecast | Actual
.___ _  -    176    146         207       168       224       175        242- 166    j 261                173       282        166    _304          166
ELECTRICITY-CFAF/kW
1987                1988                 1989                 1990                  199 1                1992                 1993  
Forecast    Actual   Forecast I Actual   Forecast I Actual   Forecast  I Actual    Forecast   Actual   Forecast I Actual   Forecast  Actual
71_    1  57 _      78    1  55   j 84                56     955                -  98          53        106   1       51    108   1   53



32
ANNEX 3 - SUMMARY INCOME STATEMENTS (ACTUAL)
(CFAF MIL-ION)
1987            1988             1989             1990            1991             1992              1993
Water Sales (million M3)                 9.5             10.2              8.7             9.9              9.4              9.9              11.3
Electricity Sales (million kwh)          137              168              163             175              189              210              216
Average revenue/m3 (francs CFA)          146              148              180             166              171              166              165
Average revenue/kwh (francs CFA)         58               55               56               55              53               51                53
REVENUES
Water Sales                                  1,392            1,501           1,521            1,637           I1,612            1,645             1,861
Electricity Sales                            7,908           9,221            9,133            9,573            9,979           10,767            11,406
Works invoiced                               1,477             700              668             449              385              479               521
Others                                       1,957            1,348           2,199            1,650            1,755            2,090             2,266
Sub-Total: operating revenues               12,734          12,770           13,521           13,309           13,731          14,981             16,054
Non-operating revenue                        1,079           2,096            2,701              993             261              844               570
TOTAL REVENUES                              13,813           14,866          16,222           14,302           13,992           15,825            16,624
EXPENSES
Operations                                   8,212           8,843            8,334            8,407            9,208           10,502            10,717
Provisions                                   1,937            1,314           1,804            1,554             692              740               814
Depreciation                                 2,183           2,615            2,824            2,711            2,998            3,002             2,963
Sub-Total: Operating expenses               12,332          12,775           12,962           12,672           12,898           14,244            14,494
Non-Operating expenses                        206              528            2,011              361            1,613             230               577
Interest                                      257              519              379             406              693              758               761
Taxes                                         681              718              583              590             686              665               706
TOTAL EXPENSES                              13,476           14,540          15,935           14,029           15,890           15,897            16,538
Net income after interest & Taxes             337              326              287              273           -1,898             -72                86
Dividends (70%)                               236              228              201              191         -                                       60
RATIOS
Working ratio %                          64               69               62               63              67               70                67
Operating ratio %                        97               100              96               95              93               90                90
Rates of return                          4.26            4.59             3.49             3.41            -2.01             3.70             4.25






I ml A G I N 1';
?ep':rt.  tic)           15 -1, 30I
Type:  PCER



