CFFICIAL
CREDIT NUMBER 1721 BEN
Development Credit Agreement
(Second Water Supply Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BENIN
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                            , 1987


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1721 BEN
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated        TLAV)                 , 1987, between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BENIN (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPHENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in SchedulR 2
to this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in t..e
financing of the Project;
(B) the Project will be carried out by Socifte B&ninoise
d'Electricit& et d'Eau (SBEE) with the      Borrower's assistance
and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available
to SBEE the proceeds of the Credit as provided in this Agreement;
(C) By agreement dated October 22, 1986 (the OEC Fund
Loan Agreement), the OPEC Fund for International Development
(the OPEC "and) has agreed to make a loan to the Borrower in an
amount of two million seven hundred and fifty thousand US Dollars
(US$ 2,750,000) (the OPEC Fund Loan) to assist in financing part
of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in the OPEC
Fund Loan Agreement;
(D) SBEE   intends  to contract from    Caisse  Centrale de
Coop6ration Economique (CCCE) a loan in an approximate amount
of sixty-five million French francs (FF 65,000,000) (the CCCE
Loan), and the Borrower intends to contract from European
Investment Bank (EIB) a loan in an approximate amount equivalent
to six million four hundred thousand European Units of Account
(ECU 6,400,000) (the EIB Loan) to assist in financing part of the
Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement
(the CCCE Loan Agreement) to be entered into between SBEE and
CCCE and in an agreement (the EIB Loan Agreement) to be entered
into between the Borrower and EIB; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the
Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Association
and SBEE;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section   1.01.  The  "General   Conditions   Applicable  to
Development   Credit  Agreements"   of  the   Association,  dated
January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this
Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)  "SBEE" means Societe Beninoise d'Electricite et d'Eau,
a public enterprise established by the Borrower's Ordonnance No.
73-13 of February 7, 1973; and "SBEE Statutes" means the Statutes
of SBEt approved by the Borrower's Decret No. 83-339 of September
27, 1983, as such statutes may be amended from time to time;
(b)  "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and SBEE of even date herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules
and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(c) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and SBEE pursuant to Section
3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time
to time, and such term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement;
(d)  "Enterprise-Contract"   means   the    contract   dated
December 1, 1986 between the Borrower and SBEE, setting forth the
rights and obligations of the parties thereto for the three-year
period 1987-1990, and such term includes all schedules and
agreements supplemental to the Enterprise-Contract;
(e)  "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.01 (b) of the Project Agreement; and
(f)  "CFA Franc" or "CFAF" means the Franc de la Communaute
Financiere Africaine, the common currency of the Borrower and the
other members of the West African Monetary Union.


﻿-3-
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in
the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to eight million six hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 8,600,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule I to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the
Association, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall
so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1993 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Asso-
ciation shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue
from a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit
kgreement to the respective dates on which amounts shall be
withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be
cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as  the  Association  shall  reasonably   request;  (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.


﻿-4
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on April 1 and October 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each April 1
and October 1 commencing October 1, 1997, and ending April 1,
2037. Each installment to and including the installment payable
on April 1, 2007 shall be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be
one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the Republic of France is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
Section 2.09. SBEE is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or
permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, shall cause SBEE to perform in accordance with the
provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations of SBEE
therein set forth (including the obligations set forth in Section
4.06 of, and paragraph 3 of Schedule 2 to, the Project Agree-
ment), shall take and cause to be taken all action, including the
provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources,
necessary or appropriate to enable SBEE to perform such obliga-
tions, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which
would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b) The Borrower shall:
(i) relend the proceeds of the Credit allocated to
Categories (1), (2) and (4) of the table set forth
in paragraph I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement
to SBE under a subsidiary loan agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and SBEE, under


﻿-5-
terms  and   conditions  which  shall  have  been
approved by the Association which shall include
repayment terms over a period of twenty years,
including a five-year grace period, at an annual
rate of interest of eight and one half per cent
(8-1/2)% and the foreign exchange risk being borne
by the Borrower; and
(ii) make available to SBEE as a grant the proceeds of
the Credit allocated to Category (3) of the table
referred to in paragraph (i) above.
(c) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Sub-
sidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests
of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the pur-
poses of the Credit, and except as the Association shall other-
wise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or
waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1
to the Project Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree
that the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05,
9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to in-
surance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records
and reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively)
shall be carried out by SBEE pursuant to Section 2.03 of the
Project Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall: (i) provide amounts
acceptable to the Association, in its annual national budget,
sufficient to cover the electricity and water consumption costs
of each of its ministries and agencies whose expenditures are
directly covered by the national budget; and (ii) ensure that
local collectivities and other autonomous agencies shall provide
amounts acceptable to the Association, i, their respective annual
budgets, sufficient to cover the electricity and water consump-
tion costs of each of said collectivities and agencies.


﻿-6-
(b) The amounts referred to in above sub-paragraphs (i) and
(ii) shall be respectively determined by the Borrower,
the local collectivities qnd other autonomous agencies
in collaboration with SBEE and, thereafter, reviewed by
the Association not later than September 30 of each
year.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall perform all its obligations
under the Enterprise-Contract with due diligence and efficiency
and shall cause SBEE to perform all its obligations therein set
forth.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02    ) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a) SBEE   shall  have  failed   to  perform  any   of  its
obligations under the Project Agreement.
(b) As a result of events which have occurred after the
date of the Development Cr2dit Agreement, an extraordinary
situation shall have arisen vnich shall make iL improbable that
SBEE will be able to perform its obligations under the Project
Agreement.
(c) The Borrower's Ordonnance No. 73-13 of February 7, 1973
or SBEE Statutes shall have been amended, susp aded, abrogated,
repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the
ability of SBEE to perform any of its obligations under the
Project Agreement.
(d) The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of S3EE or for the suspension of its operations.
(e) (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) the right of the Borrower or SBEE to withdraw
the proceeds of any loan (including the CCCE
Loan, the EIB Loan and the OPEC Fund Loan) or
grant made to the Borrower or SBEE for the
financing of the Project shall have been


﻿-7-
ing is not caused by the failure of the Borrower
or SBEE to perform any of its obligations under
such agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the
Project are available to the Borrower or SBEE from
other sources on terms and conditions consistent
with the obligations of the Borrower under this
Agreement and of SBEE under the Project Agreement.
(f) Any representation made by SBEE in or pursuant to the
Project Agreement, or any statement furnished in connection
therewith, and intended to be relied upon by the Association in
making the Credit, shall have been incorrect in any material
respect.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a) the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of
sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the
Association to the Borrower;
(b) the events specified in paragraphs (c) and (d) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur; and
(c) the event specified in paragraph (e) (i) (B) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of
paragraph (e) (ii) of that Section.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on
behalf of the Borrower and SBEE;
(b) the CCCE Loan Agreement, the EIB Loan Agreement and
the OPEC Fund Loan Agreement have been duly signed and condi-
tions precedent to initial disbursements, if any, except for the
effectiveness of this Agreement, have been fulfilled; and


﻿(c) SBEE Raglement G&n6ral de la Distribution d'Eau en Zone
Urbaine has become effective and the introduction of the entire
water tariff structure and the first adjustment of water tariffs
provided in annex 2 thereto have taken place.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by SBEE and is legally binding upon SBEE in accordance
with its terms; and
(b) that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and SBEE and is legally
binding upon the Borrower and SBEE in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date 120 days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04
of the General Conditions.
Section 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Sec-
tion 4.01 of this Agreement and the provisions of paragraphs (a)
and (b) of Section 5.02 of this Agreement shall cease and deter-
mine on the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall
terminate or on the date twenty years after the date of this
Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this
Agreement, the Minister of the Borrower responsible for finance
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.


﻿- 9 -
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance and Economy
P.O. Box 302
Cotonou
People's Republic of Benin
Cable address:                       Telex:
XINIFINANCES                        MIFIN 5009 or
Cotonou                             5289 or
MININDART 5252
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 10 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BENIN
By /.S /  CO V S+Q. no               A ko(
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
sy // E  ward\l.k. tJay coy
By/             V       Regional Vice President
Africa


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE I
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in      Expenditures
Category                SDR Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Works for:
Part B (d) of
the Project                1,000,000       90%
(2) Equipment:
(a) Part A of the          2,100,000       100%
Project
(b) Part B of the            250,000       100%
Project
(3) Spare parts for             2,550,000       100%
Part C of the
Project
(4) Technical assis-
tance, consultants'
services and
training:
(a) Part A(f) of             700,000       60%
the Project
(b) Part B of              1,400,000       100%
the Project
(5) Unallocated                   600,000
TOTAL                 8,600,000


﻿- 12 -
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (a) to improve the finan-
cial viability of the urban water supply sector through low cost
expansions of the water supply systems in the cities of Cotonou
and Porto Novo; (b) to promote sale of water through domestic
connections; (c) to introduce tariff setting policies to reflect
long-term marginal costs; and (d) to strengthen SBEE's management
capability, including the implementation of sound commercial
practices to reverse accumulation of unpaid bills.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Expansion of water supply facilities in Cotonou and
Porto Novo including:
(a) drilling of about ten boreholes;
(b) extension of two neutralization plants and construction
of a third one;
(c) construction of three storage reservoirs and rehabi-
litation of three reservoirs;
(d) supply and laying of feeders (about 23 km) and distri-
bution pipes (about 275 km);
(e) installation   of  small  domestic  connections  (about
11,500); and
(f) supervision of construction.
Part B:   Strengthening of SBEE's management capability through:
(a) training of intermediate and higher level staff;
(b) consultancy services for organization, accounting and
data processing;
(c) technical assistance to SBEE's depcrtments in charge of
water, finance, data processing and training; and
(d) construction of, and equipment for, office facilities
for SBEE's headquarters.


﻿- 14 -
Part C:   Acquisition of spare parts for SBEE's operations.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1993.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


