DOCUMENTS
The World Eank                    .            J      reet N.W.         (202) 473-1000
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT  Washington, D.C. 20433  Cable Address: INTBAFRAD
INTERNATIONAL D7VELOPMENT ASSOCIATION          U.S.A.                   Cable Address: INDEVAS
August 30, 2012
Minister of Finance
Ministry of Finance
58 Erkindik Blvd.
Bishkek City, 720040
Kyrgyz Republic
Dear \4r. Minister:
Re: IFAD Project Grant No. DSF-8021-KG(Internal Co-Fin No. C1110-KG) (Agricultural
Investments and Services Project) Amendment to Additional Instructions: Disbursement
I refer to the Project Grant Agreement between the International Fund for Agricultural
Development (IFAD) and the Kyrgyz Republic (the "Recipient") for the above-referenced project,
dated January 29, 2009. The Agreement provides that the World Bank may issue additional
instructions regarding the withdrawal of the proceeds of Grant. This letter ("Disbursement
Letter"), as revised from time to time, constitutes the additional instructions. The original
Disbursement Letter was dated October 7, 2009 and it was restated on June 17, 2010 (changing
the ceiling of the Designated Account and the minimum application limit).
In response to your letter dated June 20, 2012, this Disbursement Letter is a Restatement
of the last Disbursement Letter dated June 17, 2010 for the above referenced project restating
Section II(vi) to change the ceiling of 1he Designated Account. All other provisions of the
Disbursement Letter dated June 17, 2010, except as amended, shall remain in force and effect.
The attached World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects, dated May 1, 2006,
("Disbursement Guidelines") (Attachment 1), are an integral part of the Disbursement Letter.
The manner in which the provisions in the Disbursement Guidelines apply to the Financing is
specified below. Sections and subsect-ons in parentheses below refer to the relevant sections and
subsections in the Disbursement Guidelines and, unless otherwise defined in this letter, the
capitalized terms used have the meanings ascribed to them in the Disbursement Guidelines.
I. Disbursement Arrangements
(i) Disbursement Methods (section 2). The following Disbursement Methods may be used
under the Financing:
* Reimbursement
t Advance
to Direct Payment


﻿* Special Commitment
(ii) Disbursement Deadline Date (subsection 3.7). The Disbursement Deadline Date is 4
months after the Closing Date specified in the Financing Agreement. Any changes to this date
will be notified by the Association.
(iii) Disbursement Conditions (subsection 3.8). Please refer to the Disbursement Condition(s)
in Schedule 2, Para 5(a) and (b) of the Project Grant Agreement.
II. Withdrawal of Project Grant Proceeds
(i) Authorized Signatures (subsection 3.1).
A letter in the Form attached (Attachment 2) should be furnished to the Association at the
address indicated below providing the name(s) and specimen signature(s) of the official(s)
authorized to sign Applications:
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Attention: Saroj Kumar Jha, Regional Director, Central Asia
(ii) Applications (subsections 3.2 - 3.3). Please provide completed and signed (a) applications
for withdrawal, together with supporting documents, and (b) applications for special
commitments, together with a copy of the commercial bank letter of credit, to the address
indicated below:
The World Bank
Radnicka cesta 80, 9h floor
HR-10000 Zagreb, Croatia
Attention: Disbursement Management Group
(iii) Minimum Value ofApplications (subsection 3.5). The Minimum Value of Applications for
direct payments and/or issuance of special commitments is USD200,000 for the APIU and USD
80,000 for the ARIS.
(iv) Advances (sections 5 and 6). - Two Designated Accounts will be opened; one for APIU and
a second for ARIS:
* Type of Special Account (Designated Accounts) (subsection 5.3): Segregated
* Currency of SpecialAccount (Designated Accounts) (subsection 5.4): USD


﻿* Financial Institution at which the Special Account (Designated Accounts) Will Be
Opened (subsection 5.5): a commercial bank acceptable to the Association.
* Ceiling (subsection 6.1): US) 800,000 for the APIU DA and USD 500,000 for the
ARIS DA.
III. Reporting on Use of Project Grant Proceeds
(i) Supporting Documentation (section 4). Supporting documentation should be provided with
each application for withdrawal as set out below:
For requests for Reimbursement:
o  Records evidencing eligible expenditures (e.g., copies of receipts, supplier
invoices) for payments for works against contracts valued at USD100,000
equivalent or more; for payments for goods against contracts valued at
USD100,000 equivalent or more; for payments for services of consulting firms
against contracts valued at USD100,000 equivalent or more; for payments for
services of individual consultants against contracts valued at USD25,000
equivalent or more;
"  Statement of Expenditure in the form attached (Attachment 3) for all other
expenditures / contrac:s; and
o  List of payments against contracts that are subject to the Association's prior
review, in the form attached (Attachment 4)
For reporting eligible expenditures paid from the Special Account (Designated
Account):
o  Records evidencing eligible expenditures (e.g., copies of receipts, supplier
invoices) for payments for works against contracts valued at USD100,000
equivalent or more; for payments for goods against contracts valued at
USD100,000 equivalenit or more; for payments for services of consulting firms
against contracts valued at USD100,000 equivalent or more; for payments for
services of individual consultants against contracts valued at USD25,000
equivalent or more;
o  Statement of Expenditure in the form attached (Attachment 3) for all other
expenditures / contracis; and
o  List of payments against contracts that are subject to the Association's prior
review, in the form attached (Attachment 4)
* For requests for Direct Payment: records evidencing eligible expenditures, e.g., copies
of receipts, supplier invoices
(ii) Frequency of Reporting Eligible Erpenditures Paid from the Special Account (Designated
Account) (subsection 6.3): Monthly
(ii) Other Supporting Documentation instructions: Please submit bank reconciliation and
statemznts of account when submitting applications for replenishment of the DA.


﻿IV. Other Disbursement Instructions: Withdrawal applications will be signed by two persons:
(i) an authorized representative of the recipient (Ministry of Finance) and (ii) the APIU Director
for the portion of the Grant executed by the APIU and the ARIS Executive Director for the
portion of the Grant executed by ARIS or another designated person as authorized by written
delegated authority from the Ministry of Finance.
V. Other Important Information
For additional information on disbursement arrangements, please refer to the
Disbursement Handbook available on the Association's public website at
http://www.worldbank.org and its secure website "Client Connection" at
http://clientconnection.worldbank.org. Print copies are available upon request.
If you have not already done so, the Association recommends that you register as a user
of the Client Connection website (http://clientconnection.worldbank.org). From this website you
will be able to download Applications, monitor the near real-time status of the Financing, and
retrieve related policy, financial, and procurement information. For more information about the
website and registration arrangements, please contact the Association by email at
<clientconnection@worldbank.org>.
If you have any queries in relation to the above, please contact me at <loa-
eca@worldbank.org> using the above reference.
Regards,
Joseph P. Formoso
Senior Finance Officer
Loan Department
Attachments are with the original Disbursement Letter


﻿Cc with copies: Agricultural Projects Implementation Unit (APIU)
Ministry of Agricu,ture, Water Resources and Processing Industry
(MAWRPI)
96a, Kievskaya, Room No. 510/11
Bishkek City 720040, Kyrgyz Republic
Ms. Elmira IbraimoN a
Executive Director
Community Development and Investment Agency (ARIS)
102 Bokonbavea Stre,et,
Bishkek City 720040
Kyrgyz Republic
Ms. Dinara Doishenkul kyzy
Finance Manager
Community Development and Investment Agency (ARIS)
102, Bokonbaev Street
Bishkek, 720040
Kyrgyz Republic
Prepared by: Joseph P. Formoso, CTRLA
To be cleared with and cc:  Adam Shayne, LEGEM
Peter Gcodman, ECSS1


