Document of
The World Bank                       FILE C F
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3030-YU
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMEI
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
UDRUZENA KOSOVSKA BANKA PRISTINA
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE SOCIALIST FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
FOR A
KOSOVO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
April 15, 1981
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS*
Calendar 1980            March 13, 1981
Currency Unit                     Yugoslav Dinar
US$1                              Din. 24.9114             Din. 31.80
Din. 1                            US$ 0.040                US$ 0.031
Din. 1,000                        US$ 40.14                US$ 31.44
Din. 1,000,000                    US$ 40,142.00            US$ 31,444.47
* The Yugoslav Dinar has been floating since July 13, 1973.
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
AGROKOSOVO           - Composite Organization of Associated Labor
Agro-Industrial Kombinat
BOAL                 - Basic Organization of Associated Labor
GDP                  - Gross Domestic Product
GMP                  - Gross Material Product
ICB                  - International Competitive Bidding
KBP                   - Udruzena Kosovska Banka Pristina
LDR                  - Less Developed Regions (of Yugoslavia)
SAP KOSOVO           - Socialist Autonomous Province of Kosovo
SDK                  - Sluzba Drustvenog Knjigovodstva or
Social Accounting Service
SIZ                  - Self-Managed Community of Interest for Water
Economy, Pristina



- i -                 FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
YUGOSLAVIA
KOSOVO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:                 Udruzena Kosovska Banka Pristina (KBP)
Guarantor:                Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia.
Subborrowers:             About twenty working organizations and cooperatives.
Amount:                   $90 million equivalent in various currencies.
Terms:                    Amortization in 15 years, including 3 years of
grace, with interest at 9.6 %. Repayment schedule
to reflect the composite amortization schedules of
the subloans financed.
Re-lending Terms:         For agroindustry and primary production components
part of the loan proceeds would be on-lent to
subborrowers at 11% per annum. The foreign
exchange risk of the Bank loan would be borne by
the subborrowers in the social sector and by the
Government of Kosovo for the individual farmers.
Grace periods of up to 5 years for individual
farmers and up to 3 years for social sector
subborrowers and repayment periods on the subloans
not to exceed 15 years including grace periods,
would be applied. For the groundwater studies
component, part of the loan proceeds would be made
available to the Self-Managed Community of Interest
for Water Economy, Pristina (SIZ) on terms and
conditions acceptable to the Bank.
Project
Description;              The project's main objectives are to: (a) assist in
the development of Kosovo - the least developed
region in Yugoslavia - through increases in
productivity, employment, and income in the social
and individual farm sectors; (b) increase
production of livestock, wine, fruits, nuts, milk
and cheese and processed food products primarily
for the domestic market; (c) advance planning of
small-scale irrigation development through
groundwater studies; (d) contribute to institution
building by strengthening the capabilities of the
regional development institutions. The project
objectives will be achieved primarily by
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of |
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
providing finance for (a) increasing processing
capacities to ensure adequate and steady markets
for agricultural products from the project area;
and (b) livestock and horticultural production in
both the social and individual sectors.
Direct beneficiaries of the project would total
about 1,100 individual farm families and the
families of about 1,000 additional workers employed
in the social sector. A substantial number of the
direct beneficiaries would belong to the target
group with per capita incomes below $430. The
investments under the agroindustries component of
the project would result in indirect benefits by
providing improved market outlets for primary
production. The project faces no special risks.
Estimated Cost:                        ------  $ Million  ------   Percent of Total
Local     Foreign       Total     Project Cost
Agroindustries                          67.0        43.4       110.4        48.9
Primary Production                      26.2        14.8        41.0        18.1
Groundwater Studies                      1.6         0.4         2.0         0.9
Technical Assistance                     0.5         -           0.5         0.2
Total Base Cost           95.3        58.6       153.9        68.1
Contingency Allowances-
Physical (9%)                 8.1         5.1        13.2         5.8
Price (35%)                  42.2        16.7        58.9        26.1
Total Project Cost a/                  145.6        80.4       226.0       100.0
(including contingencies)
Interest During Construction            18.0        26.0        44.0
Total Project
Financial Requirements                 163.6       106.4       270.0
a/ Including import duties and taxes estimated at $8 million.



- i.ii -
Financing Plan:                       ------   $ Million  -----        Percent of
Sources                             Local      Foreign      Total   Total Financing
IBRD                         -         90.Oa/      90.0           33
KBP                        118.4         7.5      125.9           47
bubborrowers and
local banks              45.2         8.9        54.1           20
Total Project
Requirements            163.6       106.4       270.0          100
------------ $ Million ----------…-
Estimated Disbursements:       Bank FY       FY82    FY83    FY84       FY85     FY86
Annual                            9.0    28.0    30.0       16.0       7.0
Cumulative                        9.0    37.0    67.0       83.0      90.0
Rate of Return: 25%.
Appraisal Report:      Report No. 3286-YU       dated April 16, 1981
a/ Including $10 million for interest and other cbarges during construction.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
UDRUZENA KOSOVSKA BANKA PRISTINA
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE SOCIALIST FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
equivalent to $90 million to Udruzena Kosovska Banka Pristina (KBP) with the
guarantee of the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, to help finance a
part of the foreign exchange costs of an agricultural development project in
the Socialist Autonomous Province of (SAP) Kosovo. The loan would have a
term of 15 years, including 3 years of grace with interest at 9.6% per
annum. Most of the proceeds of the loan would be onlent to social sector
enterprises for agro-industrial investments and to individual farmers through
cooperatives for on-farm development, for periods up to 15 years including
grace periods up to 5 years for individual farmers and up to 3 years for
subborrowers in the social sector, with an interest rate of 11%. The foreign
exchange risk of the Bank loan would be borne by the subborrowers in the
social sector and by the Government of Kosovo for the individual farmers.
Out of the proceeds of the loan KBP would retain $0.5 million for technical
assistance and would provide $2 million to the Self-Managed Community of
Interest for Water Economy, Pristina (SIZ) for groundwater investigations.
PART I - THE ECONOMtY 1/
2.       A Basic Economic Mission visited Yugoslavia in October and November
1976. Its report entitled, "Yugoslavia: Self-Management Socialism and the
Challenges of Development", 1615a-YU, was distributed to the Executive
Directors on April 5, 1978. An economic mission visited Yugoslavia in March
1979; its report entitled "Yugoslavia: Recent Economic Developments",
2623-YU, was distributed to the Executive Directors on November 8, 1979. In
November, 1979 an economic mission visited Yugoslavia and its report entitled
"Yugoslavia: Export Performance and Policies", 2972-YU, was distributed to
the Executive Directors on November 5, 1980. Basic data on the economy are
given in Annex I.
Institutional Setting
3.       The social sector in Yugoslavia, which includes government,
enterprises and public institutions plays the leading role in economic and
social development.  It accounts for 85% of GDP and employs over half of the
total labor force. The private sector consists predominantly of peasant
farms and small enterprises, mainly engaged in handicrafts, construction,
trade, transport and tourism. Decision making at all levels is governed by
the principle of workers' self-management, involving a unique set of
institutions and instruments of economic policy. The current system has
1/ Part I of this report is substantially unchanged from Part I of the
Report and Recommendation of the President for the Kosovo Railway Project
(Report No. 3106-YU) of April 7, 1981.



evolved over the years with important changes introduced through the
Constitution of 1974. Responsibility for important social and economic
decisions has been shifted from the federation to the republics, autonomous
provinces and communes. Concurrently, the control of workers' collectives
over the socially owned means of production has been increased by a
restructuring of all economic organizations into legally autonomous Basic
Organizations of Associated Labor (BOALs) which are the smallest units of
production producing a marketable output.
4.       In addition to this strengthening of workers' participation at the
microeconomic level, recent changes have extended the concept of workers'
management to encompass macroeconomic decisions. A set of instruments called
social compacts and self-management agreements have gradually become a part
of the system of macroeconomic management. These measures enable the
participation of all economic agents in the formulation of macroeconomic
policy while maintaining decentralized responsibility for policy
implementation. In the last medium-term plan (1976-80) these instruments
were used to augment more conventional monetary and fiscal policy measures in
the areas of prices, incomes, and employment.
5.       The 1974 Constitution also introduced a new framework for economic
and social planning, designed to reconcile decentralized decision making with
consistent and coordinated action. The system of planning first seeks to
establish a national consensus on the major medium-term goals for the
economy. Thereafter, plan formulation is based on participation of all
economic and social units, including government bodies, on a non-hierarchical
basis. An exhaustive interchange of information and several iterations are
required to achieve consistency among the plans of economic units concurrent
with broader social objectives. Once consistency is achieved, economic units
enter into legally binding medium-term agreements on supply, demand and
investment intentions. In case agreements cannot be reached by the
prescribed date, the state is permitted to intervene, but only on a temporary
basis.
Economic Trends and Development Issues
6.       The economic development of Yugoslavia over the past two decades has
been impressive, characterized by rapid economic growth and structural
transformation. Between 1960 and 1979, GDP grew at an average annual rate of
about 6% in real terms. The share of investment in GDP has been high
throughout the period, averaging 30% in recent years. As population growth
has been only 1% per annum, real per capita income has more than doubled
during the period. Per capita GNP in 1979 is estimated to be US$2,430 at
1979 market prices. 1/ The social sector, in particular industry, has been
the driving force of the economy with the share of industry in GDP increasing
to about 45% while agriculture has declined to about 12%. The past two
decades have also been associated with the growing integration of Yugoslavia
into the world economy. Between 1960 and 1978 merchandise exports and
imports grew by around 6% and 8% per annum in real terms, respectively; much
of this was with markets in the convertible currency areas.
1/ According to World Bank Atlas methodology.



7.         While overall growth performance has been impressive, large
regional income disparities persist. The republics of Bosnia-Herzegovina,
Macedonia and Montenegro, each with two-thirds of the national average per
capita income, and the autonomous province of Kosovo, with one-third, are
officially designated as less developed regions (LDR). The difference
between the most developed region, Slovenia, and the least developed,
Kosovo, is 6 to 1. In addition to these interregional disparities there are
large intraregional disparities with differences in per capita income
between communes as high as 10 to 1 . These disparities reflect several
factors, notably the greater incidence of low productivity agriculture in
the LDR and their higher dependency ratios and population growth rates.
Since 1971 sizeable concessionary credits (with about 50% grant element),
equal to about 10% of the social product of the LDR, have been transferred
to the LDR through the Federal Fund for the Accelerated Development of the
Less Developed Regions, which is financed through a tax on all social sector
enterprises in the economy.
8.         Linked to the issue of regional income disparities has been the
problem of providing adequate employment opportunities in the modern
sector. Since 1954 employment in the modern social sector has increased by
around 4% per annum, facilitating rapid outflows from the agricultural
sector. Despite this impressive record, productivity and income
differentials remain between the modern (mainly social) and the traditional
(private or individual agricultural) sectors. The persistence of these
differentials has resulted in high demand for modern sector employment on
the part of the rural labor force. The increase of the working age
population caused by relatively high population growth in the LDR has
further added to employment demand. Large numbers of Yugoslavs have sought
temporary employment abroad since the late 1960s. At its peak in 1973
Yugoslavia had about 1,100,000 external migrants. However, since 1973, with
changes in policy and the slower growth in the host countries, this trend
has been reversed, accentuating domestic imbalances and placing added
pressure on the social sector to create new work places. Unemployment rates
have risen rapidly from about 7% in 1971 to over 12% in 1978. 1/ The
incidence of unemployment is highly regionalized, because population and
labor force growth rates, as well as the proportion of agricultural
employment, are all much higher in the LDR. In 1978 unemployment rates
ranged from 26.9% in Kosovo to 1.5% in Slovenia.
Recent Developments
9.         Yugoslavia has been successful in maintaining a relatively high
growth rate over much of its recent (1976-80) economic plan.  Over the first
four years of the plan GDP growth exceeded 5% per year. The pattern of
growth has been markedly cyclical and heavily influenced by policy responses
to balance of payments difficulties and to inflation. Following relative
stagnation in 1976, macroeconomic policy became more expansionary in 1977,
and resulted in three years of rapid growth. This revival at a time when
1/ These rates are not strictly comparable to those in other countries. They
represent the ratio of registered job-seekers (including some currently
employed) to social sector labor force. The ratio of registered job
seekers to total resident labor force would have been about 8.3% in 1978.



- 4 -
the world economy was relatively sluggish put pressure on Yugoslavia's balance
of payments. These strains were considerably worsened by special developments
in 1979 including sharp increases in the price of imported oil, poor
agricultural conditions and an earthquake in Montenegro. As a consequence the
deficit in the current account of the balance of payments reached $3.7 billion
in 1979, or about 5.5% of GDP. Faster growth and renewed international
inflation also led to significant worsening in domestic inflation. In
response to these developments the tone of macro policy became sharply
contractionary in late 1979 and 1980, and economic management in 1980 was
dominated by the goal of improving the balance of payments. As a result of
the purposeful application of a stabilization program the current account
deficit was reduced to $2.2 billion (approximately 3% of GDP), largely
reflecting an improvement in the trade deficit. The elements of the program
(which was supported by a standby arrangement with the IMF) included a 30%
devaluation of the dinar in June 1980, tight monetary policy, effective
.ncomes policies and targeted cuts in investment, particularly for noneconomic
purposes. As a result of these measures output growth was reduced from
previous years, and gross social product in 1980 is estimated to have grown by
no more than 2.5%.
10.        The main source of Yugoslavia's economic growth in the 1976-80 plan
was industry. While industrial production rose by only 4% in 1980, this
followed growth of almost 7% per year in the preceding four years. The plan
placed particular emphasis on production of energy, raw materials and
intermediate goods production to increase import substitution. These priority
sectors performed well during the first three years of the plan although
production fell slightly short of planned targets, while nonpriority sectors,
particularly consumer goods, grew at a rate faster than projected. Climatic
factors have resulted in marked annual fluctuations in agricultural output,
which rose between 1976 and 1979 at an average annual rate of 2.9% (compared
to a target of 4%).
11.        Fixed investment grew at an average rate of almost 9.5% between
1976 and 1979, considerably exceeding the 8.0% plan target. The plan's
emphasis on import substitution led to heavy investment in the priority
sectors: energy, mining, metallurgy, electrical machinery and chemicals. The
share of gross fixed investment in GDP rose from 28% in 1975 to almost 32% in
1979. In 1980, however, fixed investment is estimated to have declined by
1.5% in real terms, as a result of increasing restrictions placed on
investment activity, particularly in non-priority fields. In addition to
buoyant domestic demand, strong social pressures on enterprises to create new
work places may have been important in causing the higher than planned level
of investment. Overall social sector employment growth in the plan has been
rapid, at about 4% per annum (compared to a plan target of 3.5%) and has been
even faster in the LDR where the bulk of the structural unemployment is
located. Despite these achievements, the combined impact of net immigration,
demographic factors and the contraction in the rural labor force caused the
ratio of job-seekers to social sector labor force to rise from about 10% in
1975 to over 12% in 1979.
12.        Inflation rates have varied widely over the course of the plan.
Stabilization measures introduced in 1975 and 1976 reduced the inflation rate
(as measured by the retail price index) from 25% in 1975 to 9% in 1976. The



subsequent revival in economic activity was accompanied by a resurgence of
inflation. In both 1977 and 1978 inflation was 13%; in 1979, in part due to
increases in indirect taxes and fuel prices it increased to 22%. The sharp
reduction in economic activity in 1980 affected the inflation rate much less
than had been hoped, and the rate of inflation was 30%, in contrast to the 17%
that had been projected. Much of the deterioration in price performance can
be attributed to the higher prices of imported goods, resulting from both a
higher rate of international inflation and the effects of the devaluation of
the dinar. There has also been some dismantling of domestic price controls in
order to promote efficient resource allocation in manufacturing as well as
*         price increases administered to stimulate agricultural production and to
rationalize energy use. As a result of effective incomes policies, wage
pressures were muted in 1980, with personal incomes in the social sector
falling by 7%.
13.        As noted above, Yugoslavia's balance of payments has remained an
issue of concern to policymakers throughout the plan. The plan itself
proposed substantial import substitution while maintaining an export growth
rate of 8%. While import growth fluctuated widely between 1976 and 1980
overall it remained below the 4.5% annual rate targeted in the plan, primarily
by the imposition of deep import cuts in 1976 and 1980. Export performance
however was disappointing; despite a recovery in 1980, when merchandise
exports grew by an estimated 9%, export growth over the plan was about 4.6%
per year instead of the 8% targeted. The consequences of this export
shortfall were exacerbated by the deterioration in the terms of trade and
other special factors referred to earlier. Even though workers' remittances
were more buoyant than had been anticipated, the cumulative current account
deficit over the plan period was 60% higher than had been planned. The
government's program to put the balance of payments on a more secure footing
was supported by a two-year standby arrangement concluded with IMF in June
1980 in the amount of SDR 339 million per year. This standby was replaced in
January 1981 by a three year program for a total amount of SDR 1662 million.
The government's annual plan for 1981 continues to stress stabilization of the
economy in pursuit of balance of payments adjustment. The current account
deficit for 1981 is targeted at $1.8 billion; this is to be achieved through
export growth of 7% and a reduction in import volumes of 3%, chiefly in
capital goods. Social product is anticipated to grow by 3%; this slow growth
will be reconciled with the export target by further cuts in fixed capital
formation.
Medium Term Prospects
14.        The five year plan for 1981-85 is in final stages of preparation
and is expected to be adopted by April 1981. The draft plan projects
continued slow growth in social product and even slower growth in domestic
expenditure to allow resources to be released for exports; this strategy
implies continued reductions in the rate of fixed capital formation. As
before, the draft plan projects simultaneous import substitution and export
promotion, and aims to reduce the current account deficit from the present 3%
of GDP to approximately 1% by 1985. The priorities to be stressed are the
development of domestic energy sources and raw materials, production of basic
metals, basic chemicals and capital goods. The plan is also expected to
stress agricultural development in order to reduce food imports and to expand
food exports.



15.        Slower growth will make it more difficult for the social sector to
generate additional employment at the pace of the current plan while the
demand for new work places will remain high. Given these difficulties, more
emphasis will be laid on the development of labor intensive activities
including small-scale enterprises.
16.        Finally, the reduction of regional disparities will remain a major
objective of Yugoslavia's economic planning. Financial transfers between
republics will play an important role in this process, and the transfer
mechanisms for the forthcoming plan will lay particular stress on encouraging
social enterprises in the more developed regions (MDR) to make direct
investments in the LDR. As experience is gained, these joint ventures could
make a significant contribution to the overall efficiency of production within
the LDRs by facilitating the transfer of technological and managerial knowhow
within Yugoslavia. Regional disparities, however, are expected to remain
significant over the medium-term.
Creditworthiness
17.        Gross medium- and long-term capital flows averaged $2.6 billion
between 1976 and 1979 and increased to an estimated $3.6 billion in 1980.
Total medium- and long-term debt, outstanding and disbursed, is estimated in
excess of $13 bn. at the end of 1979. Short term capital inflows were erratic
between 1976 and 1978, but short-term debt increased by about $280 million in
1979 to about $650 million. Foreign exchange reserves fell by $1.9 billion in
1979 and at the end of that year amounted to slightly under $2.0 billion.
There was some restocking of official reserves in 1980, and at the end of the
year these amounted to $1.4 billion, roughly one month of imports of goods and
services from the convertible currency area. It is expected that the
resources provided by the Fund will permit Yugoslavia to retire some of its
short term debt, and to build up official foreign exchange reserves.
18.        About three-quarters of the debt contracted by Yugoslavia in recent
years has been provided in convertible currencies through commercial sources.
The bulk of this commercial credit has been in the form of suppliers'
credits. Nevertheless, financial credits obtained in the eurocurrency market
have become increasingly important for financing the economy's foreign
exchange requirements. The World Bank is the principal source of
non-commercial long-term credit to Yugoslavia. Yugoslavia will continue to
require a substantial inflow of foreign lending if it is to achieve its
medium-term objectives. The debt service ratio which--taking into account
workers' remittances--averaged 16% between 1976 and 1979, is expected to
increase to over 20% during the next medium term plan (1981-85). Given
Yugoslavia's past debt service record, pragmatism and its demonstrated
capacity to implement firm stabilization policies when these are called for,
it remains creditworthy for a substantial level of Bank lending.



- 7 -
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN YUGOSLAVIA 1/
19.        The proposed project would be the 68th operation by the Bank in
Yugoslavia totalling about $2,933 million. 2/ Of tbis, approximately 43%
($1,248.4 million) has been for 23 operations in the transportation sector --
12 for highways, 7 for railways, and one each for a natural gas pipeline and
an oil pipeline, and two for a port project. Historically, Bank lending has
concentrated on infrastructure including, in addition to the transportation
loans, five power loans, one telecommunications loan, two water supply and
sewerage and three multipurpose loans (two of which include substantial
irrigation components). In recent years, Bank lending has increasingly
focussed on the agriculture sector for which this will be the eleventh
operation totalling $657 million (about 22% of the total). Twenty loans
amounting to $410 million (about 14% of the total) have also been made for
industry. Two loans have been made for tourism and the first Bank loan for
air pollution control was approved in 1976. In addition, IFC has made fifteen
investments in Yugoslavia totalling about $302 million. Annex II contains a
summary statement of Bank loans and IFC investments as of February 28, 1981,
and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
20.        The interrelated objectives which the Bank has pursued in its
lending to Yugoslavia remain essentially unchanged. These objectives are:
(i)   to support Yugoslav efforts to address the critical issues
of regional disparities and unemployment;
(ii)   to promote agricultural development in both the individual
farmer and social sectors by providing basic
infrastructure and credit facilities;
(iii)   to encourage structural reforms in the major sectors by
improving coordination, institution-building and technical
assistance;
(iv)   to help in identifying and financing gaps in basic
infrastructure-particularly transport and energy; and
(v)   to alleviate critical shortages of convertible foreign
exchange by providing part of the required long-term
capital, encouraging and promoting Yugoslavia's efforts to
tap other sources of medium- and long-term capital, and
supporting projects which generate or conserve foreign
exchange.
1/ Part II of this report is substantially unchanged from Part II of the
Report and Recommendation of the President for the Kosovo Railway
Project (Report No. 3106-YU) of April 7, 1981.
2/ Includes loans of $87 million to help finance a Morava Regional Development
II Project (approved on March 3, 1981) and $34 million to help finance the
Kosovo Railway Project submitted for consideration to the Board on April 9,
1981.



- 8 -
21.      It is obvious that each and every Bank operation cannot address all
these objectives nor be entirely oriented towards the less developed regions
(LDR), but the basic thrust of the Bank's activities in Yugoslavia has
increasingly been towards the development of the LDR and the agricultural
sector in particular. Reinforcing this strategy are the economic surveys of
the four LDR undertaken by the Bank and intensified Bank assistance in
project formulation and ongoing economic and sector analysis.
22.      The Bank's emphasis on assuring the accelerated development of the
LDR is fully in accord with the Federal Government's policies embodied in the
1976-80 Development Plan and in the draft 1981-85 Development Plan. In the
last plan period, the Federal Government agreed with its constituents on the
level of domestic resources to be channeled to the LDR through the Federal
Fund mechanism (para 7) as well as the distribution of external resources
including Bank lending. The distribution pattern of Bank lending was
determined broadly on the basis of income levels and population size of
particular regions.
23.      Over the past five years, almost two-thirds of Bank lending has been
to the LDR through operations for transportation, power, agricultural
development and industrial credit. In the next few years significant Bank
lending to the LDR through similar operations is expected to continue but
with even more emphasis on agriculture which deserves attention for a number
of development considerations (paras 28, 30-32). Special attention will be
given to the needs of Kosovo, the least developed of the LDR.
24.      Decentralized management, the cornerstone of Yugoslavia's
socio-economic philosophy, adds to the inherent difficulties involved in
formulating coherent sector plans. One of the principal features of the 1974
Constitutional changes and subsequent legislation, however, has been to
revamp the institutional framework and to introduce mechanisms for
coordination. Given the complexity of the Yugoslav system (para 5), the
process of evolving acceptable solutions to problems is cumbersome. The Bank
has therefore seen it important to exert its influence in shaping the policy
framework and fostering coordination, particularly in the transport and
energy sectors where significant progress has been achieved.
25.      Through its future operations the Bank will seek to consolidate past
successes in institutional reform. Further development of the project
preparation, appraisal and supervisory capabilities of the banks will remain
a major objective. In transport, intermodal coordination will be sought
through the implementation of the results of the rail costs and road user
studies undertaken under the Eighth Highway Project (Loan No. 1377-YU
approved March 15, 1977). The Bank will concentrate its lending operations
in areas where its incremental institutional and/or policy coordination
impact has most potential.
26.      A persistent foreign resource gap looms as the major impediment to
Yugoslavia's ability to maintain its growth momentum and to address the
critical issues of unemployment and regional disparities. The Bank has
become a significant vehicle for attracting additional sources of credit
through cofinancing arrangements, forging new banking relationships for



- 9 -
Yugoslavia and in some cases securing improved terms and conditions of
commercial loans. The Bank, however, remains the major source of long-term
external capital for the foreseeable future and, equally important, its
significant level of operations in Yugoslavia is regarded by foreign
financiers as evidence of confidence in Yugoslavia's economic performance,
policies and prospects. While an increase in cofinancing on Bank projects is
desirable, both the projects and subprojects involved must be suitable for
cofinancing given the complex system of management in general and the banking
and foreign exchange allocation systems in particular.
27.      Yugoslavia's debt to the Bank amounts to about 8.7% of Yugoslavia's
total debt outstanding and disbursed and this ratio is expected to remain
fairly stable. Service on Bank loans as a proportion of total debt service
was 6.5% in 1980 and is projected to be about 5% by 1985.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURE SECTOR
Agriculture in Yugoslavia
28.      The agriculture sector, which occupied over one-third of the
population and accounted for about 14% of the GMP 1/ in 1978, has grown at an
average annual rate of about 3% during the period 1968-78. Agricultural
development in Yugoslavia is of crucial importance to: (a) meet an estimated
4 % annual increase in domestic consumption requirements; (b) provide for
increases in exports and reductions in imports; (c) meet the raw material
requirements for expanding the agro-industries subsector; and (d) achieve
employment and income objectives primarily through development of the
individual sector.
29.      The country has three distinct climatic zones and a predominantly
mountainous terrain. Agricultural activities are consequently many and
varied. Fifty-eight percent of the national territory is recorded as
agricultural land, two-thirds of which is arable and the rest pasture. The
soil is better than in other southern European countries, especially in the
fertile plain in the northeast which, while containing only one-sixth of the
country's total area, encloses nearly one-third of the arable land and
produces more than half of the country's wheat and maize and three-quarters
of the sugar beet. In the hilly areas covering much of Serbia, Slovenia and
Bosnia, a mixed farm pattern prevails. The mountainous regions to the west
and south contain extensive upland pastures suited to livestock rearing.
Along the Adriatic coast, in the Mediterranean climatic zone, vineyards and
olive and citrus groves flourish while further south, in Macedonia,
sub-tropical crops such as tobacco, cotton and rice are grown.
1/ GMP (Gross Material Product) corresponds to GDP (Gross Domestic Product)
less output of certain services, such as public administration, defense,
education, health and social insurance.



- 10 -
30.      An important feature of Yugoslav agriculture is the co-existence of
social and individual farm sectors. The social sector, which grew out of
postwar collectivization, is made up of a number of institutions including
kombinats (integrated factory farms), cooperatives and research institutions.
This sector accounts for about 28% of total agricultural output, controls 16 %
of agricultural land, and employs about 5% of agricultural manpower. In
contrast, the individual farm sector, which consists essentially of privately
held family plots not exceeding 10 ha of arable land, controls 84% of the
cultivated land, employs over 90% of agricultural manpower but has been
neglected in terms of provision of basic infrastructure, financing and
technology. For the most part, these two sectors are intricately linked
through marketing and other complementary activities.
31.      Yugoslavia's principal strategy in agricultural development has been
to emphasize growth of the social sector as the main means to achieve
large-scale production, marketing and self-sufficiency in food. As a result,
the agricultural production in the social sector grew at an average annual
rate of 10.9% during 1954-72. In contrast, during the same period
agricultural production in the individual sector grew at an annual rate of 2.9
%. While the objective of self-sufficiency in food was substantially achieved
through this emphasis on social sector growth, there remain large income
differentials, with average incomes among individual farmers ranging from less
than a third to less than half of those of workers in the social sector.
There has been a rapid depletion of the labor force in the agriculture sector
which has contributed to rural-urban migration and increased overall
unemployment in the economy.
32.      The strategy of Yugoslavia's draft 1981-85 Agricultural Development
Plan is based on continued development of social sector holdings as the main
vehicle for growth and increased cooperation with the individual farm sector.
The draft plan stresses the importance of agricultural development and
outlines measures to develop the individual sector as a means of addressing
the problems of unemployment, rural poverty, regional income disparities and
low productivity. Growth in agricultural production is planned at 4.5% per
annum, based on annual growth in the social sector of 6% and in the individual
sector of 4%. Agroindustries, a priority activity, are projected to grow by
7% per annum to meet strong consumer demand. The less rapid growth projected
for the individual sector reflects its limited absorptive capacity and the
lack of appropriate inputs and markets available to the large number of
individual farmers. On the basis of past performance these growth rates seem
optimistic, although they represent somewhat more realistic targets than in
the previous plan period. The Bank will continue to focus its attention to
improve incomes in the individual sector and, as part of its sector
operations, will undertake a small farm sector survey which is expected to be
the basis for expanded Bank activities in providing credit to small farmers.
33.      Responsibility for formulating agricultural policy and plans rests
with the Republics and Provinces, all of which are represented on the Federal
Committee for Agriculture, whose President is a member of the Federal
Executive Council with the rank of Minister. Due to decentralized decision
making, all functions associated with policy and plan implementation rest with
autonomous self-governing organizations, such as agrokombinats and
cooperatives.



- 11 -
Agriculture in Kosovo and the Project Area
34.      The Socialist Autonomous Province of (SAP) Kosovo is the least
developed area in Yugoslavia with a per capita income of $750 in 1979,
one-third the national average. Agriculture plays a major role in Kosovo's
economy, accounting for over 20% of GMP and representing the major means of
livelihood for about half of its population. The social sector contributes
17% to social product but holds only 12% of cultivable land in large holdings
averaging over 500 ha each. It accounts for the bulk of fixed asset
investment in agriculture and employs 5% of the rural population at
remuneration levels on a par with other social sector activities. The
individual sector owns 88% of arable land and accounts for 83% of agricultural
social product. It engages 95% of the total agricultural labor force. The
average size of holdings in the individual sector is only 3.7 ha, subdivided
into small plots. Per capita incomes of farm households in the individual
sector average only about 65% of incomes of social sector employees. A large
number of households supplement their income through off-farm work. The
productivity of Kosovo's agricultural labor force is low mainly because of the
dominance of the individual sector. Low productivity in this sector can be
attributed to a number of factors including lower natural resource endowment
in terms of land quality and irrigation and low membership in cooperatives
giving limited access to improved inputs, credit and marketing.
35.      Despite low productivity per hectare, Kosovo is an important producer
of cereals, fruits, vegetables and livestock. Due partly to low rainfall and
partly to limited use of inputs, current yields in Kosovo for most crops are
well below yields elsewhere in Yugoslavia. Only grapes and vegetables which
comprise a major part of commercially traded agricultural produce from the
project area give yields close to country wide averages. Livestock and dairy
production, largely in the hands of individual sector farmers, contribute more
than one-third of Kosovo's agricultural product. Kombinats handle a large
part of the milk and meat processing and are the main source for improved
breeding stock, veterinary services, artificial breeding and feed
compounding. Until recently goats were not permitted in Kosovo to prevent
undue damage to crops. Supplemental irrigation for specific crops could
significantly enhance their yields. However, the irrigated area in Kosovo is
declining due to the age of the systems and low levels of maintenance and
rehabilitation. Costs per hectare under two major irrigation programs
currently underway are proving to be relatively high and the Kosovo Government
is now investigating possibilities for lower cost irrigation development. The
food, beverage and tobacco industries are managed entirely by the social
sector. Kosovo agroindustries currently contribute less than 3% of social
product and employ about 3 % of the labor force. A number of existing
processing ventures are not yet working at full capacity, the major constraint
being insufficient supply of agricultural raw materials and obsolete
processing facilities. Potential demand for basic products is significant in
Kosovo with per capita consumption of processed products much lower than the
Yugoslav average.
Bank Involvement in Yugoslavia's Agriculture Sector
36.      The proposed Kosovo Agricultural Development Project would represent
the eleventh Bank loan for agriculture and agro-industries in Yugoslavia.



- 12 -
Since 1971, when it first became involved in the agriculture sector in
Yugoslavia, the Bank has financed three nationwide agricultural credit
projects (Loans Nos. 1129-YU, 1477-YU and 1801-YU), five agriculture and
agroindustry projects in Macedonia, Montenegro, Bosnia-Herzegovina and Serbia
(Loans Nos. 894-YU, 1370-YU, 1371-YU, 1621-YU and 1951-YU), as well as three
irrigation and multipurpose projects with agricultural components (Loans Nos.
777-YU, 1360-YU and 1616-YU) and one drainage project (Loan No. 1756-YU). The
Bank's involvement in these projects has been both in the social and
individual sectors. As summarized in Annex II, these projects are generally
proceeding satisfactorily.
37.      Within the framework of Yugoslavia's agricultural development plan
and the Government's objectives, considerable Bank lending for agriculture is
an essential element of the Bank's strategy to support the less developed
regions, improve income distribution, alleviate pockets of rural poverty,
increase rural productivity and productive employment opportunities and
contribute to a reduction of imports and an expansion of exports. The Bank
emphasizes development of primary agricultural production (irrigated and
rainfed) in the individual sector. Agricultural processing facilities in the
social sector would provide the outlet for this production. In recent years
both Yugoslavia and the Bank have increased their commitment to the
development of the individual sector. The mix of Bank involvement between
the social and individual sectors in agricultural projects in Yugoslavia is
determined in each particular case, taking into account factors such as the
Federal and Republican/Provincial governments' own efforts for these sectors
and the relative investment requirements in each republic or province to bring
about balanced agricultural development between primary production and
processing capability.
Performance Under Agricultural Projects in Kosovo
38.      Under the nationwide First and Second Agricultural Credit projects
(Loans Nos. 1129-YU and 1477-YU), Kosovo has received $13.7 million. All
these funds have been fully committed and although disbursements under Loan
No. 1477-YU are slow for all participating banks, KBP's performance on
disbursements is above average. Ways to speed up disbursements (including
better coordination, strengthened training and monitoring and increased
flexibility in project identification) are being discussed between the
Yugoslavs and the Bank. Kosovo has also received $15.5 million under the
Third Agricultural Credit Project (Loan No. 1801-YU), out of which $8 million
is committed. The Ibar Lepenac Multipurpose Project (Loan No. 777-YU) is over
90% disbursed but due to construction difficulties completion of the major
works is about 4 years behind schedule. Slow cooperation among farmers has
delayed on-farm development and, when irrigation supplies become available,
this is likely to result in a slower rate of irrigation development than
originally anticipated. Under the Metohija Multipurpose Project (Loan No.
1360-YU) disbursements amount to $7.5 million and implementation is delayed by
one year due to unexpected engineering problems now being resolved. To date
there have been no projects in the sector audited by the Operations Evaluation
Department.



- 13 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
39.      The proposed project will be undertaken in eleven of the twenty-two
communes of the SAP Kosovo which is located in the southwestern part of
Yugoslavia (IBRD Map No. 15465). The project was identified in May 1978 by a
joint Bank/FAO Cooperative Program and prepared by Udruzena Kosovska Banka
Pristina and Agrokosova with the assistance of foreign and Yugoslav
consultants. The project was appraised in September/October 1980.
Negotiations were held in Washington in March 1981.  The Yugoslav delegation
was led by Mr. Bozidar Radunovic, Deputy Federal Secretary for Finance. Annex
III summarizes key events leading to Board presentation and special conditions
provided for in the Loan Agreement.
Project Objectives and Description
40.      The proposed loan and project are summarized in the Loan and Project
Summary at the beginning of this report and described in detail in the "Staff
Appraisal Report - Kosovo Agricultural Development Project" No. 3286-YIJ dated
April 16, 1981. This report is being distributed separately to the Executive
Directors.
41.      The project's main objectives are to: (a) assist in increasing
productivity and incomes in Kosovo, the least developed region in Yugoslavia;
(b) increase production of livestock, fruits, nuts, wine, milk, cheese and
processed food products primarily for the domestic market; (c) provide for
groundwater studies and testing for irrigation development; and (d) contribute
to institution builaing by strengthening the capabilities of the Borrower,
Udruzena Kosovska Banka Pristina (KBP).
42.      The project would consist of the following specific components:
(a) agroindustries component: subloans for the modernization, expansion and
construction of 12 agroindustries involving processing of wheat and maize,
meat, fruit and vegetables, a turkey farm, cold storage plants, a sugar
processing and packaging plant and a feed mill;
(b) primary production component: subloans (i) for establishment of
vineyards, orchards (sour cherries, pears, apples, hazelnuts) and berry
plantations (blackcurrant, blackberry, raspberry, strawberry) covering about
2,000 ha held by 10 social sector organizations and about 650 ha held by about
800 individual farmers; (ii) for the construction of, and supply of livestock
for, a social sector goat farm with a capacity for about 1,200 head to
increase milk, cheese and meat production, produce goats for sale to
individual farms and provide extension and veterinary services and training to
individual farmers; and (iii) for livestock acquisition and shed construction
for about 300 individual dairy farmers;
(c) groundwater studies component: studies for groundwater irrigation
development including technical investigations, identification and
installation of test well irrigation systems, agricultural and economic
studies, assessment of the potential costs and benefits of this type of
irrigation development and planning and preliminary designs for selected well
irrigation systems; and



- 14 -
(d) technical assistance component: services of consultants to assist KBP in
handling the technical requirements of agroindustries' procurement and
supervision and to train its staff in these responsibilities.
Project Organization and Implementation
43.      Institutional Arrangements.  The borrower of the proposed loan would
be KBP. It would on-lend to subborrowers part of the proceeds of the Bank
loan together with funds from the Federal Fund for Accelerating the
Development of the Less Developed Republics and SAP Kosovo and, to the extent
necessary, funds from its own resources. All social sector subborrowers are
members of Agrokosova, the regional association of agrokombinats, which is the
entity responsible in Kosovo for the development and planning of investments
for its members. Agrokosova would act as a coordination point for its member
investors to ensure smooth subproject implementation. The various
organizations and institutions involved in the project, including KBP,
Agrokosova, and the participating investor organizations and cooperatives,
would, as a condition of effectiveness, have to enter into a self-management
agreement confirming their respective rigbts, obligations and responsibilities
under the project (Loan Agreement, Recital C of the Preamble and Section
7.01). For the groundwater studies component, part of the loan proceeds would
be made available to the Self-Managed Community of Interest for Water Economy,
Pristina (SIZ) under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement on terms and conditions to be
approved by the Bank (Loan Agreement, Section 3.01(b)). Evidence that this
Agreement had been executed and is legally binding would be a condition of
disbursement for this component (Loan Agreement, Schedule 1, para 4.(b)). SIZ
would employ consultants with qualifications, experience and terms and
conaitions satisfactory to the Bank to carry out a series of studies,
acceptable to the Bank, for groundwater irrigation development in selected
locations in Kosovo (Loan Agreement, Section 3.04(a) and Schedule 2, Part B).
During the carrying out of the studies, KBP and SIZ would exchange views with
the Bank on the progress and findings of the studies and the measures proposed
to be taken with respect to further development of groundwater irrigation in
Kosovo (Loan Agreement, Section 3.04(b)(ii) and (iv)). The studies should be
completed by December 31, 1983 (Loan Agreement, Section 3.04(b)(iii)).
44.      KBP, an associated bank, is the major bank in Kosovo and, together
with its constituent basic banks, carries out both commercial and investment
operations. It administers Federal Fund credits which are allocated by sector
according to priorities established at the provincial level. Because of the
importance of these credits in Kosovo, the role of the associated bank is more
dominant in Kosovo than elsewhere in Yugoslavia. KBP is fully familiar with
Bank policies and procedures, being a borrower under four Industrial Credit
projects (Loans Nos. 1012-YU, 1277-YU, 1611-YU and 1909-YU), a participating
bank in the Agricultural Credit projects (Loans Nos. 1129-YU, 1477-YU and
1801-YU) and a fiscal agent under two Multipurpose projects (Loans Nos. 777-YU
and 1360-YU). Its performance under these projects has been generally
satisfactory.
45.      At end-1979 KBP'sl/ total assets amounted to Din. 57.2 billion.  Its
long-term loan portfolio constituted 63% of assets. The largest source of
1/ Covers consolidated position of associated bank and its member basic banks.



- 15 -
funds tor KBP are Federal and Provincial special funds which accounted for 65
Jo of its total resources in 1979. Like other banks in Yugoslavia, KBP
maintains a tight liquidity position which is regulated by the National Bank
of Yugoslavia and supervised by the Social Accounting Service (SDK). KBP's
long-term debt/equity ratio as of December 31, 1979 was high at 19.4:1.
However, if the Federal and Provincial funds (which are treated as debt
although they have more the character of managed funds) are excluded, the
ratio is reduced to 5.2:1. The lending policies and other procedures and the
financial situation of KBP are satisfactory.
46.      KBP is responsible for the appraisal of investments to be financed
under the proposed project and it would be responsible for supervising project
implementation and procurement activities. KBP's agriculture credit
department comprises only 5 professional and 3 support staff, which has been
adequate to date. However, with the expected increase in workload and
complexity of the proposed project, particularly in relation to procurement
following international competitive bidding (ICB) procedures, strengthening of
this department would be necessary. KBP has assigned a qualified officer with
primary responsibility for ensuring timely project procurement according to
Bank Guidelines and has agreed to maintain this position (Loan Agreement,
bection 3.02(a)). KBP would by November 30, 1981: (a) add to the staff of its
agricultural credit department a qualified agroindustries' specialist
acceptable to the Bank to handle the additional technical requirements in
agroindustries' appraisal; and (b) complete the appointment of an adequate
number of qualified support staff to assist the procurement officer and the
agro-industries' specialist (Loan Agreement, Section 3.02(b)(i)). The project
would include provision of about $0.5 million equivalent for technical
assistance for KBP to engage the services of consultants to assist and train
the staff of its Agriculture Credit Department mainly in its procurement
responsibilities, particularly review of bid documents and evaluation (Loan
Agreement, Section 3.02(b)(ii)). Consultant services for 63 man-months are
included in the project at an estimated cost per man-month, including
personnel and travel costs and subsistence expenses, of $8,000.
47.      The activities of all social sector enterprises in the agricultural
sector in Kosovo are integrated under the general management of a composite
organization, Agrokosova. Its intended role is one of coordination of
activities (particularly in relation to provision of inputs and purchasing and
marketing of products), rather than central planning. In practice each
agrokombinat retains a high degree of autonomy in conducting its business.
Under the proposed project Agrokosova would assist its member investors in the
flow of documentation to KBP, assist KBP as necessary in the preparation of
progress and project completion reports, in monitoring subproject
implementation and evaluating subproject benefits (Loan Agreement, Sections
3.01(a), 3.05(b), 3.06(b) and 3.06(d)). During negotiations understandings
were reached with Agrokosova that it would provide marketing assistance,
facilitate procurement of breeding stock and raw materials to its member
investors and assign one experienced officer to coordinate the activities for
which it was responsible with those performed by KBP.
48.      Implementation.  Subprojects are scheduled to begin implementation
within the first three years of the project. For 10 out of the 12
agroindustries, contracts should be signed about the time of loan



- 16 -
effectiveness and the other two about six months later. The basic
organizations participating under the primary production components have been
identified and technical design for subproject implementation has been
completed. Most of the individual sector farmers who will invest in vineyard
and hazelnut plantations and dairy farms have been identified.
49.      The project implementing organizations would furnish loan
applications simultaneously to KBP and local banks. KBP would make its
appraisal report of each subproject available to the relevant local bank.
Subloans would be approved in accordance with appraisal guidelines and
methodology agreed among the Bank, KBP and basic banks. KBP would make
subloans in accordance with these guidelines and would ensure inter alia that
(a) subprojects are technically feasible, financially viable, commercially
sound and economically justified; (b) minimum financial and economic rates of
return of at least 12% would be achieved; (c) adequate and continuing
technical assistance and market outlets are assured; (d) arrangements are
satisfactory for lending to individual farmers through cooperatives; (e)
adequate arrangements exist for provision of extension services to the
individual farmers and recovery of services charges; (f) subborrowers are
creditworthy; and (g) for lending to agroindustries, raw materials are
available and appropriate consideration is given to choice of technology with
preference to more labor-intensive methods where possible (Loan Agreement,
Schedule 5, Part 1.(B) and (C)).
50.      All the agroindustry investments were fully appraised by the Bank and
found financially and economically viable and technically feasible. A further
review by the Bank would not be necessary except for the potato processing
plant subproject for which the Bank would have to review and approve the
financial, management and technical position of the proposed subborrower (Loan
Agreement, Schedule 5, Part l.(C)(ii)). Other subloans would be made by KBP
in accordance with the methodology agreed with the Bank and prior review by
the Bank is not considered necessary except for the goat farm (Loan Agreement,
schedule 5, Part l.(C)(i)). KBP would require the goat farm investor to
undertake in conjunction with the Livestock Institute in Pristina a program
for relevant individual goat farmers to provide them with extension and
veterinary services and assistance for acquiring breeding stock, feed and
production inputs and collecting and marketing their outputs (Loan Agreement,
Schedule 5, Part l.(B)(f)). All subproject appraisal reports would be
available for inspection by the Bank. If, on the basis of further KBP
appraisal, any of the proposed agroindustries investments are found to be no
longer financially viable, alternative agroindustry investments could be
considered for financing (Loan Agreement, Schedule 2, Part A (a) and Schedule
5, Part l.(C)(i)).
Monitoring and Evaluation
51.      Monitoring of the progress of project implementation will be done by
KBP, in cooperation with Agrokosova and SIZ as appropriate. Agrokosova will
provide regular reports to KBP on the status of all subprojects of its member
investors. KBP will carry out the on-going evaluation of investments to be
financed under the project in cooperation with Agrokosova and SIZ as
appropriate, and to the extent necessary, through suitably qualified and
experienced Yugoslav consultants (Loan Agreement, Section 3.06(b)). The total



- 17 -
cost of the evaluation system, which will be borne by KBP, over an eight year
development period for the project is estimated to be $300,000 (constant
prices). A similar evaluation system has been established for several
previous Bank financed agriculture projects (Loans Nos. 1129-YU, 1477-YIJ,
1621-YU, 1801-YU and 1951-YU)) and is operating successfully. KBP would
furnish to the Bank quarterly subloan approvals and progress reports, annual
evaluation reports commencing April 30, 1983 and a project completion report
to be prepared not later than six months after the loan Closing Date (Loan
Agreement, Sections 3.05(b), and 3.06(b) and (d)).
Project Cost and Financing Plan
52.      The estimated total cost of the project, including physical and price
contingencies and interest during construction, is $270.0 million, with an
estimated foreign exchange component of about $106.4 million or 39%. The cost
estimates include import duties and taxes estimated at $8.0 million. An
average 9% physical contingency has been allowed and an average price
contingency of 35% on base cost price plus physical contingencies has been
included in project costs to meet expected inflation in foreign and local
costs during the project implementation period of five years. Details of the
cost estimates are shown in the Loan and Project Summary.
53.      The proposed Bank loan of $90 million would represent about 85% of
the total estimated foreign exchange cost and about 33% of total project
costs, including interest during construction. The loan will finance $10
million of interest and other charges on the loan during construction, since
some subprojects will not generate sufficient cash flow during the
implementation period to meet these charges entirely. The loan would be for
15 years, including 3 years grace. Except for the technical assistance
component, KBP would on-lend the loan proceeds to the subborrowers in
accordance with the terms and procedures described below. In the case of the
groundwater studies, the loan proceeds would be on-lent to SIZ on terms and
conditions to be acceptable to the Bank. The foreign exchange risk of the
Bank loan would be borne by subborrowers in the social sector and by the
Government of Kosovo for the individual sector farmers. The Bank loan would
be repaid on the basis of an adjustable repayment schedule reflecting
substantially the composite repayments of subloans by the subborrowers. The
balance of the project financial requirements, $180.0 million including $16.4
million foreign exchange costs, would be financed as follows; KBP would
provide $125.9 million from the Federal Fund and if necessary from its own
funds, and local banks and the subborrowers would provide the remaining $54.1
million from their own funds and internally generated revenues.
54.      The terms of subloans under the project would be related to the cash
flow projections of the investment. The repayment period of individual sector
subloans would normally not exceed 15 years including up to five years grace.
For subloans for agroindustries and in the social sector, repayment periods
would not exceed 15 years including up to three years grace (Loan Agreement,
Schedule 5, Part 2.(C)). Subborrowers would normally be required to
contribute 20% of total investment costs. In some cases where subborrowers'
resources are not adequate to contribute the required 20%, KBP would determine



- 18 -
the maximum amount of subborrowers' contribution (Loan Agreement, Schedule 5,
Part 2.(A)). In accordance with Yugoslav law, contributions from the Federal
and Provincial Funds would be treated as subborrower contribution. KBP would
ensure that sufficient seasonal credits are made available to subborrowers
(Loan Agreement, Schedule 5, Part l.(C)(iv)).
55.      The interest rates under the project would be: (a) for Bank funds a
minimum on-lending rate to be charged by KBP to subborrowers of 11% (Loan
Agreement, Schedule 5, Part 2.(B)(i)). This is in line with the approximate
average cost of long-term foreign exchange resources in Yugoslavia and in the
international capital markets. The technical assistance component will be
retained by the KBP.  For the groundwater studies component the on-lending
rate would be determined in agreement with the Bank and is expected to be the
Bank rate of 9.6% plus a small administrative fee; (b) for the portion of
domestic funds provided to subborrowers from the resources of KBP and the
local banks, a minimum interest rate of 10% (Loan Agreement, Schedule 5, Part
2.(B)(ii)); and (c) for the portion of domestic funds which are provided to
subborrowers from the Federal Fund, an interest rate determined in accordance
with the prevailing rates set by the Federal and Kosovan authorities
(currently between 3 and 6%). It is expected that all counterpart funds will
be provided from Kosovo's Federal Fund allocation. The above on-lending
arrangements are in line with the principles agreed for the Morava Regional
Development II Project (Loan No. 1951-YU), and the Fifth Industrial Credit
Project (Loans Nos. 1909-YU through 1912-YU). The annual rate of inflation in
Yugoslavia has varied considerably over the last 4 years averaging about 14%
in the period 1976-79. While inflation increased sharply in 1979 and 1980,
the projected average annual rate of inflation for the next 3 years is
estimated to be 16%. Although the proposed on-lending rate on local bank
funds would still not achieve a positive real rate, it is about 3% more than
the current minimum charged by Yugoslav banks. In the social sector where the
subborrowers bear the foreign exchange risk, the real interest rate on Bank
funds would be positive.  Efforts to pursue an objective of increasing
domestic interest rates are continuing through dialogue with the Yugoslav
authorities. Understandings were reached under the above-mentioned Fifth
Industrial Credit Project to the effect that the responsible Yugoslav
authorities would review with the Bank, at least annually, the interest rate
policy of Yugoslavia in the light of prevailing market conditions.
Preliminary discussions have already been held with the Yugoslavs on their
recommendations for interest rate reform. More comprehensive discussions
will take place after the finalization of the 1981-85 Plan, review of which is
scheduled for mid-1981.
Markets
56.      Investments under the project would induce an annual incremental
output of primary agricultural product valued at full development at about $31
million and annual incremental output from agroindustries of about $150
million at June 1980 prices. Market prospects for incremental production
under the project have been analyzed in considerable detail during project
appraisal. The market analysis shows that good market opportunities exist for
the production expected under the project in view mainly of future incremental



- 19 -
domestic, particularly Kosovan, market requirements. Only about 2% of the
annual incremental output is expected to be exported and in such quantities as
to be only a small proportion of total imports of such products in Western
Europe, the most likely market.
Accounts and Auditing
57.      KBP would maintain separate accounts for subloan disbursements under
the project. KBP is audited annually by the Social Accounting Service (SDK)
following generally accepted international accounting standards, to the extent
consistent with Yugoslav law. Over the past several years, SDK has expanded
the scope of its international standard audits and in 1979 it started a
detailed portfolio analysis of KBP as part of its annual audit. KBP would
submit its audited statements (including a separate opinion as to whether
procedures in operation at KBP are satisfactory to ensure that withdrawals
made on the basis of certificates of expenditures have been used for the
purpose for which they are provided) to the Bank within six months of the
close of each fiscal year (Loan Agreement, Section 5.04).
Procurement and Disbursement
58.      Agroindustrial plants and processing equipment, estimated to cost
about $113 million, would be procured under ICB in accordance with Bank
guidelines. This would consist of: (a) turnkey construction where
appropriate because of the new technology involved, namely, for a pasta plant,
a livestock and turkey processing plant, a bakery, a potato processing plant,
a biscuit plant and a dry maize processing plant, with total estimated costs
of $85 million; and (b) equipment, with an estimated cost of $28 million, for
fruit and vegetable processing, fruit juice processing, cold storage
facilities, feed mill, turkey farm and sugar processing and packaging.
Domestic manufacturers would receive a 15% margin of preference or the actual
level of import duties, whichever is less in bid comparisons. It is estimated
that about $37 million (33%) of the ICB procurement would be awarded to
foreign suppliers. The Bank will undertake a full review, prior to contract
award, of procurement documents and procedures for all turnkey and equipment
contracts involved for the agroindustries.
59.      Procurement of works and equipment connected with other project
components valued at $66 million, namely, the social sector livestock and
horticulture subprojects and groundwater components and the works for
processing plants for which equipment is to be procured by ICB, would not be
suitable for ICB. These items are unlikely to be attractive to foreign
contractors and suppliers due to the relatively small size of each contract,
phasing of contracts over 3 years, differences in the type of construction and
equipment required and the dispersion of investors. Procurement for these
components would be done through competitive bidding advertised locally and in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank for contracts estimated to
cost at least $150,000 equivalent, and through negotiated purchases for
contracts estimated to cost less than $150,000 equivalent. Procurement for
the individual sector livestock and horticulture components would be done
through local procurement procedures which are satisfactory. Sufficient
commercial suppliers and civil works contractors are available in Yugoslavia



- 20 -
to provide adequate competition for the supply of goods and works needed under
these components. Assurances have been obtained that the above procurement
arrangements would be followed in implementing the project (Loan Agreement,
Schedule 4).
60.      Bank disbursements would take about five years.  The annual
disbursement of the proposed loan proceeds is given in the Loan and Project
Summary. Disbursement of the Bank loan would be made as follows:
(i) for agroindustry and primary production subloans, 100% of foreign
expenditures and 45% of amounts disbursed for local expenditures subject to a
maximum of 35% of the total investment cost of each subproject; (ii) for the
groundwater studies and technical assistance, 100% of expenditures; and (iii)
amounts due for Bank interest and other charges on the loan accrued during
construction, totalling $10 million. Disbursement requests would be supported
by full documentation in the case of foreign expenditures. For local
expenditures, the Bank would disburse against certificates of expenditures.
KBP would retain supporting documentation for Bank inspection during project
implementation. KBP is fully capable of using this procedure as the required
accounting and auditing controls have already been established under the Third
Agricultural Credit Project (Loan No. 1801-YU).
Benefits and Risks
61.      General.  The main project benefits would derive from:  (a) increased
employment opportunities created through establishment of agroindustries; (b)
increased production of milk, fruit and processed food products to meet
rapidly increasing consumer demand primarily in Kosovo and in Yugoslavia for
high quality and processed food products, as well as some export of processed
food products; (c) strengthening the development institutions in Kosovo; and
(d) increased opportunities for association of individual farmers with social
sector enterprises.
62.      Beneficiaries.  Direct beneficiaries of the project would total about
1,100 individual farm families who would receive subloans for dairy and
horticultural development, and about 1,000 prospective additional employees in
the social sector. A substantial number of direct beneficiaries in the
project area are expected to belong to the target group with per capita
incomes below $430. The agroindustries' investments also would result in
indirect benefits by providing improved market outlets for primary production.
63.      Employment.  At full development the project investments would result
in about 1,000 additional permanent full time jobs, about a 150 man-year
increase in employment of hired seasonal labor and about 1,200 man-years of
increased family labor requirements on participating farms, all of which would
reduce underemployment and pressure to migrate from the project area.
64.      Production and Foreign Exchange Effects.  Most of the incremental
production (98%) due to the project would meet domestic consumption needs.
However, part of the incremental output would be exported, resulting in
foreign exchange earnings of about $3 million annually or about $60 million
over the 20-year life of the project.



- 21 -
65.      Institution Building Effects.  The project's non-quantifiable
benefits would include: (a) the institutional strengthening of KBP through
provision of training and through experience gained in preparing,
implementing, and evaluating a development project of this size and scope; (b)
fostering of increased cooperation between the individual and social sectors.
66.      Rates of Return.  A wide range of investments would be financed under
the project and their composition is fairly well known in view of the advanced
state of project preparation. The weighted average Economic Rate of Return
on the whole project is expected to be about 25%, with the primary production
and agroindustries components averaging 19% and 28%, respectively. Using
severe price assumptions the estimated financial rates of return vary between
9 and 23% for the primary production and between 13 and 30% for the
agroindustries. The latter investments are relatively insensitive to changes
in operating margins which might occur due to changes in operating costs, and
to cost overruns of up to 20% and slow build-up of capacity utilization.
Long-term changes in output commodity prices are expected to be followed
closely by changes in cost of raw materials and operating costs.
67.      Risks.  The institutional arrangements for the project are well in
place and provision has been made in the project for additional staff in KBP
to meet the heavier workload generated by the proposed project. All first
year subprojects in the social sector have been identified and most
procurement documents have been approved. Many of the individual farmers to
participate in orchard and dairy development have been identified. Experience
under the three Agricultural Credit projects indicates that full participation
of farmers should be achieved. Some of the social sector subborrowers have in
recent years experienced losses due largely to the costly operation of old
inefficient plants at undercapacity because of low raw material availability.
Raw material unavailability will be minimized primarily through emphasis on
improved advance contracting with producers. Coupled with this, modernization
and/or expansion of facilities should increase efficiency. Market analysis
has been thorough and market prospects for project output appear feasible
using conservative demand assumptions.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
68.      The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and Udruzena Kosovska Banka
Pristina, the draft Guarantee Agreement between the Socialist Federal Republic
of Yugoslavia and the Bank, and the Report of the Committee provided for in
Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank are
being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.



- 22 -
69.      Features of special interest are noted in paragraphs 43-60 and in
Section III of Annex III of this report. A special condition of effectiveness
of this proposed loan is that a Self-Management Agreement has been entered
into among all parties concerned with carrying out the project, in form and
substance satisfactory to the Bank and is in effect (Loan Agreement, Section
7.01). In addition, a special condition of disbursement for the groundwater
studies component is that a Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed by
Udruzena Kosovska Banka Pristina and the Self-Managed Community of Interest
for Water Economy, Pristina and is legally binding (Loan Agreement, Schedule
1, para. 4 (b)).
70.      I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
71.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachment
April 15, 1981
Washington, D.C.



- 23-                                                    ANNEX I
Page 1 of 6
TABLE 3A
YUGOSLAVIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
YUGOSLAVIA                         REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVTRAOES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                          -  MQST RECENT ESTIMATE  
TOTAL            255.8                                 MOST RECENT            MIDDLE INCOME            INDUSTRIALIZED
AGRICULTURAL     142. 7              1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b              EUROPE                 COUNTRIES
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                  380.0       850.0    2430.0                  2749.5                    9499.2
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)      872.0      1459.0    2035.0                  1641.4                    7021.1
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)      18.4        20.4      22.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 27.9         34.8       40. 7                  53.9                      76.0
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                       26.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                         29.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                  2095
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. EN.                        72.0        80.0      86.0                    77.2                     142.8
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    124.0        139.0     154.0                   129.5                     523.3
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          30. 5       27.4      25.0                    30.6                      23.5
15-64 YRS.                          63.2        64.8      66.0                    61.1                      65.1
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    6.3         7.8       9.0                     8.2                      11.4
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)'
TOTAL                               1.2         1.0       0,9                     1.6                       0.7
URBAN                               3.6         3.2        2.9                    3.3                       1.3
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      23.0        19.0       18.0                   22.8                      13.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      10.0         9.0        8.0                    8.9                       9. 1
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               1.4         1.3        1.1                    1.5                       0.9
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..          59.0
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)           85.0        93.0     114.0                   113.1                     110.8
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                   125.0       130.0     136.0                   125.3                     131.6
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           93.0        93.0     101.0                    91.0                      98.0
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        28.0        32.0      39.0                    39.6                      62.1
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE       4.0         3.0        2.0                    4.3                       0.8
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    62.0         67.0      69.0                    67.8                      73.5
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                            88.0        55.5      34.0                    55.9                      13.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..           ..
URBAN                               ..           ..
RURAL                               ..           ..
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..           ..
URBAN                               ..           ..
RURAL                               ..           ..
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN           1616.0      1000.0     762.0                  1030.1                     624.8
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON      1350.O0      410.0     409.0                   929.4                     218.9
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             200.0       179.0     166.0                   289.7                     121.2
URBAN                                          70.0      70.0
RURAL                               ..       1610.0    1770.0
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..        17.0      17.0                    17.0                      17.0
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               4.0         3.8       3.8
URBAN                               3. 3        3.2       3.3
RURAL                               4.4         4.3       4.1
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                               1.6         1.4
URBAN                               1. 7        1. 3
RURAL                               1.5         1.5
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                              55.4        87.9
URBAN                             92. 7        98.4
RURAL                             36.1         80.1



- 24 -                                                     ANNEX I
Page 2 of 6
TABLE 3A
YUGOSLAVIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
YUGOSLAVIA                         REFEREVOE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AV7RAGES
-  MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
MOST RECENT           MIDDLE INCOME            INDUSTRIALIZED
1960  /b    1970 Ab ESTIMATE lb              EUROPE                COUNTRIES
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                111.0       105.0     100.0                   105.9                    100.1
MALE                113.0        108.0     101.0                   109.3                    102.2
FEMALE              108.0        103.0      99.0                   103.0                    102.3
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                58.0         69.0      79.0                    64.0                     87.1
MLALE                63.0         79.0      83.0                    71. 1                    84.4
FEMALE               53.0         58.0      75.0                    56.9                    84.3
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (1 OF SECONDARY)  72.0         72.0      75.0                    28.8                     19.0
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            33.0        24.0      22.0                    29.4.                    21. 3
SECONDARY                          13.0        27.0      30.0                    26.1                     16.4
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        77.0        83.0      85.0                      ..                     98.9
CONSUIMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          3. 0       35. 0     88. 5                   84. 6                   339.9
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        85.0        166.0     210.0                   192.2                    932.9
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          1.4        88.0     161.0                   118.5                    354.8
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                  69.0        85.0      89.0                    93.0                    327.4
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  7.0          4.0       3.8                     5. 7                     3.3
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)      8344.6      9174.2fd 10065.7fd
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   35.0        36.5      36.3                    30.4                     36.1
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              63.0        51.0      33.0                    37.0                      7.6
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 18.0        23.0      32.0                    29.3                     38.8
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                45.4        45.0       45.9                   40.9                     44.6
MALE                                 60.3        58.3      59.4                    55. 9                    58.1
FE2ALE                               31. 0       32.3      32. 7                   26.2                     31. 7
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               0.8         0.8       0.7                     1.0                      0. 8
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   16. 4e       15. 1/f
NIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  41.5|e       41.4f       .
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    6.9/e        6.6/f
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   19.0/e       18.4/f
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..           ..
RURAL                               ..           ..
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (Us$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..           ..
RURAL                                ..          ..     430.0                   385.8
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                               ..           ..
RURAL                               ..           ..
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
A   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1978.
/c   1962; Id Including migrants workers abroad; /e 1963; /f 1968.
Most recent estimate of GNP per capita is for 1979, all other data are as of April, 1980.
October, 1980



- 25 -                                                                        ANNEX I
Page 3 of 6
DEFINITIONSf OF SOCIAL INIfCATfOR
Notes:  Although the dat.ator  drown from sorEs go.eoslly judged the must authoritative mud reliable. in should also he noted that they may ou  ho inter
nutionally comparable because. of thel lack of atudard ied definitions cad cuonepto used hy diff.ert countrIes In collecting the data.  The data ore,nos
thebes.... usful tn do...rth. orders cfaniud, indttsr  tosods, sod chrarettesi neoat aujor diffurecoo  hatveonuonla
Terf    tIen.rop.r ()toeaecctry group of the auhjeet csotry nod (2) a  ocutry group nith noneolut high er  veregs income than the cu...try group
of the  ujrt conry (macpt forT   r -ty   'lpinel Sorplco Oil Esperters" group oboes 'Middle lace  North Afrios cod Middle lust" ho cho.et hea           f stronger
su .e-clt"al uffiuitiss).  To the reference genu.p data the coerogs are popailanise .eighted arothamtic  eoun  for ...nh indictotr end eh-  only uhee at
lat held of the cu-tries in a group has date for that ledictutr.  Since the nu-reg  of  -ocoiro  amog tha irdicenurs dopeods en the nnilbhihlty of
dat.aend Is net -if.era  cnotion moat he enerniond is relating averges of nor lodinstor te sether.  Tbh...  -osrng   aro only ...ofulI  tPtocpaing thu value
ef oae indinator at a than .Sag tho ucuetry sud rafere..ca groups.
LANDI AREA (thunanod sq.ka.)                                                              fuoulatten, oar  Phytla-fpuleteen dividod by nuber uS pnsutiuiag phy-
Tutal - Tetal sur face urea eusprisiog lead area cod Inanmd waters.                         eaeqel  a  true amdleal schusS at cadrerdoy level.
Agr.icutural - fauitmun  of  grlcultsra  ace  used..d tes,puratl   cpeessl              fusati    n r.Hrisa Pereun - Pepulatiso divided by ase  o   ontna
foe crops, pastures,  arkt sand hintban garen  or            lIe f silos; 19f7 dana.    mule nod femel ataduateces  pra-titni .u.es. . md essiset  asoee
Perublaclsa aed,rfueta                  -I--toa ,obn  nod nel - Popolaniun (total.
GNP PUI CAPITA (USI) - GNP par caPlts estimates at torrent market Pnie, ..      al. -        re.sdrare   dide  by the   r-pentiwe smbe  ef bh.pita1 beds
nuletod by eas  co-e-ion method us World Saab Atlas (1977-79 basfe); 1960,                ewilable In pu~blic sod private general mud spenialieed hospital ssdr-
1970. end 1979danc.                                                                       habilitationo tasters.  Rsepitale are  stablihbmtmn  psossaatly staffed
by aleast sue physicias.  gEteblishmnts pr-widiag prianipally essnedlal
EfftbfY CONISUMPTION PUR CAPITA - Atnnul coosumptisa of ceenla  asergy I(oa                 eas  r  aet ianiodd.  focal hspitula. howeve * talude health nod medical
sod ligaite, petrolet, natural gas sod hydno-. onooar and geotherma  elan-                nenner  net poaently staffed by a phyadiso (but by   medical assistant.
trinity) in kilograsa. ot ..cel qunvulon p00 enpite; 1960. 1970, nod 1970                nuse  midwife. etc.) hblh  tfer ta-patient --nmdationa mud provIde
data.                                                                                    limited rasge ef medical fatlliliea.  Fen starietioal porpoe  urbaa haspS-
pIPSl.AISoo API VITA]. STATISTICS                                   ~~tale iaclcde Wale prIni.pal -. gealnsd specialteed bhspitla, sad roos
POPMATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                       b..~~~~hapitala local en roos  hospitals end medical cad mateity naes
Total Popu2atios. Mid-Your (i ou  - Au of July 1; IS61, 1970, sad 1978                  Adm,ission  per  pontol Bed - Tuta1 ounher of edmisai.s tu -v di-hbarges
date.                                                                                   from hospitalsdivided by tha nmber of beds.
lrbas fenclatlo  (npreest .! rotal - tatie of orbas to total pepalanios;
differeat definitinas of urbas aea  sa   fet  oprhiiyo  dt                             SINLG
amuo  nentris; 1ff,  970  cud197   dat.                                       Aergeliaofgomeolbiprsnsprityebld otta.  rbs adtaml
.Ponlane  don  ts yar 2000 - Cuorsat pouadaprjo-tten  are base.d an 1980                end their main mea.ls. A hoarder or ludgor may or may sot he included in
toru1 populatlo  by age sand sea and their martahity sand fertility rates.            the hauseheld facc statistical purposes.
Projection psoasters fo  rmutality rates cumprise of three levels ese-              Averag ohro  osra     no  roo-Iten, ebaa. cod totral - A-ergo . .
imp life enpenteny an birth  Ie mn   ith country's per o.pite itaoma                  bar ofpecan   pen Eom  in all ubact, ad r-aa occopled ceavatiese
love, mad femal life espentascy  tabiltinig at 77.5 yeara.  The pare-                 do     g.respectively.  Wollhing  o.Ide  -ao-poouret stoturr  and
meters for fertility rats ula  bave three  avel  assuming dechime In                  -nonepied pares.,
fertility ....ordieg to i-m  leve  end past family pleannig penforane                cna  to  etletrliny  (Pornnt of dee-isa  -total. urba, and -.:a: -
a-bfo-antry Is tbhm aslgand one od theno nine nubiatios  f   ueett                    Cnvootio..aI doulliga etch a1-tricit'y ha liotag qsartors ns pevoetago
and fertility trend  for proje_sion     ....se.                                       of Leta.1  arbar, end euuld-I    lgrn-p-tivnly.
Staticonry I.. oeultloInusmtetio..ay popoletiun that Is me growth si..e
the b-Irtb rate Ia equal to the death eses, ud also tha age structure re-          DITCAITI
mains coasnat.  Thia Is aebinvd only after fertility rtes. declice to               AdjutdIrelotSies
therplae-as  level of -oIt out repnduetda cats, whoa..sh generation                   'rImrenol-oa,mletASule-instt,mleodfae
Iof oa. repl.nes itself eaeotly.  The etatioaniay pupulstie  siso                       enrollment of all ages at the pritory level as prcentages of respanti-e
ootlt.atd s  the bseis of the projected char-etrianics of the PupslatdIura                         ..l.R   .~.i..; o Iyi...    hlrtgd61
In the yea 00055  aef the rate of decline of fertility rate to  eln-piayaho-g  popul....a;                                      thnmal f lanludo   oldres. aged 6-ol
mnta level                                                                              c tuniro olrh ani-eesu  edu..etiu  eorollmaet sa  maccad 155 perc..st
Tear sainr neua eIs reauhad - The year when statioary ppopleti.n                           stat  sa  puvils are heln nor above the offIial. sebo   age.
Ponulation Deanity                                                                           ednto  rqis  at lss  tor years of appoved prfoey i-str-ntion;
Per so. be. -Mid-year popultion pee aqere kilomter (IO bectaras) uf                       provides general, v..ettos.., en tmanben traiting istrt-tiu..s for popik
tonal acme.                                                                             uelyo12t17Yeaso.                 g;cersednenuse   r   era
Pee as. An. snuu.sr land - Computed - above for aertelttnu1 1usd                          ean..lud f1ed.a.I                 .;.-...-..r....  eeal
nly.                                                                                 Vo..ariom I olast(perceant or .....edary) - Ve..antimal iastitutioos
Popuaetios Age Strotur. C osroon   - Children (0-li yeere), wekiag-age (15-                  deolude neohfoe, daduatrlel, or other prsgrsss which operate fedpe-
64 yeas   a   eIe   (6,5 yae  ce d an         spretgsof mid-year pomp-                    dently or as drpartments o  secondary toatitutios.
lattins; 1961, 1970  sand 1978 deta.                                                     ur-nabratio     rmr,ca   eode   Total atudeto enrolld In
PopoltPio  Growth Stat Inperest) - total - Amnat   gesah rates of tota  aid-                 po!imyndsnaaylvesdvddhtubr  of tenoesith
yer  eplai_n  fur 1950-hf. 1960-70, end 1970-78.                   .                  noreepdg leel..
PPoplatle  Growth Rane (percent - ur.s - Annua  gr-tth rates of sobs  peps-               Aut litrar   rte (p.near  - Li.tsroe adults (able to rod sand   itto)
iseios. for 1950-60, 19h0-70, and 1970-78.                                                anap-eeoafg  of notul adslt popolatina aged 15 years codovr
Crude Birth Waet free thasmead) - Annunal live births Pee thansand of mid-yean
pnpu.1ei"s; 2960, 1970. end 1978 data.                                              CONSUMIPTION
icud.e lath Rate C oar th.ansnd) - Anus., deaths per thousand of mid-year               Passnea Cars loon thaunnd pooplatio) - P.e.eage c-ars taepeiam meter
pouanc;19611, 50770  end 1978 dete.                                                oas   eein  losta ight persons; nnludem  abalanan. hears... aad
Gross Rependoutis ots - AeageS sabar at daughters asomsill hear to,                        mIlitary  eils
b-,oo eml reprodsntv- period if she meperianu.. Present ags-ePsuif in fec-             Wadis Noneivere1(car thasanod nrlto)-All types of rc..vens .. for radt
tillty nt      -; analy five -yaavrags..  ending in 1960. 1970, sod 1977.               broadna..ts no genneal public Paor thousand ot populetios; meuldes as-
Family PanI=       AnePtu.  Anua  (thouands) - Annua nuber of ....eptars                   censd receivers de    atin ed In years whoa -egtratlen nof radie sa
at  iet-notee  deice  uner  uapno  of eatioa  family planning peogea.              was in affect; data fee r-orto yeses may not be cparahl  sinus must
PumiltPlasadg - feos (ceneatof maried sas   P-.-tatg.ofa married                  Ioione.ablIhe            iouiag.
ama  at obild-b-eeing ago (15-44 yeers)h.b -s  birth-nonteal devices to               TVR. te -lac  (per thonsend coulatien) - TV es-elvrs fee broand..at to
all married  --mi  sam  age gtooup.                                                     g..ra  pa1  l aper tho...ead pupolatisa; anobodesaefas    TV reevrs
P001 AXiS SlItNITIOSf                                                ~~~~~~~~~In neuntrise and is years  h.be  rcgieteatioo of TV mete wee In effent.
Can    ~~~~~ 19- 1-100) -N leder Ciouoafopeperthuso   seels                                     1-Shw  the acerags cirsi--
laden at Pond Produeti  ea   aia(997-0)                ldeo   e  cpita manual             tin of 'duly gmaonul intra  oeepr   dotimed asaperiodIca  pub-
produntios od all foo  noomditios.  frduniss eneludes used and teed and                 location deosnd primarily tu -anooding general sans.  it is  -oaidared
Is on naleadar y-e  basie.  Coemidlties cure  pImry gende (e.g. sense                   to ha "daily" if it uppours at leas.t four elmeauee.k.
inetmed of augr) whieb see edaean   snan tnoo  (e.g. noffoe end                       Cinem  Annual Attendanc tee Capita prt Yea-fuse...d so tha acehe  of
tma ar  elded).  Aggregate poodmatisa of eac h country Is base.d Ott                    tickets sold during the year, iunldiag admiset.. to drive-ia tiusmas
eatiamal average prudugr price weights; 1961-05, 1970. aud 1978 data..                    d-i.ti
par cacIt eaol oP fosoee(cernet ofrafret) - Computed fro-o    oieuie
enery eqivalent of set toad euppliee available is. nuotry Per capita              LABOR FORCE
par day.  Available supplies noprise domsotde peod-tnina, ispntts less              Total Labor mono. fthcusande) - toEml...al.ly active persos, incloding
-Pots., nod changes is unoch. Met eupplica seclude aefeal toed, a sed,                mnd forcec and easaployrd hot seclu.ding hoswvs   tdon,ec
qoancieee use  in 1ud proessdng,and Inesos is diatrlbutlen.  teqalc-         Dofioitirm    In veoteu. noun trien ann enot   prbe  1960-,;17   o
manes wan  estimated by PAt based ea phyclaogira1  se.da f or anma  ati-_             1978 data.
viny end beelth n,os. dning  uvironemeta1 t"npereture, body wedghte, .!at           Pamu  (portent) - Femal  labor ferno us percen.tage of total labor fort..
end am_ distribotios of population. asd e11wlg Ii p-tnent for wastea                Aaeioultsre (o.recact  - Labor force is faring, forestry, busting uod
hbo..ehold level; 1961-65, 1970, and 1977 data,fsiga   scnaeo  oa   obrfre.90   90ad17   ea
Pen capita mapely of peoteim (gasleday) - frtein nontent of per ..pit.a                    i: ladeno   peec t) - Laorf tata labmiIng f cosaira60t197  masu198fattreg
non supply of fond per day.le  suply  f toad ha def iced as shov. Xe-                 so   lnrnt,wtrsdgsa   ecnaea   aa  ao   ot;l
quirents for all c-satias established by USIA provide far minimoandfan .1976i da, ta.radg..p-ng ftalabrot 190
alloeec  of 60 grasa at tonal protein per day and 20 geus  of  c          -lnd     PaicetcWne(oet)-otlml,edfmla-aroptom r
puls  protein, of whih 10 gnome abeld ha animal prtein.  These stand-                auntiviycnscncmue   stnl   ae   n   eael rfrea
sAerelwrtethsat75 freer of tetal peeteis                                                                            tota, -udandf7 glaborf of
eoieal  eonia a  eneveags  or  he eS d   pt psdb   ANi   h   hr               percentages of total, mal  an  fom1l  popolation of sll-ugsvasrp-tiv-ly;
Weed  oo  lcrtei ; 1961-65,  1970 mad        , 2377dae...  b        nt.Tid            1960. 1970, end 1971 dana.  Thees sea ISO.'  psetinipetion  rtes ref leot-ag
feecanin nected S_-Y;  19     rum5ae19 a0 and  -an7s  -  ooestupl      ta  do-          ag-se  structure of the populenio. and long time trend.  A fE-e .sti-
ie   em  nml and pAlesn   Mnaprdy   91-65, 1970 a.- 19'? dana.   Ee:te  tram nttool  nurI
ChIdCae 1-)Outlit, eefe  huad       euldah   e thauad  s                                t     the Pre=upenoy latnc  -RStioe of population aden 15 end 65 end avr
age Sreep 1-A Ynac', en ebIldran Is this age gecup; for anan dev-ipisg ca--
ttrio date derived fro  life ntblas; 1960, 1970 and 1977 data.                      INCOMEI DISTRIBUTION
HATH rcanyatBrt.o...a.                                                                            offivn Ieu  (both is ruh end hind) - Re-iedby richs
5 peoen, richest 20 percent, poorest 20 percent, and pores  'ci ponoo
(rears)(Y       - Averge aste.r of yeara of life roedaiing             of hauseholds.
aIt bith 1960, 13970 and 1978 data.
Infant ffrtalitr Wate (nor thousan d) - Aesu-I deatho of dnf ants seder see year   POVEfRTY TARONT INiOPh
efag  per thousand live ble,tho.                                                      Iectiatd Absolute P-vrty Isnto- Lavol (119 Per czaibta) -uban and erl
A-eces to  Saf e aste rerc_tatIfpule s) - ;total, urbas, sad rona  - N,                    Ahenluts povrty Incom  local In th t lenm  leve  hee  whIch a misial
Nusbee of people (tonal, orba,an   oal   ih rae.bable  -coe. ts asfe                      orteal.dqaads   lnesullaafo   auenosi   u
wt-r supply (tocludes tne..ted surtane atava or untreated bat san-ntassne                 ffr Ihn
water suc h as that from, potented boreboles, springs, and s.-Itaywll),                Etianod felutioc Povett I-o.elee (-11   ocI    r opits) - urban sad ra-
penn-tages of their rsptepupulart-ns. I  an urb-anresapublicl.                           trleaovpvrty bomslee  is  n-hr  of __ng   ancpt
f50otsln or stedpet loca.ted not mere than 200 meters from a beuans may be.              R-        a. .-r           _ 1 1g    a     pt
cosdrda   eatihnrsesl   neso    hat hes.l   e eee                                       pereseal incus uf the ou...nty.  Unban. levo  Is d-nl-d teo  tho rual
r:1                                        .      I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~lv l wi  adjauteet for bi*.r  es  of Il~ivig is urba.. arose
raonable acces  would imply that the housn.ife or ambsers of the honseheld          os.tictacd Pep taic  Rely Absoluto Peverty lun o Lrve1 (perne..t) - urba
dont have no spendo disprop-ntoo...rt  part If the day It fetching the                   and nerd- Paroo..e of pnpulcniou (urban and cralI) naera'bouepe"
dpssapertaoatterrsetvppaais.tnesdiie-                                                                                 fu..os.  an d Socal1 Deco Diolelta
peo  may i-olde rho nollentiu, so  disposal, with or without treateasse                                         Sonucmio Analysis nd PuJettnths  Dspartmet
of home  serets aod saste-aten bysantco-beone syst-  or the sse of                                                                      tar18
pin privies and siilar issee11atious.



-26 -
ArrnexI
Page 4 of S
YUGOSLAVIA - ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Amount
(million US$ at                                                 Annual Growth Kates  %Z)
Indicator                      current prices)                                       Actual                           C/                Proiected d/
1978              1974       1975        1976       1977        1978       1979        1980       1981        1982      1983
NATioNAL ACCOUNIs
Gross comestic proauct a/            52,674             14.8         3.6        3.4         7.7        6.6         7.1        4.1         4.3        4.4       4.0
Agriculture                        6,595               5.6       -6.6         9.6        5.3         5.0        5.5         4.0        4.0         4.0
Industry                          22,415              17.5        6.8         3.9        9.5         8.7        8.6         4.5        4.8         3.1       5.1
Services                          18,019               3.0        4.3         0.2        6.1         9.2        5.2         3.7        3.7         3.7       j.
Consumption                         41,531              20.7        0.9        -2.2       10.7         5.0        5.6         3.9        3.7         ,.8       3.9
Gross investment                    17,561               8.6        8.8         6.0       12.4         9.7       15.7        -1.3        1.2         2.b       2.7
8xports ot GNFS                      8,655               2.2       -8.3        10.6       -4.4        -1.0        8.0         7.9        7.9         3.9       7.9
Insports of GNFb                    12,247              12.7       -8.1        -5.0       12.5         0.0       18.5        -0.5        1.7         3.2       3.5
Gross national savings              14,977              -5.2         8.2       14.6       -0.6          -           -                      -          -         -
PKICLS
GDP dellator                            252.7          134.9      164.3       201.4      221.5       252.7      312.8
Exchange rate                            18.6           15.9       17.4        18.2       18.3        18.6       i9.0
bhare of GDP at Market Prices (C)                                              Average Annual .    eman  (   )
(at current prices) b/                                                   (at constant 1972 Drices)
l960      1970       1975       1980       1985        1990                  1960-70   1970-75    1975-80   1910-95  1985-90
Gross D,omestic Product           100.0    100.0        100.0    100.0        100.0      100.0                     5.9        6.5        5.6         4.5       6.5
AgriculLure                      22.5      16.1        13.9      12.6        12.2       10.9                    3.3         2.9        3.9         4.0       G 0
industry                         42.2      37.4       43.8       43.7       45.2        48.7                    6.3        8.3         6.4        5.2        8.1
aervtces                         29.0      38.1        33.6      34.2       33.1        30.9                    6.9         4.7        4.9         3.8       5.0
Consumption                        67.2      72.8        74.3      78.4        75.7       72.3                     6.5        6.9        4.0         3.8       5.5
Gross investment                   36.5      32.3        33.0      31.4        29.0       28.8                     4.7        5.5        7.0         2.8       6.3
Exports GNFb                       13.9      18.5        20.4      18.7        22.0       23.6                   10.2         6.7        0.9         7.9       8.0
imports GNFI                       17.5      23.5        27.7      28.3        26.2       24.6                     9.8        6.7        3.0         3.3       4.9
Gross national savings               32.6       29.6       29.9         -          -           -                     5.3        6.2          -          -          -
As ;4 of GDP
1960      1970       1975
PUbLiC KIOASCE
Total revenues                       -        33.1       36.8
Total expentitures                   -       33.2        37.2
burplus (f ) or uettctt (-)          -        0.1        -0.4
Foreign financing                             0.         -0.4
uOHEK INuICATORb
GNP growth rate (1;)                6.1        6.7        6.0       4.2         6.2
GNP per capita growth rate          5.0        6.6        5.0       3.3         5.3
ICSo                                5.4        4.6        5.8        6.8        4.6
Import elasticity                   i.6        1.0        0.5       0.7         0.8
a/ At market prices; components are expressed at factor costs and will not add due to exclusion of net indirect taxes and subsidies.
b/  Projected years at constant prices.
c/  Estimate.
d/ Projections do not retlect Yugoslav targets for the draft 1981-85 Plan; these will be evaluated by a Bank mission once the plan
has been tinalized.
EMENA 1C
June 4, 1980



- 27-
ANNEX I
Page 5 of 6
YUGOSLAVIA - EXTERNAL TRADE
Amo.nt                                                   Annual Growth Rates (%)
(million Utb at                                             (at constant 1972 prices)
1.dicator                    current prices)                                    Actual                          e/               Projected f/
1978             1974       1975       1976       1977       1978      1979       1980       1981       1982      1983
EXIh;KNAL TRADi
Plerchanoise exports                5,671             0.0        0.0    - 14.5        -5.3        1.0        0.0        7.9        7.8        7.9      7.9
Primiary a/                      1,304            -10.8       -3.1       16.6        3.9        1.5        2.7       7.6         7.4       7.5       7.6
Na.n.actures bl                  4,637              3.5        0.4       13.9       -8.8        0.8       -3.0        8.0        8.0       8.0       8.0
ierrchandioe imports                9,988            16.9       -2.8       -6.5       18.5        3.8        8.0        0.0        1.9       3.5       4.0
Food                               605             13.6      -40.9       45.8        4.3     -24.2       56.7         0.0       2.0        4.0       5.0
Petroleum c/                     1,432            -11.4       -5.0       10.1       12.0       11.6      10.6         0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0
machinery and equipment           3,634            16.4       22.3       -8.8       17.8        7.1       22.7        0.0       2.0        3.5       4.5
Uhners                           4,317             22.2      -11.9      -12.7       22.1        4.4       13.1        0.0       2.0        4.0       4.0
Phl460
txport price i.oe                                   158        172        180        202        220        253        276.1     301.3      325.6    348.5
Import price ijdes                   1972 = 100    175         184        189        216        226       269        277.0      304.2      329.0    351.7
ierms us trade ineu.                                 90.3       93.5       95.2       93.5       97.3       94.0      99.7       99.0       99.0      99.0
Composition of Merchandise (2)                                             Average Annual Increase (7.)
(at current Prices) d/                                                (at co-stant 1972 prices)
1960      1970       1973       1980       1985       1i990                1960-70   1970-75   1975-80  1980-85  1985-90
6.ports                                    100.0      100.0      100.0      100.0      100.0      100.0                   8.1        5.7        3.6      7.9       8.0
Primary a/                                49.6       29.4       19.5       24.6       24.3       24.3                    -       -1.3        5.0       7.6       8.0
ianutactures b/                           50.4       70.6       80.5       75.4       75.7       75.7                    -         8.1        2.9      8.0       8.0
Imports                                    100.0      100.0      100.0      100.0      100.0      100.0                   9.0        7.4        4.5      3.7       5.2
foou                                       9.1        7.2        5.3        5.6        5.7        6.0                    -        3.0       -0.2       4.3       6.4
Petroleum ci                               5.4        4.8       12.3        6.6        5.5        4.9                    -         8.2        6.5      0.0       3.0
Machinery and equipment                   36.8       33.2       33.9       42.6       43.7       45.3                    -        9.4         9.2      4.2       6.0
Others                                    48.7       54.8       48.3       45.3       45.1       43.8                    -         6.0        2.0      3.7       4.6
Share of Trade with                    Share of rrade with
Industrial Countries (7)        Developing Countries (%)        Capital Surplus Oil Eaportere (X)   Centrally Planned Economies 4%)
1965     1970      1975         1965      1970  1  1975            1965      1970      1975                1965     1970      1976
D SKEUTION O  TeASE
Exports                         40.1      53.3      34.0         17.4      13.6      16.8            0.4       0.7       2.1               42.1      32.4      47.1
Primary                       61.0      70.2      54.0          9.1       8.2      8.9             0.2       0.2       1.9               29.7      21.4     35.2
manufactures                  24.0      41.9      26.0         23.8      17.2      20.0            0.6       1.0       2.1               51.6      39.9      51.9
imports                         55.3      66.1      59.1         16.0      12.7     15.7             0.1       0.1      0.6                28.6      21.1      24.6
at/  axc 0-4
.. blTC S-8
o/ bITC 3; includes lubricants, coal and electricity.
al Projected years at constant prices.
e/  Estimates owing to changes in valuing trade, components do not add up to totals, nor do aggregate price and volume indices equal value growth between
1978 ans 1979 shown in next table.
1)  Projectios do not reflect Yugoslav targets for the draft 1981-85 Plan; these will be evaluated by a Bank mission once the plan has bees finaliced.
EMENA IC
June 4, 1980



Iota- IF.
-    p  a-  a.    a- 0                                                       p coacpcaE
-an-a 'ann   -a  -n  a-
OaOOa-aF.POFOa-Fa             a.-acn-a-.I   aan-cnOna-n                    a  aaaa-a- a  Ft  a-  a  ala
Caa                             na   a      an                       p000   an,,  aan.-O.-   a  a-a-na-a
          an- an a-aaPaFae.nnn.-   <Ca aarnFaF-FFCaaF-
OP           a al-.  an ac-OF- a--                                  0.  Fa.a  nI,0Fa V apaa-aP  a.
alan           - :aaa    aaaaaa a Ftc an                                        a na
oa-  aaFtaF-- alan  mann    a-i naa                                                        oa-a-o    a
a i,-FOFa a a,- .FF 0aVF.aa. a aFFarFa
a    Ft  aaan   Ft  a-aac  -a  a  a-F-            aIFFaFt      a   IF.    a   a        Va  tOO    C
a      0            0    a  a   IF-                           a            a
a                       cab  cJ                             a a
a  a         a  a    Van-a
anna              -    a  -a  -a                  a  a  a                         a            a  -    F.aaa
atoa.aaF                a  F)  a            a    a  a    -                        a            a  a    anca
.-na         a    a  a  a              a    F-  a  no                       a             a  0    a.  a
a        a  a             a.    a  -  aF.                      a             a  F    OaF--a
anon              a    0  a  a                            an                                   a  a    anan
a--aat.a-a              a      a            1FF   a-      an                      'V                     aaaa
nanan            -                        a-.   a       ,..                     -            -  Ia       a  a
0$-- a0           a    a                          a       a                                        a-
a- a             a    a                                 a                                                a
at   a0         a    a                                                                                 -aOrp
a.    a0         a
o  a  Va          a-    -
a-na   aFt        -n    a
a-a-    a             a-
0; .aa
a  a                     aC       cOo         FO      0            P            a-Fa-  FF          Pa-a-C    a-
a-a-  O        a-a        a-a-eon-On,           a--c  a-a--op         a-            a c-na-a-    n-Pa Pa-c    c
a    aa      eca-a--..-<   PPF.F    . pa-n,     Ca-FF-FOOF-O F  Ca-In-         F I  a-a-a-a-cF   n-  at-a-Ca-
a-a-                  a-a-   a-a-PFo       a-c    an,      aa-  0-        pn-a-a-a-n-a-a-OFPPa-                         C
a-a-a-     a-aa-    ca-n-a-      a-a-  ca-Ca-    a-a-N         pcnFa-ea-P         0    a-eec       n-
                n-en-n-n-                                                                        F
0    na-                    a-n-    a-pea         P  a-a-n-       a-  a-        ca-a-a-a-P    a-   a-n-ca-
0    nO    a-             a-n-n,    n-Pa-       Oa-Fn-a-F  F a-a-a-           cc   ca-n-a-a-    c    ca-a-c
g            *                                  a-                              a-  ca-Pan-F   a-  Ia-a-a-a-
o    an                                                                                                             a-
a    an                      a-a-n-a-a          a-a      a-           a-       a-  a-      a           a-on-c    a-O         C
--   a. n,*                                      F'      -                      -   -      -           -  -  -  -  na         a
OF     a                    a-n-Ca-a-a-         a-C  a-a-C        a-  a-        a-  a- F en- ca-a-a-Pa-           a-F-
a-n    a-a-       a-Pc    a-a--an-       cc   a-cpa-    Pa-  -0        pa-  a-pPa-a-a-Paa- a    pa                  a--a
n-a    a-n-cca-a-  CO-c    a-n-a-n-        a-n-Fa-n,Na-F  Fa-n-F en-a-n-a-a-ca-a- F  a-   a-a-Pa-             a-      00-
a    00      a-ca-cca-  a-                                                  p
C    en                                                                                                                    OP
a-    a                                                                                                                    F-an
a a                                                                                         F      a  a-              ab
00                     a-   a-ca-n-        a-a-    a-            a-       a-      a-a-a-a-a-a-ca-                     a--
a  a-  a-a    a-P  a-a-a-a-  a-a- a- a-  a-    -……a-
F-c              a- cc     a-a-a-n-     a-c  a-a-c-a    Pa-  e        Pa-  ca-en-c    a-a-a-a-a-a-ac
na-a-a-a-ca-a-   ca-a-a-n-a-P             a-PFa-a-na-F   Pc Fa-    a-n-a-  cea-ca-Fa-Fn-en-n-                        a-I
o    na.a-                                      a-                          -                                              a- Ia
a.   an                      a-      ca-a-      a-a-     a-           a-        a-     a-a-a-ca-a-ca-                        10
a                     n-p    acen-         a-P  a-  0            a-        a-a-a-n-ca-    e    ca-Pp        a-
a-a-      a-a-P       a-Pa-      a-n-  pa-a-a-a-a-   a-        ca-a-ca-a-a-a-a-ca-p                a-
F Ca-Fa-a-  a-a-a-    an-n-n-      a-Can-n-a-cl Faa-F ca-a-ca-a-a-C  n-F  a-  Faa-a-C
F    a-a-  a-   a-          C
a-   a-ca-a-      a-N      a-            N        a-  a-      a-a-n-a-n-n-
F' -   -  - -----a-
pa-    ca-a-c       a-a-  a-  n-           P        c  Pa-   n-    e    ecca-    a-
a- a-a-a-ca-a-n- a-ca-c a- a-a- a- a-p a-p c P a-a-ca- a-
n-F Fa-  n-cc    Pa-ca-        n-a-n-n-FCa- F Fa-a-FP    a-a-c  ca-F  Fc    a-   pa-n-c                     an
cc     a-a-ca-      a-C  a-  a-           a-       a-  a-a-P  c    a-   n-ca-n-    a
a-       a-a-n-    Pn-a-a-     a-pa-Pea-        a-a-  P        a-  ca-eeC       c    ca-a-a-    c
F Fa-F Fa-  n,Pp    cca-c          a-a-n-a-ca-a- F Fa-a-F
F  n-F   P  a-ca-    a-a-Cc        a-ca-cpa-F FFFFF a-a-a-a-a-n-a-a-  F  a-   a-ca-c
-       a-       a-a-a-    n-n-ca-     a-Cpa-a-               -        a-  a-a-ca-a-    Ca-ca-a-a-n
a- ca-n-n-a-        a-P  a-a-a-            C        a.  ca-a-a-n-a-        cccc       p
F  a-F Fe   ca-a-    a-a-n--a     a-PFFOa-FZ FFFFFF  P            ca-a-a-C n-F  a-   a-n-Pa-
a-a-    n-n-a-a     ea-  a-a-c             c        a-  ca-ca-a-    P    n-a-a-a-    p               a-
F F a-F F a-  a-a-a-    cn-'0n,    a-a- F Pea-F  FFFFF a-a-ca-a-a- n-a-F                F Ca-PC



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 12
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN YUGOSLAVIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS (as of February 28, 1981)
US$ million
Amount (less
cancellations)
Number  Year             Borrower(s)            Purpose           Bank  Undisbursed
Twenty-five Loans fully disbursed                                  732.6
777    1971   SFRY                           Multipurpose Water   45.0       1.8
894    1973   Stopanska Bank Skopje          Agricultural
Industries           31.0      0.1
916    1973   Naftagas                       Gas Pipeline          59.4    19.9
1012    1974   Stopanska Banka Skopje         Industrial Credit    28.0       0.2
1013    1974   Privredna Banka Sarajevo    Industrial Credit    22.0          0.1
1026    1974   Community of Yugoslav
Railways                     Railways              93.0      2.2
1060    1974   Port of Bar                    Harbor Expansion      44.0      4.6
1066    1974   Vodovod Dubrovnik              Water Supply and
Wastewater            6.0      2.0
1129    1975   Vojvodjanska Banka             Agricultural
Credit               50.0      0.8
1173    1975   Jugoslavenski Naftovod         Pipeline              48.4      0.03
1262    1976   Republicki Fond Voda           Water Supply,
Sewerage & Water
Resources            20.0      5.8
1263    1976   Sarajevo Water Supply &        Water Supply &
Sewerage Enterprise           Sewerage             45.0    15.3
1264    1976   Sarajevo Gas Enterprise        Air Pollution
& Naftagas Gas Unit           Control              38.0      7.7
1277    1976   Privredna Banka Sarajevo,
Stopanska Banka Skopje,
Investiciona Banka
Titograd, Kosovska Banka   Second Industrial
Pristina                      Credit               50.0      5.2
1360    1977   Management Organization        Multipurpose
"Metohija"                   Water                 54.0    46.5
1370    1977   Investiciona Banka             Agriculture
Titograd                      Industries           26.0      8.7
1371    1977   Stopanska Banka Skopje         Agriculture
Industries           24.0    14.7
1377    1977   Road Organizations in
Bosnia-Herzegovina,
Serbia, Macedonia, and
Kosovo                       Roads                 56.0      0.5
1469    1977   JUGEL and six Electric
Power Organizations in       Second Power
each Republic                 Transmission         80.0    34.4



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 12
US$ million
Amount (less
cancellations)
Number  Year             Borrower(s)            Purpose             Bank  Undisbursed
1477    1977   Vojvodjanska Banka             Second Agricul-
tural Credit         75.0       60.1
1534    1978   Community of Yugoslav
Railways                     Railways             100.0       14.7
1535    1978   Road Organizations of
Slovenia, Croatia and
Serbia                       Roads                 80.0       16.7
1561    1978   Elektroprivreda
Bosne i Hercegovine          Hydro Power           73.0       41.8
1611    1978   Kosovska Banka Pristina        Third Industrial
Credit               40.0       16.9
1612    1978   Privredna Banka Sarajevo    Fourth Industrial
Credit               20.0        6.4
1613    1978   Stopanska Banka Skopje         Fourth Industrial
Credit               20.0       15.2
1614    1978   Investiciona Banka             Fourth Industrial
Titograd                      Credit               20.0        5.3
1616    1978   Stopanska Banka Skopje         Macedonia Strezevo
Irrigation           82.0       61.0
1621    1978   Privredna Banka                Bosanska Krajina
Sarajevo                      Agriculture and
Agro-Industries      55.0       52.7
1678    1979   Roads Organizations of
Kosovo, Montenegro,
Vojvodina and Herci-
govina and Macedonia         Roads                148.0       83.4
1756    1979   Zagrebacka Banka               Croatia Sava
Drainage             51.0       51.0
1759    1979   Road Organization of           Earthquake Rehab-
Montenegro                    ilitation-
Highways             21.0       13.5
1768    1979   Port of Bar                    Earthquake Rehab-
ilitation-Port
of Bar               50.0       49.1
1769    1979   Railway Organization           Earthquake Rehab-
of Montenegro                 ilitation-
Railways             14.0       13.0
1801    1980   Vojvodjanska Banka             Third Agricultural
Credit               86.0       86.0
1819    1980   Road Organizations of
Slovenia, Croatia,
Serbia and Vojvodina        Roads                125.0      125.0



M3
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 12
US$ million
Amount (less
cancellations)
Number  Year             Borrower(s)            Purpose            Bank  Undisbursed
1909a/  1980   Kosovska Banka Pristina       Fifth Industrial
Credit              50.0      50.0
1910a/  1980   Privredna Banka Sarajevo    Fifth Industrial
Credit              30.0      30.0
1911a/  1980   Investiciona Banka            Fifth Industrial
Titograd                     Credit               20.0      20.0
1912a/  1980   Stopanska Banka               Fifth Industrial
Skopje                       Credit               10.0      10.0
Total (less cancellation)                               2,722.5      992.3
of which has been repaid                                 344.8
Total now outstanding                                   2,377.7
Amount sold                             9.2
of which: Amount repaid                8.3                 0.9
Total now held by Bank                                  2,376.8
Total undisbursed                                                    992.3
a/ Not yet effective.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 12
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as at February 28, 1981)
Fiscal                                         Type of           Amount in US$ million
Year             Obligor                      Business           Loan   Equity   Total
1970   International Investment              Investment
Corporation for Yugoslavia           Corporation        -       2.0      2.0
1970/  Zavodi Crvena Zastava Fiat S.p.A.  Automotive
1972/                                         Industry          12.4     0.6    13.0
1980
1971/  Tovarna Automobilov in Motoriev    Automotive
1980     Maribor (TAM)/Klockner-Humboldt   Industry              9.2     0.9    10.1
Deutz A.G. (KHD)
1972/  FAP-FAMOS Belgrade/Daimler-           Automotive
1980     Benz A.G.                            Industry          16.3     0.8    17.1
1972/  Sava Semperit                         Tires              12.5      2.5    15.0
1978/
1980
1973   Belisce-Bel Tvornica Papira           Pulp and Paper   71.9       -       71.9
1974   Zelezarna Jesenice/ARMCO              Special Steel    10.0       -       10.0
1974   Salonit Anhovo                        Cement Plant       10.0     -       10.0
1975   RMK Zenica                            Steel              50.0     -       50.0
1977   Frikom RO Industrija Smrznute         Food and Food
Hrane/Unilever                       Processing        4.0      2.4      6.4
1977   Tvornica Kartona i Ambalaze Cazin  Pulp and Paper
Products         15.6      2.6    18.2
1978   Soko-Mostar                           Hermetic
Compressors       7.0      -       7.0
1980   Investiciona Banka Titograd-
Udruzena Banka                     Tourism            21.0      -      21.0
1980   Radoje Dakic                          Machinery          18.7     -       18.7
1980   Eight Republican/Provincial           Small-Scale
Banks                               Enterprises       31.1      -      31.1
Total Gross Commitments                                289.7    11.8   301.5
less cancellations, terminations,
exchange adjustment, repayment
and sales                                             147.2      5.2   152.4
Total commitments held by IFC                          142.5      6.6   149.1
Total Undisbursed                                      106.2      0.8   107.0



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 12
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION I/
Loan 777 Ibar Multipurpose Water: US$45.0 million Loan of June 30, 1971;
Effective Date: May 31, 1972; Closing Date; December 31, 1981.
The main dam is completed and the reservoir is filled. About
one-third of the irrigation network has been completed with the remainder
expected to be completed by end-1981. Project costs have been substantially
above appraisal estimates, but the overrun financing is being provided by
the Province of Kosovo and from Federal sources. After a delay of about
five years, a law has been enacted by the Kosovo Government which is
assisting in the provision of agricultural extension services to the
individual sector. In the absence of land consolidation, on farm
development and use of sprinkler irrigation have been slow. Recently,
organizational arrangements and revised schedule of implementation were
agreed upon, with irrigation of about 400 ha in 1981.
Loan 894 Agricultural Industries (Macedonia): US$31.0 million Loan of May 25
1973: Effective Date: November 28, 1973: Closing Date; June 30,
1981.
All loan funds provided under the project have been committed by
subloan agreements through Stopanska Banka. All but one of the subprojects
financed under the loan have been completed. Progress on this remaining
subproject has been delayed since work ceased after disputes arose between
the contractor and the sub-borrower. These are in the process of being
resolved and work should be resumed shortly. The Closing Date of the loan,
originally December 31, 1978, has been postponed thrice to June 30, 1981, to
permit completion of construction of the last subproject.
Loan 916 Naftagas Pipeline: US$59.4 million Loan of June 25, 1973;
Effective Date: March 22, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
The costs of equipment and civil works had increased by end 1975
by about 71% over the appraisal estimate. As a result of this and of a
reallocation of priorities in the use of natural gas, the project was
redefined (Amendments to Loan 916-YU, May 13, 1976, R76-116). Phase I is a
reduced version of the original plan. Phase II provides for a pipeline
extension to link up with the pipeline constructed under the Sarajevo Air
Pollution Control Project, for which additional Bank financing was
obtained. Naftagas obtained additional local currency financing required
for Phases I and II. A delay of more than three years in project
implementaion has occurred as a result of the increased project costs and
revision of the project. While two of the three sections have been
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the
understanding that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 12
completed and gas deliveries have commenced, the third section has been
delayed due to the reorganization of the borrower and a consequent change in
project administration of the third section which is now scheduled for
completion by late 1982. This change in project administration for the
third section was approved by the Executive Directors in November 1980
(Second Amendment to Loan 916-YU, November 14, 1980, R80-324).
Loan 1012 Macedonia/Kosovo Industrial Credit: US$28.0 million Loan of June
21, 1974; Effective Date: December 19, 1974; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980.
The loan has been closed and the small residual balance is being
cancelled.
Loan 1013 Bosnia-Herzegovina/Montenegro Industrial Credit: US$22.0 million
Loan of June 21, 1974; Effective Date: December 19, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
The loan has been closed and the small residual balance is being
cancelled.
Loan 1026 Fourth Railway: US$93.0 million Loan of July 10, 1974: Effective
Date: February 12, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
The project consists of the 1974-76 slice of the Railways 1973-77
Investment Plan. Government efforts to combat inflation caused railway
tariffs to lag behind inflation and gave rise to financial and
administrative difficulties which, in turn caused substantial delays in
project implementation. Tariff increases and institutional developments,
including improved investment planning and management, the formation of COIs
and the signing of Social Agreements on railway and transport policies
substantially alleviated these problems. Serious flooding in Macedonia in
1980 has delayed completion of some works by RTE Skopje. Closing date has
been twice postponed, from June 30, 1979 to June 30, 1981, to allow full
utilization of project funds and completion of disbursements on contracts.
Loan 1060 Port of Bar: US$44.0 million Loan of December 11, 1974; Effective
Date: June 13, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
All major port civil works are completed except the grain silo
facility, edible oil reservoirs and the railway marshalling yard. Final
completion of these items had been expected by end 1979. However, the
earthquakes of April/May 1979 in Montenegro resulted in severe damage to
port installations, particularly in the older parts of the port, caused
further delays but works are now proceeding. Closing date has been extended
to December 31, 1981 to permit completion of works.



- 35 _                        ANNEX II
Page 7 of 12
Loan 1066 Dubrovnik Water Supply and Wastewater: US$6.0 million Loan of
December 24, 1974; Effective Date: June 26, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
Delays in preparation of final designs and tender documents have
put construction about two years behind schedule. Services to the Bank
financed Babin Kuk Hotel Complex (Loan 782-YU) were, however, completed in
time for its initial operation and remaining water supply component has now
been completed. Construction is progressing satisfactorily on the sewerage
component.
Loan 1129 Agricultural Credit: US$50.0 million Loan of June 20, 1975;
Effective Date: February 12, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1980.
The loan is essentially fully disbursed and the small residual
balance is being cancelled.
Loan 1173 Naftovod Oil Pipeline: US$49.0 million Loan of November 19, 1975;
Effective Date: July 28, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
The loan is essentially fully disbursed and the small residual
balance is being cancelled.
Loan 1262 Morava Regional Development Project - Water Supply, Sewerage and
Water Resources: US$20.0 million Loan of June 14, 1976; Effective
Date: November 3, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The regional development study undertaken under this project has
provided the basis for the preparation of the proposed Second Morava
Regional Development Project. The flood control and water quality studies
are progressing satisfactorily after initial delays in selecting
consultants. Construction of the Vrutci Dam is about 1-1/2 years behind
schedule due to foundation, design and construction problems which, however,
are being overcome by intensified efforts of the borrower in the supervision
of the contractor and consultation with the panel of experts. Construction
is completed on the principal parts of the Cacak and Titovo Uzice
components, the remainder are well advanced. Feasibility studies on sewage
treatment plants in Cacak and Titovo Uzice have been completed. The pilot
irrigation components which were delayed pending the establishment of
suitable monitoring arrangements, are underway. The creation of the
Republic Water Community of Interest was delayed due to the longer than
anticipated process of seeking agreement among all the Yugoslav parties
concerned on the structure of the organization. Staffing has been
strengthened in the water authorities in Cacak and Titovo Uzice and in the
Republic Water Community of Interest.



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 12
Loan 1263 Sarajevo Water Supply and Sewerage: US$45.0 million Loan of June
8, 1976; Effective Date: November 9, 1976; Closing Date: June 30,
1981.
Construction of the water distribution system and sewage
collection is progressing satisfactorily and should be completed by early
1981. Construction of the sewerage treatment plan is underway and expected
to be completed by end 1981.
Loan 1264 Sarajevo Air Pollution Control: US$38.0 million Loan of June 8,
1976; Effective Date: May 31, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
The gas transmission line has been completed and initital
deliveries of gas began in December 1979, one year later than originally
planned. Difficulties in finalizing contracts for the supply of gas were
the major cause of delay. Construction of the gas distribution network and
high presssure loop-line around the city of Sarajevo is proceeding
satisfactorily.
Loan 1277 Second Industrial Credit: US$50.0 million Loan of June 14, 1976;
Effective Date: October 29, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
Progress has been satisfactory. The loan is fully committed.
Disbursements are, however, somewhat behind appraisal estimates. Closing
Date was extended by one year to December 31, 1981 to meet payments under
existing orders and letters of credit.
Loan 1360 Metohija Multipurpose Water: US$54.0 million Loan of February 3,
1977; Effective Date: July 27, 1977; Closing Date: December 31,
1982.
Construction of the dam, intake weir and feeder canal are
progressing satisfactorily and overall project progress is about one year
behind schedule. Awards of other procurement contracts are underway and it
is expected that by mid-1981 all major contracts would have been awarded. A
demonstration irrigation farm of 32 ha involving 28 farmers has been highly
successtul.
Loan 1370 Montenegro Agriculture and Agro-Industries: US$26.0 million Loan of
March 10, 1977; Effective Date: July 27, 1977; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983.
Progress of all major works is satisfactory. The winery and the
cold store are completed. Plantations of vineyards and orchards are on
schedule. Irrigation works are nearly completed.
Loan 1371 Macedonia Agriculture and Second Agro-Industries: US$24.0 million
Loan of March 10, 1977; Effective Date: July 27, 1977; Closing Date
June 30, 1982.
Sub-loans for all seven agro-industrial sub-projects have been



- 37 -                       ANNEX II
Page 9 of 12
approved by the Borrower and loan proceeds for the individual sector have
also been fully committed. Progress in project implementation is slower
than expected due primarily to slow processing of bids and contract
finalization.
Loan 1377 Eighth Highway: US$56.0 million Loan of April 13, 1977; Effective
Date; September 7, 1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1981.
The loan is essentially fully disbursed and the small residual
balance will be cancelled.
Loan 1469 Second Power Transmission: US$80.0 million Loan of July 11, 1977;
Effective Date: January 31, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
Contracts totalling about 90% of the loan amount have been let and
physical execution is underway on the most critical sub-stations and lines.
The tariff study and most of the least cost development study have been
submitted to the Bank. Delays continue to be experienced regarding
management studies, revised interrepublc agreement on joint operations,
remaining portion of least cost development study and securing of foreign
financing for balance of items to be imported.
Loan 1477 Second Agricultural Credit: US$75.0 million Loan of July 29, 1977;
Effective Date: January 30, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
All participating banks have identified the main investors. About
85 percent of loan proceeds were committed as of end-1980 and in the social
sector, all agroindustry investments are in the procurement or
implementation phase; however, the project is about one year behind
appraisal estimates. Measures to speed-up disbursements and overall project
implementation are being discussed with the participating banks. The
project monitoring and evaluation system is working satisfactorily.
Loan 1534 Fifth Railway: US$100 million Loan of April 13, 1978; Effective
Date: September 28, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Bank financed investments are progressing well. The level of
compensation payments is however increasing and substantial tariff increases
have failed to keep pace with inflation. Disbursements are on schedule.
Loan 1535 Ninth Highway: US$80 million Loan of April 13, 1978; Effective
Date: August 10, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
Croatia section opened to traffic ahead of schedule. Slovenia and
berbia sections expected to be completed by fall 1981. Disbursement rate is
satisfactory.



- 38 -
ANNEX II
Page 10 of 12
Loan 1561 Middle Neretva Hydro Power: US$73 million Loan of May 31, 1978;
Effective Date: November 15, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Contracts for equipment totalling about 75 percent of the loan
amount have been let. Physical progress is satisfactory and relatively
problem free. However, Part B of the project (Mostar power plant), which is
not Bank financed, has been delayed primarily due to additional studies
needed concerning site geology.
Loan 1611 Third Industrial Credit: $40.0 million Loan of July 26, 1978;
Effective Date: November 16, 1978; Closing Date: December 31,
1982.
Commitments to date are about $35.0 million of which about $10.0
million is for special projects. The remainder will be committed for a
further single special project (lead smelter), which is now in final stages
of preparation. Disbursements are now in line with appraisal estimates.
Loans 1612, 1613 and 1614 Fourth Industrial Credit: $20.0 million each
Loans of July 26, 1978; Effective Date: November 16, 1978;
Closing Dates: December 31, 1982.
Loans 1612 and 1614 are almost fully committed. Slower commitment
of Loan 1613 was due to the Borrower underestimating time for completion of
project preparation. Commitment process has now been accelerated.
Disbursements for Loans 1612 and 1614 are well ahead of the disbursements
expected at appraisal, while Loan 1613 is substantially behind.
Loan 1616 Macedonia Strezevo Irrigation: US$82 million Loan of August 23,
1978; Effective Date: February 14, 1979; Closing Date:
September 30, 1982.
Construction of the dam, alimentation canal, main canal and
irrigation network are underway. Thermal pipeline, diversion tunnel and
coffer dam construction have been completed.
Loan 1621 Bosanska-Krajina Agriculture and Agro-Industries: US$55 million
Loan of November 6, 1978; Effective Date: March 28, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
Subproject approval and processing of tender documents have been
proceeding more slowly than expected at appraisal. About 40 percent of loan
has been committed. Substantial cost overruns may necessitate a reduction
in scope of the project.
Loan 1678 Tenth Highway: US$148 million Loan of April 9, 1979; Effective
Date: August 14, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
The five participating Republics/Provinces have awarded 63
construction contracts, 40 of which have Bank financing. Disbursements are
somewhat ahead of schedule.



- 39 -
ANNEX II
Page 11 of 12
Loan 1756 Croatia Sava Drainage: US$51 million Loan of October 11, 1979;
Effective Date: April 17, 1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
Contract documents for procurement of drainage works has been
prepared. Consultants have been appointed to study and monitor subsurface
drainage. Progress, although somewhat behind schedule, is satisfactory, but
disbursements are lagging behind appraisal estimates but are expected to
improve following recent strengthening of staff engaged in processing
withdrawal applications.
Loan 1759 Montenegro Earthquake Rehabilitation - Highways: US$21 million
Loan of September 21, 1979; Effective Date: December 19, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
Project on schedule, emergency works completed and contracting for
restoration works completed with some works in progress.
Loan 1768 Montenegro Earthquake Rehabilitation - Port of Bar: US$50 million
Loan of November 30, 1979; Effective Date: April 29, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
Project implementation about nine months behind schedule due to
delays in preparation of final designs and bidding documents.
Loan 1769 Montenegro Earthquake Rehabilitation - Railways: US$14 million loan
of November 30, 1979; Effective Date: April 29, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983.
Disbursements of about $1 million for urgent reconstruction works
have been made. Contracting procedures for remaining works have been slow
and disbursements are behind schedule.
Loan 1801 Third Agricultural Credit: US$86 million Loan of February 29, 1980
Effective Date: August 25, 1980; Closing Date; March 31, 1985.
About 25 percent of the loan has been committed.
Loan 1819 Eleventh Highway: US$125 million Loan of April 23, 1980; Effective
Date: August 7, 1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
Slovenia and Serbia have completed pre-qualification of
contractors, called for bids and completed analysis. Croatia and Vojvodina
contracts have been approved by Bank. Consultant for toll study has been
selected. CRO and ITE co-sponsoring Highway Safety Conference in Yugoslavia
October, 1981. Co-financing was obtained for an amount of US$110 million in
October, 1980 (see Semi-Monthly Report to the Executive Directors, R80-299).



- 40 -
ANNEX II
Page 12 of 12
Loans 1909, 1910, 1911 and 1912 Fifth Industrial Credit: $50.0, $30.0, $20.0
and $10.0 million, respectively, Loans of February 9, 1981;
Effective Date: Not yet effective; Closing Dates: October 31, 1984
Terminal date for declaring the loans effective is May 15, 1981.



- 41 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
YUGOSLAVIA: KOSOVO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the Country to prepare          36 months from September, 1977-
the Project:                                 September, 1980
(b) Agencies which prepared Project:              Udruzena Kosovska Banka Pristina
Agrokosova
Food Industries Research and
Engineering (Holland)
(c) Project first presented to Bank:              September, 1977
(d) First Bank mission to review Project:         May, 1978
(e) Departure of appraisal mission:               September, 1980
(f) Completion of negotiations:                   Marcb, 1981
(g) Planned date of effectiveness:                September, 1981
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
A. Effectiveness
(a)      The execution of a Self-Management Agreement among Udruzena Kosovska
Banka Pristina (KBP), Agrokosova, and participating investor
organizations and cooperatives and supporting institutions,
confirming their respective rights, obligations and responsibilities
under the project (para 43).
B. Disbursement
(a)      Execution of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between KBP and the
Self-Managed Community of Interest for Water Economy, Pristina (SIZ)
covering terms and conditions of onlending and furnishing of a legal
opinion that such agreement is legally binding (para 43).



- 42 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
C. Other
(a)   SIZ, through consultants satisfactory to the Bank, to carry out a
series of studies acceptable to the Bank for groundwater irrigation
development in selected locations in Kosovo (para 43).
(b)   KBP to employ by November 30, 1981 a qualified agroindustries
specialist acceptable to the Bank and appoint an adequate number of
qualified support staff (para 46).
(c)   KBP to employ consultants to assist and train its staff in their
procurement responsibilities (para 46).



IBRD 15465
2t~~~~~~~~OO ~~~~~~21P30'                                 JANUARY 1981
at the -ed-r of roe. .epa. t.   W i,t, attahe  The dsnontintol ...e. an.Id tot
Si OVENIA   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~    -h,sdtssso0 nOs nponntimply. onh of !ho Wold B-nk -nd rltNI
OPP.list- any lssdg-no  -n the legal -tau  fP anY tem-y o -ayedo-e-on O
T                             -~~~~~~~~~~~~~acPtan- nIf0-0 b-udarne
BOSNI A            t  ego
S \ HECO V1A                                                                                                                 A
To Titoqrmd *.f'           Baniska
.s                                           tAt       Poduje a
._ S    E    R    B  NI   A                                            zVec            rci
MOl7lanNEGRO           0        y X  <~>A. } ucitrn         Batlova
I\ONTENEGRO
(    .         ~~~~Isotok                   G.ln
Prilreo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S -                                                    eu one lSd.   
DurakoNaUc PmiLT                                                evo
omorcae                   pt                qe                                Kmnc
B    PASTA, BAKERY, DR 31SCUIT PLANT   >    L   j                                                    2¢\~~~~~~~ogo  ulj,
*a DKormiliane
4R-00'        WASLUG TER  IRDUASE O  'TRN                      '                                                                 \o,K    JEDO42-DDA
jETURKEY FARM                                                                               YUGOSLAVIA
,  VEGETABLEPRocESSING PLANT                                )  KOSOVO AGROINDUSTRIES AND AGRICULTURAL
ROTATE PRROCESSING PLANT (ILoertioe neto be                                      DE      LO M N           PR JC
7    JUICE PLANTtiesd                 \                                        DE EL PM N               PROEC
Fg SUGAR PACKINE PLANT                   {  ~
Q    MAIZE PROCESSING PLANT                iPrimary roadG
COLD STORE                                                                   Secondary roads
t}   PEGS MILL                             )                        -I---s---s  Railways
PRIMARY~ oRSCIB                                                    Main railway stabions
:::: -VINEYARD5SDOCIAL ANE INDIVIDUAL SECTSOR                           ®   Commune Hecaduarters
ORCRAR05- SOCIAL ARE INRlIPIIOAL SECTORS                                   Commune Boundaries
: ' 3ESRIRY RLANTATINSRS-SCIAL SECTOR       I                     ...-..   ... Autonomous provinCe boundary
-                                              ..  .. ............. _ Republic boundaries
SE- GAT FARM-SECIAL SECTUR                  I                     =_   -  International boundary                                                                 .jl
MINI DAIRY FARMS (3DD In naateN.t it all
pelts 01 Kosnos)         \                                                                       ?          20          3.40
'\                                                       ~~~~~~~~~KILOMETERS                    .
20- 30'       i                                 21-00                                           21' 30'
.  ~~~~~~~~~BstroI



