Document of
The World Bank                          R1  CBP!
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 3286-YU
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
KOSOVO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
April 16, 1981
Agriculture III
Projects Department
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS*
US$1                                                     Dinars (Din) 27.0
Din 1                                                    US$0.037
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 kilogram (kg)                                          2.20 pounds
1 metric ton (m ton)                                     1,000 kilograms
1 centimeter (cm)                                        0.39 inch
1 meter (m)                                              1.09 yards
1 kilometer (km)                                         0.62 mile
1 hectare (ha)                                           2.47 acres
I square meter (m2)                                      10.76 square feet
1 square kilometer (km2)                                 0.384 square mile
1 liter (1)                                              0.264 gallon
1 hectoliter (hl)                                        100 liters
1 cubic meter (m3)                                       1.31 cubic yards
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
BOAL     -    Basic Organization of Associated Labor
BOC      -    Basic Cooperative Organization
COAL     -    Compound Organization of Associated Labor
ERR      -    Economic Rate of Return
FLDR     -    Federal Fund for Accelerating the Development of Lesser
Developed Regions
FRR      -    Financial Rate of Return
GDP      -    Gross Domestic Product
ICB      -    International Competitive Bidding
KBP      -    Kosovska Banka Pristina
M        -    Million
NPV      -    Net Present Value
OER      -    Official Exchange Rate
PSAFWM   -    Provincial Secretariate for Agriculture, Forestry, and Water
Management
SAP      -    Socialist Autonomous Province
SCP      -    Standard Conversion Factor
SDK      -    Social Accounting Service
SIZ      -    Self-managed Community of Interest for Water Economy, Pristina
SMA      -    Self-Management Agreement
SOE      -    State of Expenditure
VOM      -    Water Economy Organization of Metohija
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
*   Currency equivalents effective in March 1981.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
APPRAISAL OF
KOSOVO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.    THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR                                                          1
A.    Background  .........................................
B.    Agriculture and Agro-Industries in Yugoslavia   ......
C.    Bank Strategy in Yugoslavia's Agricultural  Sector                        4
D.    Agricultural Development  Issues and Project
Formulation  ......................................                    6
II.    THE PROJECT AREA                                                                 6
A.    Physical Description ...............................                      6
B.    Agricultural Production and Potential  ....                ..........     8
C.    Agro-Industrial Capacity and Production  ....               ........     10
D.    Agricultural  Support  bervices  ......................                  11
III.    THE PROJECT                                                                     12
A.    Objectives and Concept  .............................                    12
B.    Project Description  ................................                    12
C.    Status of Design and Implementation schedule  .......                    16
D.    Cost Estimates  .....................................                    17
E.    Financing  ..........................................                    19
F.    Disbursements  ......................................                    19
G.    Procurement  ........................................                    20
H.    Environment Effect  .................................                    21
I.    Role of Women  ......................................                    21
IV.    PROJECT ORGANIZATION AND IMPLEMENTATION                                         22
A.    Institutional Arrangements  .........................                    22
B.    The Borrower:   Kosovska Banka Pristina  (KBP)  .......                  23
C.    The Sub-borrowers  ..................................                    24
D.    On-Lending Procedures  ..............................                    25
E.    On-Lending Terms and Conditions  ....................                    26
F.    Accounts and Audit  .................................                    27
G.    Reporting, Monitoring and Evaluation  ....                ...........    27
V.    PRODUCTION,  PRICES, MARKETS,  AND FINANCIAL ANALYSIs                           28
A.    Production  .........................................                    28
B.    Marketing and Market Prospects  .....................                    29
C.    Prices  .............................................                    30
D.    Financial Analysis  .................................                    30
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (Continued)                                         Page No.
VI.   PROJECT JUsTIFICATION                                            31
A.   Benefits   ..........................................      31
B.   Economic Evaluation ...............................        32
C.   Risk and Uncertainty ..............................        33
VII.   SUMMARY OF RECOMMENDATIONS AND LOAN CONDITIONS                  34
ANNEXES
ANNEX l:  Supporting Tables:
T-1 Climatological Data
T-2  Technical Assumptions for the Primary Production Subproject
Evaluations
T-3  Quantities and Values of Projected Incremental Output from
Primary Production bubprojects
T-4  Quantities and Values of Projected Incremental Output from
Agro-industry Subprojects
T-5  Prices for the Financial Analyses
T-6  Financial Rates of Return and Sensitivity Tests
T-7  Projected World Market Prices for the Main Traded Commodities
T-8  Projected Border Price structure for the Economic Analyses
T-9  Economic Rates of Return and bensitivity Tests
ANNEX 2:  Description of Agro-industry Subprojects
ANNEX 3:  Detailed Project Cost Estimates
ANNEX 4:  Guidelines for Appraisal of Subprojects by KBP
ANNEX 5:  Selected Documents and Working Papers Available in the Project
File
CHARTS
Chart No. 1; Implementation Schedule
MAPS
Map No. IBRD 15465: Location of Proposed Investments



APPRAISAL OF
KOSOVO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
I. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
A. Background
1.01     Although Yugoslavia has achieved a relatively diversified and open
economy with an average per capita income of about t2,430 per year (1979),
its future economic prospects will be strongly influenced by severe pres-
sures on the balance of payments, persistent unemployment in less developed
regions, and growing disparity between incomes in industrial and agricul-
tural sectors. Rapid growth in GDP since 1973, at an average rate of over
6% per year in real terms, has been accompanied by slow growth in net
foreign exchange earnings due largely to oil price increases. In addition,
domestic labor market conditions have been exacerbated by the return of
large numbers of overseas workers resulting from an unfavorable economic
environment in Western Europe. Recently, the economy has shown signs of
excess demand and sharply accelerating inflation. The agriculture sector
has not seen the high rate of investment or the rapid growth in other
sectors, with the result that incomes in rural areas and agricultural
households in the individual sector remain low, many in lesser developed
areas near the relative poverty level (below US$430), and increasingly far
behind incomes in urban households engaged primarily in the modern social
sector.
1.02     The socialist Autonomous Province (SAP) of Kosovo, whose economy
is based heavily on agriculture, has not developed as rapidly as other
parts of Yugoslavia. Kosovo has the highest proportion of rural population
(67%) and the lowest annual per capita income ($750 in 1979), only one-
third of the national average. With 7% of the nation's population, the
province contributes only about 2% of national income. Per capita income
is growing at the rate of only about 3% per year, far less than the
national average, growing at 5% per year.
B. Agriculture and Agro-Industries in Yugoslavia
Agriculture
1.03     Yugoslavia's agricultural sector provides livelihood for about 30%
of the population. Rapid industrialization led to a decline in agricul-
ture's share in economic activity prior to 1975, but since then agriculture
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
SAP Kosovo in September/October 1980 composed of Messrs. E. Schertz, E.
Hunting, J. Krasowski, and H. Feuerstein (Bank) and Messrs. C. Lynn and M.
O'Connor (Consultants), and was prepared by Mr. E. Hunting. Mr. F. Wright
contributed to the report.



- 2 -
has maintained its share at 14 to 15% of GDP.  The sector contributes raw
materials for about 12% of Yugoslavia's exports, although Yugoslavia over-
all is marginally a net importer of agricultural raw materials and pro-
cessed products. Over the past decade the rate of growth in this sector
has averaged only about 3% per year, well below the growth rates in other
major sectors.
1.04     Agriculture is the only sector of the economy which is predom-
inantly privately owned (individual sector), with about 84% of the
country's arable land belonging to nearly 2.9 M individual farmers (average
size of holdings, 3.2 ha). The individual sector produces about 72% of the
nation's agricultural output and employs about 95% of the rural labor
force. In contrast, social sector farms (Agro-kombinats) 1/ hold about 16%
of the arable land and currently produce about 28% of the nation's agricul-
tural output. However, currently the social sector accounts for the bulk
of fixed asset investments in agriculture.
1.05     In Kosovo, agriculture has a relatively large role, accounting for
over 20% of the GDP and representing the major means of livelihood for
about half of Kosovo's population. Yet the rate of agricultural growth,
between 2% and 3% per year, has been below that for the country as a
whole. Farm productivity is below average. With about 4% of Yugoslavia's
cultivable land Kosovo's share of agricultural product is only 3%. The
individual sector controls a high proportion (88%) of the farm land, yet
produces only 83% of provincial agricultural product. This is due in part
to the fact that only a small and declining percentage of individual farms
produce or market in cooperation with social sector agro-kombinats.
1.06     Despite low productivity per ha, the province is an important
producer of cereals, fruits, vegetables, and livestock. Recent cultivation
pattern and production levels are the following (1978/1979 average):
1/ Agrokombinats operate as integrated enterprises engaged in primary
prodiuction, agro-processing, and distribution and marketing of food
products. An agrokombinat typically consists of a large number of
basic working units, called Basic Organization of Associated Labor
(BOAL), which have production specialities such as vineyards, milk
processing, catering, etc. Two or more BOALs in similar linked
activity join to make a Work Organization. Two or more Work Organiza-
tions join to make a Complex Organization of Associated Labor (COAL),
which is called an Agrokombinat.



-3-
Kosovo in Relation
Kosovo                  to Yugoslavia
Area         Production         Production
(%)  (000 Ha)   (000 Tons)               (%)
Wheat                       17      93           237                  5
Maize                       18      99           166                  2
Other Cereals                6      37            56                  6
All Cereals              41    229           460                  3
Fodder                       4      20            86                 2
Vegetables                   2      14           122                 3
Industrial Crops             2      12            63                 1
Subtotal                 49    275            731
Meadows & Pastures          48    266
Vineyards & Orchards         3      19            64                 3
Total                 100    560            795
1.07     Yield improvements over the past decade occurred mainly in certain
industrial crops. Cereal and other major crop yields increased at less
than 3% per year. Due in part to low rainfall and part to low use of
inputs, current yields in Kosovo for most crops are well below yields else-
where in Yugoslavia: cereals 40% to 85% (1.5 to 2.5 tons/ha), fodder crops
70%, and industrial crops 60% to 75%. In the past two years, overall fruit
orchard yields averaged 2.2 tons/ha, about 80% of the Yugoslav average.
Only grape yields (which averaged 4.7 tons/ha in 1978/79) of vineyards
owned or farmed largely in association with social sector agroindustries,
and vegetable yields (about 9 tons/ha) were close to countrywide averages.
1.08     Livestock and dairy production, largely in the hands of individual
sector farmers, contribute more than one-third of Kosovo's agricultural
product. Sheep and cattle production is based largely on the grazing of
the large, good quality mountain pastures owned and managed by the State.
With about 3% of the country's pastures, Kosovo has about 8% of its live-
stock. Over the past decade, beef and poultry meat production has
increased rapidly and sheep and pork production somewhat more slowly.
However, cattle population over the same period has increased slowly and
the numbers of sheep stock have declined, reflecting high stock levels in
the 1960s and recent low controlled meat prices.
Irrigation and Drainage
1.09     Only about 1.8% of Yugoslavia's cultivated land is irrigated.  In
most regions rainfall is adequate, but in Kosovo and southwestern parts of
Yugoslavia summers are dry and periodic low winter rainfall sometimes
results in drought conditions. In most parts of the country, supplemental



-4-
irrigation for specific crops significantly enhances yields. Drainage is
required in nearly all regions generally in pockets where subsoil per-
meability prevents the realization of full crop production potentials.
Drainage requirements are greatest in the Sava River Basin, spanning parts
of Croatia and Bosnia. In Kosovo the irrigated area (largely gravity fed)
has declined from a peak of about 47,000 ha (8% of cultivable area), in
1965 to about 36,000 ha (6%) due to the old age of the systems and low
levels of maintenance and rehabilitation. Two major irrigation programs
now are underway; the Ibar-Lepenac Scheme, including the Bank financed
Ibar multipurpose project (Loan No. 777-YU) envisaged to irrigate about
20,000 ha, and a water resource development plan for the Metohija region,
including an initial Bank financed phase (Loan No. 1360-YU) envisaged to
irrigate 10,000 ha.
Agro-Industries
1.10     Agro-industries contribute about 4% of the GDP and employ about 4%
of the labor force in Yugoslavia and less than 3% of GDP and 3% of the
labor force in Kosovo. The output of agro-industries in Yugoslavia more
than doubled during the period 1967-77, as a result of rapid growth in
urban population and demand for processed food products. The strong con-
sumer demand is expected to continue for the following reasons: (a) popu-
lation is growing at an annual rate of 0.8% and spends about 35% of its
gross income on food, with an increasing preference for prepared and pro-
cessed food products; (b) the 'number of couples is increasing where both
husband and wife work; (c) tourist traffic is growing; and (d) demand from
institutions (factories, military and hospitals) and catering organizations
has reached about 20% of total food and beverage expenditures.
C. Bank Strategy in Yugoslavia's Agricultural Sector
1.11     Yugoslavia's main agricultural objective is to raise production to
fill domestic requirements, to develop necessary food reserves, and to
reduce net food imports. Until recently, Yugoslavia's principal strategy
has been to emphasize development of social sector agriculture as the prin-
cipal means to achieve large scale market production, processing and dis-
tribution. In supporting Yugoslavia's development objective, the Bank has
stressed increasing primary production from the less developed but major
share of farm land in the individual sector and developing the type of
social sector agro-industries which would provide additional outlets for
primary farm production.
1.12     The proposed project would be the eleventh Bank loan for
agriculture (including irrigation and drainage) and agro-industries in
Yugoslavia. The proposed project would be the 68th operation by the Bank
in Yugoslavia totallingabout US$2,933 M, of which eleven, totalling US$657
M, are for agriculture. In Kosovo, the Bank is financing the Ibar and
Metohija Multipurpose projects (Loan Nos. 777-YU and 1360-YU), providing



-5-
irrigation infrastructure for about 30,000 ha. In addition, three agricul-
tural credit projects (Loan Nos. 1129-YU, 1477-YU and 1801-YU) include
US$29.2 M for Kosovo, mainly for on-farm investment and milk collection and
processing. A regional development project for Kosovo is under preparation.
Performance Under Agricultural Credit and Irrigation Projects in Kosovo
1.13     Under the first and second Agricultural Credit Projects (Loan
No. 1129-YU, effective February 1976, and Loan No. 1477-YU, effective
January 1978) Kosovo received US$13.7 M. Under Loan No. 1129-YU disburse-
ments in Kosovo amounting to US$2.4 M are complete. Under Loan
No. 1477-YU, which is fully committed, disbursements in Kosovo amounting to
US$1.6 M (14%) are slow due to (a) a change in the banking law in 1978
requiring increased involvement of numerous small Basic Banks; (b)
increased participation required of investors and (c) poorly developed
channels for credit to those individual farmers not associated with social
sector cooperatives or agro-industries. Commitment levels of the Borrowing
Bank Kosovska Banka Pristina (KBP) have been satisfactory, and KBP'*s over-
all performance has been above average of the participating banks in
Yugoslav agricultural credit projects. KBP and participating banks are
discussing ways to improve implementation and increase individual farm
cooperation. Under Loan No. 1801-YU, which became effective in August
1980, Kosovo has received an additional US$15.5 M, out of which US$8.0 M
has been committed.
1.14     Progress of mini dairy farm implementation in the individual
sector under the three on-going Agricultural Credit Projects, on which the
dairy livestock component in the proposed project is patterned, slowed
sharply in 1980 due to delay in purchases of domestic and imported breeding
stock and shortage of construction materials (primarily cement). To date,
of the nearly 1300 farms approved for loans under the three credits, con-
struction has been completed on about one-quarter and cattle have been
acquired for about 15%. KBP is confident that, with respect to Kosovo
Province, sufficient funds will be available for the requisite breeding
stock to be procured domestically or from abroad at prevailing prices in
line with the implementation schedule and that for farm development in
Kosovo under the World Bank projects the supply of construction materials
and breeding stocks would be adequate (para. 3.08).
1.15     The Ibar-Lepenac Multipurpose Project (Loan No. 777-YU, US$45 M,
effective May 1972) is over 90% disbursed. Due to construction difficul-
ties, completion of the major works is about 4 years behind schedule. The
storage dam was completed in 1979 and the main distribution canal will be
tested and commissioned in 1981. Slow cooperation among farmers has
delayed on-farm development and, when irrigation supplies become available,
is expected to result in a slower rate of irrigation development than
originally anticipated. Under the Metohija multipurpose project (Loan No.
1360-YU, US$54 M, effective July 1977) disbursements amount to US$7.5 M.
Implementation is about one year behind schedule due to unexpected
engineering problems now being resolved.



-6-
D. Agricultural Development Issues and Project Formulation
1.16     Future rapid growth in the agricultural sector will be critical
for Yugoslavia in the following respects; (a) to meet an estimated 4% per
year increase in domestic food consumption; (b) to increase Yugoslavia's
exports and reduce imports; and (c) to improve employment and income in
Yugoslavia's rural areas. The requisite increases in production, distribu-
tion and exports will require not only additional investments in social
sector agro-industries but also increased emphasis on investments in
primary production and supporting infrastructure in the individual sector.
1.17     Yugoslavia's draft Agricultural Development Plan (1981-85) calls
for future agro-industrial development at a rate of 7% per year, and growth
in agricultural production at 4.5% per year, based on 6% per year growth in
the social sector and 4% per year in the individual sector. While focusing
on social sector development the plan also stresses the need for increased
cooperation with the large number of individual sector farmers involved in
primary production. The plan aims to involve greater numbers of individual
sector farmers in commercial cropping in association with the social sector
enterprises which operate processing and marketing facilities. These asso-
ciations take the form of cooperatives, comprising either individual sector
farmers or combinations of individual sector and social sector farmers. 1/
Project Formulation
1.18     A joint Bank/FAO Cooperative Program Mission in May 1978 identi-
fied the proposed project. Kosovska Banka Pristina (KBP) and Agrokosovo
(the regional association of agro-industries), prepared it with the assis-
tance of Food Industries Research and Engineering (Wageningen, Holland) and
Yugoslav consulting firms.
II. THE PROJECT AREA
A. Physical Description
Location
2.01     The proposed project would be located in parts of the Socialist
Autonomous Province (SAP) of Kosovo located in the southwestern part of
Yugoslavia and bordered by Serbia Proper 2/, the Republics of Macedonia,
1/ Referred to as Basic Cooperative Organization, Basic Organization of
contract farmers, or Zadruga.
2/ The Socialist Republic of Serbia consists of Serbia Proper and the
Autonomous Provinces of Kosovo in the south and Vojvodina in the north.



- 7 -
Montenegro and Albania (IBRD Map No. 15465). The various subprojects would
involve eleven of SAP Kosovo's twenty-two administrative communes (Dragas,
Djakovica, Gnjilane, Klina, Kosovska Kaminica, Kosovska Mitrovica,
Orahovac, Pec, Prizren, Suva Reka, and Urosevac).
Topography, Soils and Climate
2.02     In the river valleys of the Kosovo and Metohija Plains where the
project areas would be located, moderate and subtropical climates prevail,
varying with the proximity of the area to either the Mediterranean or to
the hills and mountains which influence the movement of air masses from the
sea (Annex 1, T-1). Temperatures which average about 10C range in the
northern Kosovo plains from below freezing in January to over 270C in
August. Minimum temperature reaches -250C. Annual rainfall averages about
580 mm. About 80% falls between October and May, while summers are predom-
inantly dry. In the Southwest Metohija plains close to the Mediterranean,
mean summer temperatures reach over 29°C; mean rainfall ranges from 700 to
1000 mm. Soils range from deep alluvial valley soils (sandy silts to heavy
clays) to upland types on surrounding hill slopes. These soils are gen-
erally moderately acid, low in organic matter, nitrogen and phosphorous,
and respond well to fertilizers and manure. A significant amount of farm-
land in Kosovo is subject to winter flooding and temporary water logging
where an impermeable or heavy clay subsoil exists. In serious cases,
drainage is needed for trees and vines to grow properly.
Population, Land Tenure and Incomes
2.03     About 0.7 million persons, or about 100,000 families, live in the
eleven project communes. In relation to other parts of Yugoslavia, a high
proportion (45%) of the families are involved primarily in agriculture and
agro-industries, about 42% in primary production and 3% in agro-industries.
Most of those involved in agriculture own and operate their own farms in
the individual sector.
2.04     Individual sector families control 88% of the farm land in about
70,000 small holdings. Many farmowners have turned over parts of their
holdings for operation by relatives or neighbors or have abandoned them.
Social sector agro-kombinats operate the remaining 12% of farm land in
large holdings averaging over 500 ha each.  Average farm size in the
individual sector is 3.7 ha fragmented in an average of 6 plots of about
0.6 ha each. Individual farms generally are diversified, growing more than
one crop and raising livestock both for commercial sale and home con-
sumption. Farm distribution is as follows:



-8-
Distribution of              Distribution of
Size                        Number of Holdings           Area of Holdings /1
Less than 2 ha                    40.5                           14.5
2-3 ha                     17.6                          14.9
3-5 ha                     20.7                          25.9
5-8 ha                     13.4                          23.9
8-10 ha                     3.5                           7.9
More than 10 ha                     4.3                          12.9
/1     Excluding pastures and meadowland.
2.05   Unemployment affects a high proportion (11%) of the active popula-
tion largely in urban areas due to the relatively small industrial base.
Slow growth in rural incomes accompanied by low levels of agricultural and
livestock production have accelerated migration to urban areas and
increased absentee farm ownership. Per capita incomes of farm households
in the individual sector average only about 65% of incomes of social sector
employees.
B. Agricultural Production and Potential
Land Use
2.06   The current pattern of agricultural land use and cultivation in the
eleven communes is as follows:
(000 ha)        (%)
Annual Field Crops                        155           47
Meadows and Pastures                      162           49
Vineyards                                   8            2
Orchards                                    6            2
Total                       331          100
Field Crops
2.07     Field crop area of 155,000 ha is comprised of about 75% cereals
(mainly maize and wheat), 10% fodder (mainly lucerne and clover), 7% vege-
tables, and 5% industrial crops (oilseeds, tobacco, and sugarbeet). Cereal
production is both for domestic consumption and winter livestock feed and



- 9 -
silage. While about equal areas of wheat and maize are cultivated, the
areas are largely unirrigated and due to low rainfall wheat yields, which
average about 2.5 Ton/ha, are substantially higher than maize yields which
average only 1.7 Tons/ha. High yielding hybrid maize and wheat varieties
have been bred in institutes at Belgrade and Novi Sad. This seed is avail-
able in Kosovo, but small quantities are used, in the case of maize because
of their low drought resistance in the summer growing period, and in the
case of wheat because of greater fertilizer requirements.
Horticultural Production
2.08     Grape and fruit production comprise a major part of commercially
traded agricultural produce from the project area, although vineyards and
orchards comprise only 4% of the cultivable land. Annual production of
grapes from the eleven project communes averaged about 40,000 tons over the
past 3 years, nearly the entire production from Kosovo and about 3% of
Yugoslavia's annual production. The area's fruit production averaged about
13,000 tons per year, about half of Kosovo's production and about 1% of
Yugoslavia's annual output.
2.09     Individual producers farm 46% of the area planted in grapes and
91% of the area planted in orchards. Kombinats and cooperatives, which
farm the balance (54% of the vineyards and 9% of the orchards), handle and
market most of the produce from the individual farms as well as from their
own.
2.10     Commercial grape production is largely concentrated in the
Metohija hills in the southwestern part of the province. Orchards and
small fruits are common in the Kosovo and Metohija plains areas, generally
on less fertile upland soils. In the individual sector orchard holdings
are small, widely scattered and generally only a part of diversified
operations. The climate in these areas is particularly suited for grapes
and tree fruits which can sustain winter temperatures and need a certain
degree of chilling.
Summers are sufficiently warm and long for maturing and moderate enough to
impart high fruit flavor and permit production of premium quality wine
grapes.
2.11     Average yields are slightly below those in other fruit producing
areas of the country but are well below those of modern plantings in
Western Europe and those obtained in new, more modern plantings in Kosovo,
indicating considerable potential for improvement. Yields are poorest in
the individual sector where there has been less investment in new
technologies and better varieties. Kombinat and cooperative farm managers
are generally technically trained and have access to modern technical
resources, industry research, extension, and adequate fertilizers and
pesticides.



10 -
Livestock Production
2.12     Half of the project area's cultivable land is devoted to meadows
and pastures and livestock production comprises a major farm activity for
commerce and home consumption. With 2.5% of Yugoslavia's pasture and
meadowland, the project area has about 4% of its cattle, 2% of its sheep,
1.5% of its poultry, and less than 0.5% of its pigs (reflecting the pre-
dominantly islamic population). The past decade has seen substantial
growth in numbers of poultry (about 7% per year) and pigs (about 3% per
year), but very low growth in numbers of cattle (1.4% per year) and a sharp
decline in numbers of sheep. The slow growth in cattle numbers and decline
in sheep are attributed in part to the low controlled meat prices which
have prevailed since 1967/68 and rural emigration.
2.13     The individual sector owns over 95% of the cattle and sheep.
Social sector operations are mainly dairy production. Kombinats, however,
handle a large part of the milk and meat processing and are the main source
for imported and improved breeding stock, veterinary services, artificial
breeding and feed compounding.
2.14     Dairy herds in the individual sector number usually 3 to 6 cows on
farms often having mechanization (tractors, milking machines, and small
feed mills). The social sector operates large herds (up to 1,000 cows) of
European breeds; with high quality housing and mechanized feeding and
milking. The Busa breed, with high tolerance for low levels of nutrition
and husbandry, has been the traditional source of draft power. Overall,
about 60% of the cattle are of the local Busa breed, about 10% are European
breeds (Friesian, Brown Swiss, and Simmental) and 30% are first or second
cross European/Busa.
2.15     Sheep flocks range in size up to 1000 head or more.  Winter hous-
ing, although cheaply constructed, generally is adequate. Until recently,
goats were not permitted in Kosovo to prevent undue damage to standing
crops. In the last few years, with this restriction relaxed, the number of
goats has begun to increase.
C. Agro-Industrial Capacity and Production
2.16     The food, beverage and tobacco industries are managed entirely by
the social sector within the sphere of nine existing agro-kombinats. The
storage and processing installations in Kosovo comprise cold stores (18,500
tons capacity), grain silos and elevators (208,000 tons capacity), flour
mills, bakeries, a snack foods plant, a vegetable canning and quick freez-
ing plant, fruit juice and carbonated beverage bottling installations,
slaughterhouses, meat products processing plants, a vegetable oil and
margarine plant, a dairy, a beet sugar factory, wineries, a maltery, a



- 11 -
brewery, a plant for the manufacture of industrial alcohol and a feed
mill. Annual manufacturing capacity is as follows;
Flour                                    109,000 tons
Bread                                     50,000 tons
Animal Feed                               30,000 tons
Snack Foods                                4,200 tons
Fruit & Vegetables (canned,
bottled or frozen)                      21,000 tons
Meat Products (cured & canned)             8,500 tons
Vegetable Oil & Margarine                  9,500 tons
Milk (pasteurized)                        90,000 hl
Other Dairy Products                         220 tons
Refined Sugar                             18,750 tons
Wine & Spirits                            33,000 tons
Industrial Alcohol                         5,000 tons
Fresh Fruit & Veg. (cold store)           10,000 tons
Frozen Meat                                2,000 tons
2.17     A number of these processing ventures are not yet working at full
capacity, the major constraint being insufficient supply of agricultural
raw materials and obsolete processing facilities. Wine is manufactured for
domestic consumption and export.
D. Agricultural Support Services
2.18     Agricultural extension services based within the various social
sector working organizations in the project area support associated farmers
in commercial farm activities. These services provide technical assis-
tance, input supply, mechanical services and marketing assistance to farmer
members of cooperatives and have been functioning for over 20 years. The
Kombinats and cooperatives have a total extension staff in Kosovo of 3,000
to 4,000 persons of which about 10 percent have professional qualifica-
tions, including about 65 agents specializing in vineyards, orchards and
livestock (1 agent per 150 cooperative members). Planning for com-
prehensive province-wide service began in 1978 but is not expected to
become activated for several years. For commercial vineyards and orchard
plantations, the specialized services provided by the Kombinats offer
adequate services for cooperative members. Livestock production and
marketing in the social sector are well supported by experienced staff
employed by the respective agro-industrial organizations. In addition, the
Livestock Institute at Pristina supports a small number of livestock
producers in the individual as well as the social sectors. The services
consist primarily of veterinary (largely regulatory) and artificial
breeding services.



- 12 -
III. THE PROJECT
A. Objectives and Concept
3.01     In line with the high priority accorded by Yugoslavia and the
Bank to agricultural development in the country's lesser developed regions,
the project's main objective is to increase productivity and incomes in
Kosovo's rural areas. The proposed project would support this objective by
(a) opening additional opportunities for cooperative membership among indi-
vidual sector farmers; (b) improving agricultural market opportunities; and
(c) increasing processed food and primary agricultural production. The
project also would advance planning for small-scale farm irrigation from
groundwater resources and would strengthen appraisal and supervision capac-
ity of Kosovska Banka Pristina (KBP), the borrower.
B. Project Description
3.02     The proposed project would consist of:
(a)  modernization, expansion, and construction of 12 food processing
facilities in the social sector;
(b)  plantation of new vineyards and orchards, including 1,994 ha in
agro-industrial holdings in the social sector and 650 ha in family
holdings in the individual sector;
(c)  construction and supply of livestock for a goat farm of 1200 head
capacity in the social sector;
(d)  livestock acquisition and shed construction for 300 small dairy
farmers in the individual sector;
(e)  provision for groundwater studies and related agro-economic
studies, pumping tests and test well installations for irrigation
development; and
(f) provision for technical assistance for the borrower.
Agro-Industries
3.03     Subloans would be funded for 12 agro-industrial investments in
construction or reconstruction of the following food processing facilities
(Annex 2):
(a) a pasta processing plant to produce wheat flour base pasta
products with and without eggs and fabricated maize base snack
products;



- 13 -
(b) a meat processing plant to produce beef, lamb, mutton, turkey,
bone and meat products, and processed turkey products;
(c) a turkey farm to raise day old turkeys into mature birds;
(d) a fruit and vegetable processing plant including provision for
cold storage facilities to produce frozen and thermally stabilized
fruit and vegetables;
(e) a bakery to produce swiss rolls, cakes and cookies;
(f) a potato processing plant to produce frozen french fries and
croquettes, dehydrated potato flakes, and potato chips;
(g) a fruit processing plant to produce single strength and con-
centrated fruit juices and nectars;
(h) a biscuit plant to produce crackers, hard biscuits, and salt snack
sticks;
(i) a dry maize milling plant to produce brewery grits, maize flour,
maize meal, maize grits, livestock feed and corn flakes;
(j) a cold storage plant for an existing slaughterhouse which has
recently been modernized;
(k) a feed mill to produce pig, poultry and cattle feed; and
(1) a sugar processing and packaging facility to produce sugar cubes
and powdered sugar and to pack refined sugar for consumers.
Items to be financed under this component would typically include: techni-
cal assistance for design, start-up and operation of the plants; training
of staff in operation and maintenance of plants and equipment, materials
handling equipment, transport, raw material collection equipment; supply of
food processing equipment, construction and reconstruction of buildings and
permanent working capital requirements. If during project implementation
any of the proposed investments are no longer financially viable, on the
basis of KBP appraisal, the respective earmarked funds could be used for
alternative agroindustry investments with the Bank's prior agreement.
Vineyard and Orchard Plantations
3.04     Ten agro-industrial organizations would invest in additional and
new vineyard and orchard plantations, and in association with two of the
agro-industries, about 800 farmers would take subloans for additional plan-
tations in the individual sector (Annex 1, T-2). The aggregate 2,644 ha
would include the following;



- 14 -
Ten Social              800
Sector           Individual
Holdings        Sector Holdings    Total
(ha)                (ha)            (ha)
Vineyards                           1,200                350            1,550
Orchards
Sourcherries                         50                  -               50
Pears                                74                  -               74
Apples                               30                  -               30
Hazelnuts                            40                300              340
Berry Plantations
Blackcurrant                        250                  -              250
Blackberry                          150                  -              150
Raspberry                           150                  -              150
Strawberry                           50                                 50
1,994                650           2,644
3.05     The fruit and grape products would be marketed primarily through
social sector fruit processing and wine channels. All fruit plantings are
of moderately high densities. Modern production management systems similar
to those in place on some existing social sector holdings would be adopted.
Goat Farm Development
3.06     One agro-industrial organization would establish a 1200 head
capacity goat farm on 262 ha near Gnjilane with the main objectives to:
(a)  increase the production of milk, cheese and meat in the project
area;
(b)  produce females and males for sale to farm households in the
individual sector;
(c)  furnish training, extension, demonstration and adaptive research
for individual sector goat farmers.
Farmers have not been permitted to husband goats over the past de.cades
because the goats foraged without restriction and progressively eroded the
hillsides. SAP Kosovo is now planning to reestablish goat farming in pens
or restricted areas under controlled grazing. At present in Yugoslavia and
Kosovo milk and meat are generally in short supply, and there is tradi-
tional demand for fresh goat milk, yoghurt, and goat cheese. Milking goats
are particularly suitable for small rural and urban households, because
they require little feed or housing space yet have the best feed conversion
rate of all milk producing domestic animals.



- 15 -
3.07     Female goats of Saneen breed would be purchased from within
Yugoslavia and the balance (about 10%) of females and some male breeding
stock would be imported from Switzerland. Feed would be produced from 12
ha maize yielding 30 ton silage annually, and from 250 ha of artificial
pasture yielding 3 tons of hay or 15 tons of green grass annually, and
concentrate would be purchased. The artificial pasture would be developed
from land currently being used for cereal production (mainly wheat). As
part of the program to encourage proper goat development in the individual
sector, the agro-industrial organization, working closely with the Live-
stock Institute in Pristina, would undertake an outreach program to assist
individual farmers in acquiring suitable breeding stock, feed and produc-
tion inputs and collecting and marketing their outputs, such as surplus
milk, kids and cull goats for slaughter, and to furnish them with
veterinary and extension services. Assurances have been obtained at nego-
tiations that KBP would cause the investor to undertake such a program with
the Livestock Institute and that only after the Bank has reviewed the
detailed appraisal report and given its approval to it would KBP proceed to
approve the subloan.
Dairy Livestock Development
3.08     Subloans to about 300 individual farmers would be funded for
purchase of dairy breeding stock and improvement or construction of farm
sheds. Typical investments would expand existing dairy farms from 3 to 10
cows or provide initial requirements for a dairy of about 6 cows.
Simmental-type heifers would be purchased locally or abroad. In most cases
existing Busa type cattle eventually would be culled out. New cow barns
would be constructed where existing structures are not suited for expansion
or conversion. Silage and manure pits would be constructed. Farmers would
be required to furnish most of the labor and part of construction
materials. At negotiations understandings were reached that KBP would
closely monitor the adequacy and timely availability of construction
materials and local funds for the procurement of breeding stock from
domestic and foreign sources for sale to farmers in the individual sector
and to organizations in the social sector in accordance with the proposed
subproject implementation schedules. Should problems under this project
arise, KBP would promptly inform the Bank of measures proposed for their
resolution.
Groundwater Irrigation Development Studies
3.09     Irrigation development in Kosovo, especially small-scale schemes
adaptable to diverse individual farm operations, could provide substantial
impetus to primary production in the individual sector. Investigations in
the province carried out during the past 5 years indicate substantial
groundwater resources, largely undeveloped. Self-managed organizations at
the communal level with responsibility for development of water resources
have identified and conducted initial tests, indicating possibilities for
development including low-cost, widely replicable type of development com-
prising a number of independent small systems of 80 ha to 300 ha each.



- 16 -
Under the proposed project, funds would be provided for the Provincial
level Self-managed Community of Interest for Water Economy, Pristina (SIZ),
to undertake the carrying out of a series of studies, acceptable to the
Bank, for groundwater irrigation development in selected locations in
Kosovo. Such studies would include:
(a) technical investigations of existing groundwater resources;
(b) identification of well irrigation systems suitable for rapid
construction and operation under existing farm conditions;
(c) assessment of agricultural, economic and financial impact to be
derived from selected irrigation systems;
(d) preliminary recommendations for allocation of groundwater
resources among agricultural, industrial and domestic purposes and
for scheduling prospective investments so as to achieve the
fastest rate of agricultural development;
(e) planning and preliminary designs for selected well irrigation
systems; and
(f) pilot installation of well irrigation systems and monitoring of
the costs and impact thereof on agricultural production.
The studies would be completed by December 31, 1983 or other date accept-
able to the Bank (para. 4.06). At negotiations understandings were reached
that SIZ in cooperation with KBP would carry out the studies on terms and
conditions and with the assistance of consultants whose qualifications and
terms of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank (para. 4.06). Also
assurances have been obtained that project features as described in paras.
3.01 to 3.09 would be carried out.
Technical Assistance
3.10     Under the proposed project, about US$0.5 M equivalent would be
provided for KBP to engage the services of consultants to assist them in
timely preparation and processing of procurement documents and to train KBP
staff in these responsibilities (para. 4.04).
C. Status of Design and Implementation Schedule
3.11     Subprojects are scheduled to begin implementation within the first
three years of the project. Of the 12 agro-industry facilities to be
financed under the project, tender documents for 10 facilities have been
prepared and submitted to the Bank for approval during negotiations. They
are expected to be issued during April 1981. Bid evaluation and selection
of lowest evaluated bid and contracts would be signed in November 1981



- 17 -
about the time of loan effectiveness. For the remaining two agro-
industries (a potato processing plant and feed mill), contracts are
expected to be signed in June 1982. Detailed implementation schedules for
each agro-industry have been developed. The Basic Organizations partici-
pating under the primary production components have been identified and
technical design for subproject implementation has been completed. Most of
the individual sector farmers who would invest in vineyard and hazelnut
plantations have been identified.
D. Cost Estimates
3.12     Total project cost, including physical and price contingencies,
is estimated at Din 6,103 M (about US$226.0 M) of which Din 2,171 M
(US$80.4 M) or 36% of the total project cost would be foreign exchange.
The cost estimates include import duties and taxes estimated at Din 215 M
(US$8 M). The unit costs are based on estimates obtained in June and
September 1980 from local and foreign suppliers of equipment and civil
works and have been updated to reflect the costs that would prevail in
March 1981. A physical contingency amounting to 9% of base costs and a
price contingency 1/ amounting to 35% of base costs plus physical contin-
gencies, are included in the cost estimate. Interest and other charges
during construction would amount to about Din 1,188 M (US$44.0 M), bringing
the total project cost including interest and other charges during con-
struction to Din 7,290 M (US$270.0 M). Detailed cost estimates (Annex 3)
are summarized in Table A on the following page.
1/ The price contingency has been estimated based on the following
expected rates of price increases, expressed in percent per year:
Equipment and Other Items       Civil Works
International    Domestic         Domestic
(%)             (%)             (%)
1980                           10.5             18.0            30.0
1981                            9.0             15.0            18.0
1982                            8.5             12.0            14.0
1983-85                         7.5             10.0            12.0
1986-87                         6.0              9.0            11.0



- 18 -
Table A. Project Cost Estimates
Project                  Cost in Din. Million           Cost in US$ Million
Component               Loca1  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign   Total   FE %
Agro-industries          1,808    1,173  2,981    67.0    43.4    110.4    39
Vineyards & Orchards
Plantations               608      352    960    22.5    13.1        35.6    37
Livestock
Development               101        46    147      3.7      1.7      5.4    31
Groundwater Irriga-
tion Studies               43       11      54      1.6     0.4       2.0    20
Technical Assistance        14        -      14      0.5        -      0.5      -
Total Base Cost          2,574    1,582  4,156    95.3    58.6    153.9    38
Physical Contin-
gencies (9%)              219      138    357       8.1     5.1      13.2    39
Price Contin-
gencies (35%)           1,139      451  1,590    42.2    16.7        58.9    28
Total Cost with
Contingencies          3,932    2,171  6,103   145.6    80.4    226.0    36
Interest during
Construction              486      702  1,188    18.0    26.0        44.0    59
Total Cost with
Interest during
Construction           4,417    2,873  7,290   163.6   106.4    270.0    39
Table B. Project Financing Plan
Interest
During
Total    Construction                    % Share
Project   and Commit-         Total       in Funds
Cost    ment Charges   Contribution  Required
(--u------(US' Million)---------
1.  Funds Required               226.0          44.0         270.0           100
2. Funding Sources
a.   IBRD                     80.0          10.0          90.0           33
b.   KBP                     100.8          25.1         125.9           47
d.   Local banks and
sub-borrowers          45.2            8.9          54.1           20



- 19 -
E. Financing
3.13     The proposed Bank loan of US$90 M would finance 85% of the total
estimated foreign exchange cost, and about 33% of total project costs
including interest during construction, of which the Bank loan would
finance that portion which the investors would not be able to provide
entirely from their own resources, and would be made to KBP for 15 years,
including 3 years of grace. Financing of interest during construction is
justified by the financial requirements of the subborrowers, and is fully
consistent with Bank policy. Project investments in vineyards and fruit
tree production have long gestation periods and slow build up of cash
flows.  The investments in processing plants will not begin to produce sub-
stantial revenues until the third year. Without the inclusion of this
provision in the Bank loan, the cash flow positions of the subborrowers
during the construction period would be imprudently stretched in meeting
their obligations including the servicing of the proposed Bank loan. Apart
from the proceeds for technical assistance for KBP, KBP would on-lend the
loan proceeds for subprojects to the subborrowers and for groundwater
studies to SIZ in accordance with the terms and procedures described in
paras. 4.17 through 4.19. Local costs and the balance of 15% of foreign
costs would be financed by KBP, the subborrowers and local banks. The
financing plan is shown in Table B on the preceding page. The Bank loan
would be repaid on the basis of adjustable repayment schedules reflecting
the composite repayments of sub-loans by the subborrowers. Assurances on
the above conditions have been obtained during negotiations.
F. Disbursements
3.14     Disbursements of the proposed Bank loan of US$90 M would extend
over five years and would be made as follows:
(a) Sub-loans for Agro-industries (US$57.0 M) and sub-loans for Vineyards,
Orchard and Berry Plantations, and Dairy Development (US$20.5 M):
100% of foreign expenditures and 45% of amounts disbursed by the
Borrower on account of local expenditures, in both instances
subject to a maximum of 35% of the total estimated cost of the
investment subproject concerned.
(b)  Sub-loans for Studies (US$2.0 M);  100% of expenditures.
(c)  Technical Assistance (US$0.5 M):  100% of expenditures.
(d) Interest during Construction (Us$10.0 M): amounts due to interest
and other charges on the Bank Loan totalling US$10.0 M.



- 20 -
3.15     Disbursement requests would be supported by full documentation,
except that for local expenditures under the subloans the Bank would
disburse against the Statement of Expenditures (SOE). Disbursements for
groundwater studies would be fully documented and against individual
contracts each of which have to be reviewed by the Bank and the terms and
conditions found satisfactory to the Bank. KBP is familiar with SOE
procedure and assurances were obtained during negotiations that KBP would
arrange for independent audit of procedures for preparing and furnishing of
SOEs (para. 4.20). KBP would retain the SOE supporting documentation for
inspection by the Bank during the course of project implementation.
Assurances on these disbursement procedures have been obtained during
negotiations.
3.16     Disbursements would start immediately following loan effective-
ness. Schedule of loan disbursements is estimated as follows:
Bank FY            FY82    FY83    FY84    FY85    FY86
 ----------   (USi illion)---------
Annual                           9.0    28.0    30.0    16.0        7.0
Cumulative                       9.0    37.0    67.0    83.0    90.0
G.  Procurement
3.17     Agro-industrial plants and processing equipment with an estimated
cost of about US$113 M would be procured following International Competi-
tive Bidding (ICB) in accordance with Bank Guidelines for Procurement
(March 1977). This procurement would cover: (a) turnkey construction of
six agro-industrial plants with an estimated cost totalling US$85 M,
including a pasta plant, a livestock and turkey processing plant, a bakery,
a potato processing plant, a biscuit plant, and a dry maize processing
plant; and (b) equipment estimated to cost US$28 M for fruit and vegetable
processing, fruit juice processing, cold storage facilities, feed mill,
turkey production and sugar packaging. Tender documents have been prepared
for issue during April 1981. Domestic manufacturers would receive a 15%
margin of preference or the actual level of import duties whichever is less
for purposes of bid comparisons. Contracts for turnkey construction of
plants would include design, civil works construction, supply and installa-
tion of equipment, start-up testing, and training local staff in operation
and maintenance of the equipment. It is estimated that about US$37 M of
the ICB procurement would be awarded to foreign suppliers.
3.18     ICB would not be suitable for construction of civil works and
equipment procurement with cost totalling US$66 M, the livestock and horti-
culture subprojects, groundwater studies, technical assistance and the
civil works for processing plants for which equipment is to be procured by
ICB included under item (b) of para. 3.17. Works and equipment involved
are not suitable for ICB since they are unlikely to be attractive to



- 21 -
foreign contractors and suppliers due to the relatively small size of each
contract, phasing of contracts over 3 years, differences in the type of
construction and equipment required and the dispersion of investors. Pro-
curement of these components would be done through existing commercial
channels or local procurement procedures. Sufficient commercial suppliers
and civil works contractors are available in Yugoslavia to provide adequate
competition for the supply of goods and civil works needed to implement the
project. At negotiations, assurances were obtained that KBP would cause
procurement to be arranged as follows:
(a) Turnkey plant construction and certain equipment described in
para. 3.17 following ICB in accordance with Bank Guidelines for
Procurement (March 1977) and preference margin described in para.
3.17 for domestic manufacturers;
(b) other goods and works for certain agro-industries described above
and for social sector primary production subprojects in contracts
of US$150,000 equivalent or more on the basis of competitive
bidding advertised locally and according to procedures acceptable
to the Bank;
(c) other social sector goods and works in contracts less than
US$150,000 equivalent on the basis of negotiated purchases; and
(d) individual sector works in accordance with local procedures.
H. Environmental Effect
3.19     The project is not expected to have any significant adverse
environmental effect on the project area. The subborrowers for agro-
industry investments would be required to have adequate effluent treatment
facilities.
I. Role of Women
3.20     Yugoslavia has made considerable progress with respect to ensuring
equal opportunities for women. In the institutions with which the Bank
would be involved in the proposed project, many women are among the profes-
sional staff. It is expected that women will benefit as much as men from
the increased employment opportunities in the social sector components of
the project. Women are expected to gain more than half of the employment
opportunities created under the agro-industries component of the project
and would participate significantly in livestock and horticulture produc-
tion on individual farms.



- 22 -
IV. PROJECT ORGANIZATION AND IMPLEMENTATION
A. Institutional Arrangements
4.01     Kosovska Banka Pristina (KBP), the proposed Borrower, would onlend
the Bank funds, funds from the Federal Fund and from its own resources if
necessary, to social sector agrokombinats and cooperative enterprises (sub-
borrowers under the project). Through the working organizations and
cooperative enterprises, a portion of the funds would be on-lent to
individual sector farmers. KBP is one of the participating banks in the
three Agricultural Credit Projects (para 1.13) and four Industrial Credit
Projects. An institutional evaluation of KBP was carried out as part of
the appraisal of the Fifth Industrial Credit Project (presented to the
Board on October 28, 1980).
4.02     KBP would be responsible for the appraisal and supervision of the
investments to be financed under the proposed project and would be respon-
sible for supervising project implementation and procurement activities.
Agrokosova, the composite organization of associated labor of agro-
kombinats, would assist its member investors in the flow of documentation
to KBP, monitor subproject implementation, and provide the investors with
marketing assistance. The responsibilities of these organizations under
the proposed project are in line with their current responsibilities and
the arrangements are similar to arrangements under several other Bank proj-
ects in Yugoslavia.
4.03     The Agriculture Credit Department in KBP is responsible for
preparation, appraisal and supervision of loans for primary production,
livestock, irrigation and agro-industrial projects. The staff presently
includes the Director, two agriculturalists, two credit officers, a trans-
lator and two administrative clerks. Under the three Agricultural Credit
Projects they have demonstrated satisfactory experience in appraising agri-
cultural development and agro-industry subprojects. In view of the
expected increase in workload and complexity of the proposed project,
assurances have been obtained at negotiations that KBP would, by November
30, 1981, add to the staff of the Agriculture Credit Department an agro-
industries specialist with qualifications acceptable to the Bank to handle
the additional technical requirements in agro-industries appraisal.
4.04     In addition, KBP's responsibilities for supervising procurement
activities and forwarding procurement documentation to Washington would
increase substantially under this project, particularly in relation to pro-
curement following ICB procedures. Accordingly, KBP has assigned an
officer in the Agricultural Credit Department with primary responsibility
for ensuring timely project procurement according to Bank Guidelines. The
qualifications of the procurement officer have been reviewed by the Bank
and found acceptable. Assurances have been obtained that KBP would assign



- 23 -
adequate qualified staff to assist him. Assurances have been obtained that
by November 30, 1981, KBP shall complete the appointments of all support
staff in adequate numbers to assist the procurement officer and agro-
industries specialist. Also, the project would include provision of about
US$0.5 M equivalent for technical assistance for KBP to engage the services
of consultants with expertise in World Bank procedures to assist the Agri-
cultural Credit Department and to train its staff in these responsibilities.
4.05     Understandings were reached at negotiations defining the support-
ing responsibilities of Agrokosova, including marketing assistance to its
member investors. Also, understandings were reached that Agrokosova would
designate one or more experienced officers, to be responsible for
coordinating its responsibilities under the proposed project.
4.06     Twenty working organizations and cooperatives would implement the
proposed subprojects. A Self-Management Agreement (SMA), acceptable to the
Bank and specifying investors' responsibilities and relationships under the
proposed project, would be signed by KBP, Agrokosova, and the participating
investor and supporting organizations and cooperatives as a Condition of
Effectiveness of the proposed loan. Undertakings have been reached at
negotiations that KBP, who will have primary responsibility for the ground-
water studies, will enter into a subsidiary loan agreement with SIZ as a
condition of disbursement of this component. Assurances were obtained that
KBP shall (a) to assist in carrying out the studies, cause SIZ to employ
consultants whose qualifications and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Bank; (b) make available to the Bank the esti-
mates and documents prepared by the consultants; and (c) together with SIZ
exchange views with the Bank from time to time on their conclusions and
upon the completion of the studies on the findings and recommendations for
further development of groundwater irrigation in Kosovo. Assurances also
were obtained that KBP shall ensure the completion of all the studies by
December 31, 1983 or other date agreed with the Bank.
B. The Borrower; Kosovska Banka Pristina (KBP)
4.07     Banks in Yugoslavia operate not to maximize profits but to earn an
income adequate to cover expenses and from the residual to make annual con-
tributions for various reserve funds. In this context, KBP's performance
has been satisfactory. A financial assessment of KBP's performance was
completed as part of the appraisal of the Fifth Industrial Credit Project.
KBP's net income is increasing and has been more than adequate to meet its
operating expenses and other obligations. During 1977 to 1979, the average
interest spread was 2.8% whereas administrative expenses were 0.4% of total
assets. KBP has made required allocations to various reserves out of net
income and was able to distribute in 1979 a significant portion, 19%, of
its net income to its members.
4.08     TotaL assets (Din. 15.7 billion at end of 1979) increased by 45%
during the 1977-1979 period. The liquidity position of KBP, as for all



- 24 -
Yugoslav banks, is regulated by the National Bank of Yugoslavia and this is
supervised by the Social Accounting Service (SDK). The long term debt/
equity ratio as of December 31, 1979 was relatively high (19.4:1). How-
ever, if the Federal and Provincial Funds (which are treated as debt but
have more the status of managed funds) are excluded, this ratio is only
5.2:1. The lending policies and other procedures and the financial situa-
tion of KBP are satisfactory. Balance sheets and income statements for
1977, 1978 and 1979 are given in the Project Implementation File.
4.09     As of December 31, 1979, KBP's loan principal in arrears of over 3
months was Din. 1149 M; it comprised 2.9% of total long term loans out-
standing and was within acceptable limit. KBP has not experienced the need
for significant write-offs for bad debts, and reschedulings have been
minimal. It is not likely that, in the particular context of the Yugoslav
banking system, significant losses will occur in the future; and adequate
provisions have been made to cover possible small losses.
C. The Sub-borrowers
4.10     All the social sector investors which are going to carry out sub-
projects under the proposed loan are organizations which have on-going
business activities and which have acquired technical and managerial exper-
tise in agroindustrial operations and/or primary production. All the
sub-borrowers belong to Agrokosova, the complex organization at the pro-
vincial level which coordinates activities in the agricultural sector in
Kosovo. The agroindustrial "Kombinats" which will undertake the various
food processing plants' investments have been evaluated in terms of their
financial, managerial and technical capabilities and have been found
acceptable.
4.11     Some of the sub-borrowing organizations experienced losses in 1978
or 1979, due largely to the fact that these organizations were operating
old, inefficient plants, with higher than normal maintenance expenses and
with low productivity. This problem, in some cases, was compounded by low
availability of raw materials which forced some plants to operate at a low
capacity. The absolute level of such losses, however, is not large in
relation to the total revenues from the operations of these organizations
and the trend has been towards an improved profitability, diminishing the
level of losses or achieving small profits.
4.12     Most of the basic organizations and Kombinats are generating
enough income to cover their operating expenses and other obligations.
4.13     It is expected that with the modernization and/or expansion of
their facilities through the new investments under this project, the sub-
borrowing organizations will be able to increase their efficiency and capa-
city utilization (through increased availability of needed raw materials),
thereby improving their profitability.



- 25 -
4.14     Furthermore, the creditworthiness of the organization should be  '
assessed within the context of the Yugoslav system, within which each
organization is linked to related organizations which would give financial
support if needed under special circumstances.
D. On-Lending Procedures
4.15     Appraisal Criteria.  The project implementing organizations
would furnish loan applications simultaneously to KBP and local banks.  KBP
would appraise each sub-project and would make the appraisal report avail-
able to relevant local banks. KBP would approve subloans in accordance
with appraisal guidelines and methodology agreed between the Bank, KBP and
local banks as summarized below (Annex 4):
(a)  sub-projects would be technically feasible, have minimum 12%
financial and economic rates of return, and would generate
sufficient cash flow to cover debt service, legal claims, and
reinvestment needs;
(b)  adequate and continuing technical assistance and market outlets
would be assured;
(c)  for lending to individual farmers through Basic Cooperative
Organizations (BCOs), the cooperation agreements would be
satisfactory;
(d)  the respective BCOs or BOALs would have completed adequate
arrangements to provide extension services to the individual
farmers and would have stipulated sufficient service charges to
recover costs;
(e)  adequate organizational and staffing arrangements would be made
for the implementation of the sub-projects;
(f)  for lending to agro-industries, satisfactory raw material supply
and market prospects would exist;
(g)  adequate seasonal credit would be made available for the
sub-projects; and
(h)  projects would show positive economic impact including employment,
income, and import/export effects.
Assurances have been obtained during negotiations that KBP would follow the
above criteria in appraising subprojects.
4.16     The agro-industry investments were fully appraised by the Bank and
found financially viable and technically feasible; a further review by the



- 26 -
Bank would not be necessary except for the potato processing plant sub-
project unless a major change occurs in design of sub-project and/or
investment costs increase by more than 20% of the appraisal estimate
including contingencies. With respect to the potato processing plant
sub-project, the Bank would have to review and approve the financial,
management and technical position of the subborrower before KBP approved
the subloan. Subloans under other components of the project would be made
by KBP in accordance with the methodology already agreed with by the Bank
and prior review by the Bank is not considered necessary except for the
goat farm. All subproject appraisal reports would be available for inspec-
tion by the Bank at request and/or during project supervision to ensure
that agreed methodologies are followed. All sub-loan approvals would be
reported to the Bank at quarterly intervals. Assurances have been obtained
during negotiations that KBP would follow the above procedures.
E. On-Lending Terms and Conditions
4.17     The terms of sub-loans under the project would be related to the
cash flow projections of the investment. The repayment period of individ-
ual sector sub-loans would normally not exceed 15 years including a grace
period of up to five years. For agro-industry sub-projects, repayment
periods would not exceed 15 years including grace periods of up to three
years. Subborrowers would normally be required to contribute 20% of total
investment costs. It is likely that the resources of some of the sub-
borrowers may not be adequate for them to contribute the required 20%. In
such cases the KBP would determine the maximum amount of subborrowers con-
tribution. In accordance with the Yugoslav laws, the contribution from the
Federal Fund for Accelerating the Development of the Less Developed
Republics and SAP Kosovo (FLDR) to a subproject would be treated as sub-
borrower contribution.
4.18     The interest rates under the project would be as follows;
(a) for Bank funds for agro-industry and primary production subloans
the on-lending rate to be charged will be a minimum of 11%:
social sector sub-borrowers would bear any foreign exchange risk
associated with their subloans; the government of SAP Kosovo would
bear any foreign exchange risk on loans to individual farmers (as
is the case in previous Bank loans for agriculture in Yugoslavia);
the on-lending rate on the Bank funds is in line with the average
cost of long-term foreign exchange resources in Yugoslavia and in
the international capital markets;
(b) for Bank funds for the groundwater studies the rate would be
agreed under the subsidiary loan agreement between KBP and SIZ
acceptable to the Bank;
(c) for Bank funds for the technical assistance component the Bank
rate would apply;



- 27 -
(d)  for funds provided from resources of KBP and the local banks, the
onlending rate wqould be a minimum of 10%; and
(e)  for funds provided from the FLDR, the interest rate would be
determined from time to time by the Federal and Kosovan authori-
ties (currently between 3% and 6%).
Assurances have been obtained during negotiations that KBP would apply the
on-lending terms and conditions in (a) thrugh (d) to sub-loans made under
the project. Unlike in other republics in Kosovo, most counterpart funds
will come from the FLDR, and it is unlikely that the permitted lending
rates on resources of local banks (item d above) will be applicable.
4.19     The above on-lending rates are in line with the rates agreed for
the recently approved industrial credit project. The on-lending rate of
10% proposed on local banks' own resources is about 3% more than the cur-
rent minimum level of 7% currently charged by the banks. The projected
average annual rate of inflation in Yugoslavia for the next 3 years is
estimated to be 16%. Although the proposed on-lending rate would still not
achieve a positive real rate, it is about 3% more than the current minimum
charged by Yugoslav banks. Understandings were reached under the recently
approved industrial credit project to the effect that the responsible
Yugoslav authorities would review with the Bank, at least annually, the
interest rate policy of Yugoslavia in the light of prevailing market
conditions.
F. Accounts and Audit
4.20     KBP would maintain separate accounts for sub-loan disbursements
under the project. The Social Accounting service of Yugoslavia (SDK) cur-
rently audits KBP's accounts according to internationally accepted
standards, and assurances were obtained during negotiations that KBP would
furnish its audited accounts to the Bank within six months of the close of
each fiscal year. subborrowers would have their accounts audited by SDK
for presentation to the borrower. Assurances were obtained from KBP that
the auditors will give a separate opinion as to whether procedures in
operation at KBP are satisfactory to ensure that the withdrawals made on
the basis of Statements of Expenditures (para. 3.15) have been used for the
purpose for which they are provided.
C. Reporting, Monitoring and Evaluation
4.21     Monitoring.  Monitoring of the progress of project implementation
would be done by KBP with the assistance of Agrokosova and SIZ as appro-
priate.  Agrokosova would furnish to KBP such information as the numbers of
sub-projects under preparation, numbers of sub-loan approvals by the basic
banks, numbers of farmers financed, and the physical progress of construc-
tion, equipment and livestock procurement and plantation development. SIZ



- 28 -
would furnish to KBP such information as the locations, starting dates,
manhours employed, tests completed, equipment procured and installed, and
progress of studies. KBP in periodic reports (para. 4.24) would furnish to
the Bank the above information and information on the status of commit-
ments, disbursements, loan recoveries, repayment rescheduling, and field
supervisions.
4.22     Reporting.  Assurances have been obtained that KBP would compile
the above information and provide it in quarterly progress reports to the
Bank in an agreed format in line with the similar reporting requirements in
other Bank financed Yugoslav projects.
4.23     Evaluation and Completion Reports.  KBP would carry out the
ongoing evaluation of investments to be financed under the project with the
assistance of Agrokosova and SIZ and as and when required through specially
contracted Yugoslav consultants. Annual evaluation reports commencing
April 30, 1983, would be furnished by KBP to the Bank. These reports will
help KBP in loan approvals and supervision as well as in the preparation of
the project completion report. The annual cost of this evaluation system
is expected to be Dinar 1 M. In constant prices over an 8 year development
period, the total cost is estimated to be Dinar 8 M or US$0.3 M. This cost
will be borne by KBP. A similar evaluation system has been established for
Bank financed Agricultural Credit Projects in Yugoslavia (Loans 1129-YU,
1477-YU and 1801-YU) and is operating successfully.  KBP in cooperation
with Agrokosova and SIZ would also prepare a project completion report not
later than 6 months after the closing date.
4.24     Assurances have been obtained from KBP that it would;  (i) follow
the monitoring and evaluation procedures outlined in Paras. 4.21, 4.22, and
4.23 above; and (b) furnish to the Bank the following reports.  (i)
quarterly progress reports; (ii) annual evaluation reports; (iii) a project
completion report.
V. PRODUCTION, PRICES, MARKETS, AND FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
A. Production
5.01     At full development, the project would yield annual incremental
output from primary production subprojects valued at Din. 620 M (US$31 M)
at June 1980 prices (Annex 1, T-3) and summarized below:



- 29 -
Incremental Production
Product                                   At Full Development (1990)
(tons)
Fruits                                               31,730
Nuts                                                    990
Turkeys (live weight)                                 1,890
Beef cattle (live weight)                               290
Cow's milk (000 liters)                               2,990
Breeding goats (head)                                   590
Goats for slaughter (live weight)                        33
Goat milk (00 liters)                                  630
5.02     Annual incremental output from agro-industries is estimated to be
about Din. 3040 M (US$150 M) at June 1980 prices (Annex 1, T-4).  This
estimate is based on the product assortment as foreseen in the feasibility
studies and consistent with market opportunities, and are subject to varia-
tions with changing market conditions.
B. Marketing and Market Prospects
5.03     Market prospects for incremental production under the project have
been analyzed in detail during appraisal and results are presented in
Working Paper No. 2 of the Project Implementation File. Detailed analyses
of domestic and export market prospects for commodities were prepared by
the investors and consultants. While most of the fruit and nut production
would be marketed to Kosovan agroindustries, most of the meat and milk
would be consumed locally. Currently in Kosovo there is a substantial
deficit in supply of these products while Kosovo per capita consumption is
well below national levels due to current income disparities. About 80% of
the grape production would be processed into wine. Kosovo is a major wine
producer in Yugoslavia and has developed traditional export markets,
accounting for about 24% of total Yugoslav exports. Currently Kosovo is a
net grape importer.
5.04     Processed products will be marketed mainly in the Kosovo Region.
The per capita consumption of processed products in Kosovo is much lower
than the averages for Yugoslavia. On the basis of 0.6-1.0% projected
annual rate of population growth, 3.3% annual rate of increase in real
incomes and increasing urbanization in Kosovo, the market potential for the
incremental outputs is large. Fruit juice, some processed potato products,
pasta products, turkey meat, swiss rolls and biscuits will be marketed
throughout Yugoslavia. The consumption of these products has been steadily
rising. Only processed vegetables (canned and frozen) and fruit juice
concentrates are expected to be exported. The incremental volume of fruit
concentrates to be exported (about 500 tons annually by 1985) represents
only a small portion--roughly 6%--of total anticipated Yugoslav exports
of those products. Processed vegetable exports due to the project are



- 30 -
expected to reach about 1,200 tons by 1985-86 or approximately 3% of total
projected Yugoslav exports by that period. With the anticipated increases
in Yugoslavia's and Kosovo's GDP, progressive urbanization, and accompany-
ing changes in consumption patterns, the market prospects for processed
products are good.
5.05     Market Channels.  The social sector investors under the project
are members of Agrocommerce, which is the marketing organization within
Agrokosovo responsible for coordinating and channelling the marketing of
products from its members and which in turn is organized under a larger
regional distribution organization--the Unified Trade of Kosovo. This
organization includes the 23 major retailers in the Province, comprising
over 2,300 shops which account for 70% of the total number of retail out-
lets and 90% of the total floor space in Kosovo and which is also improving
and expanding its marketing channels in other regions in Yugoslavia. Such
a setup will provide a firm base for distributing the goods being pro-
duced. The major market centers identified for the project output are
within a 150 km radius from Pristina, hence no serious transport problems
are foreseen. Agrocommerce will be also responsible for marketing the
project's output to be exported. In addition, farmers market a portion of
their fresh produce at free village markets.
C. Prices
5.06     Financial prices used in the subproject analyses are farmgate
prices for primary products and ex-factory wholesale prices for processed
products (Annex 1, T-5). Due to the devaluation of the Dinar in June 1980,
the subsequent price freeze and the unpredictable price fluctuations after
the freeze was partially lifted in September, the following approach was
taken to minimize the effect of any temporary distortions found in the
prices prevailing at the time of appraisal:
(i) the base financial analyses were made in terms of a consistent set
of mid-1980 pre-devaluation prices for input/output commodities
and investment costs, with the exception that the foreign compon-
ents of investment costs were estimated in Dinars using the
current exchange rate of US$1=Din 27;
(ii) the price effects of the devaluation on financial viability were
assessed through sensitivity tests. These indicated that the
devaluation would likely result in financial rates of return
higher than in the base analyses (i) above (paras. 5.07 and 5.08).
D. Financial Analysis
5.07     Primary Production Subprojects.  The financial models illustrate
each of the typical investments to be financed under the project. Actual



- 31 -
investments would differ from the models since local conditions would
vary. The underlying assumptions as to yields and input requirements are
based on interviews with farmers and operational experience obtained under
similar Bank financed agriculture projects in Yugoslavia. While the base
financial rates of return (FRR) under the severe assumptions given in para.
5.06 vary between 9 and 23%, the sensitivity tests indicate that all sub-
projects are likely to have rates of return of 12% or higher. Furthermore,
FRRs are relatively insensitive to changes in the operating margins, which
over the long term are expected to change very little (Annex 1, T-6). All
subprojects have economic rates of return over 12% (para 6.06).
5.08     Agro-industry Subprojects.  Detailed feasibility studies for the
proposed agro-industry investments provide the basis for the financial
analyses.  FRRs range from 13 to 30% (Annex 1, T-6).  The investments are
relatively insensitive to changes in the operating margins which might
occur, due to changes in revenues and operating costs, and to cost overruns
of up to 20% and slow build-up of capacity utilization. Long term changes
in output commodity prices are expected to be followed closely by parallel
changes in cost of raw materials and operating costs.
VI. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION
A. Benefits
6.01     General.  The main Project benefits would derive from:
(a) increased opportunities for employment and association of individual
farmers with the processing facilities and marketing channels in the social
sector; (b) increased production of fruit, milk, meat, and processed food
products to meet increasing consumer demand in Kosovo and Yugoslavia, as
well as additional national export of processed food products; and (c)
strengthening of the development institutions in the project area.
6.02     Beneficiaries.  Direct beneficiaries of the project would total
about 1100 individual farm families who would receive sub-loans for dairy
and horticultural development and about 1000 prospective additional
employees in the social sector. A substantial number of direct bene-
ficiaries among the individual sector farmers are expected to belong to the
target group with per capita incomes below US$43O. The investments under
the agro-industries also would indirectly effect a wider group of bene-
ficiaries by providing improved market outlets for primary production.
6.03     Employment.  At full development the project investments would
result in about 1000 additional permanent full time jobs, about 150 man-
years increase in employment of hired seasonal labor, about 1200 man-years
of increased family labor requirements on participating farms, all of which
would reduce under-employment and pressure to migrate from the project area.



- 32 -
6.04     Production and Foreign Exchange Effects.  The major part of the
incremental production (98%) due to the project would meet domestic
consumption needs. However, part of the incremental output would be
exported, resulting in foreign exchange earnings of about USO3 M annually
or about US$60 M over the 20-year life of the project.
6.05     Institution Building Effects.  The project's non-quantifiable
benefits would include: (a) the institutional strengthening of KBP through
provision of training and through experience gained in implementing and
evaluating a development project of this size and scope; and (b) fostering
of increased cooperation between the individual and social sectors.
B. Economic Evaluation
General
6.06     The economic rates of return (ERR) and net present values (NPV)
for the project are estimated at mid-1980 constant prices. Capital and
operating costs exclude price contingencies and domestic transfers (taxes,
subsidies, and debt services). The cost and benefit streams are discounted
over 15 to 25 year periods depending on the expected life of the sub-
project, except for the strawberry subproject with a life of 5 years.
Prices
6.07     Economic farm gate and ex-factory prices for the main inter-
nationally traded (traded) goods are derived from projected 1990 world
market prices (mid-1980 constant Dollars) adjusted for transport, handling,
and processing costs (Annex 1, T-7 and T-8). Economic prices for
non-traded goods are projected on the basis of their historical price
trends.
Exchange Rate Adjustment
6.08     A standard conversion factor (SCF) is used to adjust the relation-
ship between prices of traded and non-traded goods for distortions intro-
duced by the tariff regime. Yugoslavia's import tariff levels in the long-
term have been uniformly low, except with respect to equipment and
machinery where tariffs are somewhat higher; and Yugoslavia has encouraged
exports through moderate rebates on raw material imports. The impact of
this modest regime which was largely restored by the June 1980 devaluation
is estimated to generate a current SCF value of 0.93 and associated conver-
sion factors for domestic equipment and construction of 0.91 and 0.80
respectively. In the economic analyses, which are based on the consistent
set of predevaluation prices, this conversion factor has been adjusted to
reflect the difference between the current exchange rate and the
predevaluation exchange rate in effect in June 1980. This yields
conversion factors of 0.70, 0.68, and 0.60, respectively, applicable to
non-traded components in the cost and benefit streams.



- 33 -
Shadow Wage for Unskilled Labor
6.09     The main source of surplus unskilled labor is in the less
developed rural areas where incomes, productivity, and employment levels
are still well below those in the urban areas or in the modern social
sector economy. The cost of labor (wages and taxes) in the social sector
(250 Din/day) does not reflect the opportunity cost of unskilled labor in
Kosovo. The opportunity cost or marginal productivity of rural labor is
approximated by the income per worker in the lower ten percent of agricul-
ture households. Although productivity and incomes in the agricultural
sector are increasing in the medium term, average income in the lower 10%
of Kosovan households is expected to remain less than half of the social
sector labor cost. Accordingly, the ERRs for the base analyses are based
on a labor conversion factor of 0.40. Sensitivity tests have been carried
out using conversion factors of 0.60 and 0.80, which indicate that the
investments would also be viable under these assumptions and that in most
cases the ERR is relatively insensitive to changes in the marginal produc-
tivity of agricultural labor (Annex 1, T-9).
6.10     Based on the main assumptions given above, the overall project ERR
is estimated at 25%. The net present values, discounted at an interest
rate of 12%, and the ERRs for project components (Annex 1, T-9) are sum-
marized below;
NPV /a     ERR
(Din M)     (%)
Primary Production                       350        19
Agro-industries                        1,720        28
Overall                                2,070        25
/a Discount rate of 12%.
Sensitivity Tests
6.11     Tests were made to determine the sensitivity of the subproject
ERRs to changes in output prices, cost overruns, and implementation delays
(Annex 1, T-9). The switching values indicate that all projects are
relatively insensitive to the types of implementation delays which could be
expected. Provisions are included for strengthening the supervisory
capacity of KBP (paras. 4.03 and 4.04).
C. Risk and Uncertainty
6.12     KBP has also been the borrower on previous agricultural Bank loans
in Kosovo so that institutional arrangements for the proposed project are



- 34 -
well established. Provision has been made for expanding the number of
technical staff in the Agricultural Credit Division to carry out the addi-
tional work load generated by the proposed project. All first year sub-
projects in the social sector have been identified and procurement docu-
ments have been prepared. Although not all farmers in the individual
sector who would participate in orchard and dairy development have been
identified, many have been. The identification of farmers done so far for
hazelnut and vineyard investments, and the experience so far under the
three Agricultural Credit Projects (para. 1.13), indicates low risk that
the full participation expected would not be reached. Raw material avail-
ability presents some uncertainties particularly for some agro-industrial
plants. However, emphasis on improved advance contracting with farmer
producers, coupled to pricing structure which considers delivery schedule
and quality, means that these uncertainties are small for the proposed
subprojects. Domestic market analysis has been thorough and market
prospects for project output appear feasible using conservative demand
assumptions. External Market analysis for the types of products 1/ which
Yugoslavia exports indicate reasonable overall market prospects for project
output. Inherent market uncertainties which may result from parallel but
unanticipated investments in agroindustries and primary production in other
Republics and Provinces in Yugoslavia are low. The project preparation and
the continuing dialogue with KBP and Agrokosova on these issues have
minimized these risks. Changes in market prices due to external market
adjustments or international and domestic inflationary pressures are
expected to result in the long term in parallel movements in prices of
output commodities, raw materials, and operating costs, and thus have minor
impact on net operating margins, to which project returns are relatively
insensitive. Considering potential benefits to the economy and individuals
in Kosovo the risks described are not significant and are worth taking.
VII. SUMMARY OF RECOMMENDATIONS AND LOAN CONDITIONS
7.01     During negotiations, assurances have been obtained from KBP that
it would:
(a) implement the project in accordance with the project description
in paras. 3.03-3.09 (para. 3.09);
(b)  require that the goat farm investor undertake with the assistance
of the Livestock Institute at Pristina a program to assist
individual farmers in acquiring suitable breeding stock, feed and
production inputs and collecting and marketing their outputs (e.g.
surplus milk, kids, and goats), and to furnish veterinary and
extension services to them (para. 3.07);
1/ Cherries, grapes, fruit juices and wine.



- 35 -
(c) implement the financing plan (para. 3.13);
(d) follow the disbursement procedures described in paras. 3.14 and
3.15 (para. 3.15);
(e) cause procurement to be arranged as follows:
(i) procurement of turnkey plant construction and supply of
certain equipment described in para. 3.17 following ICB in
accordance with Bank Guidelines for Procurement (March 1977)
and preference margin for domestic manufacturers;
(ii) other goods and works for certain agroindustries described in
para. 3.18 and for social sector primary production sub-
projects in contracts of US$150,000 equivalent or more on the
basis of competitive bidding advertised locally, and accord-
ing to procedures acceptable to the Bank;
(iii) other social sector goods and works in contracts less than
US$150,000 equivalent on the basis of negotiated purchases;
(iv) individual sector works in accordance with local procedures
(para. 3.18);
(f) by November 30, 1981, assign an agro-industries specialist with
qualifications acceptable to the Bank in the Agricultural Credit
Division (para. 4.03);
(g) by November 30, 1981, assign additional experienced staff in the
Agricultural Credit Division to assist the procurement officer and
agro-industries specialist as required for timely implementation
of the project in accordance with the implementation schedule
(paras. 4.03 and 4.04);
(h) continue to maintain an adequately staffed Agricultural Credit
Division to carry out its responsibilities under the project
(para. 4.03);
(i) to assist in carrying out the groundwater studies, cause 6IZ to
employ consultants whose qualification and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank; make available to
the Bank the estimates and documents prepared by the consultants;
and together with SIZ, exchange views with the Bank from time to
time on their conclusions and at the completion of the studies on
the findings and recommendations for further development; and
ensure the completion of all the studies by December 31, 1983, or
other date agreed with the Bank (para. 4.06);
(j) follow the on-lending procedures and terms and conditions
described in paras. 4.15 to 4.19 (para. 4.16 and 4.18); and



- 36 -
(k)  carry out the auditing, monitoring, evaluation, and progress
reporting requirements described in paras. 4.20-4.24 (para. 4.24).
7.02     During negotiations, understandings were reached that:
(a)  Agrokosova would appoint a project coordination officer and pro-
vide marketing assistance to subborrowers (para. 4.05);
(b)  SIZ, in cooperation with KBP, would carry out the groundwater
studies (para. 3.09); and
(c)  KBP would monitor closely the adequacy and timely availability of
construction materials and local funds for the procurement of
breeding stock at prevailing prices for sale to farmers in the
individual sector as well as to organizations in the social sector
in accordance with the proposed subproject implementation
schedules, and that should any problem of these types arise under
the project, KBP would promptly inform the Bank of measures pro-
posed for their resolution (para. 3.08).
7.03     A Condition of Effectiveness of the proposed loan would be the
signing of the SMA (para. 4.06).
7.04     SIZ will enter into a subsidiary loan agreement with KBP to carry
out the groundwater studies as a condition of disbursement for the
component.
7.05     Subject to the above assurances and conditions, the project would
be suitable for the Bank loan of US$90 M equivalent with a term of 15
years, including a 3 year grace period.



APPRAISAL OF
KOSOVO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECt
YUGOSLAVIA
Climatological Data
Pristina and P riren- 1950-_1g65_
____________________    ~~~Jan.   Fieb.   Mar.   Apr.   May   June   July   Aug.   Sept.   Oct.   Nov.   Dec.             Total
A. Priatina
Mean Temp. 'C                    - 1.3    0.4    4.4   10.0   14,2  18.3   20,    20.6   16,4    '10.7           6.2    1.6
Mean Maximum Temp. "2              2.6    5.0    9.7   15.6   19.9  24.3   27.0   27.8   23,5    16.8   10.6    5.5
Absolute Maximum Temp. *C         15.3   18.1   18.5   29.8   31.0  34.4   37.0   37.7   34.4    29.3   21.6   19.4
Mean Minimum Temp. *C            - 4.9  - 3.8  - 0.5    4.1    8.2  11.7   12.9   12.7    9.4             5.3     2.4    2.1
Absolute Minimum Temp.  C        -24.4  -25.2  -14.3  - 5.2  - 2,4   0.5    3.9    5.1    2.7             4,0  -14.4  -21.4
Mean Relative Humidity 2          83.4   78.4   71.3   65.7   68.4  67.2   61.8   58.5   64.5    73.1   80.1   82.9
Nebulosity in Tenths               7.3    6.8    6.4'   6.0    6.1   5,2    3.6    3.2    4.0             5.3     7.0    7.2
Mean Wind Velocity m's L          2.4    2.4    3.2    2.6    2.5   2.2    1.9    1.8    1.8             2.2    2.4    2.1
Mlean Rainfall mm                 32.8   40.5   32.7   54.5   72,1  54.7   40.9   38.6   44,3    54.2   65.1   51.3                582
Evapotranspiration from
short grass  mm/day /2             0.7    1.3    2.3    3.6    4,3   5.1    5e7    5e2    3,7             2.1     2.1   0,7
Rainfall Range                  -- -  755m                 ----- --
B. Prizren
Mean Temp. *C                      0.1    2.2    6.4   11.8  - 6.2  20,4   22.8   22.7   18.a            12.2    7.7    3.3
Mean Maximum Temp, 'C               3.5    6.3   11.1   17.0   21.7; 26.3'  29.0   29.1   24a..    17.7   11.6    6e5
Absolute Maximum Temp. 'C         16.6   20.3   20.0   28.8   13.5, 37.7   39.0   38.4   35.6    30.1   24.3   23.0
Mean Minimum Temp. 'C            - 2.8    1.7    1,8    6 6   i0,6  14,2   15.8   15.3  -11.8              7.3    4.2    0.0
Absolute Mtinimum Temp. *C       -23.3  -22.4  -12.6  - 1.3   .0.0!  3.8    7.3    7.0    1.1   - 1,4  1j5.8  -17.4
Mean Relative lHumidity 2         82.5   75.8   70.7   66.0   66,0  58.2   58.0   58.0   65.0    74.7   81.2   82,6
Nebulosity in Tenths               7.6    6.9    6.5    6.3    6.2.  5.1    3.6    3.2    4.0              5.4    7.3    7.3
Mfean Wind Velocity m/s L         1.5    1.8    2.2    2.4    1.8   1.9    1.8    1.5    1.5    .1.2    1.3    1.3
Mlean Rainfall mm                 49.1   68.5   56.8   61.5   75.2  47.3   45.3   34.8   54.8    62.7   88.7   70.7   715
1i a____________________bS9 - 919mm                         -    - --
/1  Probably at 10.
L2  Calculated from the data by Penman's method as described in FAO Irrigation and Drainage Bulletin No. 34 'Crop Water
Requirements ."
Source:  Klima Kosovo i Metohija 1966 by Dragomic Djakanovic.



- 38 -
ANNEX 1
T-2
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
KOSOVO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Technical Assumptions for the Primary Production Subproject Evaluations
A. Vineyards & Orchards
PHASING                   FULL DEVELOPMENT
-Orchard  Output     Mix
Total    Y1        Y2       Y3        Year     Yield   Life 1/ Processing Table
SOCIAL SECTOR      (T/ha)              (M)      (%)
Grapes             1,200    300       500       400      9         15       20       80          20
Orchards             194
Apple                 30     -         30        -      10         35       20       40          60
Pear                  74     -         40        34     10         25       20       40          60
Sour Cherry           50     25        25        0      10         10       20      100          0
Hazelnut              40     -         40         -     10          2       20      100           0
Small Fruits         600    279       321
Black Currant        250    124       126         -      8        7.5       15      100           0
Blackberry           150     70        80         -      8         11       15       80          20
Raspberry            150     65        85         -      7          7       15       80         20
Strawberry            50     20        30        -       3         12        5       40         60
INDIVIDUAL SECTOR
Grapes               350    150       150        50      9         15       20       80         20
Hazelnut             300    150       150       -       10          3       20      100           0
1/ Approximate period from start of productivity.



ANNEX 1
T-2
Page 2
APPRAISAL OF
KOSOVO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Technical Assumptions for the Primary Production Subproject Evaluations
B. Goat Flock Projection
------------------Years------------ -_-_
1            2           3            4
FEMALES - Mature                                    1,000         1,000
- 6-15 months                   1,190        200           200
MALES   - Mature                                       10            10
- 6-15 months                      10          2              2
Total                               1,200      1,212         1,212
FEMALE                                     848        969         1,026
MALE                                       848        969         1,026
Total births                        1,696      1,938         1,052
FEMALES                      1,190
MALES                            10
Total purchases          1,200
FEMALES                                     24         24            24
MALES
FEMALE KIDS                                 42         48            52
MALE KIDS                                   42         48            52
Total deaths                          108        120            128
Kids 90 days Female                        282        322           341
Male                        677        774            818
180 day Female                        324        399            433
Male                         127         145           154
Cull Females                              166         176           176
Cull Males                                  -           2             2
Total sales                         1,576      1,818         1,924
Production Coefficients
% Barren 5%.
% Reproductive rate of fertile females: Yr 2:1.5; Yr 3: 1.7; Yr 4: 1.8.
Average weaning weight of male kids at 90 days - 22 kg.
Average weight of breeding animals sold 180 days: Females 30 kg; Males 35 kg.
35% of female kids sold for slaughter at 90 days.
65% of female kids kept or sold for breeding.
84% of male kids sold for slaughter at 90 days.
16% of male kids kept or sold for breeding.
Replacement rate: 15% females and males.
Age at first kidding: 15 months.
Mortality rate: Kids 5%; Mature 2%.
Kidding will be seasonal with the females kidding for the first time 3 months
later than main flock but reducing this in subsequent years.



- 40 -
ANNEX 1
T-2
APPRAISAL OF                                                Page 3
KOSOVO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
C.Dairy Farm with 5 Cows
Herd Projection (100 farms)
BJforo                           End of Year-
Cateory                 Iunit       Develomnc        1          2           3          4            5-20
1/     Bard  C41,vosc11
Covw                     so.           233                                  41         410           410
In-Calf  aif are         lO.            47            85         86          90         90            90
Fale Calv c                            100           190        207         188        1SS           188
Raifers 1-2 year.        NO.            97            97        186         203        184           184
Total Cattla:      No.           477            718        893         891        872           872
Total Animals Utits:   /.U..!          464           695        811         877        875           856
Calves Born
MALI  Calves             No.           109           207      F             200        200           200
Femalc  Calves          :lo.           109           206        221         200        200           200
Total Births:      so.           218            413        441         400        400           400
Purchases
ReIfars/Youn5 Cows       No.           -             200        100
Mortalit,
Cows                     so.             8            14         11          10         10            10
In-Calf HifIcrs          No.             3             -3         2           4          4             4
AaCALveS - 4 WthNoU                      3             6          4           4          4             4
FemaleCalves             No              9.           17         13          12         12            L2
Heifers 1-2 years        No              3             3          4           4          4             4
Total Mortality:  Na.              26            43         34          34         34            34
Sales
Cull Cows               No.             39           120        106          80         sO            S0
ls-Calf Soiforr           c.            42            -          -           74         89            72
Male Calve  - 4 months No.             106           200        217         196        194           196
Cull Heifers 2-3 years No.               5             9          9          18         20            1S
Total Sales:      NO.           192            329        332         368        385           366
Production Coefficients
CalvingL ata             2              78            86         83          80         80            S0
Mortality Rats
- Male Calves           2               3             3          2           2          2             2
- Female Calva.         2               8             8          6           6          6             6
- Adults                %               3             3          2           2          2             2
Culling Date - Cov       2              14            25         20          16         16            16
- Haifers 5                5            10         10          10         10            10
Total Output Rate        z             40.3          45.8       37.2        41.3       44.1          42.0
I/  465  Bua end 542 Sienthal-typs cattla.
2/  A.U. - A-ial Unit: cowe end heifers 2-3 yoars old    1 A.U.; heifars 1-2 year. old - 0.6 A.OU.
female calves - 0.3. A.U.; mala calves 4 mth. old    0.1 A.U.



- 41 -
ANNEX 1
T-3
APPRAISAL OF
KOSOVO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVJIA
Quantities and Values of Projected Incremental
Output from Primary Production Subprojects
At Full Development
Unit             utity         Value
(Din M)
Social Sector                           Tons            18,000         167.4
Individual Sector                       Tons                            48.8
23,250        216.2
Orchards - Social Sector
Apples                                  Tons             1,050           8.4
Pears                                   Tons             1,850          22.6
Sourcherries                            Tons               500           9.0
Hazelnuts                               Tons                90           1.6
3,490         41.6
Orchards - Individual Sector
Hazelnuts                               Tons               900          49.5
Berry Plantations - Social Sector
Black currant                           Tons             1,880          46.9
Blackberries                            Tons             1,650          39.6
Raspberries                             Tons             1,050          23.7
Strawberries                            Tons               500           8.8
5,080        119.0
Goat Farm - Social Sector
Milk                                    000 1              630           5.5
Meat                                    Tons (live)         33           1.3
Breeding Stock                          Head               590          23.6
30.4
Dairies - Individual Sector
Milk                                    000 1            2,990          23.3
Meat                                    Tons (live)        290          10.3
33.6
Turkey Farm - Social Sector
Meat                                    Tons (live)      1,890         128.5
Total                                                                    618.8



- 42 -                                ANNEX 1
APPRAISAL OF                               T-4
KOSOVO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Quantities and Values of Projected Incremental Output from Agro-industry Subprojects
At Full Development
Items                                   Units              Quantity    Value ('000Din)
Pasta Products                            tons                3,234         94,176
Carcass Meats (Livestock)                 tons                2,961        265,050
Carcass Meats (Turkey)                    tons                1,346        171,541
Processed Meats                           tons                  773        102,006
By-products (turkey and livestock)        tons                1,928        101,621
Rendered meats                            tons                1,094         10,940
Turkeys  (live)                           tons                1,886        128,248
Litter   (turkey farm)                    m3                  8,000          4,000
Canned vegetables 1/                      tons                7,300        131,042
Frozen vegetables 1/                      tons                4,060         77,695
Frozen Fruit                              tons                  500         26,360
Cold storage services                                           -            9,340
Baked products (swiss rolls, cookies
cakes)                  tons                 1,300        115,136
Potato products                           tons                8,468        304,370
Biscuits and crackers                     tons                2,500        117,000
Sugar packaging                           tons                9,300        152,560
Powdered sugar                            tons                  500         31,000
Sugar cubes                               tons                4,600         90,700
Maize brewery grits                       tons               13,875        124,875
Maize flour                               tons                  525          4,500
Maize meal                                tons                  700          5,200
Maize grits                               tons                1,200         33,200
Corn flakes                               tons                  550         22,000
Animal feed (maize residue)               tons               14,090        107,100
Drying services                           tons                  -            5,000
Clear fruit juices                        tons                2,500         51,748
Fruit Nectars                             tons                4,500         97,872
Fruit Concentrates 2/                     tons                1,200        105,382
Fruit essence                             tons                   70         11,447
Livestock feeds                           tons               63,200        506,700
Cold storage service charges                                    -           35,975
Total                                                               3,044,084
1/ Annual Exports 1300 tons; 23 million Dinars.
2/ Annual Exports 500 tons; 48 million Dinars.



ANNEX 1
-43 -T-5
Page 1
YUGOSLAVIA
KOSOVO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Prices for the Financial Analyses
LABOR, POWER AND FUEL                                            Mid 1980   2/
Farm or
1/                                                  Factory Gate
Labor Wages -                            Units                   Financial Price
Unskilled, permanent                   Din/day                    250
Unskilled, seasonal                                               270
Machine Operators                                                 375
Machine Operation
Medium tractor (65 Hp)                                          1,200
Fuel
Diesel                                 Din/l                       16
Petrol                                                            25
Gasoil (heating)                                                   15
Engine oil                                                         50
CHEMICAL FARM INFUTS
Fertilizers
Urea (46% N)                           Din/kg                     3.5
TSP (46% P20)                                                     4.6
KCL (60% K2 0)                                                    2.4
Pesticides
Herbicides                                                         60
Insecticides                           Din/l                      10
Fungicides                                                        10
FARM PRODUCTION
Vineyard Products
Table grapes                           Din/kg                    10.5
Wine grapes                                                        9.0
Stone Fruit Orchards
Apples - table                                                    10.0
- processing                                               5.0
1/ Gross wages before deducting taxes and contributions.
2/ Prices in effect in June 1980, prior to the devaluation of the Dinar.



ANNEX 1
r-5
44 -Pate 2
Sourcherries - table                   Din/kg                     20.0
- processing                                        18.0
Cherries     - table                                              18.0
- processing                                        16.0
Pears        - table                                              15.0
- processing                                         8.0
Apricots     - table                                              17.5
- processing                                        14.0
Peaches      - table                                              10.0
- processing                                         8.0
Oranges      - table                                              11.0
- processing                                         6.0
Plums        - processing                                          7.0
Hazelnuts (in shells)                                             50.0
Berry Plantation Products
Strawberries - table
- processing                                        14.0
Raspberries  - table                                              25.0
- processing                                        22.0
Blackberries - table                                              35.0
- processing                                        30.0
Black currant- processing                                         25.0
Vegetable Products
Peas                                                               6.0
Green Beans                                                        4.5
Cucumbers                                                          7.5
Hot Peppers                                                        7.0
Other Peppers                                                      4.0
Root Vegetable                                                     3.2
Rose hips                                                          8.0
Tomatoes                                                           1.7
Carrots                                                            3.2
Potatoes                                                           4.0
Egg Plant                                                          6.5
Onions                                                             3.5
Cauliflower                                                        7.0
Livestock and Turkey Feed
Hay                                                                1.5
Straw                                                              0.3
Fresh grass                                                        0.1
Goat concentrate (standard)                                        4.5
Dairy cow concentrate (standard)                                   4.5
Young goat concentrate                                             6.0
Calf  concentrate                                                  7.0
Maize silage                                                       0.3
Turkey feed, adults                                               11.6
Turkey feed, chicks                                               40.5



ANNEX 1
- 45 -                            T-5
Page 3
Breeding Stock
In-calf heifer, locally bred
(improved)                             Din/head                40,000
7ocally bred female goats                                        4,000
Imported female goats                                            6,000
Imported male goats                                             12,000
In-calf heifer, imported                                        60,000
Livestock and Turkey Production
Young goats                            Din/kg (liveweight)          66
Goats for breeding                                                 116 1/
Goats, culled                                                       40
Cows, culled                                                        35
In-calf heifers                                                     70
Heifer, culled                                                      40
Male calf                                                           52
Hilk of goats                          Din/l                       8.7
Milk of cows                                                       7.8
Wool                                   Din/kg                       41
Turkeys                                                             68
FOOD PROCESSING RAW MATERIALS
Bulk sugar                                                          13
Salt                                                                 9
Vegetable oil                                                       10
Margarine                                                           27
Ammonia Bicarbonate                                                 78
Starch                                                              49
Vinegar                                                             16
Maize grits additives and vitamins                                   5
Eggs                                                                92
Raisins                                                             99
Maize                                                                5
Maize flour                                                         12
Wheat                                                              4.5
Wheat flour                                                         12
Wheat bran                                                           1
FRUIT & VEGETABLE PROCESSING PRODUCTION
Canned
Peas                                   Din/kg                       15
Beans green                                                         14
Mixed vegetable (stew)                                              16
1/ Includes Provincial Fund subsidy of 50 Din/kg



ANNEX i
-46 -                                 T-5
Page 4
Gerber                                 Din/kg                      19
Tomatoe                                                            18
Root vegetables                                                    12
Pepper salad                                                       33
Vegetable salad                                                    20
Jam                                                                29
Chili pepper                                                       23
Frozen
Peas                                                               18
Beans (green)                                                      18
Vegetable stew                                                     17
Diced carrots                                                      11
Peppers                                                            17
Cauliflower                                                        19
Raspberries                                                        53
Clear Juice
Apple                                                              20
Sourcherry                                                         25
Strawberry                                                         25
Grape                                                              21
Blackberry                                                         25
Nectar
Apricot                                                            24
Peach                                                              26
Pear                                                               29
Apple                                                              19
Cherry                                                             22
Plum                                                               19
Oranges                                                            19
Concentrate
(5 1) Apple                                                        48
Cherries (sour)                                             162
Blackberry                                                  576
Raspberry                                                   226
Grape                                                        42
(50 1) Apple                                                        46
Cherries (sour)                                             154
Blackberry                                                  547
Raspberry                                                   251
Grapes                                                       40
Essence
Average of all types                                              176



ANNEX 1
T-5
-47                                 Page 5
BAKERY AND PASTA PRODUCTION
Pasta Products
Wheat flour w/egg Pasta (500g pkg)                Din/kg             31
Wheat flour w/egg Pasta (1 kg pkg)                                   30
Wheat flour w/egg Pasta (Bulk)                                       29
Maize flour w/o Egg (200g pkg)                                       29
Wheat flour w/o Egg (500g pkg)                                       25
Wheat flour w/o Egg (Bulk)                                           23
Wheat Stone w/Egg Special (500g pkg)                                 37
Swiss Roll Products
Swiss Rolls                                                          83
Mini Swiss Rolls                                                    119
Misc. products                                                       91
Biscuit Plant Products
Hard biscuits ("keks")                                               35
Crackers                                                             55
"Garibaldi"                                                          55
Salted sticks                                                        65
Hard biscuits (lst quality type)                                     45
Potato Plant Products
Pommes frites                                                        25
Potato flakes                                                        30
Croquettes                                                           65
Potato chips                                                         40
MAIZE GRITS PRODUCTION
Instant grits                                                        35
Regular grits                                                        13
Corn flour                                                           10
Corn flakes                                                          40
Brewery grits                                                         9
Corn flour for pasta                                                  8
Corn meal                                                             7
Germ                                                                 22
Feed                                                                  6
SUGAR PACKAGING PLANT
Crystal sugar                                                        16
Powdered sugar                                                       61
Cube sugar                                                           19



APPRAISAL OF
KOSOVO AGRICULTURAL DrVELOPHENT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Financial Rates of Return and Senwitivity Teats
A.  Agro-industries Subproiects
----------------------------^--------------Sensitivity--------------------------------------------------------
Minirmum
Switching Values  1           Financial Rate of Return                     For Test Cas"               Capacity
Financial                                                                                           1 Year Construction       zation
Rate of                                                                              Investment   Delay & Cost overrun    for 12%
Return on                         2t,                  Operating   Margin            Cost                  Of                 Fin. Rate
Agro-industries                      Base Case           Operating Margin    Investment   -5%             -102             +5%   +1       0%    10%   15%           of Return
1.  Pasta Processing Plant             16.7                  -23.9                 31.5        15.8       14.8             15.8  15.0  14.1  12.7  12.0                80
2.  Slaughterhouse                     23.2                  -43.9                 78.2        22.8       20.8             22.1  21.0  19.2  17.5  16.8                65
3.  Turkey Farm                        14.8                  -16.0                 19.1        13.9       13.1             14.0  13.2  12.6  11.3  10.7                87
4.  Vegetable Processing Plant         15.7                   -19.8                26.5        14.8       13.9             14.9  14.2  13.3  12.0  11.4                87
5.  Bakery Plant                       14.6                  -14.5                 16.9        13.7       12.8             13.7  13.0  12.3  11.0  10.4                91     1
6.  Potato Processing Plant             30.1                  -57.1               133.0        28.6       27.2             28.7  27.5  24.3  22.L  21.6                 2     X
7.  Juice Processing Plant              23.9                   44.4                91.6        22.6       21.4             22.8  21.9  19.6  18.1  17.4                62
8.  Biscuit Plant                      27.1                  -52.2                109.2        25.8       24.5             25.9  24.7  22.1  20.4  19.5                 58
9.  Sugar Packing Plant                14.2                  -10.5                 14.9        13.2       12.1             13.4  12.7  11.6  10.4   9.8                92
10. Maize Processing Plant              15.7                  -19.4                 24.1        14.8       13.8 .           14.8  14.0  13.2  11.8  11.2                83
11.  Cold Storage                        13.0                 - 6.1                  6.5        12.2       11.3             12.2  11.5  11.0   9.7   9.2                 95
12.  Feed Mill                           16.8                 -24.2                 31.9        15.9       14.9             15.9  15.1  14.2  12.7  12.1                 80
*                                                                                        H  1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I



APPRAISAL OF
KOSOVO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Financial Rates of Return and Sensitivity Tests
B. Primary Production Subprojects
---------------------------------------Sensitivity------------------------
Switching Values  1/   Financial Rates of Return    For Test Cases
Financial                                                           1 Year
Rate of                                 uperating  Investment       Construction Delay
Return for   Operating    Investment  Margin        Cost            and Cost Overrun of
Primary Production                  Base Case    Margin  2/   Cost          -5%  -10%  +5%  +10%        0%   10%   15%
1. Hazelnut - Social Sector              14.7        -20.3          +32.7    14.1  13.4  13.8  12.9        13.0  12.2  11.9
2. Hazelnut - Individual Sector          22.0        -50.9         +141.1    21.2  20.4  20.8  19.8        19.2  18.3  17.8   *
3. Vineyard - Social Sector               9.0  3/   +31.1           -27.0      8.4   7.9   8.1   7.3         7.9   7.1   6.8
4. Vineyard - Individual Sector          10.8  3/   +10.4            -10.6    10.2   9.5   9.8   8.9         9.5   8.6   8.2
5. Pear - Social Sector                  22.6        -55.6         +149.1    21.8  21.1  21.4  20.3        19.9  18.9  18.4
6. Apple - Social Sector                 19.6        -44.2          +91.2    18.9  18.1  18.4  17.4         17.3  16.3  15.8
7. Sourcherry - Social Sector            16.5        -31.0          +55.3    15.8  15.2  15.5  14.6        14.6  13.7  13.3
8. Blackberry - Social Sector            17.7        -26.9           +42.0    16.8  15.8  16.1  14.7        15.1  13.8  13.2
9. Black Currant - Social Sector         17.2        -24.8           +39.1    16.2  15.2  15.7  14.3        14.7  13.4  12.8
10. Strawberry - Social Sector            10.3  3/   + 3.0             -3.2     7.4   4.4   7.8   5.6         6.7   3.6   2.2
11. Raspberry - Social Sector             11.2  3/   + 4.5             -5.2    10.2   9.3   9.8   8.5         9.5   8.3   7.8
12. Goat Farm - Social Sector             11.1  3/   + 4.3             -5.5    10.2   9.2 .10.4   9.8         8.9   7.8   7.3
13. Dairies - Individual Sector           16.1        - 9.5           +26.4    13.9  11.8  15.2  14.3        11.1  10.0   9.5
1/   Switching Value is the percentage change in value of the indicated component required to give                              O  M
financial rate of return of 12%.                                                                                              x
2/   Operating Margin is equivalent to revenues less operating costs.
3/   Base case covers severe assumptions due to 1980 devaluation of the Dinar.  On implementation, rates of
return are expected to be 12% or higher (para 5.06).



- 50 -
ANNEX 1
T-7
APPRAISAL OF
KOSOVO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
trojected World Market Prices for the
Main Internationally-traded Commodities
Projected
1990 Prices
(19&J Constant Dollars)
(US$ Iton)       
Grapes (F.O.B.  Yugoslavia) 1/                                                  560
Apples (F.O.B.  Yugoslavia) 1/                                                  350
Sourcherries (F.O.B. Yugoslavia) 1/                                             800
Cherries (F.O.B. Europe) 2/                                                  1,200
Pears (F.O.B. Europe) 2/                                                        590
Apricots (F.O.B. Europe) 2/                                                  1,000
Peaches (F.O.B. Europe) 2/                                                      790
Hazelnuts (C.I.F. Yugoslavia, in shells) 1/                                   3,500
Strawberries (F.O.B. Europe) 2/                                              1,170
Raspberries (F.O.B. Yugoslavia) 1/                                           1,120
Beef dressed carcass (F.O.B. Yugoslavia) 1/                                  2,700
Cow's Milk, fresh (-F.O.B.) Yugoslavia)  2/                                     265
Soyabean Oil (F.O.B. Holland, crude)  3/                                        731
Soyabean meal (F.O.B. U.S. Gulf)  3/  --3g9
Maize (F.O.B. U.S. Gulf, U.S. No. 2 Yellow) 3/                                  196
Wheat (F.O.B. Canada, CWRS) 3/                                                  236
Frozen Raspberries (F.O.B. Yugoslavia) 1/                                    2,480
Sourcherry Juice-, clear (F.O.B. Europe) 2/                                    760
Apple Juice, concentrate (F.O.B. Yugoslavia, 250 Brick) 1/                   1,250
Sourcherry Juice, concentrate (F.O.B. Yugoslavia, 250 Brick) 1/              4,220
Urea, 46% N (F.O.B. Europe, bagged) 3/                                          270
TSP, 60% P205 (F.O.B. U.S. Gulf) 3/                                             221
Potassium Chloride, 60% K  (F.O.B. Vancouver) 3_/                               109
1/ Based on Yugoslavia trade statistics
2/ Based on EEC /FAO trade statistics
3/ World Bank Economic Analysis and Projections Department, January 1980



APPRAISAL OF
BOSOVO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPFENT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Projected Border Price Structure for the Economic Analyses
(Mid 1980 Constant Dollars)
Main Internationally-traded Comodities
1990 Projected       International              Corresponding          Quality          Domestic Costs of          Domestic Costs        Processing        1990 ProJected Farm-
International,       Shipping & Handling        Yugoslav Border        Adjustment        Transport. Handling        of Processirg        Conversion        or Factory-Gate
Market Pricell       Costs                      Price                  Factor           & tosses -                  & Packaging           Rate             Border Price
(US$/s ton)            (US$/m ton)                (Din/Kg)                                   (D (Din/Kg)                   (gDn/Kg)
Grapes (table quality)                           560                   _                        11.2                 100                  -l.9                     -0.2                 100                 9.5
Apples (table)                                   350                   -                          7.0                100                  -1.5                     -0.2                 100                 5.3
Sourcherries (table)                             830                   -                         16.6                100                  -1.5                     -0.2                 100                14.9
Cherries (table)                               1,100                  -90                        20.2                 95                  -1.5                     -0.2                 100                17.5
Pears (table)                                    S90                  -90                        10.0                 9s                  -2.0                     -0.2                 100                 7.3
Apricots (table)                                 950                  -90                        17.2                 9S                  -2.0                     -013                 100                14.0
Peaches (table)                                  790                  -90                        14.0                 90                  -2.0                     -0.3                 100                10.3
Hiazelnuts (in shells)                         3,030                   -                         60.6                100                  +1,0                      -                   100                61.6
Strawberries (table)                           1,170                  -95                        21.5                 8,                  -2.0                     -0.3                 100                16.0
Raspberries (table                             1,120                   -                         22.4                100                  -2.0                     -0.3                 100                20.11
Frozen Raspberries                             2,480                   -                         b9.6                100                  -2.0                      -                   100                47.6
Sourcherry clear juice                           760                  -70                        13.8                100                  -o.6                      -                   100                13.2
Sourcherry juice; concentrate (50 i)           4,220                   -                          4.4                 8                   -0.6                      -                   2.7/4             192.0
Apple juice; concentrate (50 1)                1,250                   -                         25.0                 85                  -o.6                       -                  2.2/4              45.4
Soyabean oil                                     731                 + 5                         14.7                100                  +0.4                      -                   100                15.1
Soyabean meal                                    399                  +19                         F.3                100                  +0.4                      -                   100                 8.7
Maize                                            196                  +17                         4.3                100                  +014                       -                  100                 4.7
Whrea                                            236                  +12                         5.0                100                  +0.4                       -                  100                 5.4
Cattle feed concentrate (Standard.               /5                                  -                                -                     -                       -                    -
Beef                                           2,?00                                             S4.o                100                  -7.O                     +3.8/6               0.52               29.0/7
Cow's milk (fresh)                               265                   -                           .3                 OO                  -o.6                     -0.2                 100                 4.5
Urea, 46% N                                      270                  - 5                         5.3                100                  -o.4                      -                   100                 4.9
TSP, 60% P205                                    221                  +15                         4.7                100                  +0.4                     +0.2                 100                 5.3
Potassium Chloride, 60% K                        109                  +12                         2.1                100                  +0,4i                    +0.2                 100                 3.0
Note: US$1 = Din 20
/1  From T-7.
/9  Costs between port, wholesaler,Qlant, or producer and adjusted by the SCF.
/2  Cost per unit after processing and packaging and adjusted by the SCF.                                                                                                                                             9e
/   International price f'r 25 degree Brix concentrate.  Conversion rate ftgure is ratio of
69 degree Brix concentrate to price of 25 degree Brix concentrate.
/5  Complex price for mix comprising maize (70°) soyabean meal(20%), other materials averaging
5 'Din/kg (10%) and including mixing cost of 8.5 Din/kg.
/6  Net cost includes value of by-products (5.3 Din/kg dressed carcass) less costs of slaughtering
and export packing (1.5 Din/kg dressed carcass).
/7  Price Per unit live-weight for beef cattle (cows culled).



APPRAISAL OF
KOSOVO AGRICULTURAIL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Economic Rates of Return (ERR) and Sensitivity Tests
ERR
sPV         Base                                                     SENSITIVITY TEST ERR 2
Incremental    Analysis  Unskilled  Labor Cost  Construction  Delay  of 1 Year                 Ep nra       rin                        Investment  Costs
Stream 1/        1 2/                                       and cost overrun of                                    Switching                        Switching
(OOO'Din)                    + 50% 3/  +lO% 4/    0 %          10%       15i              -5,        -10%         Value  n/       +10%   +20%   Value 5/
A. Agro-industries Subprojects
Pasta Plant                          48,801        22            21          19          19        17        16               21         20             -42           20      18       72
Slaughterhouse                      267,246        34            33          31          27        25        24               33         31             -62           31      29   +165
Turkey Farm                          54,246        19            17         16           16        14        14               18         17             -32           17      15      47
Vegetable Processing Plant          368,103        36            32          29          28        27        26               34         32             -65           33      31     207
Bakery                               19,832        16            12           7          13       12         11               15         14             -21           14      13      27
Potato Processing Plant             309,860        35            34          33          28       26         25               34         32             -64           33      30     177
Juice Plant                         310,316        47            47         46           36       34         33               45         43             -73           44      42     337
Biscuit                              69,940        24            22         20           20       18         17               23         ZZ             -46           22      20      84
Sugar                                19,373        17            14         12           14       13         12               16         15             -20           16      14      38
Maize                               141,800        20            20         19           17       15         14               19         18             -35           18      16      55
Cold Storage                         25,671        17            16         15           14       13         12               16         15             -25           16      14       34
Feed Mill                            82,307        22            20         19           18       16         16               20         19             -40           20      18      66
Overall, Agro-industries          1,718,087        28            26          24          23       21         20               26         25             -53           25      23     118
B. Primary Production Subproject
Vineyards Social Sector             107,292        16            15         14           15       14         13               16         15             -29           14      143    +51
Vineyards Individual Sector          2b,950        15            14         13           14       13         12               15         14             -22           13      12    +24
Pears                                 2,618        14            13         11           13       12         11               13         13             -16           13      10      +2
Apples                                    55       12             9           5          11       10         10               11         11             - 1           16      15    +61
Sourcherries                          4,320        17            16         15           15       14        14                16         15             -32           23      22   +212
Hazelnuts Social Sector               3,798        24            24         23           21       21         20               24         23             -60           31      30     409
Razelnuts Individual Sector         116,898        33            32         32           28       27        27                32         31             -74           20      19    +83
Black Currants                       30,141        22            21         19           18       17         16               21        20              -40           25      24   +139
Blackberries                         35,543        27            25         23           23       21        21                26        25              -53           20      18    +77
Raspberries                          13,799        21            18         14           18       17        16                20        19              -37           30      25      54
Strawberries                          2,600        36            27         20           22       19        17                32        28              -31           10       9      -2
Goat Farm                               -459       12            10           9           9        8          8               11        10              + 2           11      10      +2
Dairies Individual Sector                810       12           N.A.        6/ N.A.       8        7          7                9          7             - 1
Overall Primary Production          349,366        19            17         16           16       15        14                1817                                            16    +70
Overall Project                   2,o67,452        25            23          22          21       19        18                24        23             -48            23      21   +106
t/  At discount rate of 12%.
SCF - 0.70; Labor Conversion Factor = 0.40.
/Labor Conversin Factor = 0.60. ,C
4/ Labor Conversion Factor = 0.80.
5/ % Change Required to Yield ERR value of 12%.
7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 



- 53 -
ANNEX 2
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
KOSOVO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Description of Agro-industry Facilities
1.       A new Pasta Processing Plant would be constructed in Zrze with a
capacity to process about 3300 tons of wheat and maize flours into 1650
tons wheat base pasta products with and without eggs, 710 tons maize base
snack products, and 880 tons wheat base specialized pasta products with
eggs annually on a 3 shift basis all for domestic consumption.
2.       A new Livestock and Turkey Slaughtering and Processing Plant
would be constructed in Gnjilane with a capacity to slaughter and process
annually about 743,000 turkeys, 17,000 baby beef, 1700 cows and oxen, 3600
calves, 7500 sheep and 15,000 lambs or about 10,000 tons (liveweight) to
produce about 3000 tons of carcass meat and primal cuts, 1825 tons fresh
whole and cut-up turkeys, 773 tons processed turkey meat products (mostly
sausages) and 1100 tons dry rendered meat, bone and feather meals. Plant
to be divided into three separate sections under one roof: (a) slaughter-
ing facilities for livestock; (b) slaughtering facilities for poultry; and
(c) processing facilities for turkey meal products. Rendering plant to be
separate building adjacent to slaughtering and processing plant.
3.       A new Turkey Farm would be established in Gnjilane with a capacity
to raise 422,500 baby turkeys annually to an average weight of 4.7 kg. The
turkey farm would produce about 1900 tons (liveweight basis) of turkeys
annually in 20 growing houses utilizing the deep litter production system.
Production cycle would be (a) turkey fattening, 13 weeks; and (b) cleaning,
disinfection and resting house 3 weeks or a total of 16 weeks per cycle
(3.25 production cycles per year).
4.       An existing Fruit and Vegetable Processing Plant would be reno-
vated, modernized and expanded and a new Cold Storage Plant of 5,000 tons
static storage capacity would be constructed in Prizren. The new cold
storage plant would be connected to the modernized fruit and vegetable
processing plant to allow efficient flow of frozen products. Provision
would be made in the cold storage plant design for receiving fresh meat
and meat products from a new slaughterhouse to be constructed in the future
on the same site. The new cold storage plant would be constructed adjacent
to an existing old cold storage plant and would utilize as much of the
structure as possible primarily to house a 5 tons per hour continuous belt
freezing tunnel and refrigeration compressors and auxillary equipment. The
equipment in the existing fruit and vegetable processing plant is obsolete,



- 54 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2
unsanitary and would be replaced under the project. The Investor, PIK
Progress-Export has already signed contracts for supply of refrigeration
compressors of sufficient capacity to provide adequate refrigeration to the
new plant. The Fruit and Vegetable Processing Plant would process about
11,200 tons of fresh fruit and vegetables into frozen and thermally pro-
cessed products yearly.
5.       A new Bakery Plant would be established in Kosovo Polje with a
capacity to process about 1300 tons of flour, sugar, eggs, marmelade,
shortening and other ingredients plus water into 1140 tons of swiss rolls,
56 tons of marble and fruit cakes, and 105 tons of assorted cookies
annually for domestic consumption.
6.       A new Potato Processing Plant would be constructed at a location
to be determined with a capacity to process about 22,000 tons of fresh
potatoes into 3800 tons frozen french fries, 1500 tons frozen croquettes,
1500 tons dehydrated potato flakes and 1600 tons potato chips for domestic
consumption.
7.       An existing fruit juice processing plant in Djakovica would be
modernized and expanded to include processing capability for production of
juice concentrates which would be stored for further processing throughout
the year into single strength packaged juices. About 11,400 tons of fresh
fruit would be processed into 2500 tons clear juices, 4500 tons nectars and
1200 tons fruit concentrates.
8.       A new Biscuit Processing Plant would be constructed in Pec to
process about 2500 tons of flour, sugar, shortening, raisins and other
ingredients into 1100 tons of biscuits, 400 tons of crackers, 500 tons of
raisin biscuits, and 500 tons of salt snack sticks for domestic consumption.
9.       A new Sugar Packing System would be installed at the beet sugar
processing plant in Pec to provide facilities to pack about 9300 tons of
refined sugar into consumer sized packages and to process about 500 tons of
refined sugar into confectionary (powdered) sugar and to process 4600 tons
of refined sugar into cubes then pack it into consumer sized packages for
domestic consumption.
10.      A new dry milling Maize Grits Processing Plant would be con-
structed in Pec to process about 26,300 tons of maize, annually, into about
14,000 tons of brewery grits, 525 tons of maize flour for pasta production,
700 tons of maize meal, 1200 tons of maize grits for retail sales, 700 tons
of corn flakes and 13,000 tons of residue for milling for use in livestock
feed, all for domestic consumption.



- 55 -
ANNEX 2
Page 3
11.      A new Cold Storage Plant would be constructed in Kosovo Polje with
a static storage capacity for 4500 to provide refrigerated storage for the
existing slaughterhouse which has recently been modernized. This new plant
would replace an old, obsolete plant of the same original capacity that has
deteriorated until only a small part remains useable in a very limited,
inefficient way.
12.      Provisions would be included in the project for construction of a
new Feed Mill in Klina. The total processing capacity of the mill for
production would be 60,000 tons annually on a 2 shift per day basis, 280
days per year. The output would be blended feed for poultry, pig and
cattle feeding, concentrates and premix.



- 56--                         ANNEX 3
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
KOSOVO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Detailed Project Cost Estimates
1.       Project cost estimation for investments to be financed under the
project are presented in the following tables attached to this Annex:
Table                           Description
1                             Total Foreign and Local Project Costs
2                             Annual Phasing of Project Costs
3                             Project Costs Including Physical and
Price Contingencies by Subproject
2.       The base cost estimates for the project are the expected cost of the
project at end of March 1981. These have been arrived at by adjusting the
project cost at June 1980 prices upward, by taking account of devaluation and
inflation until end March 1981.
3.       Physical contingencies at the rate of 10% for agroindustries com-
ponents and 5% for other components have been included in the project costs.
4.       Price contingencies have been calculated on the base cost plus the
physical contingencies, at the following expected rates of price increases
(in % per year).
Equipment and Other Items                 Domestic
International    Domestic                Civil Works
1981                           9.0           15.0                    18.0
1982                           8.5           12.0                    14.0
1983                           7.5           10.0                    12.0
1984                           7.5           10.0                    12.0
1985                           7.5           10.0                    12.0
1986                           6.0            9.0                    11.0



APPRAISAL OF
KOSOVO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Total Foreign and Local Project Costs
Cost in US$ '000                         Cost in Din '000
AGROINL'USTRIES             Local   Foreign        Total          Local         Foreign       Total       %FE
PASTA PFROC PLANT            2796      2404         5200           75500          64895       140395       46
SLAUGHTERHOUSE               8272      3674        11946          223346          99201      322547       3]
TUkkEY FARM                  5820      2417         8237          157137          65261      222398        29
VFGETABLE FROC PLANT         7502      6049        13551          202559         163326       365886       45
BAKERY                       3464      2168         5632           93537          58533      152070        38
POTATO PROC FLANT            7640      6982        14622          206284         188519      394804        48
JUICE FROC PLANT             3421      3033         6454           92371          81882       174254       47
BISClUIT PLANT               3531      2733         6264           95346          73780       169126       44
SLIrAR FACkAGING PLANT       1684      2233         3917           45473          60278       105750       57
MAIZE FROC PLANT            11893      6911        18804          321113         186606       507719       37
COLEL STORE                  3730      1735         5466          100718          46857       147574       32
FEED MILL                    7218      3115        10333          194894          84096       278990       30
______.-   -- --    -----------    -- - - -  -   -----------  _  _____ ___---_- _______
AGROINDS-SUBTOTAL           66973     43453       110426         1808278        1173234      2981513       39
PRIMARY PROrD-SOCIAL SECT
HAZELNUTS                     208       107          315            5611           2890         8501       34           l
PFARS                         495       255          750            13361          6883        20244       34           -
APPLES                        276       130          406            7447           3505        10952       32
VINEYARDS                   12360      7575        19935          333707         204530       538238       38
SOtJRCHERRIES                 293       151          445            7921           4081        12002       34
STRAWBERRIES                  276       142          419            7465           3845        11310       34
RASFFERERIES                  788       406         1193           21265          10955        32220       32
BLACKOERRIES                 1262       650         1912           34075          17554        51629       34
BLACK CURRANT                1730       814         2544           46706          21979        68685       32
GOAT FARM                     866       531         1396           23376          14327        37703       38
______   -- - - - - - - --- - - - - - - - - -  -- - - - - - - - - -  - - - - - - - - - - -  -- - - - - - - -
SOCIAL SECTOR-SUBTOTAL      18553     10761        29314          500935         290550       791484       36
PRIMARY FROD-INDIV SECT
HAZELNUTS                    1194       562         1755           32230          15167        47398       32
VINEYAR[IS                   3646      2235         5881           98453          60342       158795       38
LIVESTOCK                    2874      1174         4048           77596          31694       109290       29
-- - - - -   - _ _ _ _           - - - - - - - - - - -  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   -- - - - - - - - -
INFIIV SECTOR-SUBTOTAL       7714      3970        11685          208279         107203       315483       34
1SCHNICAL ASSISTANCE          500                    500           13500                       13500       0        i
GROUND WATER STUDY           1600       400         2000           43200          10800        54000       20
BASE COSTS-1OTAL            95340     58585       153925         2574192        1581787      4155980       38          U
.*.. .   a ........................... ....m  *        sa. .....=S .........
PHYSICAL CONT                8116      5102        13218          219124         137751       356875       38
PRICE CONTINGENCIES         42187     16692        58878         1139036         450675      1589711       28
_______     __ _                                               .____  ____
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS        145643     90379       226021         3932352        2170213      6102565       36
a          611 wt al ~ S~S11IS3 i flf l f S1tjS1 St:1, S W i ~ S I    Y11D111  SZ a r    l.a.S. .8



APPRAISAL OF
SOVO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Annual Phasing of Project Costs
(000 'DIN)
YEAR                 1             2             3             4             5             6          7 -6       TOTALS
AGROINDUSTRIES
F'ASTA PROC PLANT                  37690         95145          7560             -             -             -             -       140395
SLAUGHTERHOUSE                     83809        183658        55080              -             -             -             -       322547
TURKEY FARM                       121806         90872          9720             -             -             -             -       222398
VEGETABLE PROC PLANT              116666        222220        27000              -             _             _             _       365886
BAKERY                             44009         98882          9180             -             -             -             -       152070
POTATO PROC PLANT                      -        110395       248768         35640              -             -             -       394804
JUICE PROC PLANT                   65515         77419        31320              -             -                           -       174?'4
1'ISCUIT PLANT                     40398        115767         12960             -             -             -             -       169126
SUGAR PACKAGING PLANT              20724         85026             -             -             -             -             -       105750
MAIZE FROC PLANT                  128793        331406        47520              -             -             -             -       507719
COLD STORE                         44711        100704          2160             -             _             _             _       147574
FEED MILL                              -         75027       159683         44280              -             -             -       278990
AGROINDS-SUBTOTAL                 704121      1586520        610952         79920              -             -             -      2981513
fPRIMARY PROD-SOCIAL SECT
HEZrLNUTS                              -          4014          2105           675          804           904              -         8501
FEARS                                  -          4863          6236         4510          3568          1066              -        20244    b
A hFF'LES                              -          4713          3977         1080          1182              -             -        10952      O
VINEYARDS                          21324        120354       185360        151888         42179         17133              -       538238      1
SOURCHERRIES                        2636          4324         2491          1677           875              -             -        12002
R  4ILERRIES                       1197          5123          4990             -             -             -             -        11310
FcA iERIEIS                         5760         14113        10226          2120                                         -          32220
F LiCk PERRIES                     13501         24052        11624          2252              -             -             -        51629
SLACN CURRANT                      10600         26492        19812          7808          3973              -             -        68685
GOAT FARM                          37703                    -                    -             -             -             -        37Y03
SOCIAL SECTOR-SUBTOTAL             92722       208048        247022        172010         52580         19103              -       791484
PRIMARY PROD-INDIV SECT
AiZFL tl UTS                       9074         16839         9842          4330          4783          2530              -        47398
VINEYARLiS                         14610         57662        54063         24744          6299          1417              -       158795
LIVESTOCK                          23813         35260        44369          5850              -             -             -       109290
INDIV SECTOR-SUBTOTAL              47497       109761        108272         34923         11082          3947             -        315483
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE               13500             -             -             -            -              -            -         13500
S1RGOUND WATER STUDY               54000                    -             -             -            -             -                54000
C A'.F COSTS-TOTAL                911839       1904329        966246        286853        63662         23051              -      4155910  1 ,
-===== ===                                                                             =     = -
I HrTS(AL CONT                     80798        174542        78860         18339          3183          1153             -        356875i
RICF CONTINGENCIES               201757       65801l        474341        185442         48856         21304             -       1589711    W
rOTAL PROJECT COSTS             1194394       2736883       1519446        490633        115701        45507              -      6102565
===5====== ~ ~ ~ ~  ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ .  ........=====  =S====$gSt=ttsl  t2=   ===ll=s    $:====



\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
APPRAISAL OF
KOSOVO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Annual Phasing of Project Costs
(000   US$)
YEAR                 1            2            3            4             5            6           7-8       TOTALS
---------------------------------------------------------------_______-------__----------------------------------,-_------
AGROINDUSTRIES
PASTA PROC PLANT                   1396         3524           280            -             _            _             _         5200
SLAUGJHTERHOUSE                    3104         6802         2040             -             -            -             -        11946
TURKEY FARM                        4511         3366           360            -             -            -             -         8237
VEGETABLE PROC PLANT               4321         8230         1000             -             -            -             -        13551
BAKERY                             1630         3662           340                                                               5 -  -  -  S632
POTATO PROC PLANT                     -         4089         9214          1320                                        -        14622
JUICE PROC PLANT                   2426         2867          1160            -                                        -         6454
BISCUIT PLANT                      1496         4288           480                                                     -         6264
SUGAR PACKAGING PLANT               768         3149                          -                          -             -         3917
MAIZE PROC PLANT                   4770        12274          1760                                       -             -        10804
COLD STORE                         1656         3730            8o            -             -            -             -         5466
FEED MILL                           .           2779         5914          1640                          -             -        10333
AGROINDS-SUBTOTAL                 26079        58760        22628          2960             -            -             -       110426
PRIMARY PROD-SOCIAL SECT
HAZELNUTS                             -          149            78           25            30           33             -          315     Ln
PEARS                        '                   180           231          167           132           39             -          750    'D
AFPLES                                -          175           147           40            44            -             -          406
VINEYARDS                           790         4458         6865          5625         1562           635             -        19935
SOURCHERRIES                         98          160            92           62            32            -             -          445
STRAWBERRIES                         44          190           1S5            -             -            -             -          419
RASFBERRIES                         213          523           379           79             --                         -         1193
BLACKBERRIES                        500          891           438           83             --                         -         1912
BLACK CURRANT                       393          981           734          289          147             -             -         2544
GOAT FARM                          1396                                -             -                   -             -         1396
SOCIAL SECTOR-SUBTOTAL             3434         7705         9149          6371         1947           708             -        29314
PRIMARY PROD-INDIV SECT
HAZELNUTS                           336          624           365          160           177           94             -         175S
VINEYARDS                           541         2136          2002          916           233           52             -         5881
LIV'ESTOCK                          882         1306          1643          217             -            -             -         4048
INDIV SECTOR-SUBTOTAL              1759         4065         4010          1293          410           146             -        11685
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                500                   -            -             -            -             -                 500
bklUrLI WATER STUDY               2000             -            -            -             -            -             -         2000
lA',i COSTS-TOTAL                 33772        70S31        35787         10624         2358           854             _       153925      w
PHYSICAL CONT                      2993         646S         2921           679           118           43             -        1321i
PRI'E CONTINGENCIES                7472        24371        17568          6068         1S09           789             -        5887b
TDlh!. FFO&ELT CU5TS              44?3-'      .r5B3;6       '6? e         11472         4i23',        1685             -       226021



APPRAISAL OF
KOSOVO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Project Costs, Including  Physical and Price  Contingencies by  Subproject
(000 DIN)
1            2            3            4            5            6           7-0      TOTALS
AGROINDUSTRIES
PASTA PROC PLANT                 49583       136886         12395            -            -             -            -       198854
SLAUGHTERHOUSE                  111198       267654        90234                   -                    -            -       469095
TURKEY FARM                     162003       132916        15924             -            -            -             -       310842
VEGETABLE PROC PLANT            153574       320006        44232             -            -             -            -       517812
BAKERY                           58179       143315         15039            -            -                          -       216533
POTAYO PROC PLANT                     -       158386      390004         64540            -             -            -       612931
JUICE PROC PLANT                 85873       110765        51309             -            -             -            -       247947
BISCUIT PLANT                    53211       16686A        21231             -            -            -             -       241307
SUGAR PACKAGING PLANT            27114       121310             -            -            -             -            -       148424
MAIZE PROC PLANT                170366       480767        77849             -            -             -            -       728981
COLD STORE                       59394       147028          3539            -            -             -            -       209961
FEED MILL                             -      109439       255970         80186            -             -            -       445595
AGROINDS-SUBTOTAL               930495      2295336       977716        144725            -             -            -      4348272
PRIMARY PROD-SOCIAL SECT   .
HAZELNUTS                             -        5583          3217         1134         1468         1797             -        13199
PEARS                                 -        6765          9530         7575         6519         2119             -        32508
APPLES                                -        6568          6093         1819         2168             -            -        16648
VINEYARDS                        26941       166813       281892       253561         76473        33749             -       839429
SOURCHERRIES                      3338         6015          3806         2817         1598             -            -        17575
STRAUPERRIES                      1517         7126          7626            -            -             -            -        16269
RASPBERRIES                       7296        19633         15628         3562            -             -            -        46118
BLACKBERRIES                     17099        33459         18071         3782            -             -            -        72410
BLACK CURRANT                    13441        36921        30352         13156         7285            -             -       101153
GOAT FARN                        47635             -            -            -            -             -            -        47635
SOCIAL SECTOR-SUBTOTAL          117266       288884       376215       287405         95510        37664             -      1202945
PRIMARY PROD-INDIV SECT
HAZELNUtS                        11507        23468         15078         7295         8770         5051             _        71167
VINEYARDS                        18458        79921        82218         41307        11421         2792             -       236117
LIVESTOCK                        30250        49274        68219          9901            -            -             -       157645
INDIV SECTOR-SUBTOTAL            60214       152663       165515        58503        20191          7843             -      464929
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE             17449             -            -            -            -            -             -        17449
GRUNRD WATER STUDY               68970             -            -                         -            -             -        68970
IhSE7 COISTS-TOTAL             1194394      2736983      1519446       490633       115701         45507             -     6102565
...STS-OTAL.uS t ..a.m...   ...WU ......  .sss.....a..,   ......   ..-.... ,..a
PHYSICAL CONT                                                                                                                             1'
PFICE CONTINGENCIES
TOIAt PROJECT COSTS            1174394.     2736883      1519446       490633       115701         45507             -     6102565
.s.r.a... 5.  .t.. - ==... ........   .Sa .      .  ....S.....   ... ......  ....   a.       .... ..a



ANNEX 4
- 61 -                            Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
KOSOVO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Guidelines For Appraisal of Sub-projects
by Kosovska Banka Pristina (KBP)
1.       KBP would appraise the sub-projects to be financed under the project
in accordance with the general guidelines presented below.  On the basis of
these guidelines, KBP would develop detailed appraisal methodologies to be
used for sub-projects in the Individual Sector as well as in the Social
Sector.
Social Sector Sub-projects
2.       KBP would prepare a detailed sub-project appraisal report for each
investment project, taking into account the following:  (a) at least 50% of
sub-project processing capacities would be available for the use of produc-
tion from individual farmers; (b) sub-projects provide satisfactory financial
and economic rates of return on the basis of detailed and realistic cost and
benefit estimates, and would generate sufficient cash flow to cover debt
service, legal claims, compulsory allocations to enterprise funds, and
reinvestment needs. Sub-projects would have minimum financial and economic
rates of return of 12% in constant Dinars; (c) sub-projects are technically
feasible; (d) sub-borrowers are creditworthy and organization and management
and financial structure are satisfactory for sub-project implementation; (e)
that the necessary amount of seasonal credit would be available for the sub-
projects; (f) appropriate attention is given to the economic impact of sub-
projects, including employment, income, and import/export effects; and (g)
the necessary amount of long-term credit to finance permanent working capital
requirements would be available for the sub-project.
3.       In preparing the sub-project appraisal reports, KBP is expected to
make extensive use of the World Bank Appraisal mission Working Papers. An
outline of the subjects to be covered in each sub-project appraisal report
follows:
I.   Summary and Conclusions
(essential elements of sub-project, purpose, size, benefits, total
value, main components and stages, period of investment, financial
and economic results, conclusions)
II.   Introduction
III.   Investor
(background information and analysis)



ANNEX 4
-62 -                            Page 2
IV.   Conditions for sub-project implementation (social, economic,
environmental)
V.   Sub-project
(description, purpose, capacities, technical aspects, procurement,
implementation schedule)
VI.   Raw Materials Supply
VII.   Marketing
VIII.   Financing
IX.   Organization
X.   Economic and Financial Effects of Investment in the sub-project.
Individual Sector Sub-projects
4.       For the individual sector, a simplified appraisal methodology would
be used. The present practice under Bank-financed agriculture projects in
Yugoslavia is to examine the production and financial viability aspects of
individual sector sub-projects by preparing detailed farm budgets, cash-flows
and investment projections for each sub-project. The simplification proposed
under this project is to examine the production and financial viability
aspects of the individual sector sub-projects for primary agricultural
production by relating them to typical farm models developed during
appraisal. Thus, it would not be necessary to prepare farm models for each
sub-loan request. The resultant savings in time are expected to be sub-
stantial. KBP would update, at least annually, the general farm models, to
take account of price changes and experience gained from monitoring and
evaluation during project implementation. After some experience with this
format, we hope to be able to apply it to other Bank-financed projects in
Yugoslavia.
5.       KBP would prepare a brief (1 page) appraisal report for each
Individual Sector Sub-project for primary agricultural production, which
would address the following:
(a) creditworthiness of the loan applicant in accordance with the
Yugoslav regulations;
(b) adequacy of technical assistance provisions for helping the
individual farmers in implementing the investment;
(c) adequacy of marketing arrangements;
(d) reasonableness of investment cost estimates; and
(e) expected range of financial rate of return, by comparing it to
typical farm model valid for the current year.



ANNEX 5
- 63 -                         Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
KOSOVO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A. Selected Reports and Studies Related to the Sector
A-l  Agriculture related sections of the Social Plan of SR Serbia
1976-1980.
A-2  W.P. Mott, III)Agro-industry ESb-seprctor Reconnaissance Survey.
oslavia, Agland Investment Services, Inc., San Francisco,
April 1980.
A-3 World Bank, SAP Kosovo Rural Sector Study, World Bank (Report No.
2332a-YU)   March 7, 1979.
A-4  M. Jamieson, Kosovo Agro-industry.Subsector Report, July 1978.
B. Selected Reports and Studies Related to the Project
B-1 Agro Kosovo, Project Preparation Report. Third Agro-industry Project.
Primary Production in the Social Sector; Primary Production in the
Individual Sector, March 1980.
B-2 Agro Kosovo, Project Preparation Report. Third Agro-industry Project.
Yugoslavia and Kosovo Background and Agriculture Sector; Agro-
industry subprojects, Part 1. Agrokosovo, January 1980.
B-3  Feasibility Study for Processing Wheat. Maize. Potatoes for Kosovska
Banka Pristina and Agro Kosovo. Food Industries Research and
Engineering (Holland), April 1980.
C. Project Information File (PIF) Working Papers (WP) 1-7
Volume I
WP- I: Market Prospects for Proiect Related Commodities
.
Volume II
WP- 2:  Association of Agro-industries in Kosovo
WP - 3:  Agro-industry Subproject Development
WP - 4:  Vineyard and Orchard Subproject Development
WP - 5:  Goat Farm Development in the Social Sector
WP - 6:  Small Dairy Livestock Development in the Individual Sector
WP - 7:  Economic Analyses



- 64 -
APPRAISAL OF
KOSOVO AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Implementation Schedule
DESCRIPTION                                  1981                              1982                               1983                              1964
1        2       3       4         1       2       3          4      1       2        3       4         1       2        3       4
I. PROJECT STAFFING
- Appointment of Procurement
Specialirt
-  Appointment of Ag-oInduottien
Specialist
- Appointment of Agro-Kosgvo
Coordinator
2. AGRO INDUSTRIES
-  Pasta Plant
-  Gnjilane Slaughterhou_=
-  Gnjilane Turkey Farm
-  Vegetable Procesing Plant, Prizen
-  Bakery
-  Potato Procesning Plant
-  Juice Processing Plant
-  Biscuit Plant
-  Sugar Pachaging FaCility
-  Maizs Pr-cesing Plant
-  Cold Storage Plant, Kosou-  Poij_
-  Feed Mill. Kline                                                                                                                               - =               -
3. PRIMARY PRODUCTS
-  H-zel Nuts Social
PY-2                                                                                            1_       i
PY-3
-  Ha.el Nu, Indiidual..
PY-1 II-     
PY-2                                                 |            -    m. m    -
PY-2                                                                                                          -       -1I
PY-3
-  Vineyard Social
PY-1                                                                      - - -   -
PY-2                                                                                                 m               - I
PY-3                                                                                                                                    _
-  Vineyard ISndividul
PY-1                                                               ----- ---
PY-2                                 .                                                                       -                -       -
- Apple Spcial                                                             1          _~~~                   -                            -
-    e      Social -
PY-2
PY-3                                                                                                                                  -                 -                -
-  Apple Social
PY-2
-  Sou CherrisSocial
PY-2                                                                                                       - --  -
PY-3 ~~~~~
-  Rdpbe,rr,i  SocalI
PY-1                                                              -               -        -
PY-2
PY-3
Bl             ankberries Social
PY-1-                                                                     --
PY-2 PoatYa                                                                                                                                             Wrd8n-27
- Ract Curren Social
PY-1- -                                                                            --
X-2--
- Goat Farmn Social
4. GROUNDWATER STUDY
B. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
KEY:
=1meuUNIee        Approva1 of Subloan, Preperatioc of Documents. Final DesiWr, Adoerising and Eooloation of Tender Documents.
A-ad and Sig.ing of Contract.
Co-etrecion. Instollaitmo of Equipmeent, Staff Appointmnnm, Carrying out of Study and Tachnica Asontanc..
PY = P,ojac Year                                                                                                                                      World Bank - 22412



IBRD 15465
21t00                                           21h30'                 JANUARY 1981
_ . .:,..     . This soap ras hoes prepawred Orthe World Banks t .- prI-sht  oelh ftrth t   eeC 21'30  f 198
(  ,*.4 e(Y  *1; '                       0/,, .. the reader of the repor to wh,rh iris atteceed The den-mtasrrs sed and the
SI OVENlA~~~~  **~~~»*.J~~   -         Osurt~bd- Sh-wt on this op do not,p, si the hart oa sn World dock and toS
.    SZOVffVlAf  , - >    ,  ,         .  bt nd~~~~~~~~~afflresOPridsoert on toe lederh 550505 of Ofytosstsrr tOr tan OsrdOrsernto 
51 OVEN,A r                  - t I   sR 1zO    W  .  .adroptanre of siuon -oundthes      -
.<;  °nI'T A                                          -P       f-  b-  -t
j                      Kj
\ g~~                    ~               ~              ~~~~~~~ f7  ,                                     E  .    R  B  I  A                                          4ie
'005  \~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~30'
ro Tritog-dt J             Banjska
\        t}             .    -   ~~~~~~PodujeI,
E _-    ._ S   E   R   B  \ I  A                                        Zveca  Koso                     o              \
^    _.  /       :               (         V~~~~~~~ucitrn                  OBotlava      
MONTENEGRO   )-                                                            ',                                             Batlav
)                                  DurOkottoc                                  PriIu~~je      MiIsotok
SrbimoT-s                               ebItI\  c joeneovl
ra           Priluij             evo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DKomljn
1 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~R--qTeclNA     4-0
.....                nic          ro                          X       <Jank
3zD GROUND WATER IRRIGATION STUCIES    \                           r                                                  B           MA C E DO N I A
Ptitretn - Shea R.ka Fiedd                                
AGROINDUSTRY PLANTS                       >      Daa                     
PASTA, BAKERY. S  BISCUIT PLANT                -oju( \
42-00         SLAUGHTER HOUSE                                          5 I                             YUGOSLAVIA                      No5KoPJE                                42300
TURKEY FARM                                                                     YUGOSLAVIMOV
VEGETABLE PROCESSING PLANT                  r)  KOSOV'O AG7ROINDUSTRIES AND AGRICULTURAL
v                  ~~~~POTATO PROCESSING PLANT (dLeoMoss tnnonn) Ue  .                                 DEVELOPMENT   PROJECT
JUICE PLANT                             
SUGAR PACKING PLANT                   { 
MAIZE PROCESSING PLANT                jPrtmary roads
COLGOTSTRE                                                                  S econdary roads
FEEO MILL                             !                         ,i-- I" ,'-Kormi Railwaays
PRIMARY PRODUCTION                      2
:1VINEYARDS SDCIAL AND INDIVIDUAL SECTOBS                             ® 9    Commune Heodzauarters
DRCRARDS- SOCIAL AND INDIVIDUAL SECTORS  *                                 Commune Boundaries
BERY PLANTATINSSOAL SECTR .......Autonomous proVnce boundary
*     SSGAT PARM-SOCIAL SECTOR         i                                          Rnepublicn boundarie
MINI DAIRY FARMS (300 In essmbgt, It ail                                -                                                     2n0raoa  boundary
.. .                                        KILoMETER
25-35        )                                  21' 00'                                          21' 30'
Dj, 6 icI



