LOAN NUMBER 1993 YU
Loan Agreement
(Kosovo Agricultural Development Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
UDRUZENA KOSOVSKA BANKA PRISTINA
Dated                              , 1981


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1993 YU
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                     I L      , 1981, between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter
called the Bank) and UDRUZENA KOSOVSKA BANKA PRISTINA (herein-
after called the Borrower), acting pursuant to its self-management
agreement a.id statutes both on its own behalf and on behalf of its
Basic Panks (as this term is hereinafter defined).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist in
the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement by making the loan as hereinafter provided;
(B)   the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (herein-
after called the Guarantor), in consideration of the Bank's
entering into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed
to guarantee the Loan as to payment of principal, interest and
other charges;
(C)  the Borrower, the Composite Organization of Associated
Labor Agro-industrial Kombinat Agrokosova (hereinafter called
Agrokosova), the Social Sector Sub-borrowers (as this term is
hereinafter defined) carrying out Investment Projects (as this
term is hereinafter defined) included in   Part A (a), b (i) and
(c) of the Project and the farmers' cooperatives at(d social sector
organizations concerned with the carrying out of Part A (b) (ii),
(c) and (d) of the Project, inter alia, will enter into a self-
management agreement known as the Self-Management Agreement on
Mutual Rights, Obligations and Responsibilities for the Imple-
mentation of the Kosovo Agricultural Development Project, for the
purpose of defining their responsibilities and relationships under
Part A of the Project;
(D)  Part B of the Project will be carried out by the Bor-
rower in cooperation with the Self-Managed Community of Interest
for Water Economy, Prigtina (hereinafter called SIZ) and, as
part of such cooperation, the Borrower will make available to SIZ
a portion of the proceeds of the Loan as hereinafter -provided;
and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis inter alia of
the foregoing, to make the Loan available to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth hereinafter;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated October 27, 1980, with the
same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein,
subject, however, to the following modification thereof (said
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of
the Bank, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General
Conditions), namely that the following sub-paragraph (d) is added
to Section 3.04 of the General Conditions:
"(d) The Bank and the Borrower may from time to time
agree upon arrangements for prepayment of the Loan
and the application of such prepayment in addition
to, or in substitution for, those set forth in
paragraph (b) of Section 3.04."
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional
terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Self-Management Agreement of the Borrower" means the
Self-Management Agreement of the Borrower dated January 31, 1978,
as may be amended from time to time.
(b) "Statutes of the Borrower" means the statutes of the
Borrower dated May 28, 1973, as may be amended from time to time.
(c) "Sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made by
the Borrower out of its own funds and out of the proceeds of the
Loan in accordance with Section 3.03 (a) of this Agreement.
(d) "Sub-borrower"' means a beneficiary of a Sub-loan who may
be either: (i) an Individual Sub-borrower who is an individual
farmer sub-borrowing through his own farmers' cooperative or
through a social sector organization or an individual farmer
directly sub-borrowing; or (ii) a Social Sector Sub-borrower which
may be any form of social sector organization.


﻿- 3 -
(e) "Investment Project" means a specific investment project
to be carried out by a Sub-borrower utilizing the proceeds of a
Sub-loan.
(f) "Statement of Operations and Policies for Part A of the
Project" means the statement of lending and investment operations
and policies for Part A of the Project set forth in Schedule 5 to
this Agreement, as such statement may be amended from time to time
with the prior approval of the Bank.
(g) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and SIZ pursuant to Section 3.01
(b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to
time, and such term includes all schedules to such Subsidiary Loan
Agreement and all agreements supplemental to such Subsidiary Loan
Agreement.
(h) "Dinars" and the letters "Din" mean the currency of the
Guarantor.
(i) "Social Accounting Service" means the Slutba Dru9tvenog
Knjigovodstva referred to in paragraph (5) of Article 281 of the
Guarantor's Constitution.
(j) "Basic Bank" means any bank which is, or shall become, a
party to the Self-Management Agreement of the Borrower, pursuant
to the pertinent provisions thereof.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth
or referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent
to ninety million dollars ($90,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank: (i)
for amounts disbursed (or, if the Bank shall so agree, for dis-
bursements required to be made) by the Borrower under Sub-loans
in respect of the reasonable cost of works, goods and services
required for Part A of the Project and to be financed under the


﻿-4-
Loan Agreement pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 5 hereto;
and (ii) for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to
be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of other works, goods
and services required for the Project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan and in respect of interest and other
charges on the Loan.
(b) On each of the semiannual interest payment dates
specified in Section 2.07 of this Agreement, the Bank shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to
itself the amounts required to pay, on such date, interest and
other charges on the Loan accrued and payable on or before the
date set forth, and up to the amount allocated, in Schedule 1 to
this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to time
by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1987, or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
nine and three-fifths per cent (9-3/5%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on May 15 and November 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. (a) The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule
set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement as such Schedule shall
be amended from time to time by the Bank to the extent required
to: (i) conform in relevant part substantially to the aggregate of
the respective amortization schedules applicable to the Sub-loans
which have been approved or authorized for withdrawals from the


﻿-5-
Loan Account under Section 2.02 of this Agreement; and (ii) take
into account any cancellation pursuant to Article VI of the
General Conditions and any repayments made by the Borrower under
Section 2.09 of this Agreement; provided that repayments due
hereunder shall be made on May 15 and November 15 in each year.
Such amendments of said Schedule 3 shall includq amendments to the
table of premiums on prepayment, if necessary.
(b) The amortization schedule applicable to each Sub-loan
shall provide for an appropriate period of grace and, unless the
Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree: (i) shall not extend
beyond fifteen years from the date hereof; and (ii) shall provide
for approximately equal semiannual, or more frequent, aggregate
payments of principal and interest or approximately equal semi-
annual, or more frequent, payments of principal.
(c) The Borrower shall transmit to the Bank, for its prior
approval, any substantial changes proposed to be made by the
Borrower in respect of the repayment provisions of any Sub-loan.
Section 2.09. Unless the Bank and the Borrower shall other-
wise agree:
(a) If a Sub-loan or any part thereof shall be repaid
to the Borrower in advance of maturity or if a Sub-loan or any
part thereof shall be sold, transferred, assigned or otherwise
disposed of for value by the Borrower, the Borrower shall promptly
notify the Bank and shall repay to the Bank on the next following
interest payment date, together with the premiums specified in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement or in any amendment thereof under
Section 2.08 (a) of this Agreement, the amount withdrawn from the
Loan Account in respect of such Sub-loan or part thereof and not
theretofore repaid to the Bank.
(b) Any amount so repaid by the Borrower shall be applied
by the Bank to the maturity or maturities of the Loan in amounts
corresponding to the outstanding amounts of the maturity or
maturities of the Sub-loan so repaid or disposed of.
(c) Paragraph (b) of Section 3.04 of the General Conditions
shall not apply to any repayment made under paragraph (a) of
this Section.


﻿-6-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out Part A of the
Project in cooperation with Agrokosova and Part B of the Pro-
ject in cooperation with SIZ, all with due diligence and effi-
ciency, in conformity with appropriate agricultural, technical,
administrative and financial policies and practices, and shall
provide or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
Furthermore, the Borrower shall carry out Part A of the Project in
accordance with the Statement of Operations and Policies for Part
A of the Project.
(b) For the purpose of carrying out the studies included in
Part B of the Project, the Borrower shall relend the proceeds of
the Loan allocated under Category (3) of the table set out in
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement to SIZ, under a
Subsidiary Loan Agreement to be entered into between the Borrower
and SIZ under terms and conditions which shall have been approved
by the Bank.
(c) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsi-
diary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of
the Bank and the Borrower and to accomplish the purposes of the
Loan and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02 (a) In order to assist the Borrower in super-
vising the procurement procedures referred to in Schedule 4
to this Agreement, the Borrower shall continue to employ a pro-
curement specialist whose experience and qualifications shall
be satisfactory to the Bank and the Borrower.
(b) In order to strengthen the agricultural credit depart-
ment of the Borrower, the Borrower shall: (i) not later than
November 30, 1981, or such other date as the Bank may agree,
employ an agro-industries specialist whose experience and quali-
fications shall be satisfactory to the Bank and the Borrower, and
employ and assign to said specialist and the procurement spe-
cialist referred to in paragraph (a) above, experienced and
qualified support staff in adequate numbers; and (ii) as and when
required, employ consultants, whose experience and qualifications


﻿-7-
and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to
the Bank and the Borrower, who shall assist the Borrower, inter
alia, in supervising international procuremert procedures and
staff training.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes that, unless the
Bank shall otherwise agree, any Sub-loan by the Borrower will be
made on financial terms and conditions consistent with the State-
ment of Operations and Policies for Part A of the Project and on
the following terms and conditions, which are in addition to those
referred t' above, whereby the Borrower shall obtain, by written
contract with the Sub-borrower or by other appropriate legal
means, rights adequate to protect the interests of the Bank and
the Borrower, including, in the case of any such Sub-loan, the
right of the Borrower to:
(i) require the Sub-borrower to carry out its Invest-
ment Project with due diligence and efficiency and
in accordance with appropriate agricultural,
technical, administrative and financial policies
and practices and to maintain adequate records;
(ii) require that: (1) the works and goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
procured in accordance with Schedule 4 to this
Agreement; and (2) such works and goods shall be
used exclusively in the carrying out of an Invest-
ment Project;
(iii) inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives
of the Bank if the Bank shall so request, such
goods and the sites, works, buildings, property,
equipment and construction included in any Invest-
ment Project, the operation thereof, and any
relevant records and documents;
(iv) require that: (1) the Sub-borrower shall take out
and maintain with responsible insurers such in-
surance, against such risks and in such amounts, as
shall be consistent with appropriate business
practice; and (2) without any limitation upon the
foregoing, such insurance shall cover hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and
delivery of goods financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan to the place of use or installation, any


﻿-8-
indemnity thereunder to be made payable in a
currency free:y usable by the Sub-borrower to
replace or repair such goods;
(v) obtain all such information as the Bank or the
Borrower shall reasonably request relating to the
foregoing and to the administration, operations
and financial condition of the Sub-borrower;
(vi) suspend or terminate the right of the Sub-borrower
to the use of the proceeds of the Loan upon failure
by such Sub-borrower to perform its obligations
under its contract with the Borrower and, in appro-
priate cases, to premature the Sub-loan; and
(vii) require any of the Social Sector Sub-borrowers: (1)
to have its accounts and financial statements
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses
and related statements) for each fiscal year
audited in accordance with appropriate accounting
principles consistently applied by the Social
Accounting Service or another competent and experi-
enced independent accounting organization; (2) to
furnish to the Borrower as soon as available, but
in any case not later than six months after the end
of each such year, certified copies of its financ-
ial statements for each such year as so audited and
the report of such audit; and (3) to furnish to
the Borrower such other information concerning its
accounts and financial statements as the Borrower
shall from time to time reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower shall exercise its rights, in relation to
each Investment Project, in such manner as to: (i) protect the
interests of the Bank and the Borrower; (ii) comply with its
obligations under this Agreement; and (iii) achieve the purposes
of Part A of the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) In order to assist the Borrower and SIZ in
the carrying out of the studies included in Part B of the Project,
the Borrower shall cause SIZ to employ appropriate consultants
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) During the carrying out of the studies included in Part
B of the Project, the Borrower shall: (i) make available to the


﻿-9-
Bank copies of the documents prepared by the consultants, includ-
ing reports and drafts thereof, plans, designs, specifications,
work schedules and estimates of costs and benef:,ts; (ii) from time
to time, together with SIZ, exchange views with the Bank on the
recommendations and (ther conclusions contained in said documents;
(iii) not later than December 31, 1983, or such other date as the
Bank may agree, ensure that all said studies be completed; and
(iv) promptly thereafter, together with SIZ, exchange views with
the Bank on the findings of said studies and on the measures
pr)posed to be taken with respect to further development of
groundwater irrigation in Kosovo.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall: (a) maintain records and
procedures adequate to record and monitor the progress of the
Project and of each Investment Project (including the cost there-
of, the amount of financing provided by the Borrower, disburse-
ments, repayments, interest and other charges on such financing,
including the Sub-loan therefor); and (b) furnish to the Bank, in
cooperation with Agrokosova and SIZ, as appropriate, quarterly
reports on the implementation of all aspects of the Project
(including any pertinent general information on agriculture and
economic policy measures affecting the implementation of the
Project, the issues arising from such policy measures and the
possible remedial actions required therefor), in such detail as
the Bank shall reasonably request and within 45 days of the close
of the quarter concerned.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank all
such information as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning
the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan, the Project, its
procedures, operations and records, the Investment Projects and
the Sub-loans.
(b) Until the completion of the Project, the Borrower
shall, with the assistance of Agrokosova and SIZ, as appropriate,
and, to the extent necessary, with the assistance of qualified and
experienced consultants, under terms of reference satisfactory to
the Bank, evaluate the benefits derived from Part A and Part B of
the Project, in accordance with monitoring and evaluation proce-
dures acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to the Bank by April 30
of each year, an evaluation report of such benefits according to a
format acceptable to the Bank, the first of such reports to be
furnished to the Bank by April 30, 1983, or such other date as the
Bank may agree.


﻿- 10 -
(c) Upon approval of the award by the Borrower of any
contract for works, goods or services to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan, the Bank may publish a description thereof,
the name and nationality of the party to whom the contract was
awarded and the contract price.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Bank, the Borrower shall, in cooperation with Agrokosova
and SIZ, as appropriate, prepare and furnish to the Bank a report,
of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request, on the execution and initial operation of the Project,
its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from it, the
performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their respective
obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment of the
purposes of the Loan.
ARTICLE IV
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall at all times continue to
conduct its operations and affairs, including the Project, in
accordance with appropriate administrative and financial- policies
and practices, with qualified and experienced management and
staff, and in accordance with its Self-Management Agreement and
Statutes.
ARTICLE V
Financial Covenants
Section 5.01. The Borrower unconditionally undertakes,
whenever there is reasonable cause to believe that the funds
available to any of the Sub-borrowers will be inadequate to meet
the estimated expenditures required for the carrying out of any of
the Investment Projects, to make arrangements satisfactory to the
Bank, promptly to provide, or cause to be provided, any such
Sub-borrower with such funds in foreign or local currencies as
needed to meet such expenditures.
Section 5.02. The Borrower shall maintain records adequate
to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices its operations and financial condition.


﻿- 11 -
Section 5.03. (a) The Borrower shall establish and maintain
separate accounts for the Project and shall record in such
accounts all amounts disbursed or received for or in connection
with the Project.
(b) The Borrower shall retain, until one year after the
Closing Date, all records (orders, invoices, bills, receipts and
other documents) evidencing the expenditures on account of which
withdrawals are requested from the Loan Account with respect to
Categories (1) and (2) of the table set out in paragraph 1 of
Schedule 1 hereto on the basis of certificates of expenditures,
and shall enable the Bank's accredited representatives to examine
such records.
Section 5.04. The Borrower shall: (a) have its accounts and
financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and
expenses and related statements) and its records supporting
certificates of expenditures referred to in Section 5.03 (b)
hereof for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appro-
priate auditing principles consistently applied, by the Social
Accounting Service or another competent and experienced inde-
pendent auditing organization acceptable to the Bank; (b) furnish
to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than
six months after the end of each such year, (i) certified copies
of its financial statements for such year as so audited and (ii)
the report of such audit by said auditors (including an analysis
of the quality of the Borrower's portfolio), of such scope and in
such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested, including
a separate opinion by said auditors in respect of such certifi-
cates of expenditures showing whether the proceeds of the Loan
withdrawn from the Loan Account with respect to Categories (1) and
(2) of the table set out in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 hereto on
the basis of such certificates, have been used for the purpose for
which they were provided; and (c) furnish to the Bank such other
information concerning its accounts and financial statements
and the audit thereof, as the Bank shall from time to time reason-
ably request.
Section 5.05. (a) The Borrower represents that at the date
of this Agreement no lien exists on any of its assets as security
for any debt.
(b) The Borrower undertakes that, except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree: (i) if any lien shall be created on any assets
of the Borrower, as security for any debt, such lien will equally


﻿- 12 -
and ratably secure the payment of the principal of, and interest
and other charges on., the Loan and that in the creation of any
such lien express provision will be made to that effect at no cost
to the Bank; and (ii) if any statutory lien shall be created on
any assets of the Borrower, as security for any debt, the Borrower
shall grant, at no cost to the Bank, an equivalent lien satisfac-
tory to the Bank to secure the payment of the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan; provided, however, that
the foregoing provisions of this paragraph shall not apply to: (A)
any lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof,
solely as security for the payment of the purchase price of such
property; or (B) any lien arising in the ordinary course of
banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than
one year after the date on which it is originally incurred.
Section 5.06. The Borrower shall maintain arrangements
satisfactory to the Bank to protect itself against the risk of
losses resulting from changes in the rates of exchange between the
currencies (including Dinars) used in its lending and borrowing
operations for the purpose of carrying out Part A of the Project
and servicing the Loan, such arrangements to provide, in parti-
cular, adequate protection for the Borrower against the foreign
exchange risks on Sub-loan repayments accruing earlier than the
amortization payments of the Loan.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Bank
Section 6.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) Any part of the principal amount of any loan to the
Borrower having an original maturity of one year or more shall,
in accordance with its terms, have become due and payable in
advance of maturity as provided in the relative contractual
instruments, or any security for any such loan shall have become
enforceable.
(b) A change shall have been made in the Self-Management
Agreement or Statutes of the Borrower which would materially and
adversely affect the financial condition or operations of the
Borrower or the carrying out of the Project.


﻿- 13 -
(c) The Self-Management Agreement referred to in Preamble
(C) to this Agreement shall have been amended, repealed, waived or
suspended in such a way as to affect materially and adversely the
carrying out of the Project.
Section 6.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof, -amely, that any event specified in
paragraphs (a), (b) or (d) of Section 6.01 of this Agreement shall
occur.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following event is specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions,
namely, that the Self-Management Agreement referred to in Recital
(C) of the Preamble to this Agreement has been entered into by all
parties concerned in form and substance sati,factory to the Bank
and is in effect.
Section 7.02. The date           /< i9&i, is hereby speci-
fied for the purpose of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VIII
Addresses
Section 8.01. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INTBAFRAD                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 14 -
For the Borrower:
UdruZena Kosovska Banka Prigtina
Margala Tita 4
38000 Prigtina
Yugoslavia
Cable address:                       Telex:
BANKKOS                            18149 YU BANKKOS
Pri9tina
Yugoslavia
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
UDRUZENA KOSOVSKA BANKA PRISTINA
By                   Au t \o c ev
Authorized Representative


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed ont nf the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts oi tne Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Sub-loans for                57,000,000     ( 100% of for-
Part A (a) of                               ( eign expendi-
the Project                                 ( tures and 45%
( of amounts
( disbursed by
(2) Sub-loans for                20,500,000     ( the Borrower
Part A (b), (c)                             ( on account
and (d) of                                  ( of local ex-
the Project                                 ( penditures,
( in both
( instances
( subject to
( a maximum of
( 35% of the
( total esti-
( mated cost of
( the Invest-
( ment Project
( concerned
(3) Studies under                  2,000,000       100%
Part B of the
Project
(4) Consultants'                     500,000       100%
services under
Section 3.02 (b)
(ii) of the Loan
Agreement


﻿- 16 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category                Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(5) Interest and other            10,000,000      Amounts due
charges on the Loan
accrued on or before
November 14, 1986
TOTAL          90)000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Guarantor and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Guarantor; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Guarantor or for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Guarantor.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in
compliance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the
Loan shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Guarantor on goods or services,
or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply
thereof; to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied
on or in respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan decreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to
the Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage
then applicable to such item as required to be consistent with
the aforementioned policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of
this Agreement; and


﻿- 17 -
(b) payments made for expenditures in respect of Category
(3) until the Subsidiary Loan Agreement shall have been executed
by the Borrower and SIZ and the Bank shall have been furnished
with a legal opinion showing that such Subsidiary Loan Agreement
has been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and SIZ and
is legally binding upon such parties in accordance with its
terms.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of
the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that
Category, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate
to such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to
another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are not
needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if such reallocation
cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement
percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that
further withdrawals under such Category may continue until all
expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the
piocurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under
the Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount
of the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents
the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is designed to increase productivity and income
in the rural areas of the Socialist Autonomous Province of Kosovo
and its main objectives are: (a) to increase food and primary
agricultural production; (b) to improve agricultural market
opportunities; (c) to open additional opportunities for coopera-
tive membership among individual farmers; (d) to accelerate
planning for small-scale farm irrigation from groundwater sources;
and (e) to strengthen the Borrower's capacity for appraisal and
supervision of investments in the agricultural sector.
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:   Sub-loans
This Part consists of a program of Sub-loans to finance
investments in the following sectors:
(a) Agro-industries
Sub-loans to about 12 Social Sector Sub-borrowers
for the design, construction or reconstruction of
buildings, supply and installation of equipment, tech-
nical assistance, staff training, permanent working
capital requirements and start-up operations for plants
consisting of food-processing facilities for pasta,
meat, fruits and vegetables, fruit juice, potatoes,
biscuits and maize grits, a turkey-breeding farm,
a bakery, sugar processing and packing facilities,
a livestock feed mill and cold stores or other facili-
ties determine. in agreement between the Bank and the
Borrower.
(b) Vineyard, Orchard and Berry Plantations
(i) Sub-loans to about 10 Social Sector Sub-borrowers
for the establishment of vineyard, orchard and
berry plantations covering about 2,000 ha.
(ii) Sub-loans to about 800 Individual Sub-borrowers
for the establishment of vineyard and hazelnut
plantations covering about 650 ha.


﻿- 19 -
(c) Goat Farm Development
A Sub-loan to a Social Sector Sub-borrower for the
establishment and operation of a goat farm with a
capacity for about 1,200 goats, including the purchase
of breeding stock, feed production (on an area of about
260 ha) and the provision of extension and veterinary
services to relevant individual farmers and assistance
to said farmers for acquiring breeding stock, feed and
production inputs and collecting and marketing their
outputs (surplus milk, kids, goats, etc.), through a
program to be carried out by said Sub-borrower in co-
operation with the Livestock Institute in Pri9tina.
(d) Dairy Livestock Development
Sub-loans to about 300 Individual Sub-borrowers for
the expansion of dairy farms through the purchase
of dairy breeding stock and the construction or
improvement of sheds, barns, silage and manure pits.
Part B:   Groundwater Irrigation Development Studies
Carrying out a series of studies, acceptable to the Bank, for
groundwater irrigation development in selected locations in
Kosovo, including: technical investigations of existing ground-
water resources; identification of well irrigation systems suit-
able for rapid construction and operation under existing farm
conditions; assessment of agricultural, economic and financial
impact to 'be derived from selected irrigation systems; preliminary
recommendations for allocation of groundwater resources among
agricultural, industrial and domestic purposes and for scheduling
prospective investments so as to achieve the fastest rate of
agricultural development; planning and preliminary designs for
selected well irrigation systems; and pilot installation of well
irrigation systems and monitoring of the costs and impact thereof
on agricultural production.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1986.


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule*
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)**
November 15, 1984                                    300,000
May 15, 1985                                         650,000
November 15, 1985                                 1,400,000
May 15, 1986                                      2,220,000
November 15, 1986                                 3,070,000
May 15, 1987                                      3,960,000
November 15, 1987                                 4,470,000
May 15, 1988                                      4,580,000
November 15, 1988                                 4,580,000
May 15, 1989                                      4,580,000
'ovember 15, 1989                                4,580,000
May 15, 1990                                      4,580,000
November 15, 1990                                 4,580,000
May 15, 1991                                      4,580,000
November 15, 1991                                 4,580,000
May 15, 1992                                      4,580,000
November 15, 1992                                 4,580,000
May 15, 1993                                      4,580,000
November 15, 1993                                 4,580,000
May 15, 1994                                      4,580,000
November 15, 1994                                 4,310,000
May 15, 1995                                      4,040,000
November 15, 1995                                 3,360,000
May 15, 1996                                      2,680,000
*    The Amortization Schedule is subject to amendment pursuant
to the provisions of Section 2.08 of the Loan Agreement.
**   To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.04), the figures in this column represent dollar equiva-
lents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 21 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified.as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of
the General Conditions or to Section 2.09 of the Loan Agreement:
Time of Prepayment                              Premium
Not more than three years                             1.90%
before maturity
More than three years but not                         3.85%
more than six years before
maturity
More than six years but not                           7.05%
more than eleven years
before maturity
More than eleven years but not                        8.30%
more than thirteen years
before maturity
More than thirteen years                              9.60%
before maturity


﻿- 22 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C of this Schedule, goods and
civil works shall be procured under contracts awarded in accor-
dance with procedures consistent with those set forth in the
"Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Cre-
dits" published by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the
Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive bidding as
described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, and in addition to the requirements
of paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and
forward to the Bank as soon as possible, and in any event not
later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the public
of the first tender documents relating thereto, a general procure-
ment notice, in such form and detail and containing such informa-
tion as the Bank shall reasonably request; the Bank will arrange
for the publication of such notice in order to provide timely
notification to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for
the goods and works in question. The Borrower shall provide the
necessary information to update such notice annually so long as
any goods or works remain to be procured on the basis of interna-
tional competitive bidding.
3.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, the plants included
in Part A (a) of.the Project shall be procured on a "turnkey
contract" basis.
4.   In the event that registration in Yugoslavia shall be neces-
sary after a foreign contractor or supplier has been notified that
he will be awarded a contract, the Borrower shall facilitate the
registration.
5. Contracts -for civil works and goods shall include a
provision allowing non-Yugoslav contractors and suppliers to
convert into foreign exchange and to repatriate a reasonable
portion of contract payments, and to import equipment and
specialized manpower as required to carry out their services.


﻿- 23 -
6.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported
goods, or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other
goods, offered in such bid; and (ii) customs duties and other
import taxes levied in connection with the importation, or the
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken
into account in the evaluation of the bids.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
Yugoslavia may be granted a margin of preference in accordance
with, and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Yugoslavia if the bidder shall have established to
the satisfaction of the Borrower and the Bank that
the manufacturing cost of such goods includes a
value added in Yugoslavia equal to at least 20%
of the ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest evalu-
ated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a


﻿- 24 -
result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Civil works for plants included in Part A (a) of the
Project consisting of facilities for processing fruits and
vegetables and fruit juice, a turkey-breeding farm, sugar pro-
cessing and packing facilities, a livestock feed mill and cold
stores shall be procured on the basis of competitive bidding
advertised locally and in accordance with procedures acceptable to
the Bank.
2.   Goods and works included in Part A (b) (i) and (c) and
Part B of the Project shall be procured: (a) on the basis of com-
petitive bidding advertised locally and in accordance with pro-
cedures acceptable to the Bank, if a contract is estimated to
cost the equivalent of $150,000 or more; and (b) through nego-
tiated purchases, if a contract is estimated to cost less than the
equivalent of $150,000.
3.   Goods and works included in Part A (b) (ii) and (d)
of the Project shall be procured in accordance with local pro-
curement procedures.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:


﻿- 25 -
With respect to all contracts referred to in Part A.3 hereof
and all contracts for goods included in Part A (a) of the Project
and not covered by the aforementioned contracts:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid
and the specifications and other bidding cuments, together with
a description of the advertising proc(aures to be followed for
the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any
further modification to the bidding documents shall require the
Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for
its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison
of the bids received, together with the recommendations for award
and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably request.
The Bank shall, if it determines that the intended award would be
inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform
the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those
on which bids were asked.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after
its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account
in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such con-
tract, together with the analysis of the respective bids, recom-
mendations for award and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the
award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or
this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons
for such determination.


﻿- 26 -
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 20% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Bank of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Bank, if it determines
that the proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions of
this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower and state
the reasons for its determination.


﻿- 27 -
SCHEDULE 5
Statement of Operations and
Policies for Part A of the Project
1.   Sub-loan Processing
(A) Registration
Each Investment Project shall be registered with the
Borrower upon receipt of the application therefor made by
a Sub-borrower to the Borrower.
(B) Appraisal and Eligibility
(i) Sub-loans to Social Sector Sub-borrowers
The Borrower shall prepare an appraisal report for
each Investment Project, taking into account,
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
following:
(a) the technical feasibility, financial viabi-
lity, commercial soundness, economic justi-
fication and availability of markets;
(b) the generation of sufficient cash flow to
cover debt service, legal claims, legally
required allocations to the enterprise's
depreciation, reserve and reinvestment needs,
and the need to achieve financial and
economic rates of return of at least 12%; if
the financial or the economic rate of return
is calculated to be less than 12%, additional
justification acceptable to the Bank will be
required;
(c) the creditworthiness of the Sub-borrower;
(d) appropriate consideration given to the choice
of technology, with preference accorded to
more labor-intensive methods as opposed to
capital-intensive and automated technology and
to the consequences of such a choice on the
investment cost of Investment Projects;


﻿- 28 -
(e) for Sub-loans for Part A (a) of the Project,
availability of raw material supply; and
(f) for the Sub-loan for Part A (c) of the Pro-
ject, the provision of extension and veteri-
nary services to relevant individual farmers
and assistance to said farmers for acquiring
breeding stock, feed and production inputs and
collecting and marketing their outputs (sur-
plus milk, kids, goats, etc.), through a
program to be carried out by the Sub-borrower
in cooperation with the Livestock Institute in
Pristina.
(ii) Sub-loans to Individual Sub-borrowers
The Borrower shall prepare a brief appraisal report
for each Investment Project, taking into account
the following:
(a) technical feasibility, financial viability,
commercial soundness, economic justification
and availability of adequate and continuing
technical assistance and of suitable market
outlets at fair and reasonable prices;
(b) the generation of sufficient cash flow to
cover debt service, legal claims and reinvest-
ment needs, and the need to achieve financial
and economic rates of return of at least 12%;
if the financial or economic rate of return
is calculated to be less than 12%, additional
justification will be required;
(c) the creditworthiness of the Sub-borrower;
(d) adequacy of the mutual agreements between
individual farmers and their own cooperatives
or social sector organizations; and
(e) adequacy of the arrangements for the provision
of extension services to individual farmers
and the recovery of service charges.


﻿- 29 -
(C) Review of Investment Projects and Approval
of Sub-loans
On the basis of the appraisal referred to above in
paragraph B (i) and (ii), Investment Projects shall be
reviewed and the proposed. Sub-loans therefor shall be
approved as follows:
(i) with respect to the Investment Project for goat
farm development included in Part A (c) of the
Project and any Investment Project under Part A (a)
of the Project consisting of facilities to be
determined in agreement between the Bank and the
Borrower, the Borrower shall not approve a Sub-loan
before the Bank has reviewed the Investment Project
and the appraisal report pertaining thereto and has
given its approval to it;
(ii) with respect to the Investment Project for potato
processing included in Part A (a) of the Project,
the Borrower shall not approve the Sub-loan
before the Bank has reviewed the financial, manage-
ment and technical position of the Sub-borrower and
has given its approval to it;
(iii) with respect to other Investment Projects, the
Borrower shall review each Investment Project
submitted to it and shall have the right to give or
withhold its approval for a Sub-loan to be made,
provided that the Borrower shall, in the case of
Investment Projects under Part A (a) of the
Project, obtain the prior approval of the Bank
before approving the Sub-loan in cases where: (1)
the investment costs (including price and physical
contingencies), as updated at the time of such
Sub-loan final review by the Borrower, shall
exceed by more than 20% the investment costs
(including price and physical contingencies)
estimated during appraisal of the Investment
Project; or (2) a major change in the design of
the Investment Project shall occur; and
(iv) as part of the review of an Investment Project and
prior to approving any Sub-loan, the Borrower
shall ensure that:


﻿- 30 -
(a) contributions to Sub-loans are available as
set forth in paragraph 2 (A) hereunder as and
when required to enable the Sub-borrower to
carry out its Investment Project in a timely
manner;
(b) seasonal credits are made available to Sub-
borrowers in amounts sufficient to enable them
to realize the poLential of the investments
included in their Investment Projects; and
(c) the requirements (as and when applicable) set
out in Section 3.03 (a) (i), (ii), (iv) and
(vii) of the Loan Agreement are fulfilled.
(D) Notification
(i) With respect to any Sub-loan included in the above
sub-paragraph (C) (iii), the Borrower shall
promptly inform the Bank of its approval thereof
and shall, only upon its request, submit to the
Bank the appraisal report of the Investment Project
to be prepared according to a format acceptable to
the Bank.
(ii) With respect to any Sub-loan, the Borrower shall,
upon approval of such Sub-loan, promptly inform the
Bank of the number assigned to such Sub-loan for
the purpose of registration under paragraph 1 (A)
above.
2.   Terms of Sub-loans
(A) Contribution to Cost of Investment Projects
(i) Unless the Borrower shall otherwise determine on
rhe basis of the financial situation of the Sub-
borrowers, Sub-borrowers shall be .required to
contribute not less than 20% of the cost of each
Investment Project (including, in the case of
Individual Sub-borrowers, their own labor or
building materials). The Borrower shall be required
to contribute, or shall cause to be contributed,
the remainder uf such cost.


﻿- 31 -
(ii) The amount of the proceeds of the Loan used
for a given Investment Project shall not exceed 35%
of the estimated costs thereof.
(B) Rate of Interest
Unless otherwise agreed by the Bank, Sub-loans shall
carry interest on the principal amount outstanding from time
to time:
(i) on the portion of a Sub-loan financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan, at an annual rate of not less
than 11%; and
(ii) on the portion of a Sub-loan financed out of
resources other than the resources provided by
the Federal Fund for Accelerating the Development
of the Less Developed Republics and SAP Kosovo or
the proceeds of the Loan, at an annual rate of not
less than 10%.
(C) Repayment
For the purpose of Section 2.08 (b) of the Loan Agree-
ment, the grace and amortization periods for the repay-
ment of principal of the portion of Sub-loans financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan shall be determined from the pro-
jected cash flow of the Investment Project financed. Unless
otherwise agreed with the Bank, such grace and amortization
periods shall not exceed the following:
Maximum
Maximum              Amortization
Grace Period      Period (including the
Type of Sub-loan           in Years        grace period) in Years
A.   Sub-loans to             3                      15
Social Sector
Sub-borrowers
B.   Sub-loans to             5                      15
Individual
Sub-borrowers


﻿- 32 -
3.   Supervision
The Borrower shall supervise the application of its Sub-loans
in accordance with appropriate banking, financial, technical and
agricultural practices. Such supervision shall include inter alia
periodic visits (at least at six-month intervals) to the Invest-
ment Projects to ensure that the proceeds of the Sub-loans are
properly used and that satisfactory progress is made in the
carrying out of the Investment Projects. After each visit the
Borrower shall prepare and make available to the Bank, if re-
quested by the Bank, a supervision report in a format acceptable
to the Bank for each Investment Project.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this  157tday of          L, 198 1
FOR SECRETARY


