Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 13790-JO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
SECOND HUMAN RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT SECTOR INVESTMENT PROJECT
MARCH 3, 1995
Human Resources Division
Country Department II
Middle East and North Africa Region



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
(as of January, 1995)
Currency Unit = Jordanian Dinar
US$1.00 = JD 0.65
JD 1.00 = US$1.54
JORDANIAN FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CC            Community College
CDTP          Curriculum Dissemination Training Program
EMIS          Educational Management Information System
ETC           Educational Training Center
GDCET         General Directorate for Curriculum and Educational
Technology
GDEE          General Directorate for Evaluation and Examinations
GDPSB         General Directorate for Projects and School Buildings
GSSCE         General Secondary School Certificate Examination
HCC           Higher Certification College
HCST          Higher Council for Science and Technology
HRDSIL        Human Resources Development Sector Investment Loan
ICB           International Competitive Bidding
IDA           International Development Association
IS           International Shopping
LCB           Local Competitive Bidding
LRC           Learning Resource Center
LS            Local Shopping
MOE           Ministry of Education
MOHE          Ministry of Higher Education
MOP           Ministry of Planning
NCERD         National Center for Educational Research and Development
NBF           Non-Bank Financed
ODA           Overseas Development Association
PDD           Production and Distribution Directorate
SOE           Statement of Expenditure
TA            Technical Assistance
TCP           Teacher Certification Program
TOR           Terms of Reference
TVET          Technical and Vocational Education and Training
UNICEF        United Nations International Children's Emergency Fund
UNRWA         United Nations Relief and Work Agency
VTC           Vocational Training Corporation
WBG           West Bank and Gaza



THE HAS}HEMiTE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
SECOND HUMAN RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT SECTOR INVESTMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
- Table of Contents -
Pa2e
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
I.   ECONOMIC  BACKGROUND   .............................................   1
II. THE EDUCATION SECTOR                                    ..............................                                               2
A. Overview .               .......................................................  2
B. The Education Reform  Program   ..........................................   3
C.  Implementation of the Reform  Program   .....................................   3
Upgrading Qualification of Teachers  .....................................   3
Upgrading Curricula and Textbooks  .....................................   5
Upgrading Evaluation and Student Assessment ...............................  5
Improving the Learning Environment  ....................................   6
Expanding the School Construction Program   ................................   6
Improving Technical and Vocation Education and Training (TVET)   .................  7
Monitoring the Reform  Program    .......................................   8
D.  Financing Education Development  ........................................   8
E.   Government Education Policy  ...........................................   9
F. Bank Strategy and Lending Experience ..................................... 10
Bank Involvement in the Education Sector ................................. 10
Lessons Learned ................................................. 10
Rationale for World Bank Assistance .................................... 11
III. THE PROJECT ...................................................... 11
A.  Project Objectives and Scope ............................................  11
B. Policy Framework .................................................. 11
C. Project Components ................................................  12
Component 1: Deepening the Qualitative Impact of the Reform   ...................   12
Component 2: Institutional Development .................................. 13
Component 3: Improving the Facilities for Teaching and Learning .................. 14
D. Action Plans ...................................................... 15
IV. PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING, MANAGEMENT, AND IMPLEMENTATION  ....                                                          ......... 16
A. Cost of the Project .                  ................................................. 16
Base Costs .            ..................................................... 16
Contingency Allowances ............................................ 16
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission to the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan in November 1994 composed of George
Za'Rour (Mission Leader and Task Manager) with the participation of Gail Richardson (Humnan Resources Specialist), George Hadjicostas (Civil
Engineer), Murad Jurdak (Education Specialist), Amanda Buchan and Tony Read (Textbook Development Specialists), and Andre Salmon
(Operations Specialist). Ms. lqbalKaur also provided assistance in preparing the report. Peer reviewera were Thomas Eisemon (Senior Education
Specialist, ESP) and Sverrir Sigurds on (Principal Imnplementation Specialist, ESP). The report was prepared under the oveal supervision of
Mr. Jacques Baudouy (Chief, MN2HR) and approved by Mr. Ram K. Chopra (Director, MN2) and Mr. Caio Koch-Weser (Vice President,
MNA).



THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
SECOND HUMAN RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT SECTOR INVESTMENT LOAN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
- Table of Contents (continued) -
Foreign Exchange Component .......................................... 17
Incremental Recurrent Costs .......................................... 17
B. Project Financing ............................................... 17
C. Project Management and Implementation .................................... 17
D. Procurement Arrangements ............................................ 22
International Competitive Bidding ...................................... 22
Exceptions to ICB ..............................................   22
Bid Documents and Contract Review .................................... 23
E. Disbursements ............................................... 23
F. Project Accounts and Audits ............................................ 26
G. Project Supervision, Reporting, and Evaluation ................................ 26
Supervision ............................................... 26
Reporting ..............................................                                       26
Midterm Review and Evaluation ....................................... 27
H. Project Objective Categories ........................................... 27
V. BENEFITS AND RISKS   .............................................. 28
A. Benefits .         .............................................. 28
B. Risks       ......................                       ........................ 28
C. Project Sustainability ..............................................   28
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION  .............                               ............... 29
A. Agreements reached  ..............................................   29
B. Recommendation ..............................................                                       30
TABLES
4.1: Cost Summary by Project Component .          ..................................... 18
4.2: Cost Summary by Project Expenditure Account ................................ 19
4.3: Procurement Arrangements    .. .......................................... 24
4.4: Disbursement Accounts by Financiers .        ..................................... 25
ANNEXES
1      -       Project Components Matrix and Costs
2      -        Action Plans (One-Page Summaries)
3      -        Technical and Vocational Education and Training
4      -        Sample Format for Preparing Sub-Project Proposals and Sub-Project Appraisal Reports
5      -        Monitoring and Evaluation Indicators
6      -        Technical Assistance and Fellowship Summary
7      -        Key Statistical Indicators
8      -       Education Reform Program
9      -        Disbursement Schedule
10     -       Supervisory Plan
11     -       Organizational Chart of the Ministry of Education
12     -       National Center for Educational Research and Development
13     -       Implementation Volume (Table of Contents)
MAP        IBRD 26528



THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
SECOND HUMAN RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT SECTOR INVESTMENT LOAN
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:               The Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan
Beneficiaries:          Ministry of Education (MOE); Ministry of Higher Education (MOHE); Vocational
Training Corporation (VTC); and National Center for Educational Research and
Development (NCERD)
Poverty Cateog :        Not applicable. Although poverty alleviation is not an explicit objective of the
project, the educational quality improvements resulting from the project are expected
to have a favorable impact on the poverty profile in Jordan.
Loan Amount:            US$60 million equivalent
Terms:                  Repayment in 20 years, including 5 years grace, at the Bank's standard variable
interest rate.
Commitment Fee.:        0.75 percent on undisbursed loan balance, beginning 60 days after signing, less any
waiver.
Financing Plan:                          - US$ million-
Financier        Local  Foreign    Total
World Bank       21.97    38.03    60.00
The Government  36.49    30.17    66.66
Cofinanciers     22.84    37.16    60.00
TOTAL            81.30   105.36   186.66
Economic Rate of Return: Not applicable
Staff Appraisal Report:    Report No: 13790-JO
Mma:                    IBRD 26528






THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
SECOND HUMAN RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT SECTOR INVESTMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. ECONOMIC BACKGROUND
1.1      Jordan is a small economy which traditionally had close ties to the oil-producing countries
in the Gulf region. The country achieved unprecedented growth during 1973-84, boosted by foreign
assistance, workers' remittances and exports to traditional markets. That growth was not sustainable,
however, as productivity had stagnated, wages were elevated to levels which reduced export
competitiveness, and remittances from Jordanians mainly in the Gulf states proved to have limited growth
potential and were vulnerable to external shocks. The boom ended in the mid-eighties as a result of the
decline in the price of oil and subsequent slowdown in regional economies. Foreign assistance, exports
and remittances all declined, and severe deficits in fiscal and external accounts ensued. By 1991, real
per capita income had fallen to about half its 1987 peak of US$2,100. The country faced the new
challenge of disruptions caused by the Gulf War, including disruption of trade, interruption of
remittances, and the return of about 300,000 Jordanians living in the Gulf area which pushed
unemployment up to 25 percent. Nevertheless, stabilization policies adopted since 1989 were largely
successful: the fiscal deficit began to fall, inflation was checked, and most prices, interest rates and
exchange rates became market-determined. However, major structural constraints to growth remained.
The crisis helped to make the Government realize that it cannot continue to depend so heavily on external
financial support from neighboring countries.
1.2      In 1992 a new IMF Stand-By-Arrangement was approved, supporting moves toward further
fiscal deficit reduction, maintenance of a flexible and competitive exchange rate, and restructuring of the
tariff and trade regime. Program achievements were better than expected: over the two years from 1991
to 1993, the fiscal deficit fell from 17.8 percent to 6.4 percent, money supply growth fell from 24.5
percent to 10.5 percent, the rate of inflation fell from 8.2 percent to 4.8 percent, and after four years of
decline or near stagnation, real GDP grew by an average of 8.6 percent p.a. Growth under these
normally contractionary conditions was fueled by a combination of dramatic increases in workers'
remittances, inflows of private savings in connection with the resettlement of returnees, and concessional
aid including debt rescheduling.
1.3      Preliminary economic indicators for 1993 and for the first half of 1994 suggest that growth
has continued, the internal imbalances, especially the fiscal deficit, have been considerably reduced, and
domestic inflation has been held in check. These positive developments should help further improve
Jordan's medium-term prospects. However, serious economic and social challenges remain. The
regional peace process, accelerated by the November 1994 peace accord between Jordan and Israel,
carries the prospect of an investment-led boom in the West Bank and Gaza (WBG) which could increase
demand for Jordanian goods and services. The discussions held between Jordan and Israel are expected
to clear away restraints to regional tourism, trade, finance, and joint infrastructure development, and are
presenting unprecedented opportunities for sustained investment. The positive prospect of peace and
growth creates a new set of pressures on Jordan's infrastructure and natural resources - particularly water
-- and several immediate economic risks from the use of several currencies in the fragile WBG economic
environment, from the pressure an investment-led boom in the WBG would put on prices, wages and the
exchange rate in Jordan, and from the potential diversion of investments to the WBG. Peace would also
bring new costs from massive investments in upgrading refugee settlements. While coping with these



- 2 -
costs, Jordan would continue to face social and political tensions from high unemployment (15-20
percent), increased poverty (about 15 percent below the poverty line, up from 3 percent in 1986), and
a possible major shortfall in current account financing. Finally, although debt rescheduling and write-off
have provided substantial debt service relief, Jordan's external debt, at about 122 percent of GDP,
remains a heavy burden on the economy.
II. THE EDUCATION SECTOR
A. Overview
2.1       In the absence of natural resources, Jordan has traditionally emphasized the development of
human capital as a nucleus of its development strategy and as an instrument for social and economic
advancement of its people. Such a policy has been translated into systematic efforts to expand and
develop the education sector. The resulting educational system is well-developed and has been generally
successful in improving the standard of living in the country. Participation in education and literacy rates
in Jordan are among the highest in middle income countries. Most recent estimates (1989-92) of gross
enrollment ratio is 99 percent for primary grades 1 to 6 and 73 percent for grades 7 to 10h. Overall
illiteracy in 1993 was 16 percent of the population over 15 while the corresponding figure for females
was 23 percent)2. Equality of opportunity for girls is well established at all stages including higher
education. In 1991-92, 49.0 percent of basic cycle students and 48.7 percent of secondary cycle students
were females. In addition, about 60 percent of basic and general secondary school teachers in 1991 were
females. In higher education (universities and community colleges), 48.8 percent of students were
females in 1990-91 and about 64 percent of enrollment in community colleges was private. The first
private university started its instructional program in 1990-91 with 1324 students. Enrollment in private
universities in 1993/94 reached more than 11,000 students and public universities enrolled more than
50,000 students.
2.2        Sector organization. The Ministry of Education (MOE) is responsible for managing the
education system. The Ministry consists of: (i) the Minister; (ii) the Secretary General and four Assistant
Secretaries General; (iii) the general central administrative system of the Ministry; and (iv) the
directorates of education and instruction in the governorates and districts. The central administration of
the MOE has 11 general directorates covering all administrative and academic aspects, such as
administrative affairs, financial affairs, curricula and educational technology, instructional and educational
supervision and training, planning and educational research, and evaluation and examinations (See Annex
11, organizational chart of MOE). Each general directorate is broken down into directorates, which in
turn are broken down into divisions.   The 26 directorates of  education and instruction in the
governorates and districts are responsible for the delivery of instruction in schools and raising its quality
in light of the educational policies and plans of the MOE. The trend is for stronger decentralization at
the level of the governorate. A high-level Board of Education and Instruction serves as the general
overseer for pre-university educational policies. Education policy research and development functions,
including supervision of implementation of the first Human Resources Development Sector Investment
Loan (HRDSIL-I) and other externally-financed projects in the sector, are the responsibility of the
Intermediary and the National Center for Educational Research and Development (NCERD) - a semi-
autonomous body incorporated under the Higher Council for Science and Technology (HCST).
1. NCERD, General Education Indicators, August 1994.
2. Jordanian Department of Statistics (pamphlet), 1994.



B. The Education Reform Program
2.3       The September 1987 National Conference on Educational Development provided a forum for
the formulation of a set of recommendations that provided the basis for the ten-year education reform
program. The Government's main concern is, and was, to improve the quality of education. A major
objective of the reform is to train students to think flexibly and critically, to be open to and capable of
processing new concepts and ideas, and apply in productive ways what has been absorbed and processed.
The students are expected to keep socially active and responsible; to be more productive and work-
oriented; and to take initiative and be more self-reliant and independent in learning. The overall
educational reform strategy [endorsed by the Bank and supported by the first Human Resources
Development Sector Investment Loan (HRDSIL I, Loan No. 3106-JOI includes a reshaping of basic and
secondary education policies and curricula, together with sector-wide institutional development initiatives.
The reform has been the organizing framework for activities in the sector which aim at improving
educational quality through interventions including: (i) upgrading qualifications of teachers; (ii) upgrading
curricula and textbooks; (iii) upgrading evaluation and student assessment in order to obtain a clearer
picture of the quality of education and student achievement; (iv) improving the educational environment
through the introduction of new technologies and equipment; (v) improving school administration through
staff training and increased decentralization; and (vi) expanding the school construction program to reduce
the use of unsuitable rented school facilities and of double-shifting, and to accommodate the natural
growth in the student population. The goals and objectives of the reform continue to provide a sound
long term policy framework for the sector.
2.4       The overall reform program is cumulative over time, whereby later initiatives build upon
foundations laid by earlier ones. The program is also interactive/synergistic, in that the outputs of the
individual programs are designed to enhance and support each other. In addition, implementation
experience is systematically monitored and evaluated and the results are used as feedback for
modifications. Despite careful planning, there is a growing conviction that the reform is a long-term
process that will continue beyond the ten year period originally set for it to realizing its goals and
objectives. The sectoral strategy will continue to support the implementation of the policies and activities
under the educational reform, with particular emphasis on improvement of educational quality and
strengthening the institutional framework, with adjustments based on the experience so far. The next
section describes the extent to which the reform program is expected to be implemented by the conclusion
of HRDSIL I (June 1995) and pinpoints related issues. Components that will be addressed in the
proposed project are presented in Chapter III.
C. Implementation of the Reform Program
Upgrading Oualifications of Teachers
2.5       The reform program has viewed the teacher as the chief agent for inducing and promoting
the envisaged radical change in students' learning. A 1988 law stipulated that new teachers at all levels
are required to have a university degree and provided for upgrading teachers already in service during
a transitional period. To upgrade the qualifications of teachers, two sets of in-service programs for
teachers, supervisory staff, and administrative staff were developed: (i) the teacher certification program
(TCP), which includes a program to upgrade teachers' qualifications from the level of community college
diploma (two-year post-secondary) to the level of a university degree; a program to upgrade teachers with
a university degree to obtain a diploma in education; and a program to improve the academic and



pedagogic leadership capacity of principals and supervisors by obtaining a master's degree in education
(over 30,000 participants); and (ii) the curriculum dissemination training program (CDTP), which has
been developed to increase awareness of the goals of the reform program and for enhancing teaching
competencies and skills related to the new curricula and textbooks. Teachers, principals, and supervisors
participate in this program. There has also been an ongoing program to train librarians, laboratory and
audiovisual technicians, and teachers in the use of computers.
2.6       Capacity of universities. The teacher certification program was initially conducted at the
Higher Certification College (HCC) which was established for the purpose of providing, along with
university faculties of education, training to about 22,000 teachers (about 6,300 already certified).
However, based on the results of an evaluation completed by NCERD, the HCC was closed in late 1992
and the certification program became restricted to the three universities. With the increase in enrollment,
the program has placed significant strains on the resources and capacity of the involved universities,
particularly for the faculties of arts and sciences where teacher trainees take most of their courses. Staff,
facilities, and laboratories have been identified as key resources which have been over-burdened by the
TCP or which experienced shortages. It has been suggested that the number of students admitted to the
TCP should correspond to the absorptive capacity of each university. To further alleviate these problems
and accommodate the expanding role of universities in providing pre-service teacher training, special
buildings are being constructed (financed under HRDSIL I) for the faculties of educational sciences in
the three involved universities. These universities will add 2,000 undergraduate student places. In
addition, technical assistance from the European Union will be used for human resources development
within these faculties in the coming few years. Thus, no input for universities is envisioned in this
project.
2.7       Relevance of the teacher training programs. The relevance of the content and methodology
of the TCP has been highlighted as a concern. Particular reference is made to the mathematics and
science courses required of teachers in the Field Teacher Track since these courses are designed for
majors in these fields, and are not targeted for teachers of basic education. In addition, the teaching
methodology at the university level does not serve as a good model to realize the objectives of the reform
program (i.e., problem solving and critical thinking). There is a need to reexamine the goals and
philosophy of the TCP and, consequently, to reformulate its content and structure for the purpose of
improving the quality of classroom teaching skills of participating teachers. The faculties of education
and the Ministry of Education (MOE) should analyze and incorporate the recommendations of the 'Impact
Evaluation of the Higher Certification Program at the Public Universities of Jordan' study commissioned
by the World Bank and NCERD for the purpose of making their programs relevant to the needs of the
teachers and responsive to the implications of the reform. With respect to the curriculum dissemination
training program (CDTP), the scope and variety of the training materials and methodology need
enhancement. The still pending implementation of secondary school curricula and textbooks, together
with the need to train basic school teachers who missed it the first time around, provide an opportunity
to introduce significant improvements to the training program.
2.8       Several issues have emerged in relation to the policy decision of 1988 to upgrade basic
education teachers from the level of community colleges (2 years) to a university degree (4 years) and
its implementation: (i) the underlying assumption that such upgrading would improve considerably
teachers' teaching capabilities and competencies has not been validated; (ii) the Higher Certification
College was abolished after about three years of operation because of inadequate performance; and (iii)
the programs at the three universities need to be restructured and improved to address the needs of



- 5 -
classroom and field teachers more adequately. The pace of admission to the certification program has
been slowed down and new criteria have been introduced. For example, the MOE excludes from
nomination to the programs teachers with more than 15 years of teaching experience and who are above
35 years of age. Living far from the three involved universities and family commitments have also
contributed to the reduction in enrolled teachers (about 1,000 admitted to the three universities in 1994).
Upgrading Curricula and Textbooks
2.9       Accelerated curriculum development. New curricula for basic and secondary education have
been approved by the Board of Education and new textbooks and teachers' guides for the basic cycle have
been completed. The publication of the textbooks and guides was at an accelerated and ambitious pace,
yet most books reached the schools on time. As this was paralleled with a process of building the
capacity for ready-for-camera manuscript preparation (including editing, art work and layout, developing
specifications, and follow-up on printing) in the Production and Distribution Directorate (PDD) of the
General Directorate for Curriculum and Educational Technology (GDCET), there were problems and
delays some of which were beyond the control of the General Directorate. Nevertheless, publication
capacity has been improved substantially, the system has been progressively professionalized, and
textbooks have been steadily improving in physical quality. It should be noted that all printing is
contracted to private printing presses. New textbooks and teachers' guides for grade 11 still need to be
prepared to be introduced in 1995/96, and for grade 12 in 1996/97.
2.10      Textbook evaluation.  Textbooks are adopted for universal utilization prior to evaluation.
The current system for textbook evaluation involves collecting input from a small sample of selected
teachers and regional directorates. The collected data is summarized with the involvement of supervisors,
and then communicated to the GDCET for follow-up. The input and comments are divided into
categories and directed to the respective subject committees for action. Changes, other than those related
to factual errors and ambiguous illustrations, especially those related to the curriculum require the
approval of the Board of Education. Several textbooks have already been reviewed and revised. The
evaluation methodology has been evolving but there is a need to direct attention towards assessing the
relevance of content, appropriateness of material for grade level, clarity of presentation and conformity
of approach to realizing the objectives.
2.11          Notwithstanding the admirable and steadily improving accomplishments in the field of
curriculum development since the initiation of the reform and the institutional building that has
accompanied the process, issues should not be ignored. The magnitude and demands of the tasks to
introduce detailed curricula for all the basic education stage followed by preparing and producing
textbooks and teachers' guides for sets of three grades simultaneously each year were very ambitious.
This was aggravated by the lack of technical experience and relevant specialization of those involved in
the process. It was further exacerbated by the multi-stage and repetitive approval process as well as by
concomitant activities to develop a professional publishing capacity. A slower pace would have allowed
for formative evaluation including trial and revision of textbook units and chapters during the process of
preparation.
Upgrading Evaluation and Student Assessment
2.12        A new policy of evaluating students at the end of the basic cycle has been initiated with
the reform. Weighted averages of students' school marks in grades 8 - 10 are now used as a basis for
promotion and, along with other criteria, as a basis for streaming. The application of new administrative



- 6 -
policies for the General Secondary School Certificate Examination (GSSCE) was initiated in 1990-91 as
students were allowed to repeat those sections of the exam that they failed, rather than having to take the
entire examination again. Introducing higher cognitive skills in the GSSCE awaits the introduction of the
new comprehensive secondary curriculum in August 1995. The content and objectives tested by the
GSSCE need to be aligned with the new curricula. Jordan has pioneered among Arab countries in
participating in the Second International Assessment of Educational Progress spearheaded by expertise
in NCERD in close cooperation with MOE. This has led to a major national assessment exercise. The
relatively low performance of Jordan in mathematics is an eye-opener and should be addressed. For
example, emphasis needs to be placed in lower grades on the development of classroom-based diagnostic
testing for remedial interventions to assist the teachers in identifying and addressing the difficulties of
their students. The emerging capacity in national assessment and monitoring of educational quality needs
to be strengthened and institutionalized.
Improving the Learning Environrment
2.13      Instructional materials. Currently there is great disparity with respect to the availability of
instructional materials in schools, i.e., some schools are better equipped than others. In addition, there
is an overall lack of materials in general to the extent that application of the new curriculum is hindered.
For example, a new science textbook may include a set of activities which the teachers or the students
are unable to perform because the school is missing the necessary apparatus. The Education Law of 1994
provides for the utilization of funds from the sale of textbooks to allocate resources annually specifically
for library books and instructional materials. Building on the initiative of the Minister of Education, this
article of the law should be applied consistently and a mechanism should be developed for the allocation
and distribution of instructional materials that will also ensure that educationally disadvantaged schools
are given priority in the provision of essential materials.  Furthermore, teachers need to be trained in
the use of instructional materials and to tap resources from their own environment.
Expanding the School Construction Program
2.14      There are capacity and quality issues affecting the learning environment, principally in terms
of the use of unsuitable rented (residential) buildings (this applied to about 50 percent of all schools in
the late-1980s) resulting in classroom crowding, and wide-spread double shifting. These conditions are
being improved as expenditures on civil works in HRDSIL I would provide 182 schools by 1995 creating
about 150,500 new student places (70,000 as replacements of rented facilities; 25,000 student places to
replace double shifts; and about 55,500 student places for enrollment growth). This same project also
provided: 147 libraries, 143 laboratories, 161 audio-visual rooms and 152 vocational workshops. But
the provision of physical facilities has been outpaced by population growth rate of three to four percent,
and the problem has been aggravated by returnees from the Gulf in 1990-91. A recently-identified
problem is fragmentation or preponderance of small schools. In 1991, about 46 percent of public schools
enrolled no more than 200 students, with a total of about 14 percent of the student population. These
small schools, located primarily in rural areas, are usually not provided with laboratories, libraries,
and/or workshops, and require administrative support and overhead which limits efficiency and
effectiveness of the system. They also reduce the overall pupil:teacher ratio. Another issue is that there
is no consistency in the number of grades in a school (i.e., some schools are for grades 1 to 3, while
others are for grades 2 to 6, and so on). This has cost implications, especially in situations where such
schools are close to each other. Action to remedy school fragmentation is needed but it should be
handled carefully taking into consideration the impact on access, particularly for enrollment of females,



- 7 -
if a policy is adopted to build larger schools further apart. Another issue that needs to be addressed
relates to the need for structural repairs in more than 1,500 schools.
Improving Technical and Vocational Education and Training (TVET)
2.15      The extension of basic education from nine to ten years delayed the onset of vocational
education by one year. Together with the inclusion of a common core of academic subjects (12 periods
per week each year) in the comprehensive secondary curriculum (for academic and vocational streams),
the changes are in line with the World Bank Policy Paper on TVET which calls for increasing access to
the academic curriculum. On the other hand, the relatively heavy emphasis on pre-vocational education
(4 periods per week) in upper basic education and the excessive number of specializations, especially
industrial, in the comprehensive secondary vocational curriculum are viewed to be in conflict with that
policy. The crux of the matter is embodied in an unwritten policy or practice that students who complete
basic education satisfactorily should not be denied further education for a variety of considerations. With
about 90 percent of students who reach grade 10 completing it satisfactorily, the implication is that
numbers in secondary education are increasing rapidly. In order to avoid a similar problem between
secondary and higher education and guided by a vision of the importance/need of vocational education
graduates, the Government's plan is to expand vocational education at the secondary level [including the
Vocational Training Corporation (VTC)].
2.16      The training capacity of the VTC has been expanded in HRDSIL I by constructing three
centers and a trade testing center. A TVET study which was to be used for including more components
in that project was delayed. The new curricula and the policy to expand enrollment in TVET create
demands that are still unmet. In response to concern and deep interest by the Government, a preparation
team with outside experts recently analyzed TVET in Jordan. The team found the system to have several
advantages over similar systems in countries at comparable stages of development. One of these
advantages is the existence of an experienced VTC which provides terminal apprenticeship training and
has forged links with employers. However, the Jordanian system of TVET was also found to suffer from
several basic weaknesses, including rigidities in responding to labor market needs, structural overlapping
of vocational training between the school system and the VTC, unclear role of community colleges in skill
provision and inefficient use of existing resources. The VTC itself should strive for improvement as it
also exhibits problems of quality in its training provision.
2.17      It has also been observed that the TVET system has not been able to instill the importance
of quality work, good craftsmanship, and attention to detail. The state of maintenance of machines and
workshops is poor, and there is lack of attention to international standards of good quality. The country
needs to review its policies towards training materials, not only because of the gaps and obsolescence of
the present materials but also to take into account the higher levels of previous schooling of students and
the new mixes of cognitive and manual skills required in contemporary industry. The international trend
is to consolidate families of occupations into more compact and multi-skilled training packages. Training
the instructors to achieve a high level of craftsmanship with available tools and machines, establishing
quality standards and criteria, organizing competitions for quality work and involving industry personnel
in practical courses - are some possible interventions to improve quality. The community college system
tends to be overly rigid, centralized, preoccupied with diplomas, and constrained by official curricula.
Length of courses should be dictated by the needs of the subject. The rich experience of extension
education - special programs of varying duration tailored to specific needs and demand -- that is so useful
in many countries is practically non-existent. Problems and issues are outlined in Annex 3A (p.1).



-8 -
Monitoring the Reform Program
2.18      Education policy research and development functions, including supervision of implementation
of HRDSIL I and other externally-financed projects in the sector, are the responsibility of the
Intermediary Policy Council (see para. 4.9) and NCERD - a semi-autonomous body incorporated under
the Higher Council for Science and Technology (HCST). NCERD became fully operational in early 1990
and has since expanded its activities to include resource mobilization, consultation, monitoring, training
and dissemination. Its coordination with MOE is both formal and informal, for example: NCERD staff
work closely with MOE on a number of development activities, including those associated with HRDSIL-I
as part of the Intermediary functions (see paras. 4.8-4.10); and NCERD's president is currently a member
of the Board of Education. Regional cooperation, mainly with other Arab countries, began in 1991 and
has intensified since. Consolidation of the development and policy research functions under NCERD has
yielded economies of scale and the synergy gained from the cross-fertilization between the two. At
present, NCERD's external activities (mainly regional cooperation) have enabled the Center to supplement
its Government-provided financing.3
2.19      NCERD has produced about 30 studies many of which are based on policy-related research
and has worked with MOE on project development in the context of HRDSIL-II.4  In addition, an
educational management information system (EMIS) has been initiated with the reform. The EMIS will
provide a consolidated educational database, integrating data from dispersed sources in MOE. The policy
research program and EMIS have helped both MOE and NCERD identify sectoral issues and formulate
recommendations for decision makers. A number of these recommendations are currently being
implemented or considered for action. The emerging capacity to conduct policy-oriented research and
to monitor and evaluate the reform process has to be strengthened nationally and institutionalized. In
addition, initiatives to establish an EMIS network for data collection in different regions of Jordan, along
with promoting use of EMIS at regional levels need to be pursued further. All educational information
systems should be coordinated/integrated.
D. Financinu Educational Development
2.20      Cost and financi"n.  The Government's efforts during the past few decades to expand
participation at all levels of education yielded a significant growth and diversification of enrollments, and
also an increase in capital expenditures. Real MOE current expenditures have remained fairly constant
as a proportion of current government expenditures (about 11 percent between 1982 and 1992 (prices
adjusted for inflation)). However, the share of total government capital expenditures devoted to education
has increased steadily from about 2.5 percent to 13.6 percent during the same period5. MOE schools
receive recurrent revenue from three sources: the government budget, the education tax, and students'
contributions; the corresponding percentage figures of revenues in 1992 were: 96, 2, and 2 percent
respectively. The education tax is prescribed as two percent of the net estimated rental value of real
estate within municipal regions. Textbooks are distributed free of charge to students in grades 1-4, and
loaned to students in grades 5-10, while they are sold to secondary students as well as to all private
3. Annex 12 NCERD provides an overview of the institution.
4. Table 2 in Annex 12 provides an overview of NCERD's wb-project appraial experience.
5. Lynn Don and Hisham AJ-Daje'h. Education and Trainine in Jordan: A Descriptive and Financial Survey, NCERD, 1994; Report No.
30.



- 9 -
schools and UNRWA students. A fee is charged to students sitting for GSSCE at the end of the
secondary cycle. A contribution - 3.15JD in grades 1-6; 4.15JD in grades 7-10; and 6.15JD in grades
11-12 - is collected from students in public schools. The school principal has the authority to exempt
a certain percentage of students on the basis of need (about 85 percent of all students do pay). The
proceeds from these contributions are partly used to purchase library books and audiovisual aids, and a
certain percentage goes to central MOE. The Minister of Education has introduced measures to keep the
contributions collected from students at the school level rather than having part of the contributions
returned to the central MOE. Furthermore, measures to increase students' contributions have also been
enacted to become effective in due course. In higher education, cost recovery is higher than in other
countries in the region as students in public universities are charged fees covering about one-third of cost
and private higher education is expanding.
2.21      The country devotes an estimated 11 percent of GDP to education (not including UNRWA
and charity expenditures). Of the estimated total amount committed, approximately 74 percent derives
from government funds and 26 percent from private sources. In recent years, educational expenditures
have amounted to 18 percent of the government budget with basic education garnering about 50 percent
of these expenditures and tertiary education about 39 percent. Essentially, Jordan is attempting to
increase the quality and quantity of education simultaneously - a tremendous challenge. The share of
financing for education may benefit from any reductions in defense spending as a result of the peace
process. Nevertheless, further expansion and improvement of quality have to depend, to a large extent,
on improved efficiency, cost recovery whenever feasible, and expansion of private education. Reduction
in population growth will address issues of quantity. With respect to efficiency, increase in class size
(pupils:teacher ratio) is a logical place to increase efficiency especially that published figures, ranging
between 17:1 and 24:1 leave room for improvement. The fragmentation of schools referred to in para.
2.14 as well as rented residential school buildings are contributing factors and need to be addressed.
E. Government Education Policy
2.22      High level policy guidelines presented during the seminar of educational reform held on April
10-11, 1994 reiterated the emphasis of the reform on quality particularly with respect to curricula,
textbooks and teacher training. In addition, the following was emphasized: (i) promoting decentralization
in education and applying flexibility in administration and management; (ii) establishment of vertical
coordination with higher education whose institutions need to revise their programs in light of changes
in the structure and curricula of the secondary cycle; (iii) exploring ways for attracting candidates of high
academic standards into university teacher education programs and provide for improvement of quality
and enhancement of the status of teachers and their professionalism; and (iv) need to develop a forward-
looking investment program in TVET involving and coordinating the programs of the MOE, VTC, and
community colleges and emphasizing linkages with the labor market and the productive sectors. Securing
resources to improve educational quality necessitates, among other measures, increasing the efficiency
of the public education system and expanding the share of the private sector.



- 10 -
F. Bank Strategy and Lending Experience
Bank Involvement in the Education Sector
2.23      Since 1972, the Bank has been assisting the Government to develop the education and training
system through the financing of two credits and seven loans. The earlier education projects focused
primarily on developing an institutional structure, especially with respect to staff development, for
secondary and vocational schools and community colleges. School construction has been the focus of
several projects, in order to support Government efforts to improve access to schooling for a rapidly
growing population. Bank projects have also supported the expansion of vocational training capacity and
the development of management training. The most recent projects have focused mainly on the
improvement of educational quality for basic and secondary education.
2.24      The objectives of the Third Education Project (Loan 1781-JO, 1979) were to: (i) expand and
improve vocational and technical education; (ii) improve the planning, research, and monitoring
capabilities of the MOE; and (iii) strengthen the school building maintenance program. The overall
objective of the Fourth Education Project (Loan 2068-JO, 1981) was to increase the number of, and
improve the training for, skilled workers. The Fifth Education Project (Loan 2246-JO, 1983) was
designed to increase the output of skilled male and female workers, improve access to preparatory and
secondary education in remote rural areas, and support institutional strengthening of the MOE. The Sixth
Education Project (Loan 2378-JO, 1984) supported the expansion and improvement of compulsory and
general secondary level schooling, enhanced prevocational programs, and continued the MOE institutional
development program.
2.25      The First Manpower Development Project (Loan 2633-JO, 1985) included a component to
increase the supply of trained skilled and semi-skilled workers graduating from the Vocational Training
Corporation (VTC) program, and to increase the role of the VTC Occupational Training Officers in
monitoring and regulating occupational safety. The Seventh Education Project (Loan 2890-JO, 1987) was
developed to improve the quality of education through teacher upgrading and the development of
instructional materials, improve school quality through the construction of 58 schools and the
development of a maintenance system, strengthen the linkage between training and the labor market, and
improve the planning, management, and evaluation capabilities of the MOE.
2.26      Despite the accomplishments in previous projects, the education sector has been criticized for
low quality of students' learning at schools. As part of a comprehensive reform, HRDSIL I (Loan 3106-
JO, 1989) is being implemented to support the development and introduction of new curricula and
textbooks for basic education, strengthen pre-service teacher training, provide in-service training for basic
and secondary teachers, principals, and supervisors, construct about 180 schools, expand vocational
training capacity, and establish the NCERD. The pace of certifying all basic education teachers has been
slowed down and admissibility to universities along with closeness to retirement have been adopted among
the criteria for selection.
Lessons Learned
2.27      The following lessons have emerged from previous experience including the ongoing
implementation of HRDSIL I: (i) project design must be flexible enough to allow for modifications(based
on evaluation and reviews) especially that the implications of the regional peace process cannot be
foreseen in a detailed form; (ii) implementation schedules should be realistic considering the prevailing



- 11 -
capabilities and common constraints; (iii) periodic in-depth supervision and evaluation, involving relevant
expertise should be conducted; (iv) the role and specific commitment of cofinanciers with respect to
components should be clarified; (v) the Government's share in project costs must be budgeted early
enough for timely implementation; and (vi) appropriate coordination at all levels within the MOE and
between MOE and other relevant institutions should take place. NCERD has contributed in a qualitative
manner to sector planning and decision making. It needs to be rooted as a permanent quality institution.
Rationale for World Bank Assistance
2.28      While the Government is strongly committed to the ten-year reform program, it will need
substantial outside support to implement the various components. Bank support for the project is justified
for the following reasons: (i) the Bank was closely involved with the Government in preparing the reform
program and financed the first project to support it; (ii) the reform program is a long-term initiative
which covers a wide range of issues and activities, and no other donor has the depth of experience and
resources necessary to support it; and (iii) the project would constitute a key element in the country's
strategy for human resources development, which is also concerned with quality issues and linkages to
the local and regional labor market. The Country Strategy emphasizes outward-oriented, private sector-
based growth. Raising the quality of education and promoting higher cognitive skills as well as quality
technical skills are an important element of the strategy. Involvement of the private sector in TVET
policy development and training would also contribute positively to the strategy.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Proiect Objectives and Scope
3.1       The central project objective is to improve educational quality. The focus will be on
measures to enhance the teaching-learning environment including teaching competencies, curricula and
textbooks, administration and management, and creating a strong institutional framework particularly in
relation to vocational and technical education, examinations and national assessment. In addition,
measures would be sought aimed at economizing in the use of public resources (para. 3.2). The scope
is largely defined by the Education Reform program and the measures that will be supported are directed
towards the realization of its overall goals over the 1995-2000 period.
B. Policy Framework
3.2       Promoting quality is the major policy of the Government in the education sector and it is the
underlying theme of the reform. Other major policies include: attaining and maintaining universal basic
education; and directing higher proportions of students, particularly boys, to TVET after basic education.
Decentralization and developing a supportive social/community base, developing a futuristic investment
program in TVET, and increasing efficiency have been recently stated as policy guidelines. Specific
initiatives and deliberations on increasing efficiency, mobilizing resources, enhancing cost recovery and
increasing the involvement of the private sector include: (i) increasing students' contributions to schools;
(ii) developing a more economical and flexible school building model; (iii) reduction of fragmentation
in schools; (iv) establishing a system of loaning textbooks to students of grades 5-10; and (v) licensing
of private universities.



- 12 -
C. Project Components
3.3       To ensure ownership of the project by the Borrower's implementing agencies, a participatory
approach was pursued and the project has been developed in close collaboration between the Bank and
these agencies. MOE units were involved in an exercise to evaluate accomplishments and constraints,
and to identify future needs in relation to the education reform. These were reviewed in a two day
seminar in April 1994 and formed the basis for detailed action plans for each component which were
revised during the pre-appraisal mission. Several studies dealing with issues relevant to the project were
undertaken by local entities. NCERD was involved in delineating the action plans which include
rationale, objectives, description of activities, cost estimates, monitoring indicators, and an
implementation schedule. Sub-projects, drawn from the action plans, for those activities to be completed
during the first year or phase of project implementation were reviewed with the appraisal mission. The
following components are detailed in the action plans:
Component 1: Deepening the Oualitative Impact of the Reform (US$36.9 million base costs)'
3.4       The objectives of this component are to: (i) improve and extend the in-service training
program related to the implementation of new curricula to teachers who have not been included in earlier
training and enhance teaching competencies; (ii) develop the capacity to provide school-based integrated
in-service training and quality improvement initiatives; (iii) sensitize teachers to diagnostic approaches
and remedial interventions; (iv) improve the capacity of trainers, administrators, and principals for
administrative and educational leadership; (v) improve the provision of educational materials to schools;
(vi) extend the reform program to encourage school-based quality improvement initiatives; (vii) align the
content and objectives tested by the General Secondary School Certificate Examination (GSSCE) with the
new curricula; and (viii) extend the reform program to strengthen and improve TVET.
3.5        To achieve these objectives, the proposed project would support the following sub-
components:
Staff development (US$2.7 million). This consists of in-service teacher training for 16500 teachers
in the CDTP and 27,200 teachers in enrichment and specialized training programs. The latter include
interventions to sensitize elementary school teachers in classroom diagnostic and remedial approaches
- to identify and analyze difficulties of students and take measures to help them overcome the
difficulties. In addition, in-service training would be provided to 925 trainers; 1350 education
administrators and counselors; and 2000 principals, assistant principals, and vocational technical
coordinators. The project would support technical assistance, workshop expenses, and staff training
for these in-service training activities.
Examinations/Assessment (US$3.6 million).  The project would support technical assistance,
workshop expenses, and staff training for the introduction of revised assessment techniques and
procedures emphasizing cognitive skills with the purpose of aligning the content and objectives tested
by the GSSCE with the new curricula. The sub-component also includes the development of sample
tests for students and teachers to introduce the emerging changes to all concerned, in addition to
developing other types of tests for special purposes.
6. Unices otherwise indicated, cost estinatca do not include contingencies.



- 13 -
School-based innovations (US$0.4 million). Encouraging and supporting school-based quality
improvement initiatives and innovative ideas, on a pilot basis, according to an agreed mechanism
specifying criteria and clarifying mode of operations.
TVET (US$29.1 million). An investment program has been prepared to put into effect actions and
means to address the policy recommendations and the agreed strategy (see Annex 3A). Components
of this program vary in the precision of their formulation. Some necessitate expert advice and study;
for example, developing a capacity to link national economic and human resources development
policy formulation and planning, and strengthening the National Task Force to harmonize the policy
goals of economic and human resource development. Other proposed components, e.g. those dealing
with establishing new institutions, and increasing and upgrading equipment, need review and scrutiny
to verify their conformity to the agreed strategy and policies taking into consideration the importance
of having employers (particularly those of the private sector) share the financial responsibilities of
training. For this purpose, detailed criteria for sub-project preparation and appraisal have been
developed and agreed (Annex 3B). The Intermediary/NCERD would be strengthened in the areas
of TVET and human resource development in order to spearhead relevant research and appraise these
sub-projects along with others in the investment program. For this specific subsector, the approval
of the Bank would be needed prior to the implementation of initial sub-projects (para.4. 11).
The other sub-components (US$1.2 million) in this category are: a pilot school-based in-service
training program and the development of a mechanism for the provision of instructional materials
(other than textbooks) to schools, such as library books and audio-visual aids.
Component 2: Institutional Development (US$11.5 million)
3.6       The objectives of this component are to: (i) enhance the capacity and upgrade the quality of
GDCET's Learning Resource Centers (LRCs) to manage and provide different modes of staff support
programs; (ii) further improve the capacity for publishing and distribution of textbooks and teachers'
guides; (iii) improve the functioning of the General Directorate for Evaluation and Examinations (GDEE);
(iv) strengthen the capacity of NCERD to undertake research relevant to policy development and decision
making in collaboration with MOE, and to monitor the reform program; (v) institutionalize school
building management, control, and maintenance services; and (vi) provide for efficient and effective
management of the proposed HRDSIL II, including annual and periodic review of project components.
3.7       To achieve these objectives, the proposed project would support the following sub-
components:
Learning Resource Centers (US$3.5 million). Phase A (July 1995-June 1988): upgrade the facilities,
equipment, and staff of six already functioning LRCs (including constructing two replacements for
Amman and Balkaa); and carry out an external assessment of their role and effectiveness. Phase B
(July 1988-June 2000): establish two more LRCs unless the assessment recommends otherwise.
Textbook publishing and distribution (US$4.9 million). The capacity of the GDCET to publish and
distribute textbooks and teachers' guides would be improved through the provision of technical
assistance, equipment, and staff training to upgrade the publishing and distribution systems (printing
continues to be contracted to private presses). In addition, the textbook evaluation and revision
system would be further developed through the provision of technical assistance and staff training.



- 14 -
Feedback systems for the GSSCE (US$1.9 million). The reform of the GSSCE will require more
efficient and accelerated systems for data processing, test production, and feedback reporting in the
GDEE. The project will support the provision of equipment, technical assistance, and staff training
to improve the GDEE's capabilities and to strengthen the administrative and feedback systems for the
GSSCE. In addition, the project will support securing premises to accommodate the expanded
activities of GDEE and to provide needed security for their operations.
Educational Management Information System (EMIS) (US$0.4 million). The project will support
improving the EMIS and its expansion to regional offices through the provision of equipment,
technical assistance, and staff training.
National Assessment Program (US$0.2 million). The project will support equipment, materials, and
workshops for the institutionalization of a national assessment program at the NCERD to monitor the
attainment of learning achievement.
The project would also support providing resources for project management (US$0.05 million),
external assessment of implementation (US$0.05 million) and constructing a facility or securing
premises for NCERD (US$0.7 million). NCERD started in rented premises and then moved to the
new building of the HCST. As HCST took off and expanded its operations, space has been taken
away from NCERD and further demands for space have been made. At the same time, NCERD's
workload, including involvement in local, regional and international activities and projects has
increased along with an increase in operational visits by consultants. The need for a library,
conference room, training facilities, as well as space for administering national assessment should be
underlined.
Component 3: Improving the Facilities for Teaching and Learning (US$106.2 million)
3.8       The objectives of this component are to: (i) improve the learning environment by enhancing
the quality of school facilities; and (ii) develop a rationalized civil works program to accommodate the
high demand for enrollment. To achieve these objectives, the proposed project would support the
following sub-components:
School expansion. rehabilitation, and new construction. (US$106.2 million) The project would
support a civil works and equipment program which would provide about 95,000 student places
(against 122,000 requested by the MOE) through: expansion of existing school facilities to maximize
their potential absorptive capacity (about 30,000 student places), and new construction to replace
rented facilities (about 23,000 student places), reduce double shifting (about 5,000 student places),
and accommodate part of the natural increase in the population in state-owned schools (about 37,000
student places). In addition, the project would support school rehabilitation to improve the condition
of dilapidated schools. Technical assistance would be provided to the General Directorate for
Projects and School Buildings (GDPSB) to conduct a review of the management and supervision
functions of the general directorate and to develop a sustainable maintenance program.  The
government has agreed to develop a prototype school design that is effectively more economical than
the design used under HRDSIL I.



- 15 -
D. Action Plans
3.9       Sector investment operation. Support to the Government's educational reform program that
covers an extended period (1989-2000) and involves a wide range of policy measures and institutional
development for basic and secondary education is a good opportunity for a sector investment lending
instrument. As was the case during HRDSIL I, structuring the project as a sector investment program
allows flexibility for making adjustments as the reform program progresses, involves the use of objective
and agreed criteria for the allocation of funds to sub-projects, and encourages cooperation and
coordination among the various beneficiaries. The project sub-components are embodied in the action
plans covering the five-year period and including explicit appraisal criteria. To implement the project,
the beneficiaries would break the action plans down into sub-project proposals for appraisal by the
Intermediary and/or the Bank. For example, the School Construction and Expansion Action Plan would
be implemented as two sub-projects, the first specifying the civil works program for years 1 to 3 of the
project, and the second for years 4 to 5 of the project. Each sub-project would have its own set of
objectives, target groups, monitoring indicators, implementation schedule, and work plans. Detailed
action plans have been developed for the various components and they will be included in the
Implementation Volume.  A one-page summary of each action plan, highlighting its objectives,
components, cost and sustainability is presented in Annex 2. The following is a list of these action plans:
1.       Training school principals and assistants
2.        Training educational administrators/counselors
3.        Staff development: in-service teacher training
4.        Staff development: training the trainers
5.        Staff development: pilot school-based in-service training program
6.        Aligning the content and objectives tested by the GSSCE with the new curricula
7.        Strengthening administrative and feedback systems for the GSSCE
8.        Developing classroom-based diagnostic testing for remedial interventions
9.        GDCET computerization
10.      Textbook publishing
11.      Trialling and evaluation (of textbooks)
12.       GDCET distribution
13.      Learning resource centers
14.       NCERD's sample based national assessment of learning achievement
15.       NCERD's educational management information system
16.       School construction and expansion
17.      Equipment for schools
18.       School building maintenance
19.       School rehabilitation
20.       Pilot school-based innovation program
21.       School libraries and other educational materials
22.       Technical and vocational education and training (TVET)



- 16 -
IV. PROJECT COSTS. FINANCING. MANAGEMENT. AND IMPLEMENTATION
A. Cost of the Project
4.1       The total project cost is estimated at about US$186.7 million equivalent including
contingencies (US$32.0 million) and duties and taxes (US$0.9 million). Equipment and goods imported
directly for use by government agencies are exempt from duties and taxes. The US$0.9 million is
expected to cover indirect taxes on locally procured civil works and goods. The foreign exchange
component amounts to about US$105.4 million or 56 percent of total cost, excluding taxes. Total costs
include civil works; furniture, equipment, vehicles, and design/supervision fees; technical assistance,
consisting of expert services and fellowships; workshops, training materials, and professional fees; local
training; and incremental recurrent costs. The proposed loan (US$60.0 million equivalent) would finance
about 32 percent of total project costs, net of taxes and duties. The cost breakdown is shown in Tables
4.1 and 4.2.
Base Costs
4.2       Project costs were based on prevailing market prices estimated for works, goods and services
at the time of appraisal in November 1994 and were adjusted to reflect costs at negotiations in February
1995. It is assumed that equipment, goods and services procured for the project would be exempt from
customs duties and local taxes. Specifically:
(a)    Civil Works. Cost estimates for civil works (new construction and rehabilitation) were based
on contracts for educational facilities awarded in January 1994 under HRDSIL I (Loan 3106-
JO).
(b)    Eguipment and Furniture. Equipment and furniture unit costs are based on contracts for
educational facilities awarded in April 1994 under HRDSIL I.
(c)    Technical Assistance (TA). Cost estimates for technical assistance (US$14,000 per staff-
month for foreign specialists and US$1,500 per staff-month for local specialists) were based
on unit costs for comparable technical assistance and specialist services under similar
contracts administered under HRDSIL I. TA costs include fees for services rendered,
overhead, recruitment, travel, lodging and subsistence costs. The cost of short term
fellowships abroad (US$5,000 per staff-month) includes travel, boarding, subsistence and
training fees. Professional fees for architectural and engineering design and supervision
services are calculated at about 9 percent of the projected cost of new construction.
Contingency Allowances
4.3       Project costs include a contingency for unforeseen physical conditions (US$11.8 million)
equal to 8 percent of the estimated base cost (excluding technical assistance, fellowships and new staff).
Annual rates of foreign price increases have been estimated at an average of 2.2 percent for 1995 through
2000. Annual rates of local price increases for all items have been estimated at an average of 4.5 percent
for 1995 through 2000. Total contingencies represent 21 percent of the base cost.



- 17 -
Foreign Exchange Component
4.4       The foreign exchange component was estimated as follows: (i) civil works, 50 percent; (ii)
furniture, 80 percent; (iii) equipment, vehicles, and software, 100 percent; (iv) technical assistance,
including specialist services (90 percent for foreign and 10 percent for local), and fellowships (95
percent); (v) workshops and professional fees, 0 percent; (vi) materials and textbook publishing, 50
percent; (vii) maintenance, 30 percent; and (viii) local training, 30 percent.
Incremental Recurrent Costs
4.5       Incremental recurrent costs consist of salaries of incremental staff, and maintenance costs for
the facilities and equipment.  The salary costs (US$1.0 million total for the five years) are based on
current remuneration of civil service personnel. Building maintenance costs (US$1.5 million total) are
calculated at about 2 percent of civil works refurbishing, and new construction costs and equipment
maintenance costs (US$1.1 million) are estimated at 4 percent of the acquisition cost of equipment,
annualized over the period of the project. Incremental recurrent costs will average to US$0.7 million
annually, and will not be financed under the proposed loan.
B. Project Financing
4.6       The project financing plan is shown in Table 4.4. Including contingencies, the proposed Bank
loan of US$60 million would finance about 32 percent of total costs. Parallel cofinancing of about US$60
million will finance 32 percent of total costs, and the Government contribution of US$65.81 million plus
taxes would cover the remaining 36 percent. In case cofinancing does not materialize by March 1, 1996,
the project would be reprogrammed by dropping part of the TVET component and part of school
construction and related equipment unless the needed financing is secured from Government and/or other
sources.
C. Project Management and Implementation
4.7       Management structure. Management of project implementation would be based on experience
acquired, and lessons derived, from implementation of HRDSIL I. In particular: (i) there is the effective
merger between the Intermediary Technical Unit and NCERD's research and development functions; (ii)
NCERD will provide the technical expertise required for sub-project appraisal; and (iii) the sub-project
appraisal procedures will be streamlined as per Annex 4, Chart 1.   The beneficiaries would be
responsible for preparing the sub-project proposals for appraisal and approval. If the sub-project is
approved by the Intermediary Policy Council, the beneficiary would then be responsible for implementing
the sub-project. These arrangements have demonstrated their efficacity, as attested to by the HRDSIL
I Mid-Term Review (February 1994).



- 18 -
Table 4.1: COST SUMMARY BY PROJECT COMPONENT
Project Components               LAl    Foreign        Total   Locl    Foreign      Total   % Forip       %ToBalBe
Exchange        Coeb
(,D million)                (US$ million)
A. Deepaing Qualitative Impact of
the Reform
1. Staff Devdopent
Principals                          0.13      0.06      0.19      0.20     0.09      0.29      33
Educational Adminisrstors           0.08      0.06      0.14      0.12     0.09      0.21      44              -
In,Service Teacher Training         0.68      0.60      1.28      1.05     0.92       1.97     47              1
Trmining of Trainers                0.07      0.05      0.13      0.11      0.08     0.19       44             -
Pilot School-Based In-ser. Training  0.41     0.21      0.62      0.63     0.32      0.96      34              1
Subtotal Staff Developjmeast        137       0.98      2.35      2.10      1.32     3.62      42             2
2. GSSCE Reform
Aligning GSSCE with New Cur.        1.10      1.08      2.18      1.69      1.66     3.35      50             2
Diagnostic Teting                   0.05      0.12      0.17      0.08     0.18      0.26      69              -
Subtotal GSSCE Reform               1.15      1.20      2.35      1.77     1.84      3.61      51             2
3. Educational Materials            0.07      0.07      0.13      0.10     0.10      0.20      50              -
4. School-Based Ilmovation          0.16      0.13      0.29      0.25     0.20      0.45      45              -
S. Voc. and Technik  Education      3.78     15.11     18.89      5.82     23.24    29.06       80            19
Subtotal Deepening Qualitative
Impact of the Reform                6.53     17.48     24.01     10.04    26.90     36.94      73             24
B. Instiutiona Development
1. Laning Resou:e Calters           1.14      1.15      2.29      1.76     1.77      3.53      50             2
2. Publishing, Production, & Dis.
Computerization                     0.05      0.34      0.39      0.07     0.53      0.60      88              -
Textbook Production                 0.19      1.34      1.53      0.29      2.06     2.36       87             2
Distribution Development            0.53      0.33      0.86      0.82     0.51      1.33      38              1
Trialling and Evaluation            0.35      0.03      0.38      0.54      0.04     0.58       7              -
Subtotal Publishing, Production,    1.12      2.04      3.16      1.72     3.14      4.87      65             3
and Distribution
3. Examinations
Strengthening Feedback Systena      0.53      0.69      1.22      0.81      1.06      1.87     57              1
4. Plnning, Research, and Dev.
EMIS                                0.10      0.14      0.23     0.15      0.21      0.36      59             -
National Assesnent                  0.07      0.03      0.10     0.11      0.04      0.16      29
Facilities for NCERD                0.22      0.20      0.43      0.34     0.31      0.65      47              -
Subtotal Mlanning, Reaerh, and      0.39      0.37      0.76      0.60     0.57      1.17      49             1
Development
5. Project rnngement                0.03      0.00      0.03      0.05     0.01      0.05       10             -
6. External Assessment of Impi.     0.03      0.00      0.03      0.05     0.01      0.05       10             -
Subtotal Institutional Development  3.24      4.26      7.50      4.99     6.55     11.54      57             7
C. Improving Facilities for
Teaching and Learning
1. Facilities Improvement          31.38     37.60     69.00    48.28     57.86    106.15      55             69
Subtotal Improving Facilities for  31.38     37.60     69.00     48.28    57.86    106.1       SS             69
Teaching and Learning
Total BASELINE COSTS               41.15     59.35    1003S1    63.31     91.31    154.63      59            100
Physical Contingencies              3.16      4.53      7.69     4.87      6.97     11.84      59             8
Price Contingencies                 8.53      4.60     13.13     13.12     7.07     20.19      35             13
Total PROJECT COSTS                52.85     68.48    121.33    81.30    105.36    186.66      56            121



- 19 -
Table 4.2: COST SUMMARY BY PROJECT EXPENDITURE ACCOUNT
Expenditure        Local      Foreign    Totl          Local      Foreign     TotWl       % Foreign    %Total
Account                                                                                  Exchange      BaeW
(JD million)                      (USSS million)                        Coats
1. Investment Cost
A. Civil works
New Construction    24.10     24.10      48.20         37.08      37.08       74.16      50            48
Rehabilitation     6.56       6.56        13.12        10.09      10.09       20.18      50            13
Design/Supervision   1.99     1.99       3.98          3.06       3.06        6.12       50            4
Subtotal Civil     32.65      32.65      65.30         50.23      S0.23       100.46     50            65
Works
B. Equipnent       2.45       22.06      24.51         3.77       33.93       37.70      90            24
C. Technial Ast.
Local Consultants    0.72     0.08       0.80          1.11       0.12        1.23        10           1
International Cons.   0.15    1.33        1.47         0.23       2.04        2.27       90            1
Fellowships        0.07       1.34        1.41         0.11       2.05        2.16       95            1
Subtotal Tehnical   0.94      2.74       3.68          1.44       4.22        5.66       75            4
Assistance
D. Local Trainin    1.12      0.48        1.60         1.73       0.74        2.47       30            2
E.Workshops/Fee    1.24       -           1.24         1.91       -           1.91       0             1
F.Training Mat.    0.92       0.92        1.85         1.42       1.42        2.84       S0            2
Total Investment    39.33     S8.85      98.18         60.50      90.54       15.04     S3            98
Costs
11. Recurrent Cost
A. Maintenance     0.69       0.30       0.98          1.06       0.45        1.51       30            1
(Civil Works)
B. Maintenance     0.48       0.21       0.69          0.74       0.32        1.05       30            1
(Equipment)
C. New Staff       0.66       -          0.66          1.02       -           1.02       0             1
Total Recurrent    1.83       0.50       2.33          2.81       0.77        3.58       21            2
Costs
Total BASELINE    41.15       59.35       100.51       63.31      91.31       154.63     59            100
COSTS
Physical           3.16       4.53       7.69          4.87       6.97         11.84     59            8
Contingencies
Price Contingencies  8.53     4.60        13.13        13.12      7.07        20.19      35            13
Total PROJECT      52.84      68.48      12133         8130       10536       186.66     56            121
COSTS
NOTE: Numbers nmy not add up to totals due to rounding.



- 20 -
4.8       The Intermediary/NCERD. The Intermediary was formed under HRDSIL I to serve as the
central entity to ensure coordinated implementation of the various sub-projects that comprise the reform
program as a whole. Established by decree of the Office of the Prime Minister in 1988, the Intermediary
consisted of a Policy Council and a Technical Unit (see Annex 12). Since 1990, on the basis of a decree
by the Higher Council for Science and Technology (HCST), NCERD has assumed all the functions of
the Intermediary Technical Unit: NCERD's professional staff have taken on the Technical Unit's
responsibilities. This merger has the advantages of maintaining and institutionalizing the expertise gained
in project appraisal, monitoring and implementation of the reform program, as well as gaining economies
of scale and synergy between development and policy research activities. This is especially so since
appraisal work is concentrated in the early project years and, nonetheless, entails expertise related to
policy research (para 2.6).  In addition, NCERD: (i) makes policy recommendations about
implementation within parameters agreed upon with the Bank; and (ii) formulates and recommends sector
policies on the basis of data, information and experience from research, EMIS and through the
implementation of the reform program. Since the Bank and Government have agreed to delegate specific
appraisal and supervision functions to the Intermediary and NCERD, assurances were provided during
project negotiations that the Government will maintain the Intermediary Policy Council, and the Technical
Unit within NCERD during the project implementation period, with organization, staff, and terms of
reference satisfactory to the Bank.
4.9       The Intermediary Policy Council. The responsibilities and membership of the Intermediary
Policy Council would remain similar to those defined under HRDSIL I. The responsibilities of the
Council would be to: (i) approve sub-projects appraised and submitted by NCERD's professional staff;
(ii) make policy decisions about implementation within parameters agreed upon with the Bank; (iii)
formulate and recommend sector policies on the basis of data and experience garnered through the
implementation of the reform program; (iv) review the quarterly reports on program implementation
submitted by NCERD's professional staff; and (v) carry out annual reviews and a mid-term review of
program implementation in collaboration with the Bank. The Policy Council is represented by senior
staff from all entities participating in the educational reform program, and a representative from the
Ministry of Planning. This arrangement, as well as the presence of NCERD's president on the Board
of Education, (i) ensures a high degree of integration between those responsible for project management
(resource allocation and monitoring) and implementation (the line ministries and VTC); (ii) maintains
the relative autonomy, stability and professional quality required of the intermediary functions, and (iii)
promotes cross-fertilization between the policy research and development functions in a relatively stable
and professional environment.
4.10      The Technical Unit/ NCERD professional staff. The Technical Unit [as part of the NCERD
(para. 4.8)] would be responsible for procurement in addition to: (i) appraising sub-project proposals
submitted by the beneficiaries; (ii) preparing appraisal reports and recommendations on approval for
review by the Intermediary Policy Council; (iii) monitoring the implementation of sub-projects and the
project in general; (iv) monitoring implementation and preparing implementation reports for review by
the Bank and the Policy Council according to an agreed timetable; (v) maintaining project accounts and
arranging for annual audits; (vi) contracting technical assistance for implementation; and (vii) acting as
the Secretariat to the Intermediary Policy Council. Based on the experience of HRDSIL I, the current
level of NCERD professional staff (see Table 1 in Annex 12) is adequate. However, some expertise
needs to be made available in TVET and in research related to human resources development.
4.11      Preparation. appraisal. and approval of sub-projects. A sample format for preparing sub-
projects is presented in Annex 4.  Responsibility for sub-project identification, preparation, and



- 21 -
implementation lies with the beneficiaries, the relevant general directorates of MOE, NCERD, VTC and
MOHE. While individual sub-projects would differ, their basic format would adhere to certain
commonalities in order to facilitate review and appraisal. Sub-project applications would be given a
preliminary review by the submitting beneficiary institution. In the case of MOE, this would be done
by a steering committee headed by the Secretary General; similar reviews would be done by VTC for its
sub-projects. A favorable review would constitute institutional endorsement of the sub-project, which
would then be submitted to the NCERD for appraisal. During negotiations, it was agreed that the first
sub-projects related to TVET to be implemented by each of MOE, MOHE, and VTC, and three
additional TVET sub-projects, as well as other sub-projects selected by the Bank, shall be presented to
the Bank for approval at least one month prior to the scheduled start of implementation.
4.12      NCERD's professional staff would begin each appraisal by determining whether each sub-
project was properly prepared. Inadequately prepared sub-projects would be returned to the entity of
origin with a clear statement of the deficiencies. Accepted sub-projects would be assigned to technical
staff for appraisal on the basis of an agreed set of criteria. Using a standard format (Annex 4), technical
staff would prepare an appraisal report which would be endorsed by NCERD's president and then
submitted to the Intermediary Policy Council for approval. Once approved, the entity of origin would
be authorized to begin implementation. (The flow chart of this process is in Annex 4 as Chart 1).
4.13      Criteria for appraisal and approval of sub-proiects. NCERD and the Intermediary Policy
Council would appraise and approve sub-project requests on the basis of five general criteria: (i)
relevance to the objectives and priorities of the reform program; (ii) technical quality; (iii) implementation
capacity; (iv) cost efficiency; and (v) impact on recurrent budget and availability of human and financial
resources to ensure sustainability. Annex 4 provides the general format for the submission of sub-projects
and the general criteria for sub-project preparation, appraisal, and approval. In addition to the preceding
general criteria, sub-project evaluators would use specific action plan and/or sub-project appraisal criteria
included in the project implementation volume.  Criteria specific for TVET sub-project appraisal are
included in Annex 3B. During negotiations, the Government agreed that it will operate in accordance
with these guidelines, criteria and procedures that are satisfactory to the Bank.
4.14      Sub-Droject implementation. The beneficiaries would be responsible for implementing their
respective sub-projects. Sub-projects related to school construction would be the responsibility of the
MOE's GDPSB. The General Directorate has demonstrated its implementation capacity through the
achievements made during implementation of HRDSIL I. In addition, the proposed project includes a
School Building Management sub-component which would provide specialist consultants to analyze and
revise the role of GDPSB in the management and monitoring of school construction. It is expected that
the capacity of GDPSB to plan and supervise the school construction program would be improved as a
result. Other civil works activities and the maintenance program would also be the responsibility of
GDPSB.
4.15      The GDCET would be responsible for implementing the sub-projects related to educational
technology, the Learning Resource Centers, textbook publishing, and distribution. The GDEE would be
responsible for implementing the sub-projects related to the GSSCE, and NCERD would be responsible
for implementing those sub-projects related to development of the EMIS and sample-based national
assessment. MOE's Education Training Center would implement the staff development sub-projects.
Beneficiaries responsible for implementing the TVET component will be the three providers--the MOE,
VTC and MOHE. The concerned General Directorates of the MOE and NCERD have proven their



- 22 -
competence in the implementation of sub-projects under HRDSIL I. The implementation performance
of each beneficiary will be reviewed by the supervision missions and during the Mid-Term Review.
4.16      Monitoring of sub-proiect implementation. NCERD would be responsible for monitoring the
implementation of the sub-projects and would collect and compile impact and implementation data to
serve as the basis for quarterly reports to the Intermediary Policy Council and semi-annual progress
reports to be submitted to the Intermediary Policy Council and the Bank. Each sub-project would contain
indicators for monitoring performance. The reports would focus on objectives, attainment of targets,
adherence to timetables, financial status, internal coordination, general management, identification of
implementation problems, recommendations to overcome problems and resolve issues, and suggested
work plans for modifications related to the implementation period.
4.17      Indicators of the impact of the reform program will concentrate on achievement, access and
equity. The Educational Management Information System (EMIS) will provide sufficient information in
the area of access and equity, desegregated by gender, level and region. Indicators of achievement will
become available once the national assessment system is in place. Data selected from the 1993 national
survey conducted by NCERD (including achievement in Arabic, mathematics and science in grades 4,5
and 8) and/or new baseline benchmarks should be used as monitoring indicators for periodic (1997 and
1999) follow-up of the impact of project interventions. Furthermore, specific studies will be performed
to assess the impact of components such as in-service teacher training and dissemination of diagnostic
approaches.
D. Procurement Arran2ements
International Competitive Bidding (CB)
4.18      Civil works (school construction, expansion and rehabilitation) estimated to cost more than
US$4.0 million and equipment (equipment, furniture, vehicles and software) costing more than
US$350,000 per contract will be procured through ICB procedures in accordance with the Bank's
"Guidelines for Procurement Under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits' (May 1992) using the Bank's standard
bidding documents. In the evaluation and comparison of bids for goods, domestic manufacturers would
be granted a margin of preference of 15 percent, or the relevant duty, whichever is lower, in accordance
with Appendix 2 of the Guidelines. The amounts and methods of procurement are shown in Table 4.3.
Procurement is the responsibility of the Technical Unit/NCERD  (see para.4. 10).  To expedite
procurement, the Government shall establish special tender committees for civil works and goods.
Exceptions to ICB
4.19      The exceptions to ICB would be the following:
(a)    Local Competitive Bidding (LCB). Civil works estimated to cost less than US$4.0 million
per contract and goods estimated to cost less than US$350,000 per contract, up to US$63.0
million in aggregate for works and US$13.0 million in aggregate for goods, would be
awarded on the basis of LCB procedures. Such contracts would be for those facilities and
equipment packages which are small, widely scattered geographically and, even when
packaged, are unlikely to attract foreign firms.



- 23 -
(b)   International ShoDning (IS). Bid packages for goods estimated to cost between US$50,000
and US$350,000 (US$0.20 million in aggregate) and containing small quantities of items of
great variety, which would not be expected to interest volume suppliers, may be awarded
under IS procedures, based on comparing price quotations from at least three suppliers from
at least three countries eligible under the Guidelines in accordance with procedures acceptable
to the Bank.
(c)    Local Shopping (LS). Bid packages for goods estimated to cost less than US$50,000 up to
an aggregate amount of US$0.30 million, and containing small quantities of a great variety
of items, which would not be expected to interest international suppliers, may be awarded
under LS procedures based on comparing prices from at least three suppliers eligible under
the Guidelines in accordance with procedures acceptable to the World Bank.
(d)    Technical Assistance (TA). Qualified firms or institutions as well as individual specialists,
would be invited to submit proposals for a comprehensive package of consultant services and
fellowships in accordance with the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing Agency' (August 1981). TA would be
contracted in keeping with the terms of reference (TORs) packaging and schedule agreed with
the Bank at loan negotiations. The TA summary and schedule are in Annex 6.
Bid Documents and Contract Review
4.20      The Bank will review the first bidding package for both works and goods prior to issuance
of the bids. The threshold for prior review of contracts (as described in paras. 2 and 4 of Appendix 1
of the Guidelines) will be those contracts costing the equivalent of US$2.0 million or more for works,
US$350,000 or more for goods and equipment, and US$100,000 for consulting firms and US$50,000 for
individual consultants. IBRD will review TORs for technical assistance contracts under US$100,000
equivalent. It is estimated that IBRD prior review will cover 55 percent of the value of all contracts for
works, goods and services financed by the Bank. The lower threshold level for prior review is justified
because of the satisfactory past performance of the Borrower, there will be a large number of similar and
repetitive contracts, and there is an Intermediary which is experienced in procurement under World Bank
guidelines. The remaining contracts will be subject to selective post-award reviews by IBRD. During
negotiations, assurances were provided that the Bank's standard bidding documents would be used for
the procurement of works and goods under international competitive bidding, and that for local
competitive bidding, standard bidding documents agreed with the Bank would be used.
E. Disbursements
4.21      The project would be implemented over a period of five years (1995-2000) and disbursed over
a period of five and a half years-12 months shorter than the disbursement profile of the sector. This is
deemed achievable because: (i) the Intermediary and the beneficiaries have a proven track record for
efficient implementation; and (ii) the executing agencies are familiar with both the programs to be
implemented and implementation procedures. The disbursement percentages for the allocation of the loan
proceeds (US$60.0 million) would be as follows: 50 percent of total expenditures for civil works
(US$36.00 million total); 100 percent of foreign expenditures, 100 percent of local expenditures (ex-
factory cost) and 90 percent of local expenditures for other equipment and furniture items procured
locally (US$15.00 million total); 50 percent of total expenditures for textbook publishing (US$1.4



- 24 -
million); 100 percent of foreign expenditures and 95 percent of local expenditures for technical assistance
and fellowships (US$3.20 million total), and US$4.40 million unallocated.
4.22          All disbursements will be fully documented except for payments under contracts costing less
than US$2.0 million for civil works, US$350,000 for equipment and furniture, US$100,000 for
consulting firms, US$50,000 for individual contracts, and for the first civil works and equipment
contracts, regardless of cost, which would be made on the basis of statements of expenditure (SOEs).
The disbursement schedule is shown in Annex 9.
Table 4.3: PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
(USS million)
Category             International          Local             Other              N.B.F.              Total
Competitive       Competitive
Bidding           Bidding
Civil Works                      25.26              55.18                -                42.10             122.54
(18.31)            (20.54)                                                 (38.85)
Equipmnent/Furniture             15.29              11.46              0.60               17.90              45.25
(6.12)             (9.57)             (0.50)                               (16.19)
Technical Asistance/               -                  -                3.62               3.77               7.39
Fellowships                                                           (3.45)                                (3.45)
Textbook Publishing                -                2.80                 -                  -                2.80
(1.51)                                                  (1.51)
Local Training                     -                  -                  -                3.02               3.02
Workshops/Fees                     -                                     -                2.38               2.38
Maintenance - Civil Work           -                  -                  -                 1.95              1.95
Maintenance - Equipncrt            -                  -                  -                 1.33              1.33
Total                            40.55              69.44              4.22               72.45             186.66
(24.43)            (31.62)            (3.95)                               (60.00)
Note 1:  Figures in parenthesis ame the respective amounts to be financed by The World Bank.
Note 2:  N.B.F. = Non-Bank Financed, including finaning by OECF.
Note 3:   Other includes procuremient through international (US$0.30 million) and local (US$0.30 million) shopping, consulting
services (US$1.29 maillion), nd fellowships (USS2.33 million).
Note 4:  The Bank's Consultarit Guidelines apply Lo Technical Assistance.



- 25 -
Table 4.4: DISBURSEMENT ACCOUNTS BY FINANCIERS (US$ million)
Tbe               World            Cofineacim            TotWl
Goverment             Banek
Amount       b     Amount    %         Amount       %    Amount       %        Foreign      Local (Excl.   Duties & Taxes
Exchange       Taxes)
Civil Works                       41.59        34    38.85       32      42.10       34    122.54      66        58.95          62.74            0.85
EquipmentFurniture                11.16        25     16.19      35      17.90       40    45.25       24        38.73           6.52             -
Teconical Assistance/Fellowahips  3.92         53     3.45       47        -           -    7.37        3         4.50           2.87             -
Textbook Publishing                1.29        46     1.51       54        -           -    2.82        2         1.41           1.41             -
1ocal Taining                     3.02        100       -         -        -           -    3.02        2         0.86           2.16             -
Workshops/Fees                    2.38        100       -         -        -           -    2.38        1         0.00           2.38             -
Maintenance (Civil Works) \a      1.95        100       -         -        -           -    1.95        1         0.54           1.40             -
Maintenance (Equipment) \b         1.33       100       -         -        -           -    1.33        1         0.37           0.96             -
Total                             66.66        36    60.00       32      60.00       32    186.66      100       105.36         80.45           0.85
\c Calculated as 2% of base cost of civil works.
\b Calculated as 4% of bae cost of equipment.
Note: Numbers may not add up to totals due to rounding.
7.       Includes the unallocated amount of the loan (US$4.40 million).



- 26 -
F. Proiect Accounts and Audits
4.23   For the project, the Government will establish, maintain and operate a Special Account
denominated in US dollars in the Central Bank, under terms and conditions acceptable to IBRD. IBRD
will deposit an initial amount of US$5.0 million into the Special Account, which amount is judged
adequate to cover about four months of expenditure. The initial deposit will be US$1.5 million at project
effectiveness and increase to US$5.0 million when US$5.0 million has been disbursed. The Special
Account will be replenished monthly or when the undisbursed balance falls to less than half the initial
deposit, whichever comes first. All applications for direct payment or Special Commitment must have
a minimum value of 20 percent of the authorized allocations, i.e., US$1.0 million, except during the
period when the initial deposit is set at US$1.5 million when the minimum value would be US$300,000.
Monthly bank statements of the Special Account, which have been reconciled by the Borrower, will
accompany all replenishment requests.
4.24   A separate account for the IBRD-financed project expenditures would be maintained by the
Intermediary which has the requisite accounting expertise. The Borrower is in compliance with IBRD
audit reporting covenants; audit reports satisfying IBRD requirements are prepared annually by auditors
acceptable to IBRD, and the procedure would be continued for the proposed project. Project accounts,
including the Special Account, would be audited in accordance with the 'Guidelines for Financial
Reporting and Auditing of Projects Financed by the World Bank' (March 1982). During negotiations,
assurances were Drovided that within six months of the end of each fiscal year, IBRD will be provided
by the Government with an audit report of such scope and detail as IBRD may reasonably request,
including a separate opinion by an independent auditor acceptable to IBRD, on disbursements against
certified SOEs and on the Special Account. The separate opinion would mention whether the SOEs
submitted during the fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls involved in their
preparation, can be relied upon to support the related withdrawal applications.
G. Project Supervision. Reporting. and Evaluation
Supervision
4.25   Bank supervision would focus on: (i) the consistency of activities in each component and sub-
project with agreements reached at appraisal; (ii) performance of the implementing groups and
institutions; (iii) assessment of emerging needs for adjustments to project parameters; (iv) progress of
project implementation; and (v) progress of institutional reforms. The Bank would base supervision on
progress reports and annual evaluation of project activities, supplemented by a review of project
expenditures and availability of financial resources, and discussions with MOE officials. The supervision
plan is in Annex 10; project monitoring charts are in Annex 5.
Rwrting
4.26   The Intermediary would prepare semiannual reports on each project objective, component, and
activity, describing: (i) current implementation status versus the implementation plan; (ii) deviations, if
any, and reasons for deviations; (iii) problems and constraints, and the corrective actions being taken;
and (iv) status with respect to monitoring indicators and covenants. During negotiations, assurances were
provided that before November 1 of each year, the Government will prepare a technical-financial report
on project expenditures to be incurred, and actions to be undertaken during the following fiscal year in
carrying out the project, including budgetary allocations necessary to meet the Government's share of
project financing. In addition, before March 31 of each year, the Government will prepare a progress



- 27 -
report on expenditures incurred and actions undertaken in carrying out the project during the preceding
fiscal year, including budgetary allocations necessary to meet the Government's share of project
financing.
Mid-Term Review and Evaluation
4.27   A mid-term review of all project activities would be conducted jointly by the Intermediary, MOE,
VTC, MOHE and IBRD. The mid-term review would: determine implementation progress and ways to
improve project operations; allow an opportunity to consider desirable changes in policy, based upon
experience during the initial period and emergent sectoral needs at the time of review; effect the
necessary mid-course adjustments in project components and procedures; and identify possible follow-up
operations for the Bank's continued involvement in the sector. To facilitate the review, the Intermediary
would prepare a detailed report covering all aspects of the project and submit it to the Bank by October
15, 1997 for a joint review by January 31, 1998. Furthermore, annual and periodic evaluation of project
components being implemented for quality control and enhancement will be carried out by the
Intermediary/NCERD. External assessment of LRCs is scheduled during the first half of 1998.
4.28   The Implementation Completion Report, summarizing project performance and evaluating the
project's successes and problems, would be prepared by the Intermediary, with input from the various
beneficiaries, and submitted to the Bank no later than six months after closing of the loan. During
negotiations, assurances were provided that the Government would undertake, in collaboration with the
Bank, a mid-term review of the project by January 31, 1998, with terms of reference acceptable to the
Bank.
H. Program Objective Categories
4.29   Poverty category is not applicable and poverty alleviation is not an explicit objective of this
project. However, the educational quality improvements resulting from the project are expected to have
a favorable impact on the poverty profile in Jordan. With respect to gender issues, rates of female
enrollments and their representation in the teaching force are appropriate and pose no problems (see para.
2.1).
4.30   With respect to environmental objectives, the project is classified under the Environmental
Category C: 'No appreciable environmental impact." Civil works design will be reviewed by the Bank
to ensure that the materials proposed for rehabilitation or construction are environmentally sound; the
construction contracts will specify that the construction activities will be carried out in an environmentally
sound manner, and construction-associated wastes will be disposed of likewise. The broad guidelines of
the new secondary school curriculum include expectations that students will deal with environmental
issues positively and in an appropriate manner and will maintain cleanliness of the environment. There
is at least one course to be offered during each of the two secondary school years entitled "Earth and
Environmental Sciences".
4.31   The private sector will have a role in developing TVET policies and in guiding related activities.
There are also plans in the project to facilitate the role of private community colleges in providing TVET.



- 28 -
V. BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Benefits
5.1    The proposed project would make significant and sustainable contributions to improved
instructional quality, managerial efficiency in the sector and human resources development in Jordan.
It is estimated that the learning environment of 95,000 students would be improved as a direct result of
the school facility improvement program. Further, over 45,000 teachers and school administrators would
benefit through their participation in the training programs. Consolidation of schools and improved
allocation and distribution of educational materials would impact favorably educationally disadvantaged
areas which tend to be poor. Coordination among the providers of TVET and its linkages to the realities
of the labor market and the private sector would be emphasized in order to increase relevance and reduce
wastage. Monitorable targets to evaluate progress, further development of EMIS, examinations and
national assessment would be important contributions of the proposed project to sub-sector institutional
development and improve capabilities in data collection and monitoring of educational quality. A strong
institutional framework would be an important legacy of the project since it would (i) ensure sustainability
of the program's accomplishments, and (ii) consolidate the experience gained in managing the reform
process.
B. Risks
5.2    Given the Government's strong commitment to the reform program, the risks are relatively low.
In addition, it is reasonable to expect that the satisfactory implementation performance of HRDSIL I will
continue and improve. In this regard, however, it is important that Government's share of project
funding is budgeted in a timely fashion. Requests for cofinancing have been initiated and, in principle,
it remains a risk until final commitments are made. The project would be reprogrammed if cofinancing
problems are faced. The effects of the peace process are unknown at this point: if UNRWA pulls out,
this could cause disruptions which would affect the time frame and possibly the financial requirements
of the education system. On the other hand, potential reduction in defense spending will avail funds for
other sectors including education. In general, it is expected that any risks associated with the remainder
of the project will be mitigated by the participatory nature of project design, the role of the Intermediary
in on-going appraisal of sub-projects, and a mid-term review which will correct course as necessary.
C. Project Sustainability
5.3    MOE's general directorates, particularly those dealing with  curricula, examinations, school
buildings and teacher training, are supported in ways that would keep them functioning properly after
completion of the project. In addition, NCERD which is developing as an effective and quality institution
would be strengthened by bolstering its leadership role in the development of the EMIS, national
assessment, and monitoring the reform program. The project will also support measures to rationalize
expenditures in civil works. Other measures directed towards cost efficiency include: replacing rented
buildings and reducing fragmentation, thus increasing the number of students per teacher ratio; adopting
a system for textbook loans in grades 5-10 instead of free provision; and enacting regulations for the
future increase of students' contributions. The recurrent cost associated with the project, including
maintenance for equipment and facilities, and new staff, is expected to average about US$0.7 million



- 29 -
annually. As this is about 0.5 percent of MOE's annual recurrent budget, it will have minimal financial
impact, and should be sustainable.
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
A. Agreements Reached
6.1    During negotiations, the Government agreed that it will:
(a)    Continue to maintain during the implementation period the Intermediary Policy Council
and Technical Unit (as specified in HRDSIL I) or equivalent from NCERD's technical
staff and other needed support with organization, staffing and terms of reference
satisfactory to the Bank (paras. 4.8-4.10);
(b)    Appraise and implement sub-projects in accordance with guidelines, criteria and
procedures satisfactory to the Bank (para. 4.13);
(c)    Furnish to the Bank for its review and approval the first sub-projects related to TVET
to be implemented by each of MOE, MOHE, and VTC, and three additional TVET sub-
projects, as well as other sub-projects selected by the Bank. In all cases reports will be
submitted to the Bank at least one month prior to the scheduled start of implementation
(para. 4.1 1);
(d)    Hold with the Bank an in-depth mid-term review of the Government's progress in
implementation; and within six months of the Loan Closing Date, a completion report
will be prepared by the Intermediary and submitted to the Bank (paras. 4.27 and 4.28);
(e)    Use the Bank's standard bidding documents for the procurement of works and goods
under international competitive bidding; for local competitive bidding, standard bidding
documents agreed with the Bank would be used (para. 4.20);
(f)    Before November 1 of each year, ensure that the Intermediary will prepare a technical-
financial report on project expenditures to be incurred, and actions to be undertaken
during the following fiscal year in carrying out the project, including budgetary
allocations necessary to meet the Government's share of project financing. In addition,
before March 31 of each year, the Government will prepare a progress report on
expenditures incurred and actions undertaken in carrying out the project during the
preceding fiscal year (para. 4.26) and within six months of the end of each fiscal year,
an audit report on disbursements against certified SOEs and on the Special Account
would be provided to the Bank (para. 4.24); and
(g)    Establish special tender committees for civil works and goods to expedite procurement
(para. 4.18).



- 30 -
B. Recommendation
6.2    With the above assurances, the project would constitute a suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$60
million to the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan.



ANNEXES






Annex 1
Page 1 of 7
PROPOSED PROJECT COMPONENTS MATRIX AND COSTS
A. Deepening the Oualitative Impact of the Reform
Progrm Objectives                          Action Par                            Po1cWi/Mc5utcr
Staff develoomcnt                                                               For the program:
1. (a) Inprove and exted the Curriculum    1. Cotine In-servic  Tcher Training  Gradually decentalize aasesmet of
Disemination Traiinog Program (CDTP)    Project for 16500 tachers in the C P    tining wids and developmeIA/
to secondary tachn and other teae       (3) and 27200 teach  in the enrichmt    adminisato    of training programs.
who did not receive trining under       and pecialized tainig progrm  (5).
HRDSIL l; and                                                                   Rxtenal asment of inplemnuati  of
(b) Enhanc teachi  competeaiss and                                            saff developmen  bprojeta leding to
pedagogical sil by prviing in-service                                           modifications for improvemst.
training aimed at pecial needs and                                              awoxporstion of ageed a_aessment4iased
enrichment purpoee.                                                             modifications is a pi-requisite for fiuiher
rebted activitia.
2. Improve capacity of triners,         2. (a) Train about 925 trainers. (5).
admiinistrtors, and principals for                                              With referecwe to l(b): Coordinate with
adminisative and educational leadership.  (b) hnroduce a training program for   ODEE in utilizing diagnostic testing for
1350 educationl administators. (5)      remedial interventions.
(c) Develop training program for
.shool princpala nd assistans (2000
principals, asistat principab, and
vocational technical coordinatora).(5)
3. Expad and further develop the pilot
3. Develop capacity to provide school-  school-baed in-evice training program.
based integrated in-service trining.    (3)
Examination /Asaeument
1. Improve the General Secondary School   1. Align the coNtent and objectives tested    Upon apptoval, establish te propowd
Certificate Examination (GSSCE) in      by the GSSCE with the new curricula. (5)   sanding committees of the GSSCE,
accordance with the reform program.                                             particularly the Examination Board (ER).
2. Develop classroombased diagnoaic     Coordination with ETC  nd GDCET
2. Senstize teachen to diagnostic      teding for remedial interventions in math    regarding the uwe of relevant diagnostic
methodology and remedial interrentions,    an Arabic for grades 1-6. (5)        tools for rmedal interventions.
Educational materia
Provide wshools with educatioa materals   Develop aD adopt a mechanism for the  Provide eductionAl materials (including
(other than textbooks), mch an library  allocation of at leat JD one million    librry books) to schoola as needed, using
books, audio-viul aid, nd               annually to ensure availability of adequate    te funds provided by Article 28, Chapter
consuma ble                            library books, materials, and consmables    6 of the April 1994 Education law (at
in chooS. (4)                           leaNt JD one million annually).
Pilot school-based innovations
Encourge school-based innovative ideas
with a view to improving the quality and    Develop and implment a mechanisrn to  Develop policies ad guidelines for
efficiency of education delivey ad     umpport school-based innovations,        utilization of funds and accountability.
outcomes and initiate bottom-up          pecifying guidelines, procedures, criteria,
improvement proceam from the school      nd instruments. (4)
level.
Note: The numbers in parendhesis under the Action Plans column indicale the envisioned number of subprojects
for the related action plan.



Annex 1
Page 2 of 7
Progrm Objective.                          Action Plans                          Polic iM      _
Tahnical-VocationaI Education ad
Trainina tTVEfl orormms
Make TVBT mone cost effective and       Streamline the proposed investnmet      Streagthen Inrmediary's capacity in the
attuned to market ignalc a  nods.       program and finalie first phase sub-      rrET  ubsector.
projects for appraisal by the Intermediary
and Bank approval.
B. I,utitutional Develoomnent
Lernins Rcgoumce Ce aero
EnhaDC, capacity and quality of GDCEFs   Upgrde six alrdy functioning LRCc      Incorporate findings and
Learning Resource Cents (IRCs).         during pha. A (July 1995-June 1998);    recommendationa of recent evaluatio
carry out externAl assesament and        tdy.
establish two rnore LRC during phase B
(July 1998-June 2000). (2; 1 for each
phase)
Publishing. oroduction. and didnbution
Purther improve capacity for production  1. Com,puterize publishing, distribution,  Adopt measure. for coot reduction.
and distribution of textbooks, and      and related area. (2)
teachers' guides.                                                               Rationalize computer systems for
2. Produce textbooks (being published for   examinations, EMIS, distribution
the fuist time based on the new         network, and others.
curriculum). (2)
3. Strengthen textbook disribution
system. (3)
4. Improve trialling and evaluating
mechanisms for textbooks. (3)
Strenghen GDeE
Strengthen the General Directorate for  Strengthen adminidsttive and feedback   Condruct faciities, provide technical
Examinations ad Evaluation (ODEE).     sysems for the GSSCE. (3; for Years 1,    equipment, and increase aff.
2, and 4)
Planning, reearch. and develoomet
Strengthen the capacity of NCERD to     1. Support further development of the   Institutionalize national sample-based
undertake reearch relevtat to poicy     EMIS. (I)                               auesument under the reqonubility of
development and decision making in                                              NCERD.
cooperation with MOE and Regionl        2. Support implemenation of sample-
Education districts,                    baed asesment by NCERD. (3)             EMIS decentralization to regions and
further integration with MOE.
3. Construct permanent facilities for
NCERD to enable them to cater to        Undedake program of research  tudies
increaing demands. (1)                  related to the implementation of the
reform.
Underake apprmial of suo-projects and
periodic assesmet of implmenation for
purposes of development and
improvement.
NAk: The numbes in parnthesis under the Action Plans column indicate the envisioned number of subprojects
for tho related action plan.



Annex 1
Page 3 of 7
Program Objectives                          Action Plans                          Policie/Measures
Proiect management
Ensure allocation of funds among sub-   (Support to the Intermediary Unit of      Ensure continued coordination bdween
project bawed on agreed criteria, monitor   NCERD included under Panning,         the MOE and NCERD.
implementation of sub-projects, ensure  Resarch, and Development ection).
compliance with agr-ed procurement                                                Develop the EMIS to provide continuou
procedures and maintain                 Develop a ptan for annual and periodic    national 'school mapping' information.
system of audited sccounta.             *ssuement of project components being
impeimented for quality control nd
enhancement. (5)
C. ImorOvine the Facilities for Teaching and Learni-n
Facilities imorovement
1. Develop a rationalized civil works   1. Develop civil works program for       Adopt new design for schools.
program to accommodate the high demand   expansion of existing schools, construction
for enrollment,                         of new schools to replace rented facilities,   Rationalize criteria for selecting school
reduce double shifting, and to          locations.
2. Rehabilitation of dilapidated school  accommodate natural growth. (2) Develop
buildings (restricted to structural repairs  plan for reorganization of GDPSB.    Estblish effective maintenance
and sanitary facilities).               Design/management/ computers. (3)        procedures and manuals for use by
iniplementors.
3. Reorganize the General Directorate for   2. Develop nd impIement a prioritized
Projects and School Buildings (GDPSB)   rehabilitation program for state-owned    Consider adopting differet furniture
to become a management entity with      schools nd strengthen maintenance         (tables and chairs) for lower primary
capabilities to produce standardized school  system. (3)                          grdes in new schoos and when replacing
designs, and plan, program, review,                                               furniture of old schools.
monitor, control, supervise, and audit the    3. Provide new and expanded schools with
school constmction and maintenance for  necessary equipment and furniture. (2)
school facilities progrms, including the
installtion of an appropriate computer
progrmming system.n
Note: The numbers in parenthesis under the Action Plans column indicate the envisioned number of subprojects
for the related action plan.



Annex 1
Page 4 of 7
PROJECT COSTS BY COMPONENT (US$ Million)
Deepening Qualitative hnpact of the Refonn
Staff         Staff            Staff Dedotmmt  Staff Pewdom         Staff D*vdoom        GSSCE Refon       GSSCE           Educaionl
Devdopmen Duesont              In-Service         Training of       Piot School-Based    Align   GSSCE    Reform           Material
Principals    Educatioal       Teace Trainig    Trs                 I-Service Tr g   with New              Diagos
Adnistraton                                                               Curricla           Testing
I. Isvinnnt Csts
A. Civi Works
Now Co04bucti                      -              -                 -                  -                  -                   -                -
Rehabika                                                            - -
Design/Supervisi                   -              -                 -                  -                  ----
Stotal Civi Works                  -              -                 -                  -                  -
B. Equiint                         -              -                0.52                -                  -                   -
C. Tecdmb  Asadonce
LocWa Consultants                  -              -                 -                  -                 0.02               0.01               -               -
Iternational Conultants            -             0.01              0.06              0.01                 -                 0.71             0.1              -
Fellowships                        -             0.03               -                0.02                 -                 0.38             0.03              -
Sabtota Tech.si    Aaetrance       -             0.04              0.06              0.04                0.02               1.10             0.21              -
D. Local Traning                 0.31            0.18              1.63              0.17                 -                   -                -
FL Workshpm/Feas                   -              -                 -                  -                 0.38               1.11             0.02              -
F. TraiWt Materis                0.05            0.03             0.11               0.02                0.78               1.71               -             0.24
Totd aiesebead Coas              0.36            0.25             2.31               0.22                1.18               3.92             0.23             0.24
H. Recarre Cost
A. Maintenance - Civil Works       -              -                 -                                     -                   -                -
B. Ma innace - Equipment           -              -               0.02                 -                  -                   -                -
C. New Staff                       ---                                                           -                                           0.05
Total Racunn ACowss                -              -                0.02                                   -                   -              0.05
Total Project CasXt              0.36            0.25              2.33              0.22                1.18               3.92             0.28             0.24
Taxes n                                           -                 -                  -                  -  
Foretg E buesage                 0.11            0.10              1.04              0.09                0.38                1.82            0.19             0.12



Annex 1
Page 5 of 7
PROJECT COSTS BY COMPONENT (US$ Million) Institutional Development
Schoo-Based      Vocationa        Leaning       Publishing,         P                  Publshing,        Publshing,
Innowvations    and Technical     Resource      Production, and     Production, and    Prodction, and    Producin,
Education        Centers      Distrb               Distr             Distribution      and
Comti Tk                                                 Di
Pll          ~~~~Development     Tri  t
1. Investment Coss
A. Civi Works
New Constmction                   -              4.22             -                  -                  -                0.60
Rehabilitation                    -               -              2.04                -                  --
Design/Supervision                -               -               -                  -
Subtotal Civil Works              -              4.22            2.04                -                  -                0.60
B. Equipnsent                     -             25.20            1.40              0.56                2.49              0.15               -
C. Tecnica Aosaece
Local Conslants                   -              1.12             -                  -                  -                  -              0.02
Izgernafionil Consltants          -              0.97                              0.10                0.10              0.07             0.04
FeUowships                        -              1.83            0.02                -                  -                  -                -
Subtt Techna As t;re              -              3.93            0.02              0.10                0.10              0.08             0.06
D. lIcal Training                 -              0.69            0.04                -                  -
F. Workshops/Fewn                0.06            0.01             -                                                      0.02             0.64
F. Training Materias             0.50             -               -                  -                  -                  -                -
Total lavedinemt Cash            0.56           34.06            3.49              0.67                2.59              0.U4             0.70
11. Rwcurret Coss
A. Maintanauce - Civil Works      -              0.09            0.04                -                  -                0.01               -
B. Maintenance - Equipment        -              0.10            0.06              0.03                 -                0.50               -
C. New Staff                      -               -              0.67                -                 0.07              0.22               -
Total RecurreAt Cost              -              0.20            0.77              0.03                0.07              0.73               -
Tota Project Coss                0.56           34.25            4.26              0.69                2.67               1.57            0.70
Taxes                              -             0.42            0.20                -                  -                 0.06              -
Foreign Exchange                 0.24           27.06            2.09              0.60                2.32               0.57            0.05



-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~            -e  -oe
X~~~~~~~ 0                         0           0   0                   
'E  1111         0               0        0          0   0    olSoEt
I Pd                       io l'oE
Co.>~~~~~~~~~~~~~- .0
u~~~~~~              0     0        0           0   0.      11 ;
iI|I     | 3               g S .|          >          |
1   @             wx1  X IZv i = -a,,*: X a      at-



Annex 1
Page 7 of 7
PROJECT COSTS BY COMPONENT (US$ Million)
I. Investmnt Costa
A. Civil Works
New Constrction                    90.46
Rehabilitation                     24.67
Design/Supervision                  7.41
Subtotal Civil Works               122.54
B. Equipment                       44.61
C. Technical Assisance
Local Consultants                   1.43
Intenational Consultants            2.42
Fellowships                         2.33
Subtotal Technical Aidtace          6.18
D. Local Training                   3.02
E. Workshops/Fees                   2.3S
P. Training Materials               3.44
Total Investnent Costs             182.18
U. Recurrent Cost
A. Maintenance - Civil Works        1.95
B. Maintenance - Equipment          1.33
C. New Staff                        1.20
Total Recurrent Costs               4.48
Totl Project Costs                 186.66
Taxes                               0.5
Foreign Exchange                    94.50






Annex 2
Page 1 of 22
TRAINNG SCHOOL PRINCIPALS AND ASSISTANTS ACTION PLAN
Objectives
1.    To improve capacity of untrained school principals (academic and vocational) u well assistant
principals (academic and vocational technical coordinators) for administrative and educational
leadership.
Rationale
2.    400 of 3300 academic school principals and 1000 assistant principals have not been trained.
3.    All 100 vocational school principals and 500 vocational technical coordinators have not been
trained.
4.    Need to provide in-service training for enrichment purposes.
Components
5.    Introduction to principals and assistants of education reform objectives.
6.    A program for enhancing leadership and administrative skills and for recognizing effective
teaching techniques and mastering evaluation techniques.
7.    For vocational education administrators, introduction of the systems approach and its
requirements.
Organizational Arrangements
8.    ETC will administer the program.
Cost Estimates
Ihm             Total Base Costs (USS)
Local Training                 253,500
Matrials                        36-.
Total                          290,400
Monitoring and Evaluation
9.    Internal evaluation by ETC;
10.   External yearly assessment leading to modifications for improvement; and
11.   Impact study by year 4 of project.
Risha
12.   The administrative educational system may not accommodate the new acquired skills
Sustainability
13.   System-wide awareness of change is apt to encourage continuous self development through
school-based activities and to sustain the acquired expertise.



Annex 2
Page 2 of 22
TRAINING EDUCATIONAL ADMISTRATORS/COUNSELORS ACTION PLAN
Objectives
1.     To improve capacity of oducational administato  to support the Education Reform Program;
2.     To improve capacity of educational adminisators in providing administrtvo ad oducationl leadership;
and
3.     To develop dills of identifyig tehnical needs, and of elf-evaluation and sef-leaning.
4.     Need to sensitize oducational adinist    to ther role in the light of the pnnciples and demands of the
Educaton Reform Program.
S.     Need to develop administrative and leadership skills of educational administrators.
Co nRonets
6.     Developing general competencies such  s communication dcills, leadership, catering for individual
differences and critical thincing as a common core part.
7.     Addressing the varous professional competency needs related to the functions of oech category of
administation.
8.     Trining 250 administrators and 1100 educational counselors.
anliQatonal            enru tms
9.     Educational Training Center (ETC) will administer this program in coordination with relevant directorate.
Cost Estimates
Item                 Total Base Costs (USS)
Foreign TA (1.5 staff months)           14,000
FeBowships (5 staff months)             25,000
Local Trining                          146,250
.Maerias                                24.750
Total:                                 210,000
Monitorine and Evaluation
10.    Intemal evaluation by ETC in coordination with other directorate.
11.    Extemal yearly assessment leading to modifications for improvements.
12.    ETC  may not be able to design and implement progrms for high-level adminsator particuarly in
management.
13.    Cooperation and coordination with the home geneml directorate of administraors may not be adequate.
S1.trinabilitn
14.    Tmining is not expected to continue general directorates of adinisratr mr  not be adequate.



Annex 2
Page 3 of 22
STAFF DEVELOPMENT: IN-SERVICE TEACHER TRAINING ACTION PLAN
Obectives
1.     To improve and extend the Curriculum Disseminafion Training Program (CDTP) to secondary teachers and
other teachers who did not receive trining under HRDSIL I; and
2.     To enhance teaching compeencies and pedagogical skills by providing in-service training aimed at special
needs and enrichment purposes.
Rationale
3.     11500 academic and vocational secondary teachers and 5000 who did not receive training under HRDSIL
I need to be trained in the CDTP; and
4.     Need to provide in-service training for special needs and enrichment purposes.
Components
5.     Improved capacity of Educational Training Center (ETC) to develop and upgrade training programs.
6.     Improving quality of content, methodology and instructional materials of original CDTP and adapting it
to the level/background of targeted teacher.
7.     Training 11500 secondary teachers and 5000 new teachers or those who missed training.
8.     Developing and implementing an enrichment and specialized training programs for about 27,000 teachers,
4 days (16 hrs.) on the average.
Organizational Arangements
9.     The ETC will undertake the administration and implementation of the Action Plan with proper mechanisms
to decentralize in-service training.
Cost Estimates
I1Xm                      Total Base Costs (US$)
Foreign Technical Assistance (4 staff months)     0.056 million
Equipment                                         0.463 million
Local Training                                    1.338 million
Materials                                         0.093 million
Total                                             1.950 million
Monitoring and Evaluation
10.    Evaluation by ETC
11.    Yearly extemal assessment leading to modifications for improvements
12.   Impact study by year 4 of the project.
13.    Lack of incentives for teachers
14.    Not being able to incorporate modifications based on assessment of in-service training
15.    Not being able to implement an effective decentralization plan.
Sustainabilitv
16.    Expertise will be acquired in designing in-service teacher training programs.



Annex 2
Page 4 of 22
STAFF DEVELOPMENT: TRAINING THE TRAINERS ACTION PLAN
Obiectives
1.    Improve capacity of central and field trainers in the areas of designing training courses, preparing training
materials, supervising, and evaluating training programs.
Rational
2.     Need to improve the quality and effectiveness of the training of trainers program.
3.     Need to train 75 central trainers and 850 field trainers.
Compognents
4.     Modules, problem solving techniques, video demonstration and peer training will be used in the form of
workshops to train and to enhance their capacity to design and implement in-service programs.
Organizational Arranrements
5.     The Education Training Center will undertake the administration and implementation of the Action Plan.
Cost Estimates
Item                      Total Base Costs (USS)
Local Training                                      141,600
Fellowships (4.5 staff months)                       22,500
Foreign Technical Assistance (1 staff month)         14,000
Materials                                            15.900
Total:                                              194,000
Monitorin and Evaluation
6.     Evaluation by ETC
7.     External assessment by the end of Year 1
Risks
8.     Resistance to change already-acquired methods through previous education and experience
9.     Trained trainers may leave the Ministry.
Sustainability
10.    Expertise will be acquired by local experts (central trainers) and those in turn will transfer expertise to field
trainers.



Annex 2
Page 5 of 22
STAFF DEVELOPMENT: PILOT SCHOOL-BASED IN-SERVICE
TRAINING PROGRAM ACTION PLAN
Objectives
1.     To develop capacity to provide school-based integrated and cooperative in-service training within the
context of the school and involving supervisors, principals, and teachers ; and
2.     To emphasize the role and needs of the student in the learning process under enhanced student-teacher
relations and improved learning environment.
Rationae
3.    In-service training has mainly focussed on top-to-down curriculum dissemination training for different
groups.
4.     There is a need to introduce an integrated and cooperative in-service training, within the context of the
school, for all those involved in classroom teaching or expected to provide support for it.
Components
5.     To emphasize the role and needs of the student in the leaning process under enhanced student-teacher
relations and improved learning environment.
6.     To identify an expandable prototype of a school-based integrated in-service training programs.
Organizational Arranaements
7.     The Educational Training Center (ETC) will administer the program in cooperation with schools in three
districts.
Cost Estimate
Item           Total Base Costs (US$)
Allowances                    204,750
Workshop Expenses              92,400
Evaluation Study               15,000
Materials                     643.500
Total                         955,650
Monitoring and Evaluation
8.     Self-evaluation
9.     Yearly external assessment
10.   Impact study in year 3 of project
Risks
11.    Lack of incentives for staff involved.
12.    Lack of effective coordination among the different staff involved.
Sustainability
13.   If proved successful, the expertise gained and the prototype may be transferred to other schools and other
districts.



Annex 2
Page 6 of 22
ALIGNING THE CONTENT AND OBJECTIVES TESTED BY THE GSSCE
WITH THE NEW CURRICULA ACTION PLAN
Obijective
1.     To improve the General Secondary School Certificate Examination (GSSCE) in accordance with the reform
progrum by:
*      preparing tables of specifications for all subjects in GSSCE;
*      developing for every subject a pool of items for field testing and for official exam; and
*      providing schools with tables of specifications and sample tests.
RationaJ
2.     Need to align the GSSCE (which is to be applied for students studying the new secondary curricula
expected to be implemented in 1995) with the new curricula and with the objectives of the education
reform.
Comrnnents
3.     A functional GSSCE aligned with new curricula.
4.     An Examination and Evaluation Board (11 members), Examination Committees (38 ECs each of 3
members), and Item Construction Committees (16 ICTs each of 3-5 members) will be set up to formulate
policies, prepare tables of specifications and establish procedures, and write test items respectively.
5.     Training of chair persons of examination committees and item construction committees.
6.     Preparation and publication of tables of specification and production and try out of test items.
OrganizationaJ Arran=ements
7.     The General Directorate for Examinations and Evaluation (GDEE) will administer this action plan.
Cost Estimates
Item                      Total Base Costs (US$)
Professional Fees                                 0.885 million
Foreign Technical Assistance (54 staff months)    0.672 million
Local Technical Assistance (6 staff months)       0.009 million
Fellowships (72 staff months)                     0.360 million
Materials                                         1.424 million
Total:                                            3.350 million
Monitorine and Evaluation
8.     Formative evaluation by GDEE
9.     Yearly external assessment
RiBk
10.    Relevant technical training in some areas may not be available.
11.    Coordination of the schedules of activities in the Action Plan may present difficulties.
Sustainability
12.    The expertise gained by the EB, ECs, and ITCs will ensure sustainability.



Annex 2
Page 7 of 22
STRENGTHENING ADMINISTRATIVE AND FEEDBACK SYSIEMS
FOR THE GSSCE ACTION PLAN
Objectives
1.     To strengthen the administrative and feedback system  for the General Secondary School Ceotificat
Examination (GSSCE) by introducing computerization and availing the needed facilities and equipment; and
2.     To train staff on utilization of technical equipment to be acquired.
Rationae
3.     The reform of GSSCE will require more efficient and accderated system  for data processing, est
production, and feedback reporting in the General Directorate for Examination and Evaluation (ODEE).
4.     The expansion of GDEE operations will require additional facilities to house now staff and equipment.
Comoonents
5.     Securing premises to accommodate expanded activities of GDEE.
6.     Technical assistance and fellowships.
7.     Procurement of funiture and equipment - computers, OMR and press unit.
Cost Estimates
Iem                       Total Base Costs (USS)
Civil Works                                    900,000
Equipment/Furniture                            700,000
Foreign Technical Assistance (3 staff           42,000
months)
Fellowships (4 staff months)                    20,000
New Staff (9 staff at $300/month)              162,000
Maintenance                                     46.000
Total                                         1,870,000
Monitoring and Evaluation
8.     Yearly reports
9.     End of project report
Risk
10.    Getting adequate equipment and technical assistance
snability
11.    The expertise gained by the trained staff will sustain the developed systeom.



Annex 2
Page 8 of 22
DEVELOPING CLASSROOM BASED DIAGNOSTIC TESTING FOR REMEDUIL INTERVENTIONS
ACTION PLAN
Obiective
1.     To sensitize teacherm to diagnostic methodology and remedial interventions. GDEE will concentrate on
developing models of diagnostic tests in Arabic and mathematics for selected grades from 1-6. The
Educational Training Center (ETC) will concentrate on traning teachers in utilizing diagnostic testing for
remedial interventions.
Rional
2.     There is a need for early identification of student learning difficulties and subsequent remedial intervention.
3.     Early rmedild intervention in literacy and numeracy will reduce drop-out and grade repetition rates.
ComDonents
4.     Training of supervisors and teachers to develop diagnostic tests.
5.     Identification of leaning difficulties and misconceptions in Arabic and Math (grades 1-6).
6.     Production of diagnostic tools and tests.
Omanizational Arrangements
7.     The GDEE will be responsible for developing diagnostic tests and the ETC will undertake the teacher
trining in remedial interventions based on diagnostic assessment.
Ctost Estimnates
IlAm                        Total Base Costs (USS
Foreign Technical Assistance (12 staff-months)          168,000
Fellowships (6 staff months)                             30,000
Allowances                                               18,900
New Staff (2 persons at $375/month)                      45.000
Total                                                   261,900
Monitoring and Evaluation
8.     Yearly reports
9.     Mid-term external assessments
10.    Impact study
RMi
11.    Coordination between GDEE and ETC may not be easy to achieve.
12.    It may be difficult to find consultants with the adoquate background particularly with proficiency in Arabic.
SustainabilitX
13.    The model, if judged successful, has the potential to be transferred through the expertise of the trained
staff.



Annex 2
Page 9 of 22
GDCET COMPUTERIZATION ACTION PLAN
Objectives
1.    To computerize the publishing and educational technology operations of GDCET;
2.     To train all GDCET publishing, publishing related and educational technology staff to operate the
computerized system efficiently and thus to achieve maximum management control, qualitative upgrading
and cost efficiency; and
3.     To provide for the system to be effectively linked with other MOE computer systems as required in the
future.
Rationale
4.     The size and complexity of the textbook publishing and educational technology requirement of the MOE
demands a fully professional computerized management and control system.
5.     The recurrent cost of textbook provision to the Government (approximately JDS million per year) requires
maximum cost efficient operation and this only can be achieved by the kind of management control and
forward planning which computerization makes possible.
6.     Distribution complexity (10 - 12 million books delivered annually to almost 2,500 schools) requires
professional computerized system control to avoid overprinting and stock losses, and to achieve on time
delivery to schools.
7.    Increased efficiency, nanagement control and cost reduction.
Comnonents
8.     Extension of computerization system for effective control of textbook distribution to regional and district
warehouses.
9.     Developing a distribution system for library books, audio-visual equipment and aids.
10.    Developing the desktop publishing capacity of the GDCET.
11.    Computerizing management systems of Design Division in addition to administrative systems, and for
textbook trialling and evaluation analysis.
Cost Estimates
Item                      Total Base Costs (US$)
Equipment including Software                       483,000
Local Training                                        3,750
Foreign Technical Assistance (7 staff months)       98.000
Total                                               584,750
Risk
12.    Normal management fear of computers could lead to failure to utilize proposed system to its full potential.
This risk should be mitigated by training inputs and high level technical assistance support.
Sustainability
13.    Project will cover all hardware, software and training costs. Recurrent budgets for maintenance will be
very small.



Annex 2
Page 10 of 22
TEXTBOOK PUBLISHING ACTION PLAN
Obiectives
1.     To meet textbook output targets of HRDSIL II on time, within budget and to acceptable quality standards;
2.     To continue to upgrade professional facilities and skills; and
3.     To upgrade production performance in order to meet production targets on time and within the budget.
4.     Despite good progress in HRDSIL I, there is still a need for continued technology upgrading; continued
professional skills upgrading; improved management control and performance; and continued praure to
upgrade local printer facilities and performance.
Components
5.     Technology upgrading to achieve state of the art in-house tpesetting and design equipment;
6.     Professional skills upgrading; and
7.     Reducing costs.
Cost Estimates
Item           ~~~Total Base, Cost
Textbook Publishing Costs                2.200 million
Technical Assistance (8 staff months)'   0.093 million
Additional Staff                         0.064 million
Total                                    3.357 million
RiLu
S.     None
S&Mtanabilill
9.     The Government has always maintained funding for free textbook provision.
10.    Secondary school parents are highly motivated to purchase and provide textbooks.
11.    No sustainability problems are envisaged if costs can be kept under control.
'loclude 6.5 Maff-months of foreign and 1.5 staff-monlh of local techical ausiance.



Annex 2
Page 11 of 22
TRIALLING AND EVALUATION ACTION PLAN
1.     To create an effective textbook trialling and evaluation methodology which is simple to operate, provides
useful information and is well targeted;
2.     To upgrade the staff and those involved in the process and establish a permanent system as a means of
continually upgrading textbook quality; and
3.     To provide sufficient staffing and budgetary support for textbook trialling and evaluation to perform
effectively.
Rationale
4.     The previous testing and evaluation system developed for HRDSIL I has proved to be cumbersome and less
effective than originally desired. It is in need of reform.
5.     Effective evaluation is particularly important in Jordan where all textbooks are monopolistic and where
competition and choice are not available to maintain and increase standards.
Comoonents
6.     Establishment of an effective, permanent trialling and evaluation capacity for textbooks and teachers'
books.
7.     Effective completion of trialling and evaluation for all textbooks and teachers books for grades 1-12 by the
end of HRDSIL 2.
8.     Establishment of advisory groups for groups of subjects and levels to oversee the process.
ICost Estimates
Item                     Total Base Costs (US$)
Professional fees                                  301,500
Workshops                                          144,000
Transportation                                      73,000
Technical Assistance (13 staff months)              57,000
Equipment                                            3 750
Total                                              579,250
Bilks
9.      No risks
Sustainability
10.    If the testing and evaluation methodology works well and proves its value the annual recurrent costs after
HRDSIL II will not be high and should be easily sustained.



Annex 2
Page 12 of 22
GDCET DISTRIBUTION ACTION PLAN
Obiectives:
1.     To establish professional levels of book and software distribution on a permanent basis;
2.     To provide good quality warehousing and storage for textbooks to reduce stock lon8 and damage;
3.     To complete distribution computerization to provide high level management control over distribution;
4.     To provide adequate supervision of the whole distribution process; and
5.     To upgrade sales systems and to improve accounting efficiency.
Rationale
6.     The first phase of distribution upgrading has been completed during HRDSIL I. This is the second phase;
7.     All investment in curriculum, authorship, publishing and production is invalidated if books do not reach
schools accurately and on time.
Components
8.     Provision of a management system for distribution;
9.     Upgrading and equipping warehousing facilities; and
10.    Training and upgrading staff.
Policy Decisio
11.    A number of policy decisions are outstanding which will affect organizational arrangements. These are:
management responsibility for regional warehouse operation and for district store operation.
Cost Estimzates
Item                    Total Base Costs (USS)
Equipment                       129,000
Upgrading Stores                505,000
Workshops                         4,300
Professional Fees                11,200
Technical Assistance            72,600
Additional staff                185,300
Maintenance                     407,600
Total                         1,315,000
Risk
12.    The major risks are delays in construction and commissioning of warehouses and stores and delays in
developing, installing and operationalising computer systems.
Sustainabilitv
13.    Once established, recurrent operational costs will be no greater pro rata than those currently carried by the
MOE. Sustainability is not considered to be significant issue.



Annex 2
Page 13 of 22
LEARNING RESOURCE CENTERS ACTION PLAN
Obiectives
1.     Enhance the capacity of the Loarning Resource Centers (LRCs) to provide quality in-service training
programs for teachers and educational administrators.
2.     To improve the quality and effectiveness of education by providing a vehicle for the dissemination of
information and materials, and the exchange of ideas on teaching.
3.     To improve the capacity of the LRCs as providers of maintenance services for educational equipment.
Rationale
4.     The quality of educational materials and equipment is improved significantly if they are used properly.
Teachers must, therefore, be provided with an opportunity to continue to learn about new oducational
materials and equipment.
5.     The LRCs provide teachers with training on new technology, thus helping to improve the teaching process.
The LRCs, therefore, are part of a cost effective pathway to the provision of up to date information on
educational technology and materials.
6.     The LRCs contribute maintenance and repair of educational equipment.
C:omRonents
7.     Phase A (July 1995-June 1998): upgrade six already functioning LRCs (including replacing one in Amman
and constructing one on Balkaa); and carry out an external assessment the their role and effectiveness.
Phase B (July 1998-June 2000): incorporating the recommendations of the assessment, establish two more
LRCs.
Organizational AaM ements
8.     The General Directorate for Curriculum  and Educational Technology would be responsible for
implementing this action plan.
Cost Estimates
ltom                      Total Base Costs (USS)
Civil Works                                        1.680 million
Equipment and Furniture                            1.160 million
Local Training                                    0.029 million
Fellowships (4 staff months)                      0.020 million
Additional Staff                                  0.560 million
Maintenance                                       0.051 million
Total                                              3.500 million
Monitoring and Evaluation
9.     An external evaluation of the functioning and effectiveness of the LRCs will be completed at the end of
Phase A (around July 1998). The results and recommendations determine the destiny of Phase B, and if
implemented, will shape its final design.
Sustnability
10.    LRCs serve a useful purpose in the educational process and have the potential to improve quality. But,
they should be well-equipped and run. Phase A aims at rendering existing LRCs more sustainable.
Implementation of Phas B depends the findings of the assessment exercise and the lessons learned during
Phase A.



Annex 2
Page 14 of 22
NCERD'S SAMPLE-BASED NATIONAL ASSESSMENT OF
LEARNING ACHEVEMENT ACTION PLAN
Obiectives
1.     The long-term objective is to establish and maintain an institutionalized system for national assment of
the attainment of learning outcomes in basic education. This would involve: (i) measuring achievement
levels; (ii) monitoring achievement trends; (iii) developing indicators of systematic disparities; and (iv)
identifying areas of strengths and weaknesses in order to provide timely feedback to managers and to
inform policy decisions on a regular basis.
2.     The operational objectives include: (i) strengthening NCERD's research capacities, including upgrading
of the EMIS; (ii) increasing NCERD-MOE interactions in the areas of information exchange and research;
(iii) providing formative information for teachers, schools and managers; and (iv) providing timely
feedback to ensure timely conrective actions. NCERD would be responsible for developing the assessment
system and national task forces would be commissioned on an ad hoc basis in order to carry out the
technical work involved (subject specification teams, test construction teams, test review teams, regional
coordination groups).
Rationae
3.     Timely, valid and reliable information on the state of student learning - the basic output of any education
system - is needed for a host of managerial, planning, evaluative, and policymacking activities that are
necessary to improve the system's performance and efficiency. Effective curriculum planning and
development, quality imnprovements, resource allocation, teacher training and personnel policies are all
dependent on reliable knowledge of student learning results. This can only be obtained through an
institutionalized national learning assessment system.
Comnonents
4.     Identification and detailing of an agreed strategy for assessment.
5.     Constitution of a national task force that includes subject specification and test construction teams.
6.     Instrumentation developed by end August 1995.
7.     Sampling design and printing of instrunents completed by March 1996.
8.     First administration of tests in May 1996.
9.     Reports production, dissemination and discussion in early 1997.
Cost Estirnates
Computer hardware will be that of NCERD and, if operational, that of MOE's testing and examinations
department. Work will be carried out by NCERD staff. Costs estimate is based on NCERD's previous
experience with assessment tests of similar-to-greater magnitude of the proposed national system. Part of
work will be performed by NCERD's regular staff.
Item                           Total Base Costs (USS)
Materials                       36,450
Fees/Workshogs                 118.650
Total                          155,100
Rism
10.    No risk is anticipated.
Sustainabilit,
11.    Expertise gained should ensure continuous quality performance provided contacts with international
evaluation organizations are maintained.



Annex 2
Page 15 of 22
NCERD'S EDUCATIONAL MANAGEMENT INFORMATION SYSTEM ACTION PLAN
Obiectives
1.     Broad objctiva. (1) Strengthen the capacity of NCERD and MOE staff to manage and insfitutionalize a
comprehensive, computerized oducational management information system (EMIS); (2) continue
development of the EMIS in order to increase its capacity to provide rdevant, reliable and timely data and
analytical statistics to educational policy-makers and planners; and support decentralization of the EMIS
system to regional authorities.
2.     Specific ojj ectiyes: (1) Reduce time between data collection and its availability for use; (2) synchronize
data collection and dissemination more effectively with annual planning and budgeting cycles; (3) integrate
data from the various MOE primary data centers; (4) develop decentralized capacities for data entry,
processing and report generation; and (5) provide required computer hardware and software to selected
MOE and regional education offices.
3.     Initial EMIS development has produced a wealth of information and has demonstrated its usefulness to
plnning, policymaking and research in education. Workshops in the use of EMIS have been conducted
for MOE personnel as well as for regional educational officers. It is now necessary to extend EMIS so
that it becomes thoroughly accessible to MOE central and regional officials. This will involve a
combination of (1) further technical work to make EMIS more user friendly and generally accessible, (2)
training for a broad variety of potential users, and (3) hardware and software for central (MOE and
NCERD) and decentralized (regional) offices.
4.     Strengthen capacity of NCERD and MOE staff to manage and institutionalize a comprehensive and
computerized EMIS through workshops, training, study tours, NCERD LAN.
5.     Continue development of EMIS by assessing needs of regional offices; review data collectiontplanning and
budgeting synchronization; formalize involvement of Examination, Personnel and Maintenance units;
develop data retrieval system for senior MOE officials; update data entry, processing and retrieval system
for regional offices; establish MOE and regional technical support group.
6.     Strengthen MOE's capacity to use data for management, planning, policy analysis and decision maling at
central and regional levels through training, workshops, purchase of hardware and software.
Costs Esirmates
IiXm                  Total Base Costs (USS)
Equipment (software and hardware)           130,000
Technical Assistance (7.5 staff months)     105,000
Worklshgs                                   120.000
Total                                       355,000
Rbk
7.     Senior management need time to get used to utilize computers effectively.
8.     Trained personnel may leave to more attractive position.
ud.akilz
9.     System is bound to continue expanding in scope of services and their scope. Regions may not respond
equally well to the challenge and back-up systems need to remain in place.



Annex 2
Page 16 of 22
SCHOOL CONSTRUCTION AND EXPANSION ACTION PLAN
Objectives
1.     To maximize cost efficiency of new construction by rationalizing new school designs;
2.     To maximize the potential absorptive capacity of existing schools (extension) by adding about 30,000 new student
places and to replace dilapidated prefabricated schools (9,120 student places);
3.     To reduce the prevalence of double shifting in existing schools by about 5,000 student places;
4.     To reduce the use of rented, inadequate, school buildings by about 23,000 student places; and
5.     To increase the number of student places to accommodate part of the growth of the student population by about
37,000 student places.
Rationale
6.     Cost savings of about 10 percent would be expected from a revision of the current school design prototype. The
new design would be more economical in space and circulation, flexible and adaptable to the topography of the
site, and suitable for staged construction and expandability.
7.     The rented facilities to be replaced would be those deemed unacceptable for the provision of a quality learning
environment. Often these rented facilities were constructed as houses and provide inadequate classroom space
and facilities.
8.     The high growth rate of the Jordanian population requires that additional student places be made available to
absorb resulting growth in enrollment.
Components
9.     Redesign the school facility prototype with the cooperation of specialist school facilities architect/planner and
develop standard drawings and documents.
10.    Develop civil works program for the expansion of existing schools and construction of new schools to replace
rented facilities, reduce double shifting, and to accommodate part of the natural growth of the student population.
i1.    Rehabilitate about 1,000 schools and renovate/rebuild sanitation blocks.
12.    Research school furniture and prepare designs of more durable material.
Organizational Arraneements
13.    The General Directorate for Projects and School Buildings would be responsible for implementing this action
plan.
Cost Estimates
Item                       Total Base Costs (US$)
Civil Works                                        68.6 million
Design/Supervision                                  6.1 million
Total                                              74.7 million
RUks
14.    Cost savings would not be realized without serious supervision during implementation and appropriate site
selection.
SustainabilitU
15.    Quality maintenance programs would be developed and supported as described in the School Building
Maintenance Program Action Plan.
16.    The creation of a maintenance directorate in the GDPSB and the preparation of a new school design will
incorporate more durable materials and construction techniques which will promote sustainability.



Annex 2
Page 17 of 22
EQUIPMENT FOR SCHOOLS ACTION PLAN
Obiectives
1.     To provide new and expanded schools with necessary equipment and furniture.
2.     To provide a number of existing schools with equipment.
Rationale
3.     Newly constructed and expanded (additional classrooms) schools must be provided with the necessary funiture
and equipment.
4.     The gap between new/expanded schools and existing ones should be narrowed by providing a number of existing
schools with needed equipment.
Components
5.     Provide those schools constructed or expanded under the project with appropriate equipment and funiture.
6.     Provide a number of existing schools with needed equipment.
7.     MOE should look into providing lower primary classrooms with movable furniture (chairs and tables).
Organizational Arranfements
8.     The General Directorate for Projects and School Buildings would be responsible for implementing this action
plan.
Cost Estimates
LtQm                         Total Base Cosb
fl=n
Equipment and Fumiture for new/expanded schools     10.08 million
EguiRment for existing schools                       1.00 million
Total                                               11.08 million
9ioe
9. Tlw equipment and fwnnitur provided through the project could fall into disrepair from laclc of maintenance.



Annex 2
Page 18 of 22
SCHOOL BUILDING MAINTENANCE ACTION PLAN
Obeciv
1.     To improve the teaching and learning environment by improving/maintaining the quality of school facilities; and
2.     To strengthen the institutional capacity for maintenance of state owned schools.
Radnk
3.     It is significandy less expensive to maintain facilities than to replace or rehabilitate them.
4.     An effective maintenance program would improve the quality of the learning environment and therefore improve
the quality of the education progrms.
Comggots
S.     Develop and implement a system for maintenance of school buildings.
6.     Train engineers at headquarters and district to assess maintenance needs and supervise maintenance contrcts.
uuational Ames
7.     The Genral Directorate for Projects and School Buildings would be responsible for implementing this action
plan.
 lEaUmate
Total Base Costs (USS)
Foreism Technical Assistance (18 staff-months)       20.000
Total                                                250,000
Note: The terms of reference for this Technical Assistance input would include providing assistance for
the development of the school building rehabilitation program.
Monitong and Evaluation
8.     The General Directorate for Projects and School Buildings.
niustainabilit
9.     Including maintenance n a recurrent budget item with officials responsible for it would support sustinability.



Annex 2
Page 19 of 22
SCHOOL REHABILITATION ACTION PLAN
Obiectives
1.     To bring the physical facilities of existing state-owned schools up to an acceptable level; and
2.     To develop the institutional capacity for identifying schools in need of rehabilitation, prioritizing needs, carrying
out rehabilitation activities, and monitoring rehabilitation in general.
Rationale
3.     A recently completed MOE survey revealed that of the 2430 school surveyed, 1550 schools require major
structural repairs and 950 require new sanitary facilities.
4.     As part of the Government's objectives to provide quality education, existing schools that have fallen into a state
of disrepair must be rehabilitated to provide the students with an appropriate learning environment.
5.     It is more cost efficient to improve existing facilities than construct new ones; and further delays will require
greater rehabilitation costs.
Components
6.     Develop and implement a prioritized rehabilitation program for state-owned schools.
OrLpanizational Arrangements
7.     The General Directorate for Projects and School Buildings would be responsible for implementing this action
plan.
Cost Estimates
Item                       Total Base Costs (USS)
Civil Works                                         18.5 million
Total                                               18.5 million
Note: Technical Assistance for the development and implementation of the rehabilitation program will
be provided as described in the School Building Maintenance Action Plan.
Risks
8.     Lack of serious commitment on the part of the Government to the principle of rehabilitation may result in its
not allocating necessary funds on a timely basis.
Sustainabilitv
9.     Quality maintenance programs for the newly renovated facilities would be developed and supported as described
in the School Building Maintenance Program Action Plan.



Annex 2
Page 20 of 22
PILOT SCHOOL-BASED INNOVATION PROGRAM (PSIF) ACTION PLAN
Objectives
1.     To improve the teaching/learning and practical applications of the Basic Education curriculum by promoting
spontaneous creativity, and thereby increasing teachers' and students motivation.
2.     To increase education efficiency through teachers' low-cost innovations supporting formal instruction.
3.     To gradually extend successful innovations from a limited initial pilot experiment to the whole public Basic
Education system; and
4.     To initiate a bottom-up improvement from the school level where all education factors are combined into
one integrated reality.
Rationale
5.     The major pedagogical goals of the education reform are to: (a) improve the quality of education by
promoting creative and critical thinking, and catering to individual students' differences, and linking school
instruction to real life. School-based initiatives and innovative ideas would encourage and support
education quality improvement.
Components
6.     Appointment of the MOE Program Coordinator and Steering Committee.
7.     Development of organizational arrangements for information dissemination , inviting participation, initial
screening, criteria for selection, preparation of detailed proposals, selection, funding, monitoring and
evaluation.
8.     Preparation of program documents ( Guidelines, procedures and instruments).
9.     Overall evaluation to disseminate successful and replicable experiences for possible program extension and
policy recommendations.
Cost Estimates
Item                               Total Base Costs
(USS)
Support of innovation proposals of schools (about 130 schools)         390,000
Preparation of documents, orientation programs, materials for           60,000
preparing innovation proposals and miscellaneous
Total                                                                  450 000
Risks
10.    Leadership from the Secretary General and/or NCERD is needed for the initial development of
organizational arrangements. No major risk is anticipated as the program is to be implemented gradually, with
formative evaluation in one given year allowing for adjustments in the following year.
Sustainability
11.    No problem is anticipated as the low-cost inputs can be adjusted at all times to the availability of funds
without jeopardizing the education process.



Annex 2
Page 21 of 22
SCHOOL LIBRARIES AND OTHER EDUCATIONAL MATERIALS
Obiective
1.     To provide an initial injection of essential educational materials to schools to ensure that al schools have
the minimum requirements.
2.     To encourage schools to use a defined proportion of sudents' contributions in securing library books and
educational supplies and materials.
3.     To provide trining and develop awareness among teachers for wider utilization of materials and aids.
4.     To encourage the adoption of different working hours for school librarians.
Rationale
5.     The concept of the education reform demands the provision of libraries, instructional and audio-visual aids
to schools as central educational support materials. The problem solving, research and enquiry based
learning style implicit in the principles of the reform requires the availability of resources for both teachers
and pupils that can provide a facility for research and enquiry. Without the basic resources the principles
of the reform cannot be achieved in the classroom.
Components
6.     The compilation of lists of library books for grades 1-4, 5-7, 8-10, 11-12 on a priority basis for
procurement according to the level and needs of schools.
7.     The compilation of lists of educational materials and categorizing them into (a) essential; (b) of averge
need; (c) low priority and start supplying gj schools with essential materials before supplying upper
categories.
8.     The development of an information system for keeping track of library books and materials in schools,
providing assistance as needed, and supervising utilization.
Cost Estimate
9.     A sum equivalent of $200,000 is allocated for purchasing or securing catalogs, procuring local expertise,
and workshop expenses for the selection of relevant educational materials, aids and library books. A simple
sub-project for the purpose should be developed.
Monitorin2 and Evaluation
10.    The system for selection, categorizing and distribution should be evaluated annually and adjustments
introduced.
11.    The extent of utilization should be assessed.
Risks
12.    The funding that is made possible by the Education Law from the sale of textbooks is diverted.
Sustainability
13.    With the built-in source of funding, a dynamic mechanism of implementation will keep the system running
to the benefit of all schools.



Annex 2
Page 22 of 22
TECHNICAL AND VOCATIONAL EDUCATION AND TRAINING (TVET) ACTION PLAN
Obiectives
1.     To enhance relevance to market economy.
2.     To promote effective system management.
3.     To ensure quality improvement.
Rationale
4.     The linkages of the TVET system and feedback from market are weak and there is a need to link training
directions and implications to overall economic strategies and policies.
5.     More coordination is needed among the providers of TVET as well as differentiation of roles. There is
ample room for improvement of quality and standards.
Components
6.     Economic policies would be analyzed and research related to needs in human resource development and
trends of the labor market performed to support policy development and delineation of interventions which
include involvement of the private sector. The three objectives are linked through preliminary sub-projects,
providing civil works (minimum), equipment, and technical assistance.
Oreanizational Arrangements
7.     The subprojects of the Plan will be administered by MOE, MOHE, VTC and NCERD under the
supervision of the National Task Force for coordinating TVET (or Policy Coordination Body)
Cost Estimates
Item                                          Total Base Cost (USS)
Construction                                             3,573,000
Equipment                                               21,214,000
Technical Assistance (F)                                   896,000
Technical Assistance (L)                                   969,000
Fellowships                                              1,685,000
Local Training                                             553,600
Study/workshop                                              11,000
Maintenance (civil works and equipment)                    156,316
Total                                                   29,057,916
Monitorine and Evaluation
8.     Internal evaluation by TVET agencies, technical unit, and intermediary
9.     External assessment leading to modification for improvement.
Risks
10.    Failure to make required hard policy choices relating to the three above objectives.
Sustainability
11.    The reform of TVET is apt to encourage continuous self-development in the areas of relevance,
effectiveness and quality.
See Annex 3 for fuher details. Sub-projects have to comnply with agreed criteria, appraied by th InteLrmediary, and at least for
the first two years approved by the Bank prior to implemnentation.



Annex 3A
Page 1 of 10
TECHNICAL AND VOCATIONAL EDUCATION AND TRAINING (TVETn
TVET Problems, Issues, Strategy, Policies and Preliminary Action Plan
TVET is delivered by three different organizations in Jordan. The Ministry of Education provides
vocational education and training in its comprehensive, multipurpose and specialized vocational schools. The
Vocational Training Corporation provides 'applied' secondary vocational training in vocational training centers.
At the post-secondary level community colleges under the Ministry of Higher Education provide technical education
and training.
Problems and Issues
The main issues to be addressed in improving the system can be smmarized as follows:
l.     Relevance,
(a)    Direction: the parts of the system operate virtually on their own, without taking sufficient notice
or direction from economic development priorities.
(b)    Linkages and Feedback: relations with employers, except for the VTC, are not well established
and training suppliers need to increase their knowledge about the performance of their graduates
in the marketplace.
(c)    Flexibility: the TVET system appears overly rigid in its supply responses, as evidenced by limited
horizontal and vertical mobility for students and failure of normal curriculum processes to detect
and root out obsolete program content.
(d)    Coverage: quoted policies on the proportion of general school leavers who should be admitted to
VET may easily lead to VET enrolments that outstrip employment prospects and lead to
-ubstantial wastage of resources.
2.     System Management and Efficiency
(a)    Coordination: No organization exists to coordinate the developments of the TVET system and
incentives for collaboration are weak, resulting in duplication of functions, wastage and failure to
realize scale economies.
(b)    Rationalization: The present dual administration of VET at secondary level fails to give adequate
priority to VET and fragments scarce management, staff, physical and financial resources. The
purposes, functions and mandate of community colleges is not clear at present and needs to be
made distinct from vocational training.
3.     Ouslit,
(a)    Instructors: Arguably the single most important factor in poor quality of instruction, which affects
all three parts of the system, is the lack of practical and work experience of workshop instructors.
(b)    Curricula: TVET programs tend to be overloaded with unrelated academic disciplines that are not
adapted to reinforce the acquisition of vocational skills.
(c)    Materials and Equipment: Pedagogical materials tend to be in short supply and problems exist in
equipment provision. Too many machines are broken, are missing parts or are inaccurate.
Improper use and repair by instructors contribute to the problem.
(d)    Safety: Safety standards exist but need to be observed. Work habits tend to be hazardous and
establish poor precedents for safety in the workplace.



Annex 3A
Page 2 of 10
Strategy
1.     The major elements of the TVET strategy that has been agreed are:
(a)    TVET policy ought to be based on, and closely linked with, overall economic policies;
(b)    TVET ought to be closely attuned to the needs of, and changes in, the labor market with
reasonable prospects of employment in the respective occupations;
(c)    TVET ought to lead into the labor market for the majority of trainees, with opportunities for
further education and training provided to those who want and could profit from it;
(d)    TVET ought to concentrate on what is needed for entry to, and performance in, a job or a group
of related jobs/occupations; and
(e)    TVET system expansion ought to be guided by economic considerations.
Policies
2.     The main policy objectives and means are:
(a)    Enhanced relevance to market economy would be sought through the following means:
xi)    analyzing economic policies for their training implications as a basis for investment
decisions in TVET;
(ii)    establishing capacity to track systematically the graduates of TVET in the labor market;
(iii)   achieving greater flexibility by introducing short training programs;
(iv)    promoting expansion of private technical training;
(v)    directing TVET towards fields and areas with clear employment prospects; and
(vi)   introducing entrepreneurship training to facilitate entry ofgraduates into self-employment.
(b)    Effective system management would be sought through:
(i)    maintaining and strengthening the National Task Force for Coordinating TVET
(established by the Prime Minister on 22/8/1993) which has representation from the
private sector and attach to it a policy analysis capability;
(ii)   rationalizing the Vocational Education and Training (VET) system through differentiation
of roles and gradual consolidation and restructuring of secondary vocational training, and
the community coliege system through redefining its purposes and reorganizing its
governance; and
(iii)   establishing clearer norms to improve planning and management of TVET resources.
(c)    OualitY improvement which requires:
(i)    instructors who recognize and demand excellence in trainee performance. This requires
opportunities for teachers and instructors to upgrade their practical and work skills;
(ii)    availing appropriate instructional/learning materials and equipment; and
(iii)   disseminating and upholding safety standards and eliminating hazardous work habits.
Main Obiectives and Means of the Action Plan
The main objectives of the Plan are to improve Jordanian TVET in terms of (a) relevance to priority
economic and labor market requirements; (b) effective system management, including more efficient use of
resources; and (c) quality of final results.



Annex 3A
Page 3 of 10
Enhanced external productivity would be sought through four principal means: (i) better linkages between
TVET and the labor muaket; (ii) more flexible responses to these market requirements; (iii) new teaching programs
in areas of market demand; and (iv) selected expansion of institutional capacity.
A link, currently missing, between economic policies and TVET actions should be established
whereby the human resource implications of economic strategies are analyzed as a basis for
establishing decision criteria for TVET programs.
Knowing what happened to the graduates of TVET institutions in the labor market is one of the
best tools to adjust training supply to demand. The systematic collection of information about
graduate performance in the labor market should be made a major responsibility of all training
institutions and technical guidance and simplified instruments should be provided by the center for
this purpose.
Greater flexibility should be introduced in training programs. Specifically, (a) short training
programs should be introduced or expanded to meet specific market needs, including one-year
diploma programs in community colleges; (b) graduates of second-level vocational training should
have the option of taking subsequently a one-year intensive program for entrance to post-secondary
studies.
The improvement and expansion of private technical training within private community colleges
should be actively promoted, including reserving certain training areas for private provision and
providing financial incentives through credit programs for equipment and staff training.
Recognizing the important role of self-employment in small business in future job creation, the
concepts and basic requirements of entrepreneurship should be introduced into TVET programs
starting at the technician level. Short training programs should be offered for returning VTC
trainees who have acquired work experience on preparing business plans, coupled with access to
credit programs for business start-ups.
-      TVET system expansion ought to be guided by economic considerations so as not to over extend,
at great cost, beyond reasonable employment prospects. The notion of a target of accommodating
50 percent boys and 35 percent of all girls leaving Grade 10 in VET should be abandoned.
More effective management of the TVET system would be sought through five principal means: (i) policy
coordination; (ii) rationalizing the vocational education and training programs at the secondary level; (iii)
decentralization; (iv) clarifying the role and purpose of community colleges; and (v) improved resource management.
-      A TVET policy council should be established with sufficient analytical capacity and authority to
coordinate and direct the system towards priority areas and to avoid overlapping responsibilities.
This may be accomplished strengthening National Task Force [See2.(6) (i)].
-      The Government should study ways to rationalize the current two system6 of secondary level
vocational education and training. One option recommended is to consolidate all, or at least the
industrial skills training, under one authority to increase its effectiveness and efficiency.
The TVET system should be made more responsive to local markets and conditions by delegating
more authority to managers of training institutions, including the freedom to (a) adjust training
content to local requirements and (b) retain and use earnings from their own production. At the
same time, managers should be responsible for training results.



Annex 3A
Page 4 of 10
The community college system should clarify its role, purpose and, reflecting its unique purpose,
be separated in its governance from the rest of higher education.
The Government should adopt a policy stressing more efficient use of resources in TVET,
including the revision or establishment of norms on resource use. Expansion of the system should
only occur when strong justifications can be made.
Ouality improvement would be sought through (i) upgrading of teachers and instructors; (ii) increasing
teaching and instructional materials; (iii) upgrading teaching equipment; and (iv) better safety practices in training
establishments.
-      Quality improvement should be an overriding priority for the TVET system. This requires, above
all, instructors who recognize and demand excellence in trainee performance and opportunities by
teachers and instructors to upgrade themselves and to master the crafts being taught.
-      The Government needs to change regulations to permit the hiring of part-time instructors from
enterprises with the work experience necessary for improving the standards of practical teaching.
-      The proportion of time spent on practical subjects should be increased and the content of academic
subjects adapted to the requirements of training programs.
-      Hazardous work habits should be eliminated through instructor training and provision of
incentives, including sanctions for failure to uphold proper standards.
Preliminary Investment Proeram
3.1.   A preliminary investment program has been prepared to implement various aspects of the Action Plan.
This investment program integrates both domestic and external requirements, and includes construction, equipment,
expert services, fellowships, local training and studies. Table 3.1 gives the conceptual framework for the investment
program. A total of 22 separate sub-projects is proposed to contribute directly to the goals and means of their
achievement. Each of the sub-projects is described briefly in the following sections. Inclusion of a sub-project in
the list does not necessarily mean that it is accepted and would automatically be supported. Sub-projects need to
be prepared in detail taking into consideration the appraisal criteria for TVET sub-projects (Annex 3B), appraised,
approved by all concerned parties before authorization for implementation can be secured.
Sub-project Descriptions
I. ENHANCING RELEVANCE TO MARKET ECONOMY (10 Sub-projects)
A. Better Labor Market Linkages
3.2.   Linkin2 Economic and Human Resource Development Policies (I.A. 1). (Proposed Outlay: $56,000) At
present no mechanism exists by which to translate economic development strategies and policies into guidelines and
criteria for the development of the TVET system. The proposed sub-project would provide external expert services
and a study tour for senior policy makers to determine, based on comparative international experience, the most
suitable structures for Jordan. The study tour would be followed by an in-country workshop and the formulation
of a policy paper recommending the establishment of a linking mechanism and legislation with mandate and terms
of reference for the administrative structure of the organization.
3.3.   Strengthening Capacity for Conducting Tracer Studies (I.A.2) (Proposed Outlay: $90,000) Tracer studies,



Annex 3A
Page 5 of 10
if systematically conducted and analyzed, could help training institutions and central management adjust training
supply to demand. Present attempts are sporadic and incomplete. The proposed sub-project would create a central
analytical capacity and train institutional staff on data collection and analysis systems.  Both quantitative
(employment rates in related occupations) and qualitative information (performance on the job) would be collected.
This sub-project should be scheduled early so that results can be used in sub-project appraisal of other project
components.
3.4.   Restructuring Employer Participation in Advising Training  (I.A.3). (Proposed Outlay: $50,000)
Employers tend to Inow best the skills needed in the workforce, and they can provide valuable advice to orient
TVET programs in the proper direction. However, at present the MOE and MOHE institutions do not benefit from
systematic advice from employers. The VTC has structured relationships, but often the employer councils of VTC
centers do not function effectively. The proposed program aims to restructure employer participation in orienting
TVET. It would first analyze barriers to effective councils at present, identify incentives for employer participation
and design new mechanisms for employer participation. Study tours for TVET managers would be undertaken to
countries with good linkages with industry.
B. More Flexible Supply Responses
3.5.   Revising Curricula and Curricula Development Procedures (I. B. 1). (Proposed Outlay: $171,000 plus CIDA
project financing). In view of labor market changes and the need to provide flexible responses, existing curricula
should be reviewed, and new curricula developed for long and short courses and teaching staff skills upgraded in
the preparation of teaching programs. The proposed sub-project seeks to strengthen competency-based curricula
development capacity at both vocational and technical levels. The sub-project would cover three functions:
occupational analysis, development of curriculum processes and testing of results. The program includes
fellowships, technical assistance, local training and studies to review curricula in priority areas at each level.
Implementation would be divided into support at the VTC level through the Canadian assistance and assistance for
the establishment of a new Curriculum Development Training Office in the Ministry of Higher Education.
3.6.   Developing Short Courses and Bridging Courses (I.B.2) (Proposed Outlay: $40,000) The relatively low
reputation of vocational technical education and training stems, in part, from its largely terminal character; few
possibilities exist to pursue further education. Moreover, students completing general education do not have many
opportunities to take short, concentrated courses to gain vocational qualifications. One of the best ways to improve
the status of TVET and increase its response both to personal aspirations and rapid labor market changes is to
establish bridging programs in three areas:
-      access by vocational graduates to programs for secondary school equivalency at community college level;
-      short term courses in vocational training for those with secondary school certificates; and
-      advanced specialization in vocational skills for VET graduates.
The objective of the sub-project is to facilitate horizontal and vertical student mobility. The sub-project
would finance external and local experts to analyze the need for short-term and bridging courses and develop the
outlines of such programs as may be justified.



Annex 3A
Page 6 of 10
Table 3.1  TVET INVESTMENT PROGRAM FRAMEWORK                                    $ Thousands
OBJECTIVES AND PROGRAMS              Const _    Equip      ExP      ExpL    T-F =-L =                     Total
I 1. ENHANCE RELEVANCE TO              1  3,413 |  11,961        336 |   372         303       189 |           16,579
MARKET ECONOMY
A. Better Labor Market Linkaees
1. Link Economic & HRD policies                       12        12                  12        3        5        44
2. Enhance tracer study cap.                                    24                  38         4                66
3. Restructure employer partic.                                 12                  38                          50
B. Flexible Supply Responses
1. Revise Curricula/Procedures                                  48                  15        12                75
2. Run Short & Bridging Courses                        4        12       12                                     28
C. New Teaching Programs
1. Introduce technical courses*                    2,865                240                  20              3,125
2. Introduce entrepreneurship                         32       180       36        200       150               598
3. Introd. training and production                   900        48       24                                    972
D. Expand Coverage
1. Promote Private Provision*                      1,075                                                      1,075
2. Establish new institutions*          3,413      7,073                 60                                  10,546
[1I. EFFECTIVE TVET SYSTEM                             5 75 |   2,498      503      1,335      2001    26       5,137
A. Create Policy Coordination
1. Establish Policy Coord. Body                       2         12        4         60                          78
2. Create Policy Analysis Cap.                                          270         30                         300
B. Rationalize VET Programs & MPt.                     6         24        6                           10        46
C. Enhance Accountability & Output.
1. Decentralize to Institutions                                 12                                    10        22
2. Train TVET Inst. Managers                          57        12      100         40       150               359
3. Reform Exit Examinations                                     12                                     6         18
D. Restructure CC RoleMzt.T
1. Develop Strategic Planning2                      504      2,378      113      1,205                       4,200
2. Establ. Independent CC Board                                 24                                              24
E. Improve Resource Management                         6         24       10                  50                 90
|III. QUALITY IMPROVEMENT             D          |   9,241|    444         206      1,250      303 |_       || 11,444
A. Upgrade Instructors                               110        432       36      1,250      120              1,948
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _11_1                         1
B. Increase Teachine Material                       1,075        12       10                  38              1,135
C. Upgrade Teaching Eauipment"        _    _  j   8,056                  160                 145              8,361
GRAND TOTALS                             3,413 |  21,777      3,278    1,081      2,888      692 |   31|
$       Denotes implementation through sub-projects.
33,160 - 4,200 (Canadian project)=28,960.
'Tbe total cost of the Canadian-funded project, Econonic Development through Technical Skills (EDTS), has been included in this sub-
project. In fact, the EDTS project will finance work in several other sub-projects, but full details are not yet available to nake the
appropriate allocations.



Annex 3A
Page 7 of 10
C. Introduce New Teaching Programs
3.7.   Introducing New Technical Courses and Programs (I.C.l).(Proposed Outlay: $3,260,000) The objective
of the sub-project is to respond to the rmanpower demands of a changing economy through the design and delivery
of new technical courses. The sub-projects would consist of a fund to support all aspects of the development or
upgrading of technical courses. Access would be limited to publicly-funded post secondary institutions mandated
to provide technician training. Applicants would be required to submit a four part proposal covering (a) consistency
with institutional mandate and development plan, (b) occupational and demand analysis, (c) program development
strategy, and (d) costs.
3.8.   Introducine Entrepreneurship Education (I.C.2). (Proposed Outlay: $778,000) In view of high rates of
unemployment, the small enterprise sector has an important role to play in generating new jobs. New and
innovative approaches to employment generation have to be considered to mobilize the talents and skills of
Jordanians. The integration of self-employment and entrepreneurship concepts in TVET would support the
development and strengthening of the enterprise culture. The proposed sub-project would address the pre-start up
level of small enterprise development through the introduction of entrepreneurship education in the TVET training
institutions. The sub-project would develop and deliver training of trainers programs, develop training materials,
assist in curriculum development and establish a capacity within the Vocational Trining Industrial Extension
Services for Small Enterprises to continue and improve such programs. VTCs would be used for returning trainees
who have acquired work experience to develop business plans, receive instruction in how to start or improve
businesses and establish linkages with credit institutions, such as the Development and Employment Fund.
3.9. Introduce Trainine and Production (I.C.3). (proposed Outlay: $996,000) This is a pilot sub-project with a dual
task. On the one hand it aims to introduce and implement a new concept, that of training and production; while on
the other hand, through the implementation of the pilot sub-project to train for both vocational and technical levels
it will be providing a field for consolidation of TVET. Primary considerations in this sub-project are quality and
efficiency through more relevance to market economy. The training institution will ensure vocational and technical
qualifications for its trainees, emphasizing skills, know-how, and attitudes; at the same time it will turn out products
intended for sale in the market.
D. Expanding Coverage
3.10.  Expanding Private Commnunity College Provision (I.D. 1) (Proposed Outlay: $1,125,000) It is good policy
for the government to promote the expansion of enrollments in private community colleges. Such colleges tend to
be closely attuned to the labor market, highly flexible in offering new courses, make efficient use of equipment and
their students often achieve better-than average scores on terminal examinations. However, lack of finance is an
important constraint on enrolment expansion. The proposed sub-project would help eliminate this constraint by
making loan funds available for purposes of introduction of new teaching programs in technical fields. Funds would
be used mainly for staff development or teaching equipment. Applications would be evaluated on a competitive
basis.
3.11.  Establishing New Trainin2 Institutions and ExRandinz Existing Institutions (I.D.2). (Proposed Outlay:
$11,039,000) TVET institutions generally operate at below optimum levels of enrollment. There is thus a
considerable surplus capacity which makes it difficult to justify, in a general way, the creation of new training
capacity. However, new industrial locations, new skill requirements, efforts to diversify development outside
Amman and provision of equal access to neglected groups are some areas in which exceptions may be justified.
The objective of this sub-project is to enhance the coverage of TVET in economically and socially justifiable areas.
However, to qualify under this sub-project, a proposal would have to meet rigorous criteria intended to safeguard
against duplication of resources, with possibilities of coordination between the different institutions.



Annex 3A
Page 8 of 10
II. EFFECTIVE TVET SYSTEM MANAGEMENT (9 Sub-projects)
A. Create Overall Policy Coordination
3.12.  Establish PolicX Coordination Agency. (II.A. 1) (Proposed Outlay: $90,000). The investment program
seeks to fill a current gap by financing studies leading to proposals for the establishment of a policy coordination
body (See sub-project IAI). Once those proposals have been reviewed and an option selected, this sub-project
would help facilitate the establishment of the body and support its initial operations. The sub-project includes
technical assistance to help the Agency establish its mandate, recruit core staff and define a work program for its
activities in the first year. Fellowships would be provided for professional development of research staff. The
activities could be aimed at strengthening the National Task Force for Coordinating TVET.
3.13.  Creating a Capacity for HRD Policy Analysis (II.A.2) (Proposed Outlay: $300,000). The sub-project
would create a capability to design and manage HRD policy research through a policy research fund. The aim is
to derive human resource policies from economic strategies, policies and scenarios in order to provide criteria for
the effective allocation of resources to the development of TVET. The sub-project would finance fellowship training
in policy research management and a fund for policy research. The research fund would be available to the Policy
Coordination Agency, which would define priorities for policy analysis -- including prospective studies on promising
sectors - and call for proposals from the Jordanian research community to carry out the research.
B. Rationalize VET Pro2rams and Management
3.14.  Feasibility Study to Consolidate VET Programs/Management (IL.B). (Proposed Outlay: $94,000) The
justification for maintaining two separate systems in a country of Jordan's size needs to be re-examined. Benefits
could be obtained by rationalizing the system. These include increased relevance of training, more effective
management and scale economies and greater efficiency in the use of resources. The Action Plan recommends a
number of changes, including separating vocational curricula from the existing secondary curriculum, refocussing
this training to concentrate on preparation for work; consolidating both VET systems under one management,
redefining the residual role of the MOE as pre-vocational education and developing various bridging courses. A
feasibility study is recommended to examnine the costs, benefits and feasibility of these proposals, identify possible
alternatives to rationalize the system and work out specific implementation plans.
C. Enhance Accountability and OutDuts
3.15.  Decentralize Authority to Managers of Training Institutions (II.C. 1) (Proposed Outlay: $34,000) Control
of TVET at present tends to be highly centralized, leading, inter alia. to lack of incentives by local managers to
adjust the supply to local labor markets. The sub-project proposes a comprehensive analysis of ways to decentralize
functions to institution level, both in vocational training and technician training. Expert services would study
existing legislation and regulations that impede decentralization, design mechanisms for increased decentralization
and review budgetary changes. Specific issues for review include ways to increase autonomy at institution level for
selection of student intake, adaptation or change of specializations, financial incentives for finding local markets,
and increased financial autonomy in terms of retaining income generated by sale of services.
3.16.  Train Manaeers of TVET Institutions (lI.C.2) (Proposed Outlay: $395,000). Increased responsiveness of
TVET depends on decentralization of authority to local managers of institutions. Carrying increased responsibilities
requires training. Based on a task analysis of the roles of managers in a decentralized system, the proposed sub-
project would develop management programs in cost controls, marketing, and development of teaching programs.
Expert services and fellowships would be used to train trainers.



Annex 3A
Page 9 of 10
3.17.  Reform Exit Examinatioos (II.C.3). (Proposed Outlay: $30,000) The MORE controls private and public
community colleges in three ways: (a) accrediting the institution, (b) approving in detail each additional new course,
and (c) through managing the "comprehensive' final examination. This degree of control is excessive and tends
to stifle innovation. The comprehensive examination has come in for criticism in not testing well the priority
elements of the teaching programs. The purpose of the sub-project is to improve the final examination in terms of
the relevance of what it tests and the validity of the testing and thereby relax the need for accreditation of individual
courses. The result is expected to be the allowance of additional space for innovation in course content and methods
of teaching. Expert services would be provided to review the content and procedures for preparing the exit
examination, and also the purpose and methods of course accreditation to introduce more flexibility.
D. Restructure the Role and Management of Community Colleges
3.18. Develop Strate2ic Plans and Planning Processes (II.D.1) (Proposed Outlay: $4.2 million). The TVET
component of HRDSIL I is designed to improve the differentiation between the various providers of training
programs, the diversification of program offerings and the linkages with employers and the labor market. A
strategic planning capability is needed for community colleges in the technically sophisticated technician training
level. Such capacity would assist in rationalizing the mission and mandate of technical colleges and build a sustained
capacity to initiate demand-driven programs. The proposed sub-project would build such strategic planning capacity
through development of a strategic planning model, generation of a strategic plan with policy options, convening
of a private sector forum, professional development of MOHE staff and implementation of two demonstration pilot
projects. CIDA is providing assistance for this sub-project through the Association of Canadian Community
Colleges.
3.19.  Establish Ind_e dent Community College Govemance (II.D.2). (Proposed Outlay: $50,000) Present
governance arrangements for community colleges rest with the Higher Education Council, in which community
colleges represent only two of 17 votes. The Board is thus dominated by academic concerns related to degree level
education. This governance structure does not provide a requisite window on industry, business, public receptivity
and community response. The proposed sub-project would finance a study to explore the merits, cost, governance
and alternate structures for an independent community college board. The aim is to enhance the overall direction
of the system so as to improve the relevance and responsiveness of community colleges. Issues and options to be
addressed by the study include whether a subcommittee of the existing Board would suffice, an independent board
for the entire system vs. individual college boards, regional boards or sectoral boards; board mandate and functions;
membership, legal requirements and terms of service.
E. Improve Resource ManaFement
3.20.  Improve Policy. Plannine and Capacity to Manage TVET Financial Resources (II.E. 1) (Proposed Outlay:
$90,000) TVET tends to be expensive in relation to general education and indications of inefficient use of
resources, including uneconomical school or class sizes and low use factors for specialized facilities. The sub-
project seeks improved resource management through (a) a micro-analysis of costs, (b) development and
improvement of cost norms, (c) training of central and institutional managers in cost management techniques, and
(d) installation of improved resource management procedures.



Annex 3A
Page 10 of 10
III. OUALITY IMPROVEMENT (3 Sub-projects)
A. Upgzrade the Practical Experience/Traininn of Instructors
3.21   Provide Practical Training Programs for Teachers and Instructors (II.A.) (Proposed Outlay: $1,948,000).
One of the major wealnesses of the TVET system in Jordan is the low qualifications of the instnrctors and teachers.
The main objective of the sub-project is to improve teacher and instructor capabilities through provision of industrial
work experiences, upgrading of practical skills and teaching qualifications. Three alternative means are
recommended to improve the skills of teachers and instructors: a teacher and instructor upgrading fund; hiring of
part-time instructors and use of expatriate instructors as role models. The proposed sub-project would finance six
types of programs: (i) funds to sponsor instructor training; (ii) support for trainers to spend time in enterprises; (iii)
financing for foreign instructors to the country; (iv) a competition for scholarships abroad; (v) staff development
programs for teaching institutions; and (vi) broader staff development programs of the key TVET agencies.
3.22 Increase the SupRly of Teaching Materials (Proposed Outlay: $1,209,000) Rapid changes in technology and
job content in a variety of occupations indicate the need to review skill training programs and the availability of
relevant teaching materials. There is a particular dearth of teaching materials at the technician level of training.
The proposed sub-project would provide finance for: (a) review of existing teaching materials, (b) identify relevant
materials available elsewhere, (c) enhance the local system to generate new materials and (d) purchase new teaching
materials. It will, in particular, allocate some low-cost materials to institutions on request and would provide for
competitions for more expensive equipment. Three sources of financing are envisaged: the Canadian EDTS project,
normal budgetary processes for part of the sub-project and project financing for the competitive part of the Learning
Material Enhancement Fund.
3.23 URfrade the SuRRly of Teaching EquiRment (Proposed Outlay: $8,740,000). Each of the authorities currently
providing TVET faces similar problems in upgrading of teaching equipment and machines. These requirements stem
from the introduction of new curricula, the effort to keep pace with changes in technology, the need to replace aging
and unsuitable equipment. The objective of the sub-project is to improve the relevance and quality of TVET through
the upgrading of teaching machines and equipment in workshops. The sub-project would finance equipment
procurement, local and foreign expert services for specifying and selecting equipment and local and foreign staff
training and use of new equipment. Applications for assistance under this sub-project would be supported by
documentation to justify (a) occupational analysis and demonstrated labor market demand, (b) course development
strategy covering amendments to teaching programs, (c) staff training proposals, (d) cost analysis in terms of use
factors and cost per student, (e) installation and maintenance plan. Proposals would be reviewed by the Technical
Unit of the Intermediary using expert assistance. Assistance for new equipment should first be screened for possible
repair or redesign and rebuilding.



Annex 3B
Page 1 of 3
Criteria for TVET Sub-project AnRraisal
I.     RELEVANCE OR EXTERNAL PRODUCTIVITY (i.e. should the sub-project be done?)
A. Relationship to reform yoals
-      What is the extent of the relationship of the proposed sub-project to the to the agreed strategy and
policies (refer to Annex 3A, pagel) as well as to the objectives of improving TVET in terms of
(a) relevance to priority economic and labor market requirements; (b) effective system
management, including more efficient use of resources; and (c) quality of final results?
-      What is the priority of the sub-project in the overall TVET reform?
-      To what extent does the proposed sub-project relate to important social goals, e.g. integration of
females in the labor market in non-traditional occupations as set by national authorities?
B. Relationship to the labor market
-      What is the justification of the sub-project in terms of overall employment demand and how has
the demand been estimated?
-      What is the justification for the specializations to be provided in terms of local and national
demand?
-      To what extent are the contents of teaching programs closely related to the kinds of slills actually
required in an analysis of the occupation?
-      To what extent would the sub-project facilitate (a) better information about labor market demands,
and (b) more rapid training supply responses?
iI.    EFFECTIVENESS IN ACHIEVING STATED OBJECTIVES (i.e. is the sub-project well designed to
achieve the intended outputs?)
A. Sub-project desien
-      To what extent is the sub-project design clear and well thought through?
-      To what extent will the inputs, if provided, lead to the desired outputs, i.e. are there any gaps in
the proposed inputs?
-      To what extent are targets identified and quantified with milestones established for their
achievement?
B. Technical content
-      To what extent has the strategy been carefully crfted to include all the inter-related inputs
necessary to achieve intended outputs, i.e. policy changes, investments, etc.?
-      Is the educational strategy (explicit or implicit) in the sub-project the best way, under the
circumstances, to achieve the trining goals?



Annex 3B
Page 2 of 3
-      Does the sub-project involve appropriate expert services (within Jordan and from abroad)
necessary to achieve its objectives?
C. Evaluation
-      Has a satisfactory plan been prepared for monitoring and evaluation of the sub-project and
correction for deviations during execution?
m.    FEASIBILIT (i.e. can it be done?)
A. Availability of inputs
Are sub-project inputs likely to be available as and when required?
-      instructors;
-      teaching programs;
-      teaching materials;
-      qualified students (e.g. in sparsely populated areas will there be enough students?);
-      administrators;
-      expert services (local and external);
-      building sites;
-      availability of counterpart financing;
-      recurrent budgets;
B. Imolementation capacity
-      Does the sub-project management have sufficient experience in implementing similar sub-projects?
To what extent has the sub-project implementation organization adequately identified the staffing
implications of sub-project execution and assigned the necessary technical and managerial capacity
and expertise to carry out the sub-project effectively?
C. Sustainability/Reolicability
-      Are the projected recurrent costs of the sub-project financially sustainable over the medium term,
i.e. does it generate sufficient revenue to become reasonably self-sufficient, or does it require
sufficiently modest resources that are likely to be available from public sources?
-      To what extent is the sub-project a model that could be afforded and replicated on a wider scale?
D. Repayment
-      To what extent can the applicant demonstrate a capacity to repay the project (for private sub-
borrowers only)?
IV.    EFFICIENCY IN USE OF RESOURCES (Can the sub-project be done at reasonable cost?)
A. Least-cost approach (i.e. consideration of alternative means to achieve program objectives that cost
less.)



Annex 3B
Page 3 of 3
-       Has the proposed sub-project made use of already existing facilities and training resources
of other training establishments in the area, i.e. made use first of available spare
capacity?
-       Can economies of scale be realized by combining training sub-projects into larger
institutions, e.g. is it socially acceptable in the particular region to combine rather than
separate training by gender?
B.      Norms and standards
-       Have proposed capital and recurrent unit costs (i.e. costs per trainee) been identified
accurately, are they reasonable and do they conform to national and regional norms?
-       Have proposed utilization rates3 for physical facilities and equipment been identified, are
they reasonable and do they conform with national norms?
Have staff utilization rates3 been projected, are they reasonable and do they conform with
desirable optimum norms?
Is the proportion of recurrent expenditures on overhead (administration and services)
reasonable in relation to expenditures on delivery of training?
V.   SUMMARY
What are the key project risks and what has been, or should be, done to minimize them? After
these actions, to what extent are the risks (e.g. waste of scarce resources) within tolerable levels?
Is this a priority, sound and implementable investment for scarce national resources?
On what specific conditions should the sub-project be recommended for financing?
3 Defined as the acwl number of teaching periods used per week divided by the thcoreticAl maximum.



I



Annex 4
Page 1 of 7
SAMPLE FORMAT FOR PREPARING SUB-PROJECTS
A sub-project may be prepared in various forms for submission to the Intermediary, but whichever form
is used it must include certain key elements that will be sought out in the appraisal process. These key elements
are incorporated in this sample format outline.
1.     Heading information
(a)    Date, preparing entity, person to be contacted for questions or additional information
(b)    Statement of sub-project endorsement by steering committee of entity or authorized official (i.e.,
Secretary-General)
2.     Justification for investment being proposed
(a)    Problems and issues sub-project will address
(b)    Expected outcomes
3.     Sub-project objectives
Objectives should be stated concisely and demonstrate a link to the general and specific objectives
of the Educational Reform Program
4.     Brief (one paragraph) description of the proposed sub-project
5.     Required inputs for sub-project implementation
(a)    Staff
1.     Professional
2.     Support
3.     Full-time
4.     Part-time
S.     Qualifications
(b)    Equipment
(c)    Buildings and/or sites
1.     Rented
2.     To be constructed
(d)    Materials
(e)    Technical assistance
1.     Type required
2.     Selection process
3.     Contract duration
(f)    Transportation
(g)    Other



Annex 4
Page 2 of 7
6.     Staff development plan (if needed)
(a)    Assessment of needs
(b)    Plan for developing training programs
(c)    Entities that will conduct training
7.     Management arrangements for implementation
(a)    Responsible person(s)
(b)    Supervision plan
(c)    Planning
(d)    Financial management
1.     Accounting
2.     Procurement
(e)    Coordination (internal/external)
(f)    Monitoring system based on performance indicators
1.     Quantities (number trained, constructed, printed, distributed, contracted, enrolled, etc.)
8.     Sub-project costs
(a)    Costs, including unit costs, by sub-project component, and total cost
(b)    Incremental recurrent cost
9.     Implementation schedule, showing each component
10.    Sub-project evaluation plan, linked to objectives and the cumulative data compiled by the supervision and
monitoring system.



Annex 4
Page 3 of 7
SAMPLE FORMAT FOR SUB-PROJECT APPRAISAL REPORTS
1.     Sub-project justification and objectives
(a)    Briefly summarize both
(b)    Indicate their relevance to the Educational Reform Program
(c)    Cite deficiencies, if any
(d)    Recommend revisions, if necessary
2.     Summarize sub-project description
(a)    Analyze conceptual and technical design
(b)    Analyze its congruence with objectives and reform
(c)    If deficient, provide recommendations
3.     Assess adequacy and appropriateness of inputs
(a)    Qualitative and quantitative aspects
(b)    Cost effectiveness
(c)    Control mechanisms
(d)    Timeliness of provision
(e)    Recommendations
4.     Assess staff training program, if applicable
(a)    Training plan
(b)    Clear definition of needs
(c)    Acceptability of the training entity
(d)    Recommendations
5.     Assess adequacy of management arrangements
(a)    Responsibility factor
(b)    Supervision of implementation activities
(c)    Planning process
(d)    Financial management
(e)    Procurement procedures and accountability
(f)    Implementation coordination
(g)    Implementation monitoring
(h)    Recommendations
6.     Assess sub-project costs
(a)    Check for accuracy
(b)    Request supplemental information when necessary
(c)    Determine cost effectiveness
(d)    Recommendations
7.     Assess schedule of implementation



Annex 4
Page 4 of 7
(a)    m= its faibility
(b)    Rc     ations
8.     Amu  fasibility and appropriatenes of evaluation plan
9.     Rcom_andation to the Policy Council.



Annex 4
Page 5 of 7
GENERAL CRITERIA FOR SUB-PROJECT
PREPARATION. APPRAISAL. AND APPROVAL
1.     The general criteria, together with the specific criteria, will form the basis for sub-project preparation by
the beneficiary institutions, appraisal by the Intermediary's Technical Unit (incorporated in NCERD), and approval
by the Intermediary's Policy Council.
2.     The general criteria consist of four elements:
(a)    Relevance to the objectives of the Education Reform Program: Should it be done?
(b)    Technical quality: Will the sub-project inputs produce the desired output?
(c)    Implementation capacity: Can the sub-project be implemented effectively?
(d)    Cost efficiency: Can the sub-project be implemented at reasonable cost?
It is recognized that the weight assigned to each criterion would vary among sub-projects.
Relevance to the Reform Objectives
3.     The relevance of a given sub-project would be assessed on the basis of its expected contribution to the
overall goals of the Education Reform Program as a whole, and to those of the action plan to which it belongs.
Some examples are given below for illustration purposes.
(a)    Curricula and instructional materials. Whether sub-projects to introduce new curricula and
instructional materials (textbooks, audio-visual aids, and other teaching aids) would be expected
to improve the acquisition of basic knowledge and skills, increase student critical thinking,
problem-solving skills, creativity, resourcefulness, and involvement in the classroom, school, and
community activities.
(b)    Teachers. Whether sub-projects for in-service programs are suitable for increasing teachers'
academic and pedagogical qualifications (including resourcefulness, initiative, and leadership), and
whether this would result in a more effective use of curricula, instructional materials, and media
to realize higher student achievements.
(c)    Educational research and development. Whether the proposed sub-projects would help to improve
the effectiveness of existing reform programs (through monitoring and evaluation feedback);
support new program and policy initiatives (through major studies of sectoral and sub-sectoral
issues or institutions); and promote excellence or institutionalize innovations (through research and
testing of promising new pedagogical, technological, or institutional developments in Jordan or
other countries).
Technical Ouality
4.     Each sub-project application would be assessed to ensure that its design and targets would address quality
improvement issues. The analysis would consider:
(a)    Desi2n and targets. Whether the design is in line with the action plan objectives, design, and
targets; it is well defined; whether the targets are identified and quantified to the extent possible;
whether achievement dates are specified; and whether there are measures to monitor the
achievement of specified targets.



Annex 4
Page 6 of 7
(b)     Norms. standards. and utilization rates.  Whether construction, maintenance, furnishings,
equipment, and teacher utilization ratesfstandards are specified; and whether they are in
conformity with those agreed upon for the action plan.
(c)     Monitorine and evaluation. Whether there is a clearly defined monitoring and evaluation program
which identifies goals and responsibilities, defines activities to be monitored and evaluated, and
provides strategies and instruments for assessing the financial progress of the sub-project; and
whether the sub-project includes evaluation feedback that will facilitate any needed modification
in subsequent activities.
IMslementation C#MaiIX
S.      The analysis would use the following criteria to determine whether the applicant beneficiary institution can
implement the sub-project:
(a)     Assessment of staff. Whether the implementing unit has the necessary technical and managerial
capacity and expertise to carry out the sub-project effectively; whether the sub-project identifies
staff by sub-project implementation responsibilities, indicates their qualifications, and identifies
specific actions to remedy staff shortfalls or losses.
(b)     Assessment of the sub-uroject implementation coordinator. Whether the individual assigned is
technically and managerially qualified; whether his/her responsibilities and accountabilities are
clearly specified.
(c)     Coordination within the sub-uroject. Whether the sub-project has been prepared in coordination
with the various departments responsible for the areas covered by the sub-project.
(d)     Coordination with other sub-Drojects. Whether the sub-project implementation program has been
coordinated with related sub-projects under the same action plan or under other action plans.
(e)     Availability of funds. Whether the counterpart financing requirements for the sub-project are
available.
CQstLEfficiency
6.      Sub-projects would be assessed to determine whether they can be implemented at reasonable cost without
jeopardizing timely delivery or quality. This would involve consideration of the following:
(a)     Unit cost. Whether sub-project capital and recurrent unit costs are in line with estimates used for
cost calculations for similar activities proposed in the relevant action plans; and whether costs are
based on national standards or Bank experience.
(b)     Utilization rat. Whether facilities and equipment utilization rates are in line with those used in
the design of action plans; and whether the intensity of use of sub-project outputs has been
documented and is used to determine priorities.
(c)     Staff utilization. Whether staff will be efficiently utilized; and whether staff trained under the sub-
project will maximize the gains to be derived from their improved qualifications.



Annex 4
Page 7 of 7
Chart 1: Flow Chart for Generating and Processing Sub-projects
START
pwepafe
Sub-praled
p15*,,               NCERD~~~~~~~~~~~Ye                   NED        e
NCERO                                                                    RD
assigns stall No   a Was
b appraisal                                                             Sub-poect
Revise          Ree  
'fNo.''                           1''                       -           X 
|~ ~ ~~e A4Zs |-        e    .       ccepi            Acep                                         Apria Reor
Neiale$     *      ~ j.Rjc                                             Reviews                     eomedto
app_af                      ISub.,,,,.d                                                      S
WO ruvis'                   Sub-prolecls and:
END                                                e~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~nd conlws    ..Appralsal Repods,
on Subidod *c                 bO W     brrVwbw a
Abbbrnr
IPC * hb.rmfty Pdqcy Counl                  - ' P 9m smmap              ,                   to Sub-pSo d s
We a  BM O*                                    D    dsIonl PselectedbyOwDnk; ] desbPD
O~~~~~~~~~~~~~*






Annex 5
Page I of 14
MONITORING AND EVALUATION INDICATORS4
Overview
The monitoring and evaluation indicators have been developed in collaboration with the counterpart teams to provide a tool for monitoring the
effectiveness and efficiency of the various action plans. The indicators will provide a means for supervision missions and the Government to assess the
progress in, and effectiveness of, the implementation of project activities, identify any shortcomings, and define appropriate solutions to the constraints
identified. For presentational purposes, the indicators are grouped by action plan, although a number of the action plan activities are closely linked. All
components of the project will be reviewed by the Bank and Borrower during the mid-term review (scheduled during Year 3 of the project).
Action Plan/                     Input                           Process/Output Indicators        Timing             Status/
Sub-Component                                                                                                        Comments
In-service       Basic training program:
teacher training    5000 grade 11 teachers to be trained   Number of teachers trained                Year 1
1500 secondary vocational teachers to be  Number of teachers trained               Year 2
trained
5000 grade 12 teachers to be trained     Number of teachers trained                Year 2
5000 additional teachers to be trained   Number of teachers trained                Year 3
Teachers implement key ideas presented in    Yearly
in-service training program
Quality of content, methodology and      Yearly
instructional materials of CDTP improved
Enrichment and specialized training
1ro2tam:
1200 teachers to be trained              Number of teachers trained                Year 2
2000 teachers to be trained              Number of teachers trained                Year 2
4000 teachers to be trained              Number of teachers trained                Year 3
10000 teachers to be trained             Number of teachers trained                Year 4
10000 teachers to be trained             Number of teachers trained                Year S
Teachers implement key ideas presented in    Yearly
in-service training program
Training adapted to level and background of   Yearly
targeted teachers                                      I _
4Nsot     This list of monitoring indicators wilH be supplemented by the specific monitoring and evaluation criteria to be included in the sub-project
proposls submitted to the Intermediary for apprasl during project implementation.



Annex 5
Page 2 of 14
Action Plan/                     Input                            Process/Output Indicators         Timing            Status/
Sub-Component                                                                                                         Comments
Evaluation: Training programs to be       Steady improvement in quality of training  Yearly
evaluated annually by the Intermediary and    program
modifications or revisions will be
incorporated in the following year's program  _
Training the     Train a total of 925 trainers
trainers         605 trainers to be trained                 Number of trainers trained                Year 1
80 new field trainers to be trained each year   Number of trainers trained          Yearly during
thereafter                                                                          Years 2-5
Trainers applying key ideas presented in in-   Yearly
service training program                                               l
Evaluation: Yearly internal evaluation of the                                       Yearly
training program by the ETC
External assessment at the end of Year I                                            July 1996
Training         Train a total of 250 high-level administrators   Number of administrators trained    Yearly
educational       (50 administrators per year)
administrators/    Train a total of 1100 educational counselors   Number of counselors trained        Yearly
counselors       300, 200, 200, 200, 200 counselors to be   Educational counselors are able to answer  Yearly
trained respectively in the 5 years       teachers' questions regarding the appropriate
use of new material and pedagogy
Counselors evaluate teachers on criteria
consistent with the teacher behaviors     Yearly
encouraged within the education reform
program
Counselors provide instructional supervision
to teachers
Evaluation: Yearly internal evaluation of the                                       Yearly
training program by the ETC
External assessment at the end of Year I
July 1996



Annex 5
Page 3 of 14
Action Plan/                     Input                             Process/Output Indicators         Timing             Status/
Sub-Component                                                                                                           Comrnants_l
Training school   Train a total of 400 academic school
principals and    principals
assistants        200 principals to be trained gagh year     Number of principals trained              Year I and 2
Train a total of 1000 assistant principals
100, 100, 200, 300, 300 assistant principals   Number of assistant principals trained  Yearly
to be trained respectively in 5 years
Train a total of 100 vocational school
principals
50 principals to be trained each year      Number of principals trained              Year I and 2
Train a total of 500 technical coordinators in
vocational schools
50, 50, 200, 100, 100 technical coordinators   Number of technical coordinators trained  Yearly
to be trained respectively in the 5 years  Principals provide instructional supervision    Yearly
to teachers
Principals are able to answer teachers'   Yearly
questions regarding the appropriate use of
new material and pedagogy
Principals evaluate teachers on criteria  Yearly
consistent with the teacher behaviors
encouraged within the education reform
program
Enrichment training program for 500       Principals are up-to-date                  Yearly
principals per year
Evaluation: Yearly internal evaluation by                                            Yearly
ETC in coordination with other directorates
l_____________ Yearly extenal assessment



Annex 5
Page 4 of 14
Action Plan/                      Input                            Process/Output Indicators         Timing             Status/
Sub-Component                                                                                                           Comments
Pilot school-     Train a total of 600 educational staff to use    Educational staff trained           Yearly
based in-service   cooperative methods in planning,          School-clusters developed
training project   implementing and propagating new ideas in    Self-driven transfer to other schools
the context of local conditions (60        Enhanced capacity of ETC to provide
supervisors, 60 principals, and 480 teachers   school-based integrated and cooperative in-
in all governorates). Develop 20 school-  service training
clusters as models for other schools to learn
from
Evaluation: Yearly internal evaluation by                                            Yearly
ETC
Yearly external assessment
Impact assessment during Year 3                                                      Yearly
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _                   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   ~~~~~~~~ ~ ~~Year  3  _ _ _ _
Aligning the      Establish Standing Committees to coordinate
content and       and monitor development of the sample tests
objectives tested   Standing Committees to be established    Standing Committees established            By Dec. 1995
by the GSSCE      Chairpersons to be trained                 Number of Chairpersons trained            By Dec. 1996
with the new      Tables of specifications to be prepared and  Tables of specifications                June 1997
curricula         published                                  New assessment techniques, including      Yearly
GSSCE examination, place more emphasis
on cognitive skills
Evaluation: Formative evaluation by GDEE                                             Yearly
Yearly external assessment



Annex 5
Page 5 of 14
Action Plan/                    Input                            Process/Output Indicators        Timing            Status/
Sub-Component                                                                                                       Comments
Developing       Selection and appointment of two supervisors  Appointments made with a commitment for   Year 1
classroom-based   (one in Math & one in Arabic) to head the    training and follow-up assignments.
diagnostic testing diagnostic development teams.
for remedial
interventions    Training of two supervisors abroad (3 month  Training completed satisfactorily.    Year 1
each)
Recruitment of consultants (8 staff months)    Appropriate consultants recruited.  Year 1
Selection and training of teachers from  Selection and training completed and test  Years 1 + 2
cooperating schools, formation of teams and   development started.
start diagnostic test development
Completion & production of test materials  Completed.                             Years 2,3,4,5
Disseminating diagnostic approaches to   Dissemination carried out.               Years 3,4,5
teachers in cooperation with ETC
Evaluation of changes in classroom practices   Diagnostc approaches and remedial  Years 4,5
interventions applied in the classroom.
Improved student achievement; reduced rates
of repetition and drop-outs.
Evalation:                               Extent of dissmination of diagnostic
Yearly internal evaluation               approache  asssed as well as impact on   Yearly
Mid-term extnal assessment               achievement and efficiency               Year 3
Impact study                                                                      Year 5



Annex 5
Page 6 of 14
Action Plan/                    Input                           Process/Output Indicators       Timing             Status/
Sub-Component                                                                                                     Comments
School-based     MOE and NCERD to prepare guidelines,     Guidelines, procedures and arrangements  by November
innovations      procedures and organizational arrangements   developed and agreed                 15, 1995
Random selection of initial districts,   Selection completed and orientation     by March 01,
orientation programs for supervisors     programs implemented                     1996
followed by principals
Brief concept papers from schools and their   Brief concept ideas of innovative activities    Process to be
screening.                              received, screened and selected schools  completed by
invited to present detailed proposals   May 14, 1996
Allocating grants to schools with selected  Selected schools notified and first   Notification by
projects for implementation within the   installments paid                       June 15, 1996.
following 18 months                                                               First phase
projects to be
completed by
Dec. 31, 1997
Continuous evaluation of process which will   Evaluation results utilized to introduce
be repeated yearly                      improvements and adjustments
Successful experiences disseminated for  Assess results of dissemination.        Year 3,4,5
wider adoption.
Evaluating of the pilot activity and     Final evaluation completed.              Year 5
recommendations for further action.



Annex 5
Page 7 of 14
Action Plan/                   Input                            Process/Output Indicators       Timing            Status/
Sub-Component                                                                                                     Comments
Technical and    Develop mechanism linking economic and  Results of policy paper and mechanism    Year I
vocational       HRD                                     adopted.
education
training (TVET)"  Develop mechanism for tracer studies.  Mechanism adopted and experimental       Years 1, 2
: Relevance to    Establish central institution for coordination,  implementation in a region initiated.
Market Economy  processing and analysis of tracer studies.
Develop mechanism for employer          Mechanism adopted.                       Year I
participation.
Develop short-term and bridging programs    Programs implemented.                Years 2-5
for TVET
Develop new technical courses for CCs.  Courses introduced in program.          Year 2
Develop training materials in           Training materials adopted.              Years 1,2,3
entrepreneurship
Design system/facility for loan provision to   Launch loan provision to private CCs which   Years 3-5
l______________  private community colleges.              submit qualifying proposals.
*     The list of TVET monitoring indicators is not exhaustive and will be supplemented by specific monitoring and evaluation indicators to be
included in the sub-project proposals to be submitted for appraisal and approval.



Annex 5
Page 8 of 14
Action Plan/                    Input                            Process/Output Indicators       Timing             Status/
Sub-Component                                                                                                       Comments
Effective TVET    Develop system for policy coordination.  Policy coordination body established or  Year I
System                                                     National Task Force for Coordinating TVET
strengthened.
Training to improve policy analysis capacity.  Number of staff trained; relevance of  Years 1, 2
training
Research in HRD and policy analysis      Research performed and results utilized.  Yearly
Training of TVET institution administrators.   Number of TVET institution adminstrators    Years 2-5
trained.
Develop procedures to make CC exit exam  Procedures adopted and implemented.      Year 3
more relevant to TVET.
Develop governance structure for an      Structure adopted and board established.  Year 1
independent CC board.
Develop a system for micro analysis of cost   System developed and utilized.      Year 1
in TVET institutions.
TVET             Review modular manuals for training       Results of review adopted and implemented.   Years 3-5
improvement
Training of staff, provision of equipment  (Approved sub-projects properly        Years 2-5
and civil works as per sub-projects to be  implemented).
processed.
Evaluation: Internal evaluation by MOE,  Adjustments made on the basis of evaluation.  Yearly
MOHE, and VTC
External evaluation guided by strategy and  Modification/adjustments made after   Years 3, 4
policies                                 approval of Policy Coordinating Body    I_I



Annex 5
Page 9 of 14
Action Plan/                    Input                            Process/Output Indicators        Timing            Status/
Sub-Component                                                                                                       Comments
Learning         Phase A: Construct 2 LRCs in each of
resource centers   Amman and Balkaa and renovate Karak
LRC. Upgrade 6 LRCs: training,
equipment. and suplies.
Deflning sites and ownership             Sites and ownership defined              March 1995
Finalize plans and bidding documents     Plans and bidding documents finalized    July 1995
Invitation to bid prepared               Invitation to bid prepared               Oct. 1995
Bid evaluation and contract award        Contract awarded                         Feb. 1996
Completion of construction               Construction completed                   Dec. 1996
Learning resource centers provide quality
support to teachers
Perceived usefulness of training program by
teachers
Teachers better able to use educational
technology in the classroom
Evaluation: External evaluation                                                   June 1998                     l
Phase B: Renovate and develop LRCs in    Implementation dependent on results of   Starts July
Karak and Zarkaa and construct LRC in    evaluation.                               1998
Tafilah                                                                                                         l
GDCET            Extend distribution system to regional    Reduced loss of books due to more efficient
Computerization   warehouses:                             tracking system, and reduced spoilage due to
Amman 1 and 2 warehouses                 better warehousing and distribution systems
Detailed system design for distribution                                           Dec. 1995
system to be completed and approved by   Increase management control over publishing
MOE/Intermediary                         process
System to be operational                                                          April 1997
Irbid and Zarkaa warehouses
Detailed system design for distribution                                           Dec. 1997
system to be completed and approved by
MOE/Intermediary
System to be operational                                                          April 1999



Annex 5
Page 10 of 14
Action Plan/                      Input                              Process/Output Indicators          Timing             Status/
Sub-Component                                                                                                              Comments
Allocation and    Develop a mechanism for the allocation of
distribution of   instructional materials and library books
instructional     Detailed allocation and distribution system to   Detailed allocation and distribution system  Oct. 1995
materials and     be completed and approved by                completed and approved by
library books     MOE/Intermediary                            MOE/Intermediary
System operational                          System operational
Adequate supply of essential instructional  June 1997
materials and library books found in all
schools
Instructional materials and library books
_______________  _____________________________________     actually     utilized
Textbook          Develop desk-top publishing capacity of the
production        GDCET
System specifications to be developed and  Improved overall quality of textbooks       Nov. 1995
approved by MOE/ Intermediary
System operational
Automate manuscript preparation                                                        Oct. 1996
System specifications to be developed and   Manuscript preparation process operating   August '97
approved MOE/Intermediary                   effectively
System operational                                                                     April 1998
Reduce unit cost of production
Increase cost recovery
Produce textbooks and teachers' guides                                                 Yearly
Textbooks and teachers' guides produced on
time
GDCET             Deliver textbooks to schools on time                                                    The week
distribution      All schools to be provided with appropriate    All schools receive needed textbooks prior to  before school
number of textbooks                         beginning of their distribution/lending/sale to  starts, or
students                                   earlier, each
Reduce stock wastage                       year



Annex 5
Page 11 of 14
Action Plan/                    Input                            Process/Output Indicators        Timing            Status/
Sub-Component                                                                                                       Comments
Trialling and    Evaluate textbooks and teachers' euides   Textbooks and teachers' guides are relevant,  Yearly
evaluation       Textbooks and teachers guides evaluated   appropriate to the grade level, clearly
presented, and conform to realizing the
reform objectives
Strengthening    Construct or secure facility for GDEE
administrative   Decision about new construction or available  Premises meeting the required criteria  During
and feedback     facility                                  available on schedule                    appraisal
systems for the    If a new facility is to be constructed:
GSSCE            Designation of lot of land and indication of                                       (To be defined
ownership                                                                          during
Final plans and bidding documents                                                 appraisal)
Invitation to bid prepared
Bid evaluation and contract award
Completion of construction
NCERD's EMIS   Equipment Procurement (i) Hardware          Equipment in operation at NCERD and      April 30, 1996
(ii) Software        concerned offices
Assessment of MOE and Regions data needs   Assessment completed                   Oct. 31, 1995
Review of annual cycles of data collection,    Report and recommendations on cycles  Oct. 31, 1995
planning and budgeting                   completed
Development of NCERD Local Area          L.A.N. in operation                      April 30, 1996
Network
Development of an Executive Info. system  System in operation                     Jan. 31, 1998
Update data entry, processing and retrieval    Data system update completed        Oct. 31, 1997
l _______________  system                                                                          I



Annex 5
Page 12 of 14
Action Plan/                    Input                            Process/Output Indicators        Timing            Status/
Sub-Component                                                                                                       Comments
Sample-based     Identification, orientation, preparation of  Instrumentation and pilot testing completed    Jan.-July 1995
national         pilot test forms and administration
assessment
Preparation and development of instruments   Instruments developed                 Aug. 31, 1995
Sample selection, finalization of        All arrangements completed and            Nov. 1, 1995-
administrative procedures, and preparation of  instruments/tests ready             March 31,
administration manuals and final designs of                                        1996
instruments and tests
Test administration                      Performed without problems                May 2-15,
1996
Tabulation, scoring, interpretation of results   Completed                         May-Dec. 1996
Dissemination and discussion of reports  Feedback to influence textbook or         Jan-March
curriculum revision, teacher training and  1997
classroom practice.
Process repeated periodically            Details in Action Plan (PIV)
Facility for     Construct or secure permanent facility for  Premises meeting the required criteria  July 1997
NCERD            NCERD                                     available on schedule
Identification of site and indication of its
ownership
Final plans and bidding documents
Invitation to bid prepared
Bid evaluation and contract award
Completion of construction                                                                                      l



Annex 5
Page 13 of 14
Action Plan/                    Input                            Process/Output Indicators        Timing            Status/
Sub-Component                                                                                                       Comments
Project          Evaluation: Intermediary prepare semi-    Reports are complete and submitted in a  Semi-annually
management       annual technical-financial report        timely fashion
Project accounts audit report prepared   Audit report is complete, accurate, and   Within 6
annually                                 submitted in a timely fashion             months after
the end of the
Government's
fiscal year
For the mid-term review, the Intermediary  Report is complete, accurate, and submitted    By December
prepares a detailed report covering all  in a timely fashion                       31, 1997
aspects of the project
Project Implementation Report prepared   Report is complete, accurate, and submitted    No later than
summanizing overall project implementation   in a timely fashion                   6 months after
closing of the
loan
School           Develop and agree on new design           New design developed, reviewed and agreed  July 31, 1995
construction and
expansion        Selection of type of construction (extension    Sites and types of construction decided  July 1995
or new) on the basis of developed and agreed  according to criteria
criteria.
Construct schools                        Rented schools replaced with MOE owned    Yearly
schools and double shifting reduced
New student places provided              Yearly
Facilities are properly utilized (e.g. students   Yearly
have regular access to library, teachers use
laboratory)                              Upon
utilization of
new space
Review organization and management       Revised organizational and management    Year 3
functions of the GDPSB                   structure developed and adopted         IlI



Annex 5
Page 14 of 14
Action Plan/                    Input                            Process/Output Indicators        Timing            Status/
Sub-Component                                                                                                       Comments
School           Identifying schools that need structural  843 schools identified for structural repairs    Already
rehabilitation   repairs and sanitary units                and 285 for sanitary units. As much as   identified.
possible, bidding and contracts integrated  Spot checking
with school construction.                needed.
Rehabilitate schools following yearly    Adequate rehabilitation completed on     Yearly
schedule.                                schedule
Equipment for    Equip schools constructed or expanded under  Schools properly equipped             Before
schools         the project with appropriate equipment                                              beginning of
Teachers and students using equipment    school year
appropriately                           following the
completion of
construction
School building    Develop sustainable school facility     School facility maintenance program adopted  Yearly
maintenance      maintenance program                       and maintenance carried out



Annex 6
Page 1 of 4
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND FELLOWSHIP SUMMARY
Not: Unless otherwise indicated, the technical assistance to be provided under this project would be considered technical assistance for Institutional Development
(as defined in OD 8.40). As such, the technical assistance would build sustainable domestic capacity either within the targeted institutions or on a national,
sectoral, or functional level.
Action Plan           Technical Assistance    Specialization                    Staff-Months Equivalent                Comments
/Fellowships                                                     (by FY)
96    97    98       99     00    Total
In-Service Teacher    Technical Assistance    Specialists in training  1     2       1                    4      4 persons' for 0.5 staff-
Training              (Foreign)               and in production of                                               month each and 2
training materials                                                 persons for 1 staff-
month each
Training the Trainers   Technical Assistance  Specialists in designing    1                               1      2 persons at 0.5 staff-
(Foreign)              training courses;                                                   month each
developing materials;
supervising, and
evaluating training
programs                                                                                  l
Fellowships            Training methodology     4.5                                4.5     6 persons for 0.75
staff-month each
Training Educational   Technical Assistance   Specialists in educational  1.5                             1.5    2 persons for 0.75
Administrators and    (Foreign)              leadership training                                                 staff-months each
Counselors_
Fellowships            Leadership training      5                                  5       5 persons for one staff
methodology                                                        month each
Aligning the Content   Technical Assistance   Subject specialists to  21    24    9                      54      3 persons' for 7 staff-
and Objectives Tested   (Foreign)             assist in developing tests                                         month each, 4 persons
by the GSSCE with                                                                                                for 6 staff-months
New Curricula                                                                                                    each, and 3 persons for
3 staff-months each
This does not necessarily mean that the persons are different. The same person may make more than one visit.



Annex 6
Page 2 of 4
Action Plan           Technical Assistance    Specialization                     Staff-Months Equivalent                 Comments
/Fellowships                                                      (by FY)
96    97      98      99    00    Total
Technical Assistance    Subject specialists to   3     3                            6       3 persons for 2 staff-
(Local)                assist and follow-up on                                              months each
test development
Fellowships            For chairpersons of the    36    36                          72      40 chairpersons of the
Exainination                                                        Examination
Committees: gain                                                    Committees for 1 staff-
practical experience in                                             month each and 16
development of test                                                 chairpersons of the
specifications, test                                                Item Construction
types, and test                                                     Teams for 2 staff-
management; for                                                     months each
chairpersons of the Item
Construction Teams:
gain practical experience
in item construction.
Developing            Technical Assistance    Specialist in diagnostic    6   3      3                     12      1 person for 12 staff-
Classroom Based       (Foreign)               testing and remedial                                                 months
Diagnostic Testing for                        interventions
Remedial
Interventions         Fellowships             Diagnostic test          6                                   6       2 supervisors for 3
development                                                         staff-months each
Technical and         Technical Assistance                              13    13    13        13    12   64
Vocational Education   (Foreign)
and Training*         Technical Assistance                              129   129    129      129    130  646
(Local)                                                                       _
l__________________ Fellowships                                         68    68      68      68     65    337
Learning Resource     Fellowships                                             4                            4
Centers
* Preliminary estimates



Annex 6
Page 3 of 4
Action Plan             Technical Assistance      Specialization                        Staff-Months Equivalent                    Comments
[Fellowships                                                            (by FY)
96     97      98       99     00    Total
GDCET                   Technical Assistance      Specialists in             3.75   0.75    1         1.5           7        1 person for I staff-
Computerization         (Foreign)                 distribution system                                                        month (distribution
development, desktop                                                      systems); I person for
publishing,                                                               0.5 staff-month
administrative systems                                                    (desktop publishing); 1
design, computerization                                                   person for 1.5 staff-
of trialling and                                                          months (administrative
evaluation systems,                                                       systems); 1 person for
management; and                                                           0.5 staff-month
research methodology                                                      (trialling and
evaluation); 1 person
for 2 staff-months
(management); I
person for 1.5 staff-
months (research
methodology)
Textbook Production    Technical Assistance       Specialists in             2.5    2        1.5      0.5           6.5      2 persons for 2.5 staff-
(Foreign)                 computerization,                                                          months each
typesetting, and                                                          (computerization and
production support                                                        typesetting); I person
for 6 staff-months
(production support)
Technical Assistance                                 1.5                                    1.5
(Local)
Distribution            Technical Assistance                                 2.5     1       0.75    0.75           5
(Foreign)
Technical Assistance                                 0.25           0.5      0.5    0.5   1.75
l _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  (Local)                                              I       I       I       I_I_                           __



Annex 6
Page 4 of 4
Action Plan            Technical Assistance     Specialization                     Staff-Months Equivalent                  Comments
/Fellowships                                                       (by FY)
96     97     98      99     00    Total
Trialling and          Technical Assistance     Specialist in             1.5   0.75   0.75                   3       1 person for 3 staff-
Evaluation of          (Foreign)                development of                                                        months
Textbooks                                       evaluation targets;
methodology, and data
collection instruments
Technical Assistance                              4      6                            10
(Local)
Strengthening          Technical Assistance     Specialist in computer-          1.5    1.5                   3       1 person for 3 staff-
Administrative and     (Foreign)                based testing and OMR                                                 months
Feedback Systemsl
for the GSSCE          Fellowships              Computerized testing     4                                    4       2 persons for 2 staff-
and assessment                                                        months each
EMIS6                  Technical Assistance     Specialist in            4.25   3.25                          7.5     1 person for 7.5 staff-
(Foreign)               management information                                                months
systems                                                                                      l
School Building        Technical Assistance     Specialist in            8      6       4                     18      1 person for 18 staff-
Management             (Foreign)                organization and                                                      months
management                    _                                                              l
School Facilities      Technical Assistance     Development of           8      6       4                     18      1 person for 18 staff-
(Foreign)               maintenance program                            .    _                 months
6 This technical assistance activity could be classified as technical assistance for policy support because the education management information
system would be used considerably to monitor the impact of the education reform program.



Annex 7
Page 1 of 2
KEY STATISCAL INDICATORS
A. General Country Data                                                          Year
1.    GNP per capita (US$)2                                   1,240       1990
2.     Area (in thousands of square kilometers)                  89
3.     Average annual population growth rate (9                 4.9      1980-92
4.     Population (million)                                       4       1992
5.     Population projections2 (million)
a. Year 2000                                             5+        2000
b. Year 2015                                             7.5       2015
6.     Urban Population as a percentage of total                 51       1970
population                                                69       1992
7.     Life expectancy at birth                                  70       1992
a. Females                                               72        1992
b. Males                                                 68        1992
8.    Infant mortality rate (per 1,000 live births)              28       1992
B. Education Sector
1.    Government expenditures:                                  7.6       1980
Percentage of Government expenditures                   12.9       1992
on education
Percentage of Government recurrent budget                 19       1992
expenditures on education
Percentage of Government investment                      8.6       1992
expenditures on education
2.     Percentage of Government expenditures by
education level
Basic                                                   49.5       1992
Secondary                                               10.1       1992
Tertiary                                                39.3       1992
1      Data arc Wodd Bank eslimat., (World Develooment Renort 1994).
2      Ha}haemt} Kingdom, Jodan Poventy Asseumne (Vol. 1). PHR Divison, MENA, Tbe Wodid Bank, 1994.
3      *EdAtion and Taining in Jordan: A Decriptive and Fnaacial Survey', Lynn loo and Hiaham AI-Daje'h, NCERD,
July 1994 (unpubliabed)



Annex 7
Page 2 of 2
3.     Gross enrollment rates
a.     Basic (grades 1-10)
(i)    Overall                                   96.3      1988/89
86.8     1991/92
(ii)    Girls                                    97.4      1988/89
86.9      1991/92
(iii)   Boys                                     95.3      1988/89
86.7      1991/92
b.     Secondary (grades 11-12)
(i)    Overall                                   61.3      1988/89
52.4      1991/92
(ii)    Girls                                    62.5      1988/89
53.3      1991/92
(iii)   Boys                                     60.2      1988/89
51.6      1991/92
c.     Higher
Overall                                     25       1991
4.     Adult literacy rate (%)'
a.     Females                                            77        1993
b.    Males                                               91        1993
5.     Pupil/teacher ratio'
Basic (Grades 1-10)                                       24      1991/92
Secondary (Grades 11-12)                                  18      1991/92
Students per Class
Basic                                              33      1991/92
Secondary                                          28      1992/92
4      Depanm of Statiuics (panilct), Jordan, 1994.
5 NCERD Education Indicator. 1994. pp.147-49



Annex 8
Page 1 of 3
EDUCATION REFORM PROGRAM
Objective            J  Achievements by end of I   Expected Achievements Under
_HRDSIL I        I             HRDSIL II
Restructure the school system by:
Extending basic education from 9 to  Completed   based   on
10 years and reducing secondary  temporary Education Law of
education from 3 to 2 years      1988; finalized in April 1994
Restructuring the secondary cycle by  Comprehensive  secondary  Complete preparation and production of
universalizing  the comprehensive  curriculum, academic and  textbooks  and  teachers'  guides.
system to cover all MOE secondary  vocational, with a common  Computerize textbook production
schools and provide major streams to  core of basic subjects both
address diversified  abilities and  leading to GSSCE, and an
interests.                       applied stream developed.
Expanding  vocational  training  Vocational  Training   Rationalize TVET, improve its quality,
capacity under the VTC and broader  Corporation (VTC) centers  make it more relevant to market needs,
specializations                  constructed;  VTC  needs  and involve the private sector.
assessment  survey
completed;  started
construction  of  a  trade
testing center.
Revising the examination system  Policy  on  promotion  to  Align content and objectives of GSSCE
secondary   based   on  with the new curricula by introducing
performance in grades 8, 9,  items  on  higher cognitive  skills;
and 10 implemented in 1989;  strengthen administrative and feedback
administrative  changes in  systems  for  the  GSSCE.Develop
GSSCE exam introduced in  classroom based diagnostic approaches
1990/91 whereby candidates  for remedial interventions in grades 1-6.
are  judged  per  subject
instead of pass/fail of the
whole exam.
Realigning  the  curriculum   to  New curricula for basic and
emphasize development of higher  secondary  developed  and
cognitive skills                 approved.
Producing new textbooks according  New  textbooks for basic  Complete preparation and introduction
to new curriculum                cycle completed; textbooks  of secondary textbooks and teachers'
for  grade  11  will  be  guides.
introduced in 1995/96.



Annex 8
Page 2 of 3
Objective               Achievements by end of       Expected Achievenents Under
EIRDSIL I                      HRDSIL II
Requiring a university degree for  Higher Certification College  Certification program will continue at a
entry  into  teaching.    Raising  abolished  after evaluation  slow  pace  without direct project
practicing  teachers  qualifications  and program  restricted to  support.
through implementation of special  universities. 6268 teachers
certification program.            certified,  2300  teachers
enrolled  in  certification
program.
Establishing  pre-service  teacher  Program  started and three  Improve progran  and continue In-
training program to prepare teachers  faculties of education are  Service Teacher Training Project for
of basic cycle at Universities.   being  constructed  and  16500 teachers in the CDTP and 27200
equipped.                  teachers  in  the  enrichment  and
specialized training programs; introduce
training program for 1350 educational
administrators and counselors; train
about 925 trainers; develop a pilot in-
service training program.
Upgrading existing teachers through  Basic  school  teachers  Improve and continue training program
in-service training               introduced to new curricula  for  2000  school  principals  and
and textbooks.             assistants,  and  vocational  training
coordinators.
Upgrading   qualifications  of  310 supervisors, principals,  Upgrade 6 existing LRCs and establish
supervisors and school principals  and   assistant  principals  2 more (pending positive evaluation);
through certification  or diploma  trained.  Facilities for 175  develop and adopt mechanism for the
program                           schools upgraded; Learning  allocation of at least JD  1 million
Resource  Centers  (for  annually  to  ensure  availability  of
teachers  to  learn  about  adequate library books, materials, and
educational  technology)  consumables; develop a mechanism to
expanded                   support  school-based  innovative
programs on a pilot basis.
Improving quality of facilities by  Constructed and equipped  Civil works program  would provide
providing labs, libraries, etc.   new schools to accommodate  about 95,000 student places
150,000 student places (about
half  to  replace  rented
facilities)
Eliminating use of rented facilities                         Reorganize  and  streamline
and   accommodating   increasing                             responsibilities of GDPSB.
demands for student places.



Annex 8
Page 3 of 3
Objective               Achievements by end of       Expected Achievernents Under
HRDSIL I                       HRDSIL II
Conducting education finance study  S t u d y   completed;  Implement cost saving measures (e.g.
for cost reduction and recovery  recommendations  under  reassessing  the school design  and
discussion.                developing a sustainable maintenance
I _____________________________   ________________________    program ).
Enhancing capacitv to sustain
reform by:
Strengthening capacity of Technical  Technical Unit established;  Continue  to  support Intermediary
Unit to appraise and monitor sub-  evaluated positively.     functions of NCERD.
projects of the reform program
Establishing NCERD  to conduct  NCERD   established.  Improve and expand EMIS; support
research and monitor implementation   Technical  Unit functions  implementation of samplebased national
of reform                        integrated under supervision  assessment by NCERD; construct or
of  Intermediary  Policy  acquire permanent facilities for NCERD
Council. EMIS established.  to enable them to cater to increased
demand.
Institutionalizing curriculum reform   Textbooks for grades 1, 5,  Improve  trialling  and  evaluation
and 9 reviewed and revised   mechanism for textbooks.
Institutionalizing  textbook   Textbooks for grades 1-10  Computerize  textbook   publishing;
development thrugh establishment of  and  teachers'  guides  expand textbook distribution system to
Textbook Publishing Unit.         developed;   Textbook   district level.
Publishing Unit established;
textbook   storage   and
distribution   system
developed; central warehouse
constructed.






Annex 9
Page 1 of 1
ESTIMATED DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
IBRD Fiscal Year and      During Semester            Cumulative         Percentage of
Semester Ending          Disbursement             Disbursement         Total Loan
(USS million)               (%)
Year I (FY96)
December 31, 19951    4.0                         7                     7
June 30, 1996        4.0                         13                     7
Year 2 (FY97)
December 31, 1996    6.8                         25                    11
June 30, 1997        6.8                         36                    11
Year 3 (FY98)
December 31, 1997    7.9                         49                    13
June 30, 1998        7.9                         62                    13
Year 4 (FY9)
December 31, 1998    6.8                         74                    11
June 30, 1999        6.8                         85                    11
Year S (FYOO)
December 31, 1999    4.5                         93                     8
June 30, 2000        4.5                         100                    8
Note: Numbers may not add up to totals due to rounding.
I  Includes initial deposit into Special Account.



Annex 10
Page 1 of 1
SUPERVISION PLAN
IBRD Fiscal Year and          Activity and Focus                  Skill Requirements            Staff
Approximate Dates                                                                            Weeks
Year 1 (FY96)          Proiect Launch Mission: Preparation  Education Specialist/Task Manager     6
June-July 1995         for implementation through a project  Procurement/disbursement Specialist
launch workshop including a review   Engineer/Architect
of the counterparts the functions of
project entities; the interrelationship
of sub-project activities;
procurement; and implementation
schedules
July-Dec.95                                               Desk supervision                        4
January 1996            Supervision Mission:              Education Specialist/Task Manager       2
Jan-June 1996                                             Desk supervision                        4
Year 2 (FY97)           Supervision Mission:              Education Specialist/Task Manager
July 1996                                                 Engineer/Architect                      4
July-Dec. 1996                                            Desk supervision                        4
January 1997            Supervision Mission:              Education Specialist/Task Manager       2
Jan-June 1997                                             Desk supervision                        4
Year 3 (FY98)          Supervision Mission:               Education Specialist/Task Manager
July 1997                                                 Engineer/Architect                      4
July-Dec. 1997                                            Desk supervision                        3
January 1998            Mid-Term Review Mission: The      Education Specialist/Task Manager
mission will review all project   Engineer/Architect
inputs, operations, and outcomes  Evaluation Specialist                   6
with relevant authorities. Specific
proposals for improved
implementation will be defined and
timetables for implementation of
remaining activities will be
Jan-June 1998           prepared.                         Desk supervision                        6
Year 4 (FY99)           Supervision Mission:              Education Specialist/Task Manager       3
July 1998
July-Dec. 1998                                            Desk Supervision                        3
January 1999            Supervision Mission:              Education Specialist/Architect          4
Jan-June 1999                                             Desk supervision                        3
Year 5 (FY00)           Supervision Mission:              Education Specialist/Architect          4
July 1999                                                 Desk supervision                        3
January 2000            Supervision Mission:              Education Specialist/Architect          4
Desk supervision                       3
Year 6 (FY01)          Proiect Completion Mission:        Education Specialist/Architect          4
July 2000               Preparation of Project            Desk follow-up                          8
Implementation Report



Annex 1I
pog lof I
ONUANIZAMONAL CHART OF THE MINSTRYglsl OFEIA7O
THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
Second Human Resources Development Sector Investment Loan (HRDSIL-II)
OOCANIZATIOML ChAR? Or 'it HINISMY OF UXrTIatN
=E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~h CG J-=N 
_~D
T.~~~~~~~.                                        a            ANS.N.d Po"  OAW.Rt"  LtapI
COWitw         Tbmi.    dm     *ic&                            A.Atd    A
+i E                    Tq a Xe i X
1 F @s S  Ft 1 m~~~~~~~~~~~~~L L
e~~l~h E        ai Xl  lehi  ae 
9~~~~~~~~






Annex 12
Page 1 of 7
NATIONAL CENTER FOR EDUCATIONAL
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT
Backgyround
1.    The institutional framework developed for the educational reform in 1989 called for two essential
functions to be housed outside of the Ministry of Education (MOE):'
(a)    The processes of appraisal and allocation of investment funds for sub-projects of the
reform program along with monitoring and coordination of their implementation (i.e, the
development function).
(b)  Policy-based and other large-scale sectoral research aimed at (i) maintaining the
momentum of the reform, (ii) identifying potentially useful and cost-effective innovations,
and (iii) conducting a longitudinal evaluation of the reform program (i.e, the policy
research function).
2.    In order to accomplish the development function, a Technical Unit (TU) was to be established
within the Higher Council of Science and Technology (HCST). The policy research functions were to
be conducted by the newly established National Center for Educational Research and Development
(NCERD).
3.    In practice, both the development and policy research functions (except functions of the
Intermediary Policy Council) were assumed by NCERD, to which a third function was added:
dissemination of the findings of the policy research, monitoring and evaluation work along with training.
Regional cooperation, mainly with Arab countries, began in 1991 and has intensified since. Consolidation
of the development and policy research functions in one institution is justified on grounds of efficiencies
of scale and the synergy gained from the cross-fertilization between the two.
4.     NCERD's activities (including those of the Technical Unit) aim at improving the education system
through: (i) analysis and evaluation of current and alternative approaches to education administration and
management in Jordan; (ii) promoting coordination and cooperation among all stake holders in the
education system, including external donors; (iii) setting investment priorities and performing the
appraisal and monitoring functions required under HRDSIL; (iv) developing and disseminating a
computerized educational management information system; (v) research training for MOE staff; and (vi)
organizing overseas study programs and technical assistance for MOE.
5.    The World Bank's Mid-Term Review of HRDSIL P concludes that these functions have been
progressing satisfactorily and that HRDSIL posed no major implementation issues.
1     According to the World Bank Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) for the First Human Resources Developmnrt Sector Invedment Loan
(HRDSIL 1), Report No. 7641-JO, May 22, 1989.
2     Mid-Term Review Report, November 1993.



Annex 12
Page 2 of 7
6.     NCERD's development strategy for long-term sustainability includes the following elements:
(a)    Continuity of its small core professional staff through fluid and loosely-structured
involvement in both functions of development and policy research (see paras. 7-9);
(b)    A core, minimal growth budget provided by the Government (see para. 23); and
(c)    Income generating activities resulting from regional cooperation activities (para. 18).
In recent years, annual income from these activities has amounted to about 48 percent of
Government-provided resources.
Organization and Capacity
7.     Govemance. NCERD was created by the HCST and became operational in early 1990. It has
financial and administrative autonomy under the HCST, which is presided by the Crown Prince and
whose day-to-day operations are directed by its secretary general. NCERD's Executive Committee's (its
governing body) composition3 and responsibilities4 remain as stated in the SAR for HRDSIL-1 (Report
No. 7641-JO, May 22, 1989, pages 81-82).
8.     Management and organization. NCERD has a relatively flat management structure that obviates
the need for complex organizational arrangements. Both the development and policy research functions
are accomplished by the Center's professional staff. This has implications for the relative distribution
of the professional staff's time in that the work load for the development function is concentrated in the
early years of project implementation. The high degree of integration between the two functions in the
professional staff's work load makes it difficult to differentiate with precision the time spent on one or
the other. Overall, rough estimates of the amount of the professional staff's time spent on the
development function is estimated as follows:
Year  Percentage of professional staff time on development work
1991          50 percent
1992          45 percent
1993          25 percent
1994          35 percent (attributable to preparation of HRDSIL-2)
9.     The integration between the development and policy research functions -  not foreseen at the
inception of HRDSIL - has encouraged economies of scale over time and has had a synergistic effect.
Involvement in sub-project appraisal has allowed NCERD's staff to be kept abreast of MOE's operations
and in-touch with the reform processes in ways not possible through exclusive reliance on monitoring and
evaluation results. This, in turn, has helped NCERD to define research needs. Also, given the
Composed of representatives of the HCST, MOE, MOHE, Vocatioal Training Corporstion (VTC), Jordan's universities and
community colleges, a member of NCERD's rearch stff, and, on an ex officio basis, NCERD's president.
NCERD has full responsibilities for: its budget and personnel policies and practicer; its work program; development of research
conulatncies; and ub-project appraisal.



Annex 12
Page 3 of 7
"seasonal" nature of the development-related work load (with work bunching up in the early years), this
policy has enabled long-run staff continuity and lessened the Center's dependence on project-related work.
10.   Sff. Table 1 shows the distribution of staff from 1990 to 1994. In addition to the President
(Ph.D. in science education), all research staff possess Ph.D.s in the areas of: educational psychology
(1); evaluation, statistics, measurement and methodology (2); and teaching methodology, curriculum and
instruction (1). Two of the professional researchers are on leave from university positions and one from
MOE. In addition to the full-time research staff, NCERD has identified a network of Jordanian
university faculty members (mainly in the areas of educational psychology and curriculum and instruction)
from whom it receives a total of about 16 person/months of services per year. The research assistants
currently include 2 engineers (for the appraisal and management of construction sub-projects), 2 data
analysts, 1 educator, and 2 specialists in planning, administration and the economics of education. The
support staff currently includes an administrative unit of three (manager, administrator and accountant),
one public information specialist (for library management, dissemination, printing), plus 5 secretaries
and 3 drivers.
TABLE 1: NCERD stafring by category (1990 - 1994)
Category            1990   1991   1992   1993   1994
Researchers (President         4       6      6       6       5
included)
Research assistants            2       4      5       8       7
Support staff                  6       9      12      13      12
11.   Eguipment currently includes 15 DOS-computers for data analysis, eight Mackintoshes for word
processing and desktop publishing, two photocopying machines and three vehicles. The computer
facilities have an adequate supply of peripherals and software (SPSS, spreadsheet programs, database
programs, word processors, geographical information system, etc.)
12.   Facilities. After two years in rental space in a commercial building, NCERD presently has a
tenuous hold on the 1250 sq.m. of temporary space that belongs to HCST which, at times, has forced
mini-moves on NCERD and currently claims part of that space for its own needs. In particular, the
computer facilities are in space that lacks ventilation with no windows, there is no library/documentation
center, office space barely accommodates core NCERD staff and there is no room for training and
conference activities related to NCERD coordination and implementation activities for Government and
other donors (UNICEF, UNESCO, Canadian CIDA, British ODA, the European Union).
Sub-project Appraisal (The Development Function)
13.   Table 2 presents an overview of the sub-projects that have been appraised during implementation
of HRDSIL I, along with date of approval and the current implementation status of these sub-projects.
Chart 1 (Annex 4) shows the process by which sub-projects are generated and appraised and the
respective institutional responsibilities of the development (NCERD) and the implementing institutions



Annex 12
Page 4 of 7
(mainly MOE). The approval process has been somewhat streamlined during the course of the project.'
There is a high degree of integration between NCERD staff activities for sub-project appraisal and
research, and NCERD staff have cooperated with MOE in the generation of sub-projects.
Policy Researh
14.   In addition to development of an Educational Management Information System (EMIS) that is
used extensively by MOE in school improvement projects, NCERD's production of policy research has
proven useful in the on-going evaluation of the reform and the identification of policy issues.
Recommendations contained in the studies have led to a number of policy measures implemented by
MOE.
15.   There is no formal process associated with the initiation of research activities. Issues are
identified in collaboration with MOE. Research proposals are discussed with higher level staff at MOE
and, in particular, with staff of the concerned MOE general directorate as well as MOE's research unit
(MOE Department of Planning, Research and Development).
16.   The EMIS system has been constructed from several different sets of regularly collected MOE
data, each housed in different MOE directorates or divisions (school statistics, personnel management,
facilities maintenance). Some training of central and field MOE personnel has occurred and NCERD has
held workshops on this system for foreign parties. It has been used extensively for identification of
schools to be included in sub-projects on the basis of agreed criteria and has been important in guiding
policy, educational research, and evaluation and monitoring of the reform. It has also been used in
generating data about students, schools, teachers, etc. to assist MOE general directorates in preparing
their sub-projects and action plans.
Dissemination
17.   This includes two sets of activities: (i) disseminating reports and (ii) organizing workshops and
seminars.
(a)    Print runs of research reports vary from  about 400 to 2,000.  There is a core
dissemination list of about 230 that includes MOE higher level staff (secretary general,
directors-general, directors and field directors), the MOE documentation center, all
university education faculty members, members of the Board of Education, university
libraries and members of the donor community. In addition, copies are sent to all
concerned by the topic of the report (e.g., for a study on training, all members of the
Training Center receive a copy; schools sampled receive copies). Copies are also
available upon request to concerned researchers and practitioners. Most reports contain
non-technical summaries.
As conpVred to the flow chart on page 34 of the SAR for HRDSIL.



Annex 12
Page 5 of 7
(b)    NCERD systematically presents research findings to MOE and the Board of Education.6
Presentations are also made in the form of seminars. The main target group for these
activities consists of officials of MOE, the Ministry of Higher Education, the Ministry
of Planning and relevant university faculty. The EMIS, in particular, has been the object
of a number of workshops directed at central MOE and at regional offices. About 5-10
percent of NCERD's Ph.D. staff time is devoted to these activities.
Regional Cooperation
18.   This includes three types of activities:
(a)    Study visits to NCERD, mainly from education policy-makers and professionals from
Arab countries. There were about six visits during the past year.
(b)    Seminars and workshops. There is about one regional seminar every year attended by
representatives of 8-12 (mainly) Arab countries. The seminars of the past four years
have focused on: the role of research and development centers in improving basic
education (in collaboration with UNESCO); higher education in the Arab world (World
Bank collaboration); enhancing national capacities in research and evaluation (UNESCO
collaboration); and monitoring learning achievement (UNESCO and UNICEF
collaboration).
(c)    Technical assistance and commissioned research to other countries and agencies. In
recent years this has included work in/with: (i) Oman (an assessment of its education
system and development of their national action plan for reform; assistance for
conducting an International Assessment of Educational Progress study; and monitoring
learning achievement); (ii) UNRWA for realization of an IAEP study in its schools of
Palestinian refugees in Lebanon, Syria, Gaza, the West Bank and Jordan; and (iii) Syria
for work on the IAEP study. In addition, discussions are underway with Sudan, Algeria
and Tunisia for NCERD assistance in research and database management.
19.   Seminars/workshops, technical assistance and commissioned research are income-generating
activities. NCERD's longer-range strategy is to use the experience and technical assistance it has
received in order to serve as a regional source of expertise in the sector.
Coordination
20.   NCERD's activities include implementation/coordination responsibilities for both nationally and
internationally financed programs. Mobilization, coordination and/or implementation of internationally
financed programs include (in addition to the HRDSIL project): (i) a Japanese technical assistance grant
administered by the World Bank and implemented by NCERD; (ii) a European Union project that focuses
on technical assistance and scholarships for university faculty involved in teacher education; (iii)
coordinating implementation of a Canadian CIDA project for vocational/technical education; (iv)
implementing USAID-funded activities aimed at developing the EMIS, organizing MOE study visits to
a     ec President of NCERD is r menber of the Board of Education.



Annex 12
Page 6 of 7
teacher training institutions, and a study on vocational/technical education; (v) mobilizing UNICEF funds
for MOE to support teacher training activities based on recommendations of an NCERD evaluation of
in-service teacher training; and (vi) a British ODA scholarship fund for Ph.D. training.
21.   NCERD's ongoing/emerging responsibilities for nationally financed activities include organization
of: (i) a post-doctoral fellowship program for university faculty in the area of teacher education; (ii)
recruitment of short-term consultants in teacher education who will join Jordanian universities for short
periods of time; and (iii) an assessment of the attainment levels of graduates of Jordanian universities.
22.    These activities are financed by the participating institutions, through direct contributions to
NCERD's budgetary resources and/or through temporary provision of qualified personnel to NCERD.
NCERD provides the space, facilities and the autonomous institutional environment needed for these
activities.
Budget
23.   NCERD receives resources from Government and income generated from regional cooperation
activities. An overview of budgetary resources from the Government, shows that these contributions have
fluctuated over the years and have increased (in terms of current JDs) at an average annual rate of 7.8
percent and have declined from 1993 to 1994. At present, resources from non-government sources
(mainly from regional cooperation activities) amount to about 48 percent of the government-provided
resources.



Annex 12
Page 7 of 7
TABLE 2: OVERVIEW OF HRDSIL-I SUB-PROJECT APPRAISAL
AND IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE
Current status and
Date of final  expected completion
Sub-project appraised                approval      date (as of 8/94)
Arabic textbook publication                          3/30/91         88%; 8/94
Islamic textbook publication                         3/30/91            87%
Math textbook publication                            3/30/91            88%
Science textbook publication                         3/30/91            89%
Social studies textbook publication                  3/30/91            88%
Art education textbook publication                   3/30/91            92%
Vocational education textbooks publication           3/30/91            15%
Physical education textbook publication              10/13/91           84%
English language textbook publication                3/30/91           100%
Textbook distribution (warehouses)                   3/30/91           100%
School facilities improvements - 1                   3/30/91            99%
School facilities improvements - 2                   3/30/91        97%; 12/94
Educational technology                               10/13/91        90%; 12/94
Amman Standard Testing and Training Center           10/13/91          100%
Yarmouk University Testing and Training Center       4/19/91         65%; 11/94
Muta' University Pre-service Teacher Education Center  4/19/91          80%
Tafileh Vocational Training Centers                  7/28/92         50%; 11/94
Irbid Vocational Training Center for girls           7/28/92            50%
School facilities improvements - 3                    9/92           35%; 6/95
New textbooks trialling and evaluation               4/19/92            40%
Teacher training (classroom and field teachers)      5/24/92            75%
Training trainers of trainers                        5/24/92            95%
School principals training                           5/24/92            90%
University of Jordan pre-service teacher education   4/19/92            65%
Music education materials                            rejected    __._l






Annex 13
Page 1 of 1
IMPLEMENTATION VOLUME
- Table of Contents -
1.    Introduction
2.    Detailed Action Plans
3.    Supervision Plan and Monitoring Indicators
Overall Project Monitoring Indicators
Sub-project Monitoring Indicators
4.    Mid-term Evaluation
External evaluation of LRC
Other external evaluation
5.    Impact Indicators of the Project as continuation of the Reform Program
6.    a)    Cost tables
b)    Procurement tables
c)    Disbursement tables
7.    Equipment Lists
8.    Agreed Documents for
*     .Management of GDBSC
-     Rehabilitation
-       UMaintenance
9.    Review of Technical Assistance Procurement
10.   Aide Memoires






IBRD 26528
4' I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~8
3.'                                                             328
Al nah\                DEVELOPMENT SECTOR
K ~~~~~.INVESTMENT PROJECT
-Roads
X ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~ --na(                   R,ve
\ 1 gDvd  Soloctd ToJRs
@   Naofwol Capikd
jJ ~~~~~~~~~ ~~/
-30     |    XtR' n                                                                      30'-
0       25      5oMI.
s fiz Aaotso      \         J                            0   25  50 Kib-,o
/ -$~   * _,    Al Mudawwaroh
3.D 38-
DECEM8ER 19,a4



