Page  1
                                                           CONFORMED COPY
                                                      LOAN NUMBER 3864 JO
                              Loan Agreement
                (Second Human Resources Development Sector
                            Investment Project)
                                  between
                      THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
                                    and
                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                              AND DEVELOPMENT
                            Dated June 2, 1995
                                                      LOAN NUMBER 3864 JO
                              LOAN AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated June 2, 1995, between THE HASHEMITE
KINGDOM OF JORDAN (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
      WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to
the feasibility and priority of the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist
in the financing of the Project;
      (B)   the Borrower intends to contract from the Overseas
Economic Cooperation Fund of Japan (OECF) a loan (hereinafter
the OECF Loan) in an aggregate amount equivalent to about
$60,000,000 to assist in financing part of the Project on the
terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the OECF Loan
Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and OECF;
and
      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of
the foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Page  2
                                ARTICLE I
                      General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01.  The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985,
with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
      (b)   In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as
sub-paragraph (l) and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:
            "(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen
      under which any further withdrawals under the Loan would
      be inconsistent with the provisions of Article III,
      Section 3 of the Bank's Articles of Agreement."
      Section 1.02.  Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
      (a)   "MOE" means the Ministry of Education of the Borrower;
      (b)   "MOHE" means the Ministry of Higher Education of the
Borrower;
      (c)   "NCERD" means the National Center for Educational
Research and Development, established by the Higher Council for
Science and Technology pursuant to Article 7 of Law No. 30 of
1987;
      (d)   "VTC" means the Vocational Training Corporation,
established and operating pursuant to Law No. 11 dated January
12, 1985;
      (e)   "Policy Council" means the Council established and
operating pursuant to Letter No. 75/1011/3131, dated March 9,
1988, from the Office of the Prime Minister, and to be
maintained pursuant to Paragraph 1 (a) of Schedule 5 to this
Agreement;
      (f)   "Technical Unit" means the unit of the Policy Council
established within NCERD, and referred to in Paragraph 2 (a) of
Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
      (g)   "GSSCE" means the General Secondary School
Certificate Examination;
      (h)   "Sub-project" means a specific investment project
under the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement
which has been approved by the Bank or the Policy Council
pursuant to Section 3.02 of this Agreement to be carried out by
MOE, MOHE, VTC or NCERD;
      (i)   "Education Reform Program" means the Borrower's ten-
year program to improve the quality of basic and secondary
education through restructuring the school system, improving
the quality of instruction, and strengthening the institutional
capacity to sustain reform in the education sector; and
      (j)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
                                ARTICLE II
                                 The Loan
Page  3
      Section 2.01.  The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan
Agreement, various currencies that shall have an aggregate
value equivalent to the amount of sixty million dollars
($60,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of
the Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the
date of such withdrawal.
      Section 2.02.  (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project described
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan.
      (b)   The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in its
Central Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this
Agreement.
      Section 2.03.  The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2000 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04.  The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a
commitment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not
withdrawn from time to time.
      Section 2.05.  (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the
Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the
preceding Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).
On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this
Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest
Period, calculated at the rate applicable during such Interest
Period.
      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each
Semester, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.
      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:
            (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period
                  ending on the date immediately preceding each
                  date specified in Section 2.06 of this
                  Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period
                  in which this Agreement is signed.
           (ii)   "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost,
                  as reasonably determined by the Bank and
                  expressed as a percentage per annum, of the
                  outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down
                  after June 30, 1982, excluding such borrowings
                  or portions thereof as the Bank has allocated
                  to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B)
                  loans which may be made by the Bank after July
                  1, 1989 bearing interest rates determined
                  otherwise than as provided in paragraph (a) of
                  this Section.
          (iii)   "Semester" means the first six months or the
                  second six months of a calendar year.
      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than
six months' notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c)
Page  4
(iii) of this Section shall be amended to read as follows:
                  "(a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
            principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
            outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each
            Quarter equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
            determined in respect of the preceding Quarter, plus
            one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).  On each of the
            dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
            the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the
            principal amount outstanding during the preceding
            Interest Period, calculated at the rates applicable
            during such Interest Period."
                  "(b) As soon as practicable after the end of
            each Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of
            the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in
            respect of such Quarter."
                  "(c) (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period
            commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October
            1 in a calendar year."
      Section 2.06.  Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
      Section 2.07.  The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule
set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                                ARTICLE III
                          Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01.  (a) The Borrower declares their commitment
to the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, and, to this end:
            (i)   shall carry out Parts A (1), A (2), A (3), a
                  portion of A (4), B (1), B (2), B (3), and Part
                  C of the Project through MOE and a portion of
                  Part A (4) of the Project through MOHE with due
                  diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
                  appropriate educational, administrative and
                  financial practices, and shall provide,
                  promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
                  services and other resources required for such
                  Parts of the Project; and
           (ii)   shall cause VTC to carry out a portion of Part
                  A (4) of the Project and shall cause NCERD to
                  carry out Parts B (4) and B (5) of the Project
                  with due diligence and efficiency and in
                  conformity with appropriate educational,
                  administrative and financial practices, shall
                  take or cause to be taken all action, including
                  the provision of funds, facilities, services
                  and other resources, necessary or appropriate
                  to enable NCERD and VTC to carry out the
                  Project, and shall not take or permit to be
                  taken any action which would prevent or
                  interfere with the carrying out of the Project
                  by NCERD and VTC.
      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph
(a) of this Section and except as the Borrower and the Bank
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project
in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.02.  (a) The Borrower shall: (i) cause the
Technical Unit to appraise the Sub-projects in accordance with
Page  5
guidelines, criteria and procedures acceptable to the Bank; and
(ii) cause the Policy Council to review each of the
Sub-projects, following for such purposes guidelines,
procedures and criteria acceptable to the Bank.
      (b)   The Borrower shall present to the Bank for approval
not later than one month prior to the scheduled start of
implementation: (i) the first Sub-project under Part A (4) of
the Project to be implemented by each of MOE, MOHE and VTC, and
three additional Sub-projects; and (ii) proposed Sub-projects
which the Bank has selected for review.
      (c)   The Borrower shall: (i) when presenting a Sub-project
to the Bank for approval pursuant to the provisions of
paragraph (b) above, furnish to the Bank an appraisal report
concerning the Sub-project, substantially in the form as the
Bank shall request, including the cost and the benefits to be
derived from the Sub-project and other items of information for
such purposes as the Bank shall reasonably request; and (ii) in
respect of Sub-projects not requiring prior Bank approval
pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (b) above, retain all
data presented for purposes of obtaining the Policy Council's
approval pursuant to subparagraph (a) (ii) above, and shall
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such data and
provide the Bank with all such information in respect of such
Sub-projects as the Bank shall reasonably request.
      (d)   The Borrower shall not permit a change to be made in
the scope of a Sub-project which has been approved by the
Policy Council or the Bank pursuant to the provisions of
paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) above without the concurrence of
the Policy Council or the Bank, as the case may be.
      Section 3.03.  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4
to this Agreement.
      Section 3.04.  Without limitation upon the provisions of
Article IX of the General Conditions, the Borrower shall:
      (a)   prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than six
(6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a
plan, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall
reasonably request, for the future operation of the
institutions and activities supported by the Project;
      (b)   afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange
views with the Borrower on said plan; and
      (c)   thereafter, carry out said plan with due diligence
and efficiency and in accordance with appropriate practices,
taking into account the Bank's comments thereon.
      Section 3.05.  The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that
the obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07,
9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance,
use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in
respect of a portion of Part A (4) of the Project shall be
carried out by VTC and in respect of Parts B (4) and B (5) of
the Project shall be carried out by NCERD.
                                ARTICLE IV
                            Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01.  (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to
be maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with sound accounting practices the operations,
Page  6
resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section including those
                  for the Special Account for each fiscal year
                  audited, in accordance with appropriate
                  auditing principles consistently applied, by
                  independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
           (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but
                  in any case not later than six months after the
                  end of each such year, the report of such audit
                  by said auditors, of such scope and in such
                  detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
                  requested; and
          (iii)   furnish to the Bank such other information
                  concerning said records and accounts and the
                  audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to
                  time reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Loan Account were made on the basis of
statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in
                  accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
                  records and accounts reflecting such
                  expenditures;
           (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                  has received the audit report for the fiscal
                  year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
                  Account or payment out of the Special Account
                  was made, all records (contracts, orders,
                  invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                  evidencing such expenditures;
          (iii)   enable the Bank's representatives to examine
                  such records; and
           (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are
                  included in the annual audit referred to in
                  paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
                  report of such audit contains a separate
                  opinion by said auditors as to whether the
                  statements of expenditure submitted during such
                  fiscal year, together with the procedures and
                  internal controls involved in their
                  preparation, can be relied upon to support the
                  related withdrawals.
      Section 4.02.  (a) The Borrower shall cause NCERD and VTC
to maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with sound accounting practices the operations of
NCERD and VTC in respect of the Project or any part thereof.
      (b)   The Borrower shall cause NCERD and VTC to:
            (i)   have their respective records and accounts for
                  the Special Account for each fiscal year
                  audited, in accordance with appropriate
                  auditing principles consistently applied, by
                  independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
           (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but
                  in any case not later than six months after the
                  end of each such year, the report of such audit
Page  7
                  by said auditors, of such scope and in such
                  detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
                  requested; and
          (iii)   furnish to the Bank such other information
                  concerning such records and accounts and the
                  audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to
                  time reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Loan Account were made on the basis of
statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall cause NCERD and
VTC to:
            (i)   maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of
                  this Section, records and accounts reflecting
                  such expenditures;
           (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                  has received the audit report for the fiscal
                  year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
                  Account or payment out of the Special Account
                  was made, all records (contracts, orders,
                  invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                  evidencing such expenditures;
          (iii)   enable the Bank's representatives to examine
                  such records; and
           (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are
                  included in the annual audit referred to in
                  paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
                  report of such audit contains a separate
                  opinion by said auditors as to whether the
                  statements of expenditure submitted during such
                  fiscal year, together with the procedures and
                  internal controls involved in their
                  preparation, can be relied upon to support the
                  related withdrawals.
                                 ARTICLE V
                           Remedies of the Bank
      Section 5.01.  (a) Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the
General Conditions, the following additional event is
specified, namely that: (a) the OECF Loan Agreement shall have
failed to become effective by March 1, 1996 or such later date
as the Bank may agree; provided, however, that the provisions
of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower establishes
to the satisfaction of the Bank that adequate funds for the
Project are available to the Borrower from its own or other
sources on terms and conditions consistent with the obligations
of the Borrower under this Agreement.
      (b)   (i)   Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
                  (A)   the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
                        proceeds of the OECF Loan shall have been
                        suspended, cancelled or terminated in
                        whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of
                        the OECF Loan Agreement, or
                  (B)   the OECF Loan shall have become due and
                        payable prior to the agreed maturity
                        thereof.
           (ii)   Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not
                  apply if the Borrower establishes to the
                  satisfaction of the Bank that: (A) such
                  suspension, cancellation, termination or
                  prematuring is not caused by the failure of the
Page  8
                  Borrower to perform any of its obligations
                  under such agreement; and (B) adequate funds
                  for the Project are available to the Borrower
                  from its own or other sources on terms and
                  conditions consistent with the obligations of
                  the Borrower under this Agreement.
      Section 5.02.  Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely
that the event specified in paragraph (b) (i) (B) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of
paragraph (b) (ii) of that Section.
                                ARTICLE VI
                                Termination
      Section 6.01.  The date ninety (90) days after the date of
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE VII
                 Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 7.01.  The Minister of Planning of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 7.02.  The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Minister of Planning
            P.O. Box 555
            Amman
            Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan
            Cable address:                      Telex:
                  MINISTRY OF PLANNING            21319 JO
                  Amman
      For the Bank:
            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  INTBAFRAD                 248423 (RCA)
                  Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
                                             64145 (WUI) or
                                            197688 (TRT)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their duly authorized representatives, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day
and year first above written.
                        THE HASHEMITE KINGDOM OF JORDAN
                        By /s/ Fayez Tarawneh
Page  9
                                                Authorized Representative
                        INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                          RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                        By /s/ Inder K. Sud
                                           Acting Regional Vice President
                                             Middle East and North Africa
                                SCHEDULE 1
                  Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                        Amount of the
                       Loan Allocated                 % of
                       (Expressed in              Expenditures
Category              Dollar Equivalent)         to be Financed
(1) Civil Works           36,000,000             50%
    under Parts
    A (4), B (1),
    B (2), B (3),
    C (1) and C (2)
    of the Project
(2) Equipment and         15,000,000             100% of foreign
    Furniture                                    expenditures,
    under Parts                                  100% of local
    A (4), B, C (1)                              expenditures
    and C (2) of the                             (ex-factory
    Project                                      cost) and 90%
                                                 of local ex-
                                                 penditures for
                                                 other items pro-
                                                 cured locally
(3) Textbook Publishing    1,400,000             50%
(4) Technical Assistance   3,200,000             100% of foreign
    and Fellowships                              expenditures and
                                                 95% of local ex-
                                                 penditures
(5) Unallocated            4,400,000
                          __________
        TOTAL             60,000,000
                          ==========
2.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower; and
    (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
Page  10
4.  The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be
made on the basis of statements of expenditure for each
contract for works estimated to cost less than the equivalent
of $2,000,000; for each contract for goods estimated to cost
less than the equivalent of $350,000; for each contract for the
employment of consulting firms estimated to cost less than the
equivalent of $100,000; and for each contract for the
employment of individual consultants estimated to cost less
than $50,000 equivalent each under such terms and conditions as
the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
                                SCHEDULE 2
                        Description of the Project
    The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in
improving the quality of basic and secondary education,
improving technical and vocational education and training, and
strengthening the institutions and operations of the education
sector through implementation of the second phase in 1995-2000
of its Education Reform Program.
    The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Training and Quality Improvement
(1)       Staff Development.  Carrying out a program to provide
in-service teacher training to: (a) increase awareness of the
goals of the Education Reform Program; (b) enhance teaching
competencies and skills related to the new curricula; (c)
sensitize teachers to diagnostic approaches and remedial
interventions; and (d) improve the capacity of trainers,
administrators, and principals for administrative and
educational leadership.
(2)       Examinations and Assessment.  Carrying out a program to
introduce revised assessment techniques and procedures in the
GSSCE to align it with the new curricula and develop diagnostic
testing for remedial interventions.
(3)       Pilot School-Based Innovations.  Carrying out a pilot
program to introduce innovations in basic schools.
(4)       Technical and Vocational Education and Training.
Carrying out a program to improve the Borrower's technical and
vocational education and training.
Part B:   Institutional Development
(1)       Learning Resource Centers.  Upgrading facilities,
equipment and staff of existing Learning Resource Centers and
construction of at least two additional Learning Resource
Centers.
(2)       Textbook Publishing and Distribution.  Provision of
textbook storage facilities, technical assistance, equipment,
and staff training to upgrade the publishing and distribution
systems of textbooks and teachers' guides.
(3)       GSSCE.  Provision of equipment, technical assistance,
staff training and office space for the General Directorate for
Evaluation and Examinations of the MOE.
(4)       Educational Management Information System.  Provision
of equipment, technical assistance and staff training for
improvement of the Educational Management Information System
and for expansion to regional offices.
(5)       NCERD.  Provision of equipment, materials and office
Page  11
space to enhance NCERD's institutional capabilities.
Part C:   Educational Facilities
(1)       Expansion of School Facilities.  Carrying out a program
to expand, construct and equip basic education and secondary
level schools throughout the territory of the Borrower.
(2)       Rehabilitation and Maintenance of School Facilities.
Carrying out a program to rehabilitate and maintain basic
education and secondary level schools throughout the territory
of the Borrower.
(3)       Management.  Carrying out a program to enhance
management capabilities of the General Directorate for Projects
and School Buildings of the MOE.
                                   * * *
    The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1999.
                                SCHEDULE 3
                           Amortization Schedule
                                          Payment of Principal
    Date Payment Due                     (expressed in dollars)*
    December 15, 2000                         1,155,000
    June 15, 2001                             1,195,000
    December 15, 2001                         1,235,000
    June 15, 2002                             1,280,000
    December 15, 2002                         1,325,000
    June 15, 2003                             1,375,000
    December 15, 2003                         1,420,000
    June 15, 2004                             1,470,000
    December 15, 2004                         1,525,000
    June 15, 2005                             1,580,000
    December 15, 2005                         1,635,000
    June 15, 2006                             1,690,000
    December 15, 2006                         1,750,000
    June 15, 2007                             1,815,000
    December 15, 2007                         1,880,000
    June 15, 2008                             1,945,000
    December 15, 2008                         2,015,000
    June 15, 2009                             2,085,000
    December 15, 2009                         2,160,000
    June 15, 2010                             2,235,000
    December 15, 2010                         2,315,000
    June 15, 2011                             2,400,000
    December 15, 2011                         2,485,000
    June 15, 2012                             2,570,000
    December 15, 2012                         2,660,000
    June 15, 2013                             2,755,000
    December 15, 2013                         2,855,000
    June 15, 2014                             2,955,000
    December 15, 2014                         3,060,000
    June 15, 2015                             3,175,000
____________________________
*   The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
    determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal.  See
    General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
                          Premiums on Prepayment
    Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the
Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the
applicable time of prepayment below:
    Time of Prepayment                         Premium
Page  12
                                   The interest rate (expressed as a
                                   percentage per annum) applicable
                                   to the Loan on the day of
                                   prepayment multiplied by:
Not more than three years                      0.15
    before maturity
More than three years but                      0.30
    not more than six years
    before maturity
More than six years but                        0.55
    not more than 11 years
    before maturity
More than 11 years but not                     0.80
    more than 16 years
    before maturity
More than 16 years but not                     0.90
    more than 18 years
    before maturity
More than 18 years before                      1.00
    maturity
                                SCHEDULE 4
                   Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.      Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
1.  Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines),
and in accordance with the following additional procedures:
    (a)   When contract award is delayed beyond the original bid
validity period, such period may be extended once, subject to
and in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.59 of the
Guidelines, by the minimum amount of time required to complete
the evaluation, obtain necessary approvals and clearances and
award the contract.  The bid validity period may be extended a
second time only if the bidding documents or the request for
extension shall provide for appropriate adjustment of the bid
price to reflect changes in the cost of inputs for the contract
over the period of extension.  Such an increase in the bid
price shall not be taken into account in the bid evaluation.
With respect to each contract made subject to the Bank's prior
review in accordance with the provisions of Part D.1(a) of this
Section, the Bank's prior approval will be required for (i) a
first extension of the bid validity period if the period of
extension exceeds sixty (60) days and (ii) any subsequent
extension of the bid validity period.
    (b)   In the procurement of goods and works in accordance
with this Part A, the Borrower shall use the relevant standard
bidding documents issued by the Bank, with such modifications
thereto as the Bank shall have agreed to be necessary for the
purposes of the Project.  Where no relevant standard bidding
documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use
bidding documents based on other internationally recognized
standard forms agreed with the Bank.
2.  To the extent practicable, contracts for works shall be
grouped into bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of
Page  13
$4,000,000 or more and contracts for goods shall be grouped
into bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $350,000
or more.
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
    In the procurement of goods in accordance with the
procedures described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in
Jordan may be granted a margin of preference in accordance
with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and
2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix
2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.  Contracts for civil works estimated to cost less than the
equivalent of $4,000,000 per contract, up to an aggregate
amount equivalent to $63,000,000, may be awarded on the basis
of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
2.  Contracts for goods estimated to cost less than the
equivalent of $350,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount
equivalent to $13,000,000, may be awarded on the basis of
competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
3.  Contracts for goods estimated to cost less than the
equivalent of $200,000 up to an aggregate amount equivalent to
$200,000, may be awarded on the basis of comparison of price
quotations obtained from at least three suppliers from at least
three different countries eligible under the Guidelines, in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
4.  Contracts for goods estimated to cost less than the
equivalent of $50,000 up to an aggregate amount equivalent to
$300,000, may be awarded on the basis of comparison of price
quotations obtained from at least three suppliers eligible
under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable
to the Bank.
Part D:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.  Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
    (a)   With respect to the first contract for both works and
goods; each contract for works estimated to cost the equivalent
of $2,000,000 or more; and each contract for goods estimated to
cost the equivalent of $350,000 or more, the procedures set
forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines
shall apply.  Where payments for such contract are to be made
out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified
to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph
2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the
first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such
contract.
    (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3
and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.  Where
payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, said procedures shall be modified to ensure that the
two conformed copies of the contract together with the other
information required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to
said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 6
to this Agreement.
    (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals are to
Page  14
be made on the basis of statements of expenditure.
2.  The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.     Employment of Consultants
1.  In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Bank.  Such consultants shall be selected
in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to
the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the
Consultant Guidelines).  For complex, time-based assignments,
the Borrower shall employ such consultants under contracts
using the standard form of contract for consultants' services
issued by the Bank, with such modifications as shall have been
agreed by the Bank.  Where no relevant standard contract
documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use
other standard forms agreed with the Bank.
2.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this
Section, the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring
prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short lists,
selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals,
evaluation reports and contracts shall not apply to (a)
contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to
cost less than $100,000 equivalent each or (b) contracts for
the employment of individual consultants estimated to cost less
than $50,000 equivalent each.  However, this exception to prior
Bank review shall not apply to (a) the terms of reference for
such contracts, (b) single-source selection of consulting
firms, (c) assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably
determined by the Bank, (d) amendments to contracts for the
employment of consulting firms raising the contract value to
$100,000 equivalent or above, or (e) amendments to contracts
for the employment of individual consultants raising the
contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.
                                SCHEDULE 5
                          Implementation Program
1.  (a)   For the purpose of ensuring the proper coordination and
execution of the Project, the Borrower shall continue to
maintain the Policy Council, with representation from the
Ministry of Planning, the MOE, the MOHE, the NCERD, and the VTC.
    (b)   The functions of said Policy Council shall include,
inter alia, responsibility for investigation and recommendation
of solutions to issues arising in the course of carrying out
the Project.
2.  (a)   For the purpose of ensuring the proper supervision of
the execution of the Project, the Borrower shall continue to
maintain the Technical Unit within NCERD with organization,
staffing and terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank.
    (b)   The Technical Unit shall be vested with the
responsibility for:
          (i)      appraisal of Sub-projects;
          (ii)     coordination of the implementation and
                   evaluation of activities included in the
                   Project; and
          (iii)    preparation of the reports referred to in
                   Section 9.07 of the General Conditions, and of
                   the reports referred to in paragraphs 7 and 8
Page  15
                   of this Schedule.
3.  In order to expedite procurement under the Project, the
Borrower shall establish special tender committees for civil
works and goods.
4.  The Borrower shall provide to the Bank for its review and
comments, by January 1, 1996, the prototype school design that
is being developed by MOE, together with supporting
documentation.  The Borrower shall, by February 1, 1996,
exchange views with the Bank on such prototype, and thereafter
shall carry out on the basis of such exchange of views, a
program to achieve cost savings in the construction of schools
under Part C (1) of the Project.
5.  (a)   Before November 1 in each of its fiscal years, the
Borrower shall, on the basis of forecasts prepared by the
Borrower and satisfactory to the Bank, review whether the
budgets in respect of the current fiscal year and the next
following fiscal year include allocations sufficient to meetthe requirements of the 
Project for the respective fiscal
years, and shall furnish to the Bank a copy of such review upon
its completion.
    (b)   If any such review shows that the Borrower would not
meet the requirements set forth in sub-paragraph (a) above for
the Borrower's fiscal years covered by such review, the
Borrower shall extend the implementation period of the
Sub-projects for civil works under Parts A (4), B (1), B (2),
B (3), C (1) and C (2) of the Project.
6.  The Borrower shall take all measures necessary to ensure
that all fellowships included in the Project are awarded on the
basis of eligibility criteria and procedures satisfactory to
the Bank.
7.  Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 9.07 of
the General Conditions, the Borrower shall cause the Technical
Unit to prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than March 31
of each year a progress report, in form and substance agreed to
between the Bank and the Borrower, on the conclusions and
recommendations indicated by the monitoring and evaluation
activities performed pursuant to paragraph 2 (b) of this
Schedule, including subsequent years' programs and any proposed
revisions to be introduced into the Project.  Promptly
thereafter, the Borrower and the Bank shall exchange views
thereon.
8.  Without limitation upon provisions of Section 9.07 of the
General Conditions:
    (a)   by October 15, 1997, the Borrower shall prepare,
through the Technical Unit, and furnish to the Bank for its
review and comments, a report on the progress achieved in
carrying out the Project, in such detail as the Bank shall
reasonably request; and
    (b)   (i)      the Borrower and the Bank shall, not later than
                   January 31, 1998, hold a mid-term exchange of
                   views on the progress achieved in the carrying
                   out of the Project and the actions described in
                   the Action Plan; and
          (ii)     the Borrower shall thereafter take all measures
                   necessary to ensure the efficient completion of
                   the Project and the achievement of the
                   objectives thereof, taking into consideration
                   the results and conclusions of the report
                   referred to in paragraph (a) hereof and the
                   Bank's views on the matter.
                                SCHEDULE 6
Page  16
                              Special Account
1.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1),
(2), (3) and (4) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
    (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
and
    (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $5,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account
and deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3
(a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be
limited to an amount equivalent to $1,500,000 until the
aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered
into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General
Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of
$5,000,000.
2.  Payments out of the Special Account shall be made
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the
provisions of this Schedule.
3.  After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account shall be made as follows:
    (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of such request or
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw
from the Loan Account and deposit in the Special Account such
amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
    (b)   (i)      For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                   Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                   deposits into the Special Account at such
                   intervals as the Bank shall specify.
          (ii)     Prior to or at the time of each such request,
                   the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the
                   documents and other evidence required pursuant
                   to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment
                   or payments in respect of which replenishment
                   is requested.  On the basis of each such
                   request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
                   Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and
                   deposit into the Special Account such amount as
                   the Borrower shall have requested and as shall
                   have been shown by said documents and other
                   evidence to have been paid out of the Special
                   Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by
said documents and other evidence.
4.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and
Page  17
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively
for eligible expenditures.
5.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
    (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that
all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
    (b)   if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the
Bank, within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)
(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
or
    (c)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the
Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the
right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account
pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions; or
    (d)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section
5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project,
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall
specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals
shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall
have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit
in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.  (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph
2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice
from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank
may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if
the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal
to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified.  Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree,
no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made
such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
    (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required
to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to
the Bank such outstanding amount.
    (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to
the Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
    (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in
accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement,
including the General Conditions.
Page  18
